1 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress HP 2013 Living Progress Report Governance Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress About this report see page 3 see page 27 see page 67 see page 74 see page 135 Contents 3 Governance 122 Water 123 Chemical management and releases 4 Letter from CEO Meg Whitman 67 Economic Progress 124 Ozone-depleting substances 5 Executive summary 127 Supply chain environmental impact 8 HP profile 69 Contributions to the economy 127 Supply chain GHG emissions 10 Living Progress strategy 71 Social investment 129 Transportation GHG emissions 11 Creating business value 132 Water protection 12 Materiality 133 Waste 15 Living Progress governance 16 Stakeholder engagement 74 Environmental Progress 17 Affiliations and memberships 76 Environmental sustainability 20 Corporate ethics 20 Ethics and compliance 77 Energy, climate, and water 135 About this report 82 Employee engagement 22 Anti-corruption 136 Overview 86 Products and solutions 24 Public policy 137 Assurance 87 Design for the Environment 26 Policies and standards 138 Independent Accountants’ Report 89 Life cycle assessment 140 United Nations Global Compact index 91 Materials 141 Global Reporting Initiative index 94 Energy efficiency 95 Research and development 27 Human Progress 96 Servers, storage, and networking 29 Human rights 98 Data centers 33 Supply chain responsibility 99 Services and software 35 Labor impact 101 Personal systems 39 Supplier audits 101 Printing 44 Conflict minerals 103 Paper 46 Supplier diversity 105 Packaging 50 Privacy 108 Product return and recycling 54 HP people 114 HP operations 54 Engaging our people 115 Management and compliance 55 Building careers 115 Energy and GHG emissions 57 Diversity and inclusion 117 Energy efficiency 59 Rewards and recognition 118 Sustainable building design 59 Wellness 119 Renewable energy 60 Health and safety 120 Travel 63 C  ommunity engagement and 120 Waste and recycling volunteering I ndicates Ernst & Young LLP (Ernst & Young) has reviewed this indicator/value. See Independent Accountants’ Report on page 138 for details of the work performed and values reviewed. Share with colleagues Contents • Governance Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary HP profile Living Progress strategy Stakeholder engagement Corporate ethics Public policy Policies and standards Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress About this report Governance What we do and how we do it matters Letter from CEO Meg Whitman 4 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents • Governance • Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary HP profile Living Progress strategy Stakeholder engagement Corporate ethics Public policy Policies and standards Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress About this report Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Working in collaboration with Conservation International, we created HP Earth Insights, a unique early warning sysThis year, as HP celebrates its 75th anniversary, we tem for threatened species using the power of our big data launched a framework for thinking about how we do busisolutions. And in India, more than 28,000 people have ness called HP Living Progress. This new framework builds already received access to quality medical care through on our commitment to global citizenship, which has been eHealth Centers, powerful cloud-enabled healthcare soluone of our corporate objectives for nearly six decades. tions that serve residents in remote areas. Here at HP, we are committed to advancing the overall Our promise health and well-being of people, helping businesses and Together with our customers and partners, and with economies thrive, and strengthening the environment. Living Progress as our framework, we promise to bring It’s this focus on balancing all three elements of human, together our people and technology to help solve society’s economic, and environmental progress that enables us to toughest challenges. And we promise to consider human, create true Living Progress. economic, and environmental impact as we develop our products, services, and solutions, manage our operations Highlights in 2013 and supply chain, and drive interactions with our customHP is at the forefront of innovation to limit the carbon impact ers, partners, and communities. of the information and communications technology industry, which is currently projected to increase from We look forward to updating you on our progress through1.9% of total greenhouse gas emissions in 2011 to 2.3% out the year. in 2020.1 As of December 2013, more than 50% of all LEED® Platinumand LEED Gold-certified new construction data centers worldwide were designed by HP, 2 and our current generation of ProLiant Gen8 and Moonshot Regards, servers offers increased processing power while using significantly less energy and space. And after publishing our comprehensive carbon footprint analysis last year, we’ve raised the bar again by sharing our comprehensive water footprint this year. Meg Whitman In our supply chain, we announced guidance for the fair treatment of student and dispatch workers and followed up with targeted supplier training and assessments. We also continued to push hard on responsible mineral sourcing, driving smelters in our supply chain towards conflict free certification and supporting initiatives to establish viable sources of conflict free minerals in the Democratic Republic of Congo and neighboring countries. 1 According to GeSI SMARTer 2020: The Role of ICT in Driving a Sustainable Future, pages 11, 18. 2 Based on U.S. Green Building Council and HP data. 5 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents • Governance Letter from CEO Meg Whitman • Executive summary HP profile Living Progress strategy Stakeholder engagement Corporate ethics Public policy Policies and standards Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress About this report Executive summary The power of creative thinking and technology can oriented us decidedly in that direction, with the ultimate transform lives, energize businesses, and empower goal of making our work on global citizenship inextricably communities. With that in mind, we have launched a intertwined with our corporate strategy. framework for thinking about how we do business called • Launched our Living Progress framework and have HP Living Progress. To HP, it means creating a better begun to communicate our holistic approach via internal future for everyone through our actions and innovations. and external forums Living Progress is a wholly integrated approach to busi• Appointed a Chief Progress Officer to ensure Living ness that simultaneously drives human, economic, and Progress is embodied throughout the company and environmental progress. It’s how we advance the overall applied to our actions health and well-being of people, help businesses and economies thrive, and work to strengthen the enviCorporate ethics ronment as we grow. It’s how we create a vibrant and We adhere to the highest ethical standards. Our Ethics sustainable business model by solving some of the world’s and Compliance program requires employees, business biggest problems. partners and suppliers worldwide to use only lawful and ethical business practices. We are proud of HP Living Progress, and we are also proud of HP’s many accomplishments in carrying out this most • Launched an Ethics Champion program, recognizing important initiative in 2013, including the following: ethical leadership decisions made by our employees, especially in challenging situations Governance Public policy We advocate with transparency and integrity to promote Living Progress strategy laws and regulations that encourage economic growth The year 2013 saw the adoption of HP Living Progress as and innovation in a socially and environmentally respona framework for thinking about how we do business. We sible manner. believe it is essential that our efforts as global corporate • Engaged with governments and multilateral organizacitizens do not stand to the side of our business activities. tions such as the Organisation for Economic Co-operation Indeed, it is not enough for them to be merely aligned and Development (OECD) to provide our expertise and with our business. To have full impact, our business and perspective on a range of public policy issues including our citizenship must become one. Living Progress has technology policy, trade policy, and tax reform 6 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Human Progress Economic Progress • Governance Helping businesses and economies thrive Advancing the overall health and well-being of people Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Human rights Contributions to the economy • Executive summary HP enjoys a well-earned and long-standing reputation As one of the world’s largest companies, HP contributes HP profile as a global leader in corporate respect for human rights, to economies globally through the value we create for our advancing human progress in our own operations and customers and our direct financial transactions. Living Progress strategy influencing others in our value chain to do the same. • HP products and solutions continued to make our cusStakeholder • Further integrated respect for human rights into our tomers more efficient and profitable worldwide engagement business operations by conducting a comprehensive • Our direct economic transactions during the year Corporate ethics company-wide risk assessment included $112 billion net revenue, purchases from Public policy • Provided leadership in multi-stakeholder forums in the suppliers worldwide, compensation and benefits to United States and Abu Dhabi to advance greater respect approximately 317,500 employees globally1, $1.391 Policies and standards for human rights in business around the world billion net cash income taxes paid, and $2.6 billion Human Progress returned to shareholders in the form of dividends and • Spearheaded HP’s first company-wide celebration Economic Progress share repurchases, among others of International Human Rights Day to drive greater Environmental Progress awareness of human trafficking and other human rights Social investment About this report concerns among employees We promote long-term positive impact and collaborative Supply chain responsibility partnerships by investing in opportunities that help businesses and economies thrive. We work with suppliers and other stakeholders to enhance labor conditions, support human rights, and improve envi• Contributed $135.3 million to social investment initiatives ronmental performance at supplier production facilities. • Established a five-year global partnership between • Advanced responsible mineral sourcing, driving smelters Kiva and the Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation to in our supply chain toward conflict free certification, provide every HP employee worldwide with a $25 credit and supported initiatives to establish viable sources of to make a loan to a Kiva borrower conflict free minerals Living Example: HP LIFE e-Learning • Developed a more robust procurement scorecard with stronger incentives tied to social and environmental performance • More than one million people have gained access to essential business and IT skills training through HP LIFE Privacy e-Learning, a free cloud-based platform providing highquality educational resources for entrepreneurs We implement rigorous policies and procedures to safeguard personal data that we hold or process. Employee privacy training and external engagement supplement our privacy standards. • Responded to more than 7,000 inquiries to our Privacy Office • More than 99% of employees completed privacy training • Played a leadership role in the global dialogue on privacy by presenting our positions on data and privacy regulations to 22 countries and regional blocs HP people We hire and develop talented people who allow us to lead in the fast-moving information technology (IT) industry. We offer them career development opportunities, a supportive work environment, recognition, and rewards in return for their contributions. • 54,000 employees across 84 countries took part in our wellness challenges, up 37% compared to 2012 • Nearly 42,000 HP employees volunteered 1.6 million hours, and their workplace skills, to help take on tough global challenges Living Example: eHealth Center • Five cloud-enabled eHealth Centers, which provide access to high-quality medical care in rural India, have received more than 28,000 patient visits as of April 2014 1 As of October 31, 2013. 7 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Product return and recycling Environmental Progress • Governance We provide product take-back programs in 70 countries Making the environment stronger as we grow Letter from CEO and territories and collaborate with partners to support responsible movement and disposal of electronic waste. Meg Whitman Environmental sustainability • Executive summary By combining the expertise of our people, our innovative • Recovered a total of 134,500 tonnes of hardware and HP profile technology portfolio, and collaborative partnerships, we supplies are working to create solutions that reduce environmental • Opened the first large-scale recycling facility in East Living Progress strategy impact and expand opportunities. Africa and the first take-back system for electronic Stakeholder • Published our complete water footprint for the first time waste in Kenya engagement in 2014 HP operations Corporate ethics • Reduced our carbon footprint by 16% from 2012 We work to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, Public policy waste, paper and water consumption, and use of ozonePolicies and standards Products and solutions depleting substances in our worldwide operations. We have routinely worked to reduce the environmental Human Progress footprint of products and solutions across our portfolio— • Decreased total energy use from HP operations by 95 Economic Progress from single-user personal computing devices and printers million kWh, compared with 2012 Environmental Progress to enterprise servers, storage equipment, and data • Reduced GHG emissions from HP operations by 79,700 About this report centers. With the arrival of Living Progress, we are placing tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e), compared even greater emphasis on the development of technolowith 2012 gies that are themselves the solutions to some of society’s most vexing environmental challenges. • Decreased total waste generated from HP operations by 37%, compared with 2012 • Designed more than 50% of total LEED® Platinumand • Reduced total water consumed in HP operations by 10%, LEED Gold-certified new construction data centers compared with 2012 worldwide, as of December 20132 • Continued to offer customers innovations such as the Supply chain environmental impact HP Moonshot system, which consumes up to 89% less We work to reduce GHG emissions, waste, and water withenergy, uses 80% less space, and costs 77% less3 than a drawal in our supply chain. traditional server environment • Set the industry’s first supply chain GHG emissions • Conducted research on new silicon photonic interconintensity reduction goal—a 20% decrease in first-tier nects that use light to transmit information instead of manufacturing and product transportation-related GHG electrons, which promises to reduce the energy needed emissions intensity5 by 2020, compared to 2010 to process data by one to two orders of magnitude, while improving the speed and economics of high-per• Piloted a program to assist suppliers to understand risks formance computing in water-stressed regions • HP Managed Print Services helps businesses optimize Living Example: HP Earth Insights their imaging and printing infrastructure, with typical savings of 10–30% in printing costs, millions of pages in • Created a unique early warning system for threatened reduced paper waste, and typical reductions in energy species using the power of big data solutions, in collabousage of 20–40% 4 ration with Conservation International 2 Based on U.S. Green Building Council and HP data. 3 When HP DL360p servers deployed for Dedicated Hosting are replaced by HP ProLiant Moonshot servers. Cost estimates include acquisition costs for server and networking, power costs, power distribution and cooling costs, and infrastructure costs for the data center floor space over three years. 4 Estimated energy and paper savings based on analysis of select HP Managed Print Services customers’ imaging and printing operations using data gathered on devices and paper consumption and comparing with post-MPS actuals or projections. Results depend on unique business environments, the way HP products and services are used, and other factors. Overall printing costs are unique to each company and should not be relied on for savings you may achieve. 5 HP calculates intensity as its suppliers’ GHG emissions attributable to their business with HP divided by HP’s annual revenue. This method normalizes performance based on business productivity. 8 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents • Governance Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary • HP profile Living Progress strategy Stakeholder engagement Corporate ethics Public policy Policies and standards Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress About this report HP profile HP creates new possibilities for technology to have a provide end-to-end solutions from the device to the data meaningful impact on people, businesses, governments, center—from infrastructure to software to services—to and society. With the broadest technology portfolio spanhelp satisfy our customers’ unique needs. ning printing, personal systems, software, services, and information technology (IT) infrastructure, HP delivers HP Living Progress is how we do business. It is the way our solutions for customers’ most complex challenges in every people and technology come together to solve society’s region of the world. toughest challenges. By applying Living Progress to our every action across the value chain, we create a stronger, Cloud services, security, big data, and mobility are our more resilient company and a sustainable world. strategic pillars and a focus of the company. With the depth and breadth of our portfolio, HP is uniquely positioned to HP business model 2. HP business model HP Living Progress Supply chain Operations Products and solutions Printing and Personal Extraction, Facilities, Systems manufacturing, transportation fleet, Products transportation R&D centers Computers Networking Printers Extraction, Facilities, Printing Solutions Enterprise Group manufacturing, transportation fleet, supplies Application transportation R&D centers Servers transformation Consumers Tablets Big data Software Cloud Storage SMB Converged Software Facilities, R&D centers Accessories Infrastructure Industry Enterprise Mobility Security Services Small and Government Enterprise Services Facilities, data centers Applications medium Outsourcing business solutions Technology consulting Support HP Financial Services Facilities Financing Leasing 9 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents HP corporate summaryNet Revenue by segment,Net revenue by segment, fiscal year 2013 * fiscal year 2013 [$million USD] • Governance [$million] Letter from CEO • # 15 on Fortune 500 US Meg Whitman • # 43 on Fortune 500 Global Executive summary • President and Chief Executive Officer: Meg Whitman • HP profile • Employees: Approximately 317,500 worldwide1 Living Progress strategy • Incorporated in Delaware, United States Stakeholder • Ticker symbol: HPQ on New York Stock Exchange engagement • Corporate and regional headquarters Corporate ethics • FY13 net revenue: $112 billion Public policy Policies and standards Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress About this report Printing and Personal Systems $55,925 48.5% Enterprise Group $28,183 24.5% Enterprise Services $23,520 20.4% Software $3,913 3.4% HP Financial Services $3,629 3.2% Corporate Investments $24 0.0% * The total of segment revenue, $115,194 million, includes intersegment net revenue and other of ($2,896 million). Total HP consolidated net revenue in FY13 equaled $112,298 million. 1 As of October 31, 2013. 10 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents • Governance Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary HP profile • Living Progress strategy Stakeholder engagement Corporate ethics Public policy Policies and standards Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress About this report Living Progress strategy Citizenship has been one of HP’s seven corporate objecLiving Progress orients what we do and how we do it, so tives since 1957, and we’re proud of our legacy as a global that our work on global citizenship is inextricably intercitizen. As a company, we have been steadfast in our twined with our corporate strategy. It’s how we advance commitment to conduct our business in a way that also the overall health and well-being of people, help busicontributes to the betterment of society. nesses and economies thrive, and work to strengthen the environment as we grow. It’s how we create a vibrant But we believe there’s more we can and must do. It’s not and sustainable business model by solving some of the enough that our citizenship activities simply align with our world’s biggest problems. business. The two must become one. Living Progress is a wholly integrated approach to business that simultaneously drives human, economic, and Introducing Living Progress environmental progress. It means we consider human, economic, and environmental impact as we develop In 2013, we adopted HP Living Progress as our framework our products, services, and solutions, manage our for thinking about how we do business. To us, it means operations, and drive interactions with our customers, creating a better future for everyone through our actions partners, and communities. and innovations. When we balance all three, we create true Living Progress. Living Progress Creating a better future for everyone through our actions and innovations Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress Advancing the overall health Helping businesses and Making the environment stronger and well-being of people economies thrive as we grow 11 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Creating Contents • Long-term contracts with our enterprise customers • Governance and government agencies worldwide include environment, privacy, supply chain responsibility, and other Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary business value global citizenship factors in their procurement criteria. • Access to capital is supported by our relationship with Over the last 40 years, information technology (IT) has major investors, which are increasingly assessing global HP profile citizenship-related performance and risk. redefined our world. Driven by trends in mobility, cloud, • Living Progress security, and big data, IT is changing business processes, strategy personal productivity, and much of the way we live, work, Cost savings Stakeholder and connect. It also has the potential to advance societ• Energy and resource efficiency in HP’s operations engagement ies globally, providing new and exciting opportunities to and those of our suppliers reduces costs and increases Corporate ethics people everywhere. Living Progress brings together HP productivity. See page 98 for more information about people and the industry’s broadest technology portfolio making our data centers more efficient. Public policy in innovative new ways to meet society’s emerging social, • Risk management related to global citizenship issues Policies and standards commercial, and environmental needs while strengthenhelps HP to avoid expenses associated with crisis manHuman Progress ing our business. agement. For example, our Go West strategy in China Economic Progress helped us build a more resilient supply chain, mitigating Environmental Progress Our Living Progress efforts create value for our business possible risks while improving our operating margin. It by contributing to sales growth, helping us achieve cost also reduced our environmental impact and improved About this report savings, and enhancing our reputation. workers’ lives. See page 130 for more information. Sales growth Reputation enhancement • New and expanded business opportunities in the • Strengthened relationships with customers, governshort and long term can result from HP’s ability to ments, nongovernmental organizations, investors (see meet customers’ increasing expectations for highAwards), and others improve our ability to conduct busiperformance products that contribute to sustainable ness effectively. development. For example, HP created game-changing server architecture that helps reduce the carbon • Increased employee engagement enables us to attract footprint of the cloud and responds to ever-increasing and retain a talented workforce. computing demands. See page 96 for more informa• Enhanced credibility with policy makers and thought tion on our Moonshot servers. leaders helps us promote issues important to our indus• Demonstrated solutions that help solve society’s try, our customers, and the world. toughest challenges can also be applied to business applications. For example, HP Earth Insights uses the power of big data to help scientists collect, manage, and analyze information at unprecedented speed, accelerating the understanding of biodiversity globally. This same technology can be applied to companies, helping them gain critical insights that fuel business growth. See page 75 for more information on HP Earth Insights. • Improved market access results from our ability to better anticipate legislation, participate in public policy discussions, meet customer requirements, maintain legal compliance, and innovate and collaborate to meet societal needs. 12 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Materiality Contents • Enhancing labor conditions in our global supply chain • Governance is among the important ways we can drive sustainable development. Letter from CEO Meg Whitman In 2012, we commissioned a formal materiality assessment, conducted by BSR and GlobeScan. The assessment In 2013, we took a fresh look at our materiality assessExecutive summary ment through the lens of Living Progress. The graphic gathered insights through interviews and surveys of interHP profile nal and external stakeholders and through review of HP below categorizes the issues into the Living Progress pil• Living Progress documents. The results reconfirmed long-standing areas lars—human, economic, or environmental—recognizing strategy of focus, highlighted gaps, and identified emerging issues fully that certain issues naturally cut across several pillars. Stakeholder and leadership opportunities for our business. The issues in the white boxes meet the materiality engagement Key findings included: threshold for this report. Although those issues are the Corporate ethics main focus of this report, we also include information Public policy • Product-related opportunities, such as improving about several of the other issues in gray. The table on the product energy efficiency and expanding access to techfollowing pages provides additional information about Policies and standards nology, represent the leading areas where HP can create each issue, including a brief description, the correspondHuman Progress value for society and for our business. ing Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Economic Progress • Managing our operations responsibly—from reducing Reporting Guidelines Aspects, the boundary of the Aspect, Environmental Progress environmental impacts and protecting customer privacy and links to more information. About this report to promoting diversity and ensuring ethical behavior— remain important areas for HP. HP 2013 materiality assessment Governance Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress High Non-GHG air emissions Energy and GHG emissions in Product energy efficiency operations and supply chain Responsible paper sourcing Sustainable product design Waste and hazardous materials in Biodiversity impacts operations and supply chain Product reuse and recycling Access to technology Water in operations and supply chain IT as a sustainability solution Use of substances of concern in products Social application of IT Sustainable buildings Labor practices in supply chain Supply chain codes, standards, and engagement Responsible sourcing of materials Importance to sustainable development Climate resilience and adaptation Public policy engagement Ethical behavior and business partnerships Freedom of expression Responsible marketing Transparency, accountability, Product transport and logistics and reporting Packaging Bribery and corruption Sale and misuse of IT products Diversity and inclusion and services Privacy and data protection Executive compensation Board structure and independence Occupational health and safety Lobbying and political contributions Supplier diversity Workforce reductions and relocations Employee travel Employee volunteerism Employee training and development Natural disaster relief Employee wellness and benefits Taxes paid Low Importance to HP’s business success Low High 13 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Issue Description GRI G4 Aspect(s) Aspect boundary Location in report • Governance High importance to sustainable development, high importance to HP’s business success Letter from CEO  roduct energy P Increasing the energy efficiency of HP Energy Products and solutions Energy, climate, Meg Whitman efficiency products and services, and enabling and water customers to reduce their energy use. Energy efficiency Executive summary HP profile Sustainable Designing products for reduced Materials Supply chain Energy, climate, product design environmental impacts across the life and water Energy Products and solutions • Living Progress cycle (e.g., energy efficiency, mateDesign for the strategy rials reduction, reduced substances of Products and Services Environment concern, renewable materials, design for Stakeholder Energy efficiency recyclability, longevity, etc.). engagement  roduct reuse P Providing product take-back programs and Products and Services Products and solutions Product return Corporate ethics and recycling responsible reuse and recycling to manage and recycling Public policy product end-of-life and reduce associated social and environmental impacts. Policies and standards Human Progress I T as a sustainEnabling customers across industries Energy Products and solutions Products and ability solution to use IT to reduce their environmental solutions Products and Services Economic Progress impacts and promoting IT’s “enabling effects” to decrease impacts more broadly. Environmental Progress About this report  ocial applicaS Providing IT solutions that advance human, Indirect Economic Projects conducted in numerous Human Progress tion of IT economic, and environmental progress. Impacts locations globally (beyond HP’s Economic Progress controlled operations) Environmental Progress Social investment Living Example: Go West Living Example: Earth Insights Medium importance to sustainable development, high importance to HP’s business success  thical behavior E Promoting high standards of ethics in Anti-competitive Supply chain (interactions with Corporate ethics and business business behavior with all third parties Behavior suppliers, business partners, HP 2013 10-K partnerships with whom HP does business, including and contractors) Compliance (Note 17: Litigation suppliers and business partners. HP operations (sales and and Contingencies; marketing) this information is as of the end of FY13) Transparency, Providing clear and comparable informaOverall report Supply chain GRI index accountability, tion in an accessible manner. HP operations and reporting Products and solutions  ribery and B Working against bribery and corruption Anti-corruption Supply chain Anti-corruption corruption in all aspects of HP’s business. HP operations Supply chain responsibility Products and solutions (interactions with partners and customers globally) D  iversity and Working to promote diversity and incluDiversity and Equal HP operations Diversity and inclusion sion across HP’s global workforce. Opportunity inclusion P  rivacy and data Collecting and using information in a Customer Privacy HP operations (employees) Privacy protection manner that upholds the right to privacy. Products and solutions (customers, clients, and partners) High importance to sustainable development, medium importance to HP’s business success E  nergy and GHG Improving the energy efficiency of HP’s Energy Supply chain (firstand Energy, climate, emissions in operations and supply chain to reduce second-tier suppliers, Scope 3 and water Emissions operations and energy use and costs as well as GHG emissions) Supply chain supply chain emissions, and using renewable energy HP operations (Scope 1 and environmental sources when feasible. Scope 2 emissions) impact HP operations continued 14 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Issue Description GRI G4 Aspect(s) Aspect boundary Location in report • Governance  aste and W Responsibly managing and disposing Effluents and Waste Supply chain (first-tier suppliers) Supply chain hazardous of hazardous and nonhazardous waste environmental Letter from CEO HP operations materials in within HP’s operations and supply chain. impact Meg Whitman operations and HP operations Executive summary supply chain HP profile W  ater in operaReducing water use in our operations Water Supply chain (first-tier suppliers) Energy, climate, tions and supply and supply chain. and water • Living Progress chain HP operations strategy HP operations Stakeholder Supply chain environmental engagement impact Corporate ethics U  se of Managing use of materials and substances Products and Services Supply chain Materials Public policy substances of concern, and using alternative materials Materials Products and solutions of concern in that reduce the risk of human health and Policies and standards products environmental impacts, while meeting Human Progress performance and cost criteria. Economic Progress Sustainable Designing HP facilities that reduce energy Energy HP operations Sustainable Environmental Progress buildings use and decrease environmental impacts building design Effluents and Waste in other areas, such as materials use, About this report waste generation, and water consumption. Water L abor practices Maintaining labor standards in working Nondiscrimination Supply chain (firstand secondSupply chain in supply chain hours and conditions, wages and benetier suppliers) responsibility Freedom of Association fits, and humane treatment of workers; and Collective eliminating all forms of forced and Bargaining compulsory labor, child labor, and human trafficking; upholding the human right of Child Labor freedom of association and recognition Forced or Compulsory of the right to collective bargaining. Labor  upply chain S Implementing and enforcing codes Supplier Environmental Supply chain (firstand secondSupply chain codes, stanand standards that set a baseline for Assessment tier suppliers) responsibility dards, and supplier social and environmental Supplier Assessment We ask that first-tier suppliers engagement responsibility (SER), and improving HP for Labor Practices communicate our Electronic suppliers’ SER performance through Industry Citizenship Coalition engagement and transparency. Supplier Human Rights Code of Conduct to their Assessment suppliers, thereby propagating Supplier Assessment the requirements to our subtier for Impact on Society suppliers. Responsible Working to ensure the responsible No GRI-specific Aspects Supply chain (subtier suppliers Conflict minerals sourcing of sourcing of materials used in HP prodin high-risk areas such as the materials ucts (e.g., conflict minerals from the Democratic Republic of Congo; Democratic Republic of Congo). there are multiple tiers between HP and smelters who trade with exporters) Medium importance to sustainable development, medium importance to HP’s business success P  ublic policy Influencing public policy development Public Policy HP operations Public policy engagement through direct engagement and through multi-stakeholder associations or initiatives. Responsible Working to ensure that marketing and Marketing HP operations GRI index marketing communication of products and services Communications Products and solutions is honest, transparent, and fair. Product Managing and reducing fuel use and Transport Supply chain Transportation transport and environmental impacts from product GHG emissions Emissions Products and solutions logistics transportation and logistics. Packaging Working to decrease the environmental Materials Products and solutions Packaging impact of HP packaging by reducing material use, optimizing shipping densities, and utilizing recycled and recyclable materials. S  ale and misuse Avoiding sales of HP products to No GRI-specific Aspects Products and solutions Human rights of IT products restricted parties and to individuals, and services groups, or entities that may misuse those products to violate human rights. 15 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Living Progress Contents the board relating to activities, policies, and programs with • Governance respect to public policy matters. The committee may also identify, evaluate, and monitor social, political, and enviLetter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary governance ronmental trends, issues, concerns, legislative proposals, and regulatory developments that could significantly affect the public affairs of HP; and oversees the HP Political Action HP profile Effective leadership, sound governance, and active Committee and the policies relating to, and the manner in participation throughout the company are essential to which HP conducts, its government affairs activities. • Living Progress strong global citizenship performance. In alignment with strategy the launch of Living Progress this year, we created the role Stakeholder engagement of Vice President and Chief Progress Officer. This new role HP Global Citizenship Council gives us the platform to further ensure that HP’s initiaCorporate ethics tives as a global actor are not stand-alone efforts. Rather, HP’s Executive Council retains overall responsibility for Public policy they continue to be deeply reflected in our products and global citizenship as part of our business strategy. Our services, our business practices, our relationships with our Global Citizenship Council ensures company-wide comPolicies and standards employees and supply chain, our advocacy efforts, and our mitment to and alignment with HP’s global citizenship Human Progress corporate philanthropy. objectives and is responsible for advancing HP Living Economic Progress Progress company-wide. The council comprises execuEnvironmental Progress tives and subject matter experts from across HP and About this report HP Board of Directors’ seeks input from all of our business groups and functions, Nominating, Governance and as well as from external stakeholders. It meets quarterly to promote and advance global citizenship strategically Social Responsibility Committee through risk and opportunity assessment, governance, and policy oversight. In 2013, the HP Board of Directors’ Nominating and Governance Committee expanded its prior oversight of The Global Citizenship Council is sponsored by a memglobal citizenship efforts at HP. The committee updated ber of the HP Executive Council. Cochairs are HP’s senior its charter to reflect this enhanced focus and changed vice president of corporate affairs and the Senior Vice its name to the Nominating, Governance, and Social President and Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer. Responsibility Committee to formalize the change. Among its responsibilities, the Nominating, Governance and Social Responsibility Committee may review, assess, Topic-specific councils report, and provide guidance to management and the HP also maintains separate councils dedicated to areas board regarding HP’s policies and programs relating to such as Living Progress strategy, environment, supply global citizenship (which include, among other things, chain responsibility, corporate ethics, and privacy. These human rights, privacy, sustainability, and corporate social councils include leaders with relevant expertise from our responsibility) and the impact of HP’s operations on business units, regions, and functions. Each council meets employees, customers, suppliers, partners, and comperiodically to evaluate progress in implementing our munities worldwide, as well as review HP’s annual Living strategies and to establish performance goals. Progress Report. In addition, the committee may review, assess, report, and provide guidance to management and 6. Global citizenshipGlobal citizenship governance governance HP Board of Directors Nominating, Governance, and Social Responsibility Committee assists the board in fulfilling its responsibilities related to HP's public policy, government aﬀairs, and global citizenship (including human rights) activities HP Executive Council Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation Board Hewlett-Packard Company HP Global Citizenship Council Foundation Stakeholder engagement Corporate Supply chain Social Human rights Privacy HP people Environment ethics responsibility investment 16 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents • Governance Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary HP profile Living Progress strategy • Stakeholder engagement Corporate ethics Public policy Policies and standards Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress About this report Stakeholder engagement To create a better future for everyone through our actions HP focuses its stakeholder engagement on the company’s and innovations, HP must work collaboratively. Pursuing most material issues. We engage with a diverse group of an open dialogue with external stakeholders and experts individuals and organizations to advance shared objechas informed and will continue to drive our ever-evolving tives, to continually improve our management approach, social and environmental strategy, now expressed and to gain insights on emerging trends, standards, reguthrough HP Living Progress. We always have more to learn lations, and risks and opportunities facing our business. from external perspectives. Our business and global citiThe table below features select examples of stakeholder zenship strategies would not be as successful or leading engagements that are included throughout this report. without this critical input and dialogue. Stakeholder group Types of engagement Example from 2013 Academics Collaborations We partnered with Harvard and Stanford universities to offer an accelerated development curriculum to our managers and directors. See Building careers on page 55. Sponsorships Customers Customer surveys We collaborated with customers around the world to help them improve their sustainability performance by leveraging HP’s best practices, as well as our portfolio Requests for proposal of energy efficient products, services and solutions. HP participates on numerous Best practice sharing customer external stakeholder advisory groups, such as the Sprint Stakeholder Participation on customer Group. stakeholder groups Innovation collaborations Employees Employee surveys Our most important employee feedback mechanism is the annual, confidential Voice of the Workforce (VoW) survey, available online in 28 languages. In 2013, 80% of all Volunteer programs employees worldwide took part, up from 79% in 2012. See Engaging our people on page 54. Investors Rankings and indexes In 2013, HP was again included on the CDP S&P 500 Carbon Disclosure Leadership Indexes (Carbon Performance Leadership Index and Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index). See Energy, climate, and water on page 77. Legislators and Lobbying governments An original partner of the ENERGY STAR® program in 1992, HP continued to work with regulators the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and other industry partners to ensure that Research labeling requirements for information and communications technology (ICT) prodResponding to public consultaucts are relevant, exclusive, and appropriate. See Energy efficiency on page 117. tion on regulations HP successfully helped lead efforts to include federal data center energy efficiency Participating in working groups and cost-savings provisions in the U.S. House of Representatives-passed Energy Efficiency Improvement Act (H.R. 2126). continued 17 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Stakeholder group Types of engagement Example from 2013 • Governance Local communities Cash and in-kind donations We delivered 21st century healthcare to people in remote, resource-poor locations through eHealth Centers, developed in partnership with several public, private, and Letter from CEO Volunteer programs nonprofit organizations. See Human Progress on page 27. Meg Whitman Nongovernmental Collaboration on programs and Working with Conservation International, we created HP Earth Insights, a unique Executive summary organizations (NGOs) initiatives early warning system for endangered species using the power of big data solutions. HP profile Collaboration on innovative See Environmental Progress on page 74. Living Progress solutions to social challenges strategy Ranking and reports • Stakeholder Peer companies Collaboration on industry initiaHP and four peer companies launched Green Freight Asia, an NGO focused on decreasing engagement tives and working groups GHG emissions and fuel consumption in freight and shipping in Asia. See Transportation Corporate ethics GHG emissions on page 129. Public policy Professional Participation in and sponsorship In 2013, we cofounded Future of Internet Power, a coalition of leading technology organizations of initiatives companies that will share energy efficiency best practices and develop a platform for Policies and standards supplying low-carbon, sustainable power to data centers in collaboration with utility Human Progress companies and policy makers. Learn more. Economic Progress Social entrepreneurs Participation at conferences In partnership with educational organizations, we designed HP LIFE e-Learning, an open platform, interactive, online learning curriculum to help entrepreneurs and Environmental Progress Mentoring students learn essential business and IT skills. See Economic Progress on page 67. About this report Suppliers Audits We hosted two summits on the issue of student, dispatch, and migrant workers in China, attended by 70 suppliers and 100 government officials, vocational school Participation at business develstaff, and NGO representatives. HP procurement professionals participated in more opment events than 50 diverse supplier events around the world. See Supply chain responsibility on Capability-building programs page 33. Mentoring Quarterly business reviews Supplier surveys Affiliations and BSR, a global nonprofit organization that catalyzes change within member companies by integrating sustainability into strategy and operations and encouraging collaboramemberships tion with stakeholders CDP, an international, nonprofit organization providing the HP belongs to or affiliates with many organizations that only global system for companies and cities to measure, address global citizenship issues, including: disclose, manage, and share vital environmental information Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation, a forum for facilitatCenter for Climate and Energy Solutions, an independent, ing economic growth by championing free and open trade nonpartisan, nonprofit organization working to advance and investment, encouraging economic and technical strong policy and action to address the twin challenges of cooperation, enhancing human security, and facilitating climate change and energy a favorable and sustainable business environment in the Asia-Pacific region Center for Corporate Citizenship at Boston College, a membership-based research organization associated with Australia and New Zealand Recycling Platform (ANZRP), a the Carroll School of Management that helps businesses nonprofit industry-run member body with a vision to create align corporate citizenship objectives and business goals a community that collects, processes, and safely recycles electronic waste for responsible environmental outcomes Center for Democracy & Technology, a nonprofit public policy organization that conceptualizes and implements public Better Business Bureau (BBB), an international accreditapolicies that will keep the Internet open, innovative, and free tion organization that helps people find and recommend businesses, brands, and charities they can trust The Centre for Information Policy Leadership, an organization that collaborates to develop policy that fosters BizNGO, a collaboration of businesses and environmental privacy and information security, while balancing ecogroups working together to promote the creation and nomic and societal interests adoption of safer chemicals and sustainable materials 18 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Change the Equation, a coalition of CEOs to foster wideEuropean Academy of Business in Society (EABIS), a net• Governance spread literacy in science, technology, engineering, and work of companies and academic institutions committed mathematics (STEM) to enabling informed decision-making on business-inLetter from CEO society issues through collaborative research, education, Meg Whitman The Climate Group, an independent, nonprofit organizathought leadership, policy insights, and business acumen Executive summary tion that works with corporate and government partners HP profile to develop mechanisms and policy to rapidly scale-up low European e-Skills Association, a community of stakeholdLiving Progress carbon energy and technology ers supporting the development of e-skills and digital strategy literacy in Europe Clinton Global Initiative (CGI), an initiative that convenes • Stakeholder global leaders to devise and implement innovative European Recycling Platform (ERP), a pan-European orgaengagement solutions to some of the world’s most pressing chalnization that develops high quality, cost-effective recycling Corporate ethics lenges—maximizing their efforts to alleviate poverty, services Public policy create a cleaner environment, and increase access to Policies and standards healthcare and education Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®), an independent, nongovernmental, nonprofit organization established to set Human Progress Clinton Health Access Initiative (CHAI), a global health standards to protect forests for future generations Economic Progress organization committed to strengthening integrated Environmental Progress health systems in the developing world and expanding Global Business Initiative on Human Rights (GBI), an initiaaccess to care and treatment for diseases of poverty, tive led by major global corporations to advance human About this report particularly HIV/AIDS, malaria, and tuberculosis rights in a business context through the implementation of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights Conservation International (CI), a nonprofit environmental organization with a mission to protect nature, and its Global Forest & Trade Network (GFTN), a World Wildlife Fund biodiversity, for the benefit of humanity through working (WWF) initiative to eliminate illegal logging, improve the manwith governments and businesses agement of valuable and threatened forests, and create a new market for environmentally responsible forest products Corporate Eco Forum (CEF), a membership organization for large companies that demonstrate a serious commitment Global Social Compliance Programme, a business-driven to the environment as a business strategy issue, helpprogram for the continuous improvement of working and ing accelerate sustainable business innovation and the environmental conditions in global supply chains exchange of best-practice insights The Green Grid, a consortium of global IT companies, policy CSR Asia, which builds capacity in companies and their makers, and end users that seeks to become the global supply chains to promote awareness of corporate social authority on resource efficiency in IT and data centers responsibility in order to advance sustainable development across the region IDH: The Sustainable Trade Initiative, an organization that accelerates sustainable trade by building coalitions that CSR Europe, a business membership network that acts as will impact poverty reduction, safeguard the environment, a platform for businesses looking to enhance sustainable and foster fair and transparent trade growth and positively contribute to society Information Accountability Foundation, a nonprofit Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition, a coalition of the organization furthering accountability-based information world’s leading electronics companies working together to governance through active consultations and research, in improve efficiency and social, ethical, and environmental collaboration with governments, enforcement agencies, responsibility in the global supply chain business, and civil society EPEAT®, a leading global rating system that helps identify International Climate Change Partnership (ICCP), a global greener computers and other electronic equipment membership-based coalition of companies and trade associations committed to constructive and responsible Ethics and Compliance Officer Association (ECOA), a participation in the international policy process concerning nonprofit, member-driven association exclusively for indiglobal climate change viduals who are responsible for their organization’s ethics, compliance, and business conduct programs Junior Achievement, the world’s largest organization dedicated to educating students about workforce readiness, Ethos Institute for Business and Social Responsibility, a entrepreneurship, and financial literacy through experienBrazilian nonprofit organization with a mission to mobilize, tial, hands-on programs encourage, and help companies manage their business in a socially responsible way Kiva, a nonprofit organization with a mission to connect people through lending to alleviate poverty using the Internet and a worldwide network of microfinance institutions 19 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents mothers2mothers, an NGO that helps prevent mother-toSustainable Green Printing Partnership, an initiative to • Governance child transmission of HIV encourage and promote participation in the worldwide movement to reduce environmental impact and increase Letter from CEO National Association for Environmental Management social responsibility in the graphic communications Meg Whitman (NAEM), a nonprofit, nonpartisan professional association industry Executive summary dedicated to empowering corporate leaders to advance HP profile environmental stewardship, create safe and healthy workUNICEF, a global nonprofit working to improve and save Living Progress places, and promote global sustainability children’s lives by providing healthcare, education, and strategy emergency relief National Association for Community College • Stakeholder Entrepreneurship (NACCE), a nonprofit organization helpUnited Nations Global Compact, a voluntary and strategic engagement ing community colleges nationwide link their traditional policy initiative for businesses that are committed to alignCorporate ethics role of workforce development with entrepreneurial ing their operations and strategies with 10 universally Public policy development accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, Policies and standards environment, and anti-corruption Partners in Health, an NGO founded in 1987 that aims to Human Progress provide a preferential option for the poor in healthcare. By USAID, the lead U.S. government agency that works to end Economic Progress establishing long-term relationships with sister organizaextreme global poverty and enable resilient, democratic Environmental Progress tions based in settings of poverty, Partners In Health strives societies to realize their potential to bring the benefits of modern medical science to those About this report most in need of them and to serve as an antidote to despair U.S. Green Building Council, a nonprofit organization committed to a prosperous and sustainable future through Ponemon Institute, a research organization working to cost-efficient and energy-saving green buildings, including enable organizations in both the private and public sectors LEED® certification for data centers to have a clearer understanding of the trends in practices, perceptions, and potential threats that will affect the colWorld Economic Forum, an independent, nonprofit lection, management, and safeguarding of personal and foundation committed to improving the state of the world confidential information about individuals and organizations through public-private collaborative efforts to shape global, regional, and industry agendas Public-Private Alliance for Responsible Minerals Trade, a multi-sector and multi-stakeholder initiative to support World Resources Forum, a science-based platform to supply chain solutions to conflict minerals challenges in exchange knowledge about the economic, political, and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and the Great environmental implications of global resource use Lakes Region (GLR) of Central Africa WWF Climate Savers, an initiative by World Wildlife Fund Sustainable Silicon Valley, a consortium of companies, (WWF) to mobilize multinational companies to voluntarily government entities, academic and research institutions, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote the busiand nonprofit organizations that work together to inspire ness case for energy efficiency and clean technology collaboration, accelerate innovation, and encourage economic prosperity for a sustainable future 20 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents • Governance Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary HP profile Living Progress strategy Stakeholder engagement • Corporate ethics Public policy Policies and standards Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress About this report Corporate ethics At HP, how we do things is as important as what we do. We earned high ratings in Transparency International’s We are responsible for our actions, accountable for their Defence Companies Anti-corruption Index for 2013, placconsequences, and serious about our efforts. ing us in the top 8% of companies assessed. HP’s employees live our values through their everyday actions. We also use our scale and influence to encourage ethical behavior beyond our own operations. (Read more in Supply chain responsibility and Human rights.) Ethics and Our Ethics and Compliance program requires employees, business partners, and suppliers worldwide to use lawful compliance and ethical business practices when doing business with us. We hold our leadership, employees, business partners, We have systems in place for reporting and swift resolution and suppliers to the highest ethical standards and require of ethical concerns, in line with our policies and local laws. them to comply with applicable laws and regulations everywhere we operate. We advance these principles We operate with integrity, whatever the local culture, laws, through rigorous governance structures, training, comand regulations might be. HP does not tolerate corrupt munications, and reporting and investigation procedures. behavior and prohibits bribes or kickbacks under any HP’s Standards of Business Conduct (SBC) sets clear circumstances (see Anti-corruption). expectations for our employees. HP codes of conduct Employees Contingent workers HP’s Standards of Business Conduct (SBC) is available Contingent Worker Code of Conduct in more than 20 languages. It sets clear expectations of (available in 20+ languages) behavior for employees, including guidance on what to do in difficult situations. Additional codes of conduct, shown Suppliers below, support the SBC. HP Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code of Conduct HP U.S. public sector employees U.S. Public Sector Code of Conduct Partners Partner Code of Conduct (available in 20+ languages) 21 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Governance structure Addressing concerns • Governance and responsibilities Open door approach Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Our commitment to the highest ethical standards starts HP operates with an “open door” approach to communiExecutive summary at the top with the Board of Directors. The board has ultication. We encourage employees to raise concerns and mate responsibility for ethics and compliance and, along ask questions when they are unsure of the best course of HP profile with company executives, sets the tone for employees. action—without fear of retaliation. We provide guidance Living Progress on how to do so in our SBC and accompanying training Its Audit Committee provides nonexecutive input on our strategy module, as well as through our corporate policy directory program and guidance to our Chief Ethics and Compliance Stakeholder Officer. Our Ethics and Compliance Office oversees day-toand internal ethics and compliance website. Where specific engagement day work on this issue across our global operations. ethical issues arise, employees can talk to their line man• Corporate ethics ager or more senior managers. They may also seek advice from our ethics and compliance experts, or from regional Public policy Ethics andandcompliance governance structure 7. Ethics compliance governance structure or business SBC liaisons. Policies and standards Human Progress Board of Directors We provide formal, confidential reporting channels for Economic Progress employees and third parties, including e-mail, an online form, and a global 24-hour toll-free hotline with translaEnvironmental Progress tors available. Where allowed by law, reporting can be About this report Audit Committee Independent Director anonymous. The hotline and corporate compliance e-mail channels provide two-way communication for anonymous sources so we can respond promptly and follow-up as needed. In 2013, employees and third parties reported a Ethics and Compliance Committee total of 1,268 items to our Global SBC team or other compliance functions. Chief Ethics and Compliance Oﬀicer Read more about how to ask a question or report a concern. Ethics and Compliance Oﬀice Items reported to the Global SBC team or other compliance functions, 2009–2013 [percentage of total, by topic] Compliance Council Global Ethics Team Total number of items: 1,268 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Human resources issues 35% 44% 42% 39% 40% Ethics and Compliance Oﬀice Misuse of assets 14% 11% 10% 12% 18% Anti-corruption Oﬀice Conflicts of interest 7% 6% 8% 13% 9% Regulatory Compliance Review Board SBC Leadership Team Fraud 12% 10% 9% 8% 7% Confidentiality 6% 5% 6% 4% 4% Market Knowledge Business, Regional, Board Customer relationships 2% 2% 3% 4% 4% and Global Functions SBC Liasons Sales channel violations 3% 3% 3% 1% 2% Privacy and Data Protection Board Financial and public reporting 4% 3% 2% 2% 2% Local SBC Network Competition 1% 1% 3% 3% 1% Social and Environmental Responsibility Other 16% 15% 14% 14% 13% Operations Council Investigating concerns HP uses a global case management system to record In April 2013, the Board of Directors designated Ralph allegations of ethical violations. It enables us to identify Whitworth as the nonexecutive Chairman of the Board on geographical hotspots and trends, and determine whether an interim basis. See HP’s Governance page for informaadditional action such as supplemental training or controls tion about: would be valuable in a specific region or area of risk. • Members of our Board of Directors We take all alleged violations of company policy seriously, • Composition of our board committees responding promptly and conducting investigations when appropriate. These investigations may involve the par• Charters of our board committees ticipation of local, regional, or corporate-level employees • Our Corporate Governance Guidelines and other relevant functions, including regional human resources teams. The Office of General Counsel’s dedicated investigations team oversees all escalated, corporate-led 22 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents investigations. Details and results of investigations are conleadership or living HP’s values in ways that contribute • Governance fidential and shared only on a need-to-know basis. We take to the company’s success. The program recognized five appropriate disciplinary or remedial action, when required. employees in 2013. Letter from CEO Meg Whitman • Conflicts of Interest Policy Following a comprehensive In 2013, we undertook a Lean Six Sigma review1 of the proreview, we reorganized our Conflicts of Interest Policy, Executive summary cesses under which investigations of serious misconduct revised the content to reflect employee needs, and HP profile are handled. This review identified ways to improve our translated the text into 13 languages. Additional new investigative procedures without compromising the thorLiving Progress resources include FAQs and a Disclosure Matrix, which strategy oughness and effectiveness of an investigation. The end defines what should be disclosed, to whom, and what result was a more efficient approach and a significantly Stakeholder level of management approval is needed. reduced time period to complete investigations. engagement • Corporate ethics Public policy Policies and standards Ethics and compliance training, communications, and recognition Anti-corruption Human Progress HP does not tolerate corrupt behavior and prohibits Economic Progress Everyone at HP is accountable for their actions, regardless of bribery or kickbacks in any circumstance. Corrupt behavior position in the company. To support ethical behaviors across Environmental Progress is an impediment to social and economic development. It our workforce, we maintain a program of training, communiAbout this report undermines the values on which HP is built, the principles cations, and recognition. Our main initiatives in 2013 included: of fair competition, and the rule of law. • Mandatory SBC annual refresher course 99.7% of active employees2, including every senior officer and Through our Anti-corruption Compliance Program, we executive, completed a one-hour training session coverpromote compliance with anti-corruption laws and regulaing our SBC and key policies, procedures, and high-risk tions, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the issues. Board members were also required to complete UK Bribery Act, and similar national laws. During 2013, we a similar training. New hires complete a comprehensive simplified our anti-corruption policies to provide streamSBC training course within 30 days of joining HP. lined guidance to our workforce and introduced a new, stand-alone Anti-corruption Policy and a revised Global • Training videos We released three “Integrity Matters” Business Amenities Policy. Employees must also abide by videos that depict typical real-life scenarios of ethical HP’s Political Contributions Policy. In November 2013, we dilemmas with guidance provided by senior leaders. communicated the new Anti-corruption Policy and Global These videos, although not mandatory for employees Business Amenities Policy to all employees globally, and, to watch, each had an average viewership of 26,000 in early 2014, successfully trained HP’s sales force on employees. Among survey respondents, 98% rated the these policies. HP communicates regularly with employees videos as “good” to “excellent,” and 61% indicated they worldwide to promote understanding and familiarity with better understood the topics covered. all aspects of our Anti-corruption Compliance Program. • Integrity Matters newsletter We redesigned this newsletter with employee priorities and time-constraints in We use internal data and Transparency International’s mind, and improved distribution to reach all employees Corruption Perceptions Index to identify countries at high and encourage higher viewership. We also redesigned risk for corrupt activity and raise employee awareness of webcasts with leaders in a more relatable interview style. potential issues in these higher-risk countries. We also • Ethics Champions Recognition Program We introduced benchmark our program with those of other companies to this new quarterly recognition program to promote identify potential improvements. HP’s culture of integrity and ethical decision making, by showcasing employees or teams demonstrating ethical In 2013, we expanded our Channel Reseller Partner Due Diligence Program to other types of third parties, including global logistics service providers and certain suppliers. Investigation 8. Investigation process cycle overview Assess: Investigate: Analyze: Review: Conclude: review allegation gather and review data, make findings, prepare review investigation close case, implement and open case conduct interviews investigation summary findings and recommendations recommendations • Determine whether there • Conduct fact-finding to obtain • Matter closed as “substance • Multiple reviewers and review • Outcomes may include human is suﬀicient information to and assess relevant information found”, “no substance found”, points ensure fairness and resources disciplinary actions investigate or “inconclusive” consistency across and process recommendations investigations • Investigate only on the basis of concrete allegations from anonymous sources, employees, or third parties 1 Lean Six Sigma is a set of tools and techniques for process improvement. Focus areas included: questions and allegations intake process, clarification of roles and responsibilities across teams, guidelines for escalation of matters to the corporate investigations team, factors to be considered in determining disciplinary actions, and implementation and effectiveness of recommended remediation actions. 2 Excluding new hires, those on leave of absence, and people leaving HP 23 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Training In 2013, more than 50 live (face-to-face and online) training sessions were provided to more than 5,700 employees • Governance We provide a range of anti-corruption training to enhance worldwide on anti-corruption, SBC, global trade, ameniLetter from CEO ties, and global security. Meg Whitman employee awareness and understanding: Executive summary • New hires complete anti-corruption training as part of HP profile our mandatory ethics and compliance induction process. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Living Progress • Anti-corruption is a key element of the annual SBC resolution strategy refresher training course for all employees. Stakeholder • Sales employees are required to take an additional In April 2014, HP resolved a case that involved a small engagement anti-corruption course every year that provides scenarionumber of former employees violating our SBC and the • Corporate ethics based training to deepen their understanding of how to Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. As part of the resolution the apply anti-corruption policies in their everyday work. U.S. Department of Justice recognized HP’s extraordinary Public policy cooperation with the authorities, extensive remediation, Policies and standards • Relevant employees complete training tailored to the and continued improvement and enhancement of its antiunique requirements of conducting business with the corruption compliance program. Human Progress U.S. government. Economic Progress • Our Ethics and Compliance Office provides specific guidAs a company, we have no tolerance for unlawful behavior, Environmental Progress ance and training in certain higher-risk countries, which and pride ourselves on holding employees to the highAbout this report includes face-to-face training and materials adapted est ethical standards. Our Ethics and Compliance team for localized training on the SBC and Global Business has taken and will continue to take actions to prevent Amenities Policy. corrupt conduct, and as a company we remain focused on providing our customers around the world the best • HP makes anti-corruption training materials available quality products and services and adhering to the highest to channel reseller partners that participate in the Legal standards of business conduct and ethics. and Regulatory Partner Due Diligence Program. Goals 2013 goals Progress Increase business-led ethics and compliance messaging and In 2013, HP leaders continued to provide clear messaging on key ethics communications. and compliance issues relevant to their organizations through new and existing channels—see Ethics and compliance training, communications, and recognition above. We also focused on middle management engagement in high-risk countries. Showcase Ethics Champions. HP launched our Ethics Champions program in 2013, which recognizes ethical leadership decisions made by our employees, especially in challenging situations. Continue assessment of effectiveness of training and consulting Based on employee feedback, we customized training and awareness programs. efforts to focus on simpler messaging, easier access, and multichannel learning mechanisms. Continue expanding controls relating to third-party due diligence, HP expanded due diligence to include other third parties such as global including initiating rescreening of existing channel partners.* logistics service providers and certain suppliers. Revise and consolidate anti-corruption policies. We consolidated anti-corruption guidance documents and created streamlined policies to provide employees more succinct guidance. Enhance event and hospitality screening processes. We began work with HP Labs to develop a tool to help employees resolve questions and receive advice on how to provide business amenities in a way that complies with HP’s policies. * A channel partner is a company that contracts with HP to market or sell our products and services. 2014 goals Continue to focus on business-led ethics and compliance messaging and communications. Continue to emphasize and recognize Ethics Champions. Continue to refresh and refine training and consulting programs. Continue improving and enhancing due diligence on third parties with whom we do business. Complete enhancements to event, hospitality, and business amenity screening process and tool. 24 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents • Governance Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary HP profile Living Progress strategy Stakeholder engagement Corporate ethics • Public policy Policies and standards Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress About this report Public policy Public policy shapes our industry and its ability to • Advocating for immigration reform for highly skilled transform how we live and work. As a global information professionals, such as provisions included in the U.S. technology (IT) company, we share our expertise and Senate-passed comprehensive immigration bill (S. experience with elected officials, governments, and regu744) and the U.S. House of Representatives SKILLS Act lators around the world. (H.R. 2131) • Playing a leadership role to include data center energy HP advocates for laws and regulations that encourage efficiency provisions in the U.S. House of Representativeseconomic growth and innovation. We support effective passed Energy Efficiency Improvement Act (H.R. 2126). policies in areas critical to our business including technolThe provisions set a minimum standard for federal ogy, taxation, market access, intellectual property (IP) acquisition of energy efficient data center technology and rights, and environment. Our public policy work complies call for an update of an eight-year-old U.S. Environmental with all applicable national and international laws as well Protection Agency data centers report as our own strict Standards of Business Conduct (SBC). • Advising trade negotiators on advancing the Trans-Pacific HP’s Corporate Affairs team leads our public policy Partnership and Transatlantic Trade and Investment engagement around the globe with oversight from Partnership, updating the Information Technology the Nominating, Governance and Social Responsibility Agreement, and launching the Trade in Services Agreement Committee (NGSR), a subcommittee of HP’s Board of • Providing recommendations to the European Directors. HP’s Senior Vice President of Corporate Affairs Commission-appointed mediator on copyright levies, is required to provide regular updates to the NGSR on govincluding how to adapt the current hardware-based levernment relations activities and political engagement. ies system to the digital age We also magnify our influence to shape policies by working • Securing European Commission recognition of the through IT industry and broader business associations. Voluntary Agreement on Imaging Equipment, reflectView HP’s membership in these major organizations and ing a 2011 commitment by 16 leading companies to coalitions worldwide. Where legally permissible and in substantially improve the energy efficiency of printers, accordance with our SBC, HP also engages external consulcopiers, and multifunctional devices tants and contract lobbyists to work closely with our team. Current policy priorities Our public policy work focuses on five areas critical to 2013 highlights our business. See below for a summary of our approach in each area, or click on the links to read more detailed Corporate Affairs spearheads engagements with policy descriptions of our policy positions. makers around the world to develop relationships and • Technology policy influence key policies. Specific highlights in 2013 included: • Tax policy • Engaging with governments and international organizations such as the Organisation for Economic • Market access Co-operation and Development (OECD) to promote • Intellectual property and anti-counterfeiting progressive tax reform, research and development • Social and environmental policies incentives, and a competitive global economy 25 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Technology policy Social and environmental policies • Governance Technology policy has a direct and fundamental impact HP promotes public policies that support human, ecoLetter from CEO on our business. Trends in cloud, security, mobility, and nomic, and environmental progress. HP supports efforts to Meg Whitman big data are driving significant shifts in the consumption develop, attract, and retain a strong science and engineerof technology. This New Style of IT benefits from a policy ing workforce, through worldwide advocacy for educational Executive summary environment that encourages the growth and adoption improvements and promotion of U.S. immigration reform HP profile of new technologies. We advocate for strong privacy that affects our highly skilled international employees. To Living Progress and data protection regulations, outcome-based cyber protect the environment, we engage with governments to strategy security standards, and energy-efficient cloud delivery. We help improve local, state, national, and international legislaStakeholder support regulatory frameworks that enable standardization governing responsible management of electronic waste engagement tion, interoperability, and portability across IT systems and restriction of hazardous substances. HP actively lends and solutions. We also promote government procurement our expertise to developing and improving energy efficiency Corporate ethics standards and policies that take into account the speed of standards, such as the ENERGY STAR® program, and other • Public policy innovation and total life cycle costs of technology. voluntary agreements to improve energy efficiency. We also Policies and standards encourage governments to prioritize energy efficiency when Human Progress Tax policy they procure IT products and data centers. As an industry HP promotes responsible and progressive tax policies that leader in enabling the responsible sourcing of minerals, HP Economic Progress encourage innovation, economic growth, and job creation. advises legislative efforts on this high-profile issue. Environmental Progress We support comprehensive federal tax reform in the United About this report States. Globally, we are engaged with the OECD’s global taxation reform efforts, providing input to their work. Political engagement Market access In 2013, HP contributed $1,175,636 to state and local canHP supports trade agreements that liberalize markets didates, political memberships or sponsorships, and ballot for our products and services. We also advocate for these measure campaigns in the United States. These contribuagreements to benefit the global high-tech economy, by tions aligned with our policy positions and complied with including strong protections for IP and increasing transHP’s political guidelines, SBC, and applicable laws. parency in government procurement, regulations, and standards. HP supports the use and recognition of interHP does not make corporate contributions to federal national standards whenever possible and discourages political candidates. However, eligible employees can make policies that promote domestic industry at the expense of voluntary donations to the HP Political Action Committee access to global technologies. (PAC). It is a separate legal entity that contributes to both Democratic and Republican campaign committees, PACs, Intellectual property and anti-counterfeiting and party committees in the United States that share our policy views. In 2013, HP PAC disbursed a total of $350,886.1 Our business is powered by innovation and relies on fair and efficient IP protection. Counterfeiting poses a signifiWhere permissible, limited political contributions are made cant global challenge to HP and our customers and is more outside the United States. sophisticated and pervasive than ever. Our anticounterfeiting program works with governments and law enforcement Learn more on our Government Affairs website, including: agencies to strengthen IP laws and promote prosecution of counterfeiters. In the United States, we support reforms • Policies for corporate and PAC political contributions to strengthen the patent system, improve patent quality, • Criteria and responsibilities for approving political contributions and curb excessive patent litigation in the courts and at the International Trade Commission. Additionally, we advocate • List of candidates and groups that received corporate or for more effective fair compensation systems in jurisdictions PAC contributions in 2013 that apply copyright levies to IT products and digital media. • List of Section 527 organizations that received contributions from HP in 20132 The website also discloses the proportion of our membership fees that each U.S. trade association we belong to used for lobbying purposes in 2013. Data 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Contributions to U.S. state and local candidates, political member$1,052,400 $1,284,900 $1,136,447 $1,422,375 $1,175,636 ships/sponsorships, and ballot measure campaigns [$] HP Political Action Committee contributions1 [$] $260,000 $378,000 $542,200 $529,450 $350,886 1 Reflects combined HP Political Action Committee and legacy EDS Political Action Committee contributions. Includes minimal operating expenditures. 1 Includes minimal operating expenditures. 2 The term “527 organization” refers to a U.S. political organization that is not regulated by the Federal Election Commission. These organizations are created under Section 527 of the Internal Revenue Code. 26 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents • Governance Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary HP profile Living Progress strategy Stakeholder engagement Corporate ethics Public policy • Policies and standards Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress About this report Policies and standards Accessibility Reuse and Recycling Standards HP General Specification for the Environment HP Accessibility Policy Business ethics Global citizenship HP Global Citizenship Policy Standards of Business Conduct U.S. Public Sector Code of Conduct Human rights Contingent Worker Code of Conduct HP Global Human Rights Policy Partner Code of Conduct Labor practices Corporate governance Open Door Policy Corporate Governance Guidelines Privacy Diversity HP Global Master Privacy Policy Nondiscrimination Policy Harassment-Free Work Environment Policy Supply chain HP Supply Chain Social and Environmental Environment Responsibility Policy Energy and Climate Change Policy HP Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code of Conduct Environmental, Health, and Safety Policy HP Student and Dispatch Worker Guidance Standard for Environmentally Preferable Paper Policy Supplier Facilities in the People’s Republic of China Contents Governance Human Progress Human rights Supply chain responsibility Privacy HP people Economic Progress Environmental Progress About this report Human Progress Advancing the overall health and well-being of people 28 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Living Example: eHealth Centers Contents Governance Human Progress HP technology expands access to healthcare Human rights Supply chain responsibility eHealth Centers leverage cloud-based information technology (IT) and Privacy HP people data-sharing systems to deliver 21st-century healthcare services and Economic Progress medical diagnostics to people in remote, resource-poor locations. Environmental Progress About this report e-Health Center, Chausala, India Problem Impact • Seventy-five percent of India’s healthcare infrastructure Human Progress: Provides access to high-qualand resources are concentrated in urban populations ity medical care to rural India, where people lack where only 27% of the population lives. access to such provisions—enabling early intervention and treatment of common health • Eighty-nine percent of rural Indian patients travel more problems without traveling great distances. than 8 km to access basic medical services. • Existing health clinics often lack high-quality medical care. Economic Progress: Healthier people lead more productive lives, participate in their local and Vision global economies, and develop innovative ideas • Provide 21st-century healthcare services to patients in to help address community problems. rural India by utilizing HP’s innovative technologies and solutions to create access for remote locations. Solution • In partnership with the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) and other public, private, and nonprofit organizations, eHealth Centers provide quality healthcare services to people in remote, resource-poor locations in India. • Used shipping containers transform into cloud-enabled mobile clinics that integrate HP technology solutions, including HP workstations, software, and networking. • As of April 2014, the first five eHealth Centers in India have received more than 28,000 patient visits. 29 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Governance Human Progress • Human rights Supply chain responsibility Privacy HP people Economic Progress Environmental Progress About this report Human rights Human rights are the fundamental rights, freedoms, and standards of treatment to which all people are entitled. Approach They are outlined in international conventions, declaraAt HP, we believe that technology supports human progtions, and treaties, including the United Nations Universal ress and facilitates the ability of individuals to enjoy their Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR). In 2011, the UN basic rights and freedoms. While technology can also be Human Rights Council endorsed the “Guiding Principles used to limit those freedoms, we believe that we can most on Business and Human Rights: Implementing the United effectively influence such situations through our presence Nations ‘Protect, Respect and Remedy’ Framework” and constructive engagement, rather than withdrawing (UNGP). It provides a conceptual and policy framework for from countries with poor human rights practices. Due business and human rights, as well as guiding principles to our global reach and industry leadership, HP is in a for its implementation. position to positively impact human rights worldwide. We achieve this through engaging suppliers and partners, Enabling human progress around the world is a core collaborating with industry groups and local organizations, commitment and strategic objective for HP. We take an and working with governments to develop policies and uncompromising stance on human rights in our own operaregulations. We encourage respect and support for a wide tions and work to influence others to do the same. HP’s variety of human rights in our own company and through Global Human Rights Policy states our dedication to leaderour business relationships. Such efforts range from supship in integrating respect for human rights worldwide into porting basic labor rights in our supply chain to ensuring our operations and value chain. We strive to be a catalyst our employees’ and customers’ right to privacy. for the greater protection of human rights universally and to be a leader on human rights issues in the information technology (IT) sector. 30 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents In 2014, we plan to develop metrics for human rights, so Progress in 2013 we can better assess how we are performing over time Governance and more effectively target areas for improvement. Human Progress During 2013, we completed our first human rights risk assessment tailored to our business. The assessment iden• Human rights tified potential risk areas related to activities across HP’s Supply chain value chain—covering our own operations, as well as our Collaboration responsibility suppliers, partners, contractors, and the sale and use of our Privacy In addition to identifying and managing our own impact on products. We assessed risks for their likelihood and severhuman rights, we provide leadership in multi-stakeholder HP people ity, and the leverage that HP can apply to address the issue. forums promoting the effective implementation of proEconomic Progress cesses to ensure respect for human rights in business. The most frequent risk we identified was protecting the Environmental Progress legitimate right to privacy of our customers, partners, and In June 2013, HP hosted a meeting of 25 companies from About this report employees. Privacy has become a growing risk for many the BSR Human Rights Working Group. The group focused companies involved in processing or storing personal on setting best practices for grievance mechanisms and data. Advancements in technology and business models developing related tools and guidelines. See Grievance are outpacing governments’ ability to agree on how to reports and allegations on page 32. regulate the growing data industry. Companies cannot therefore rely simply on compliance and must exercise HP also contributed to the Roundtable for Business ethics and social responsibility to protect data and the Leaders, hosted by the Global Reporting Initiative and individuals who entrust them with their information. HP the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) in Abu Dhabi in 2013. is recognized as an industry leader for its comprehensive The event, “Understanding and Implementing Corporate privacy program. For more information, see Privacy. Respect for Human Rights,” provided a forum for regional business leaders and representatives from the United The second-most prevalent risk area our assessment Arab Emirates government to discuss corporate responuncovered was labor practices associated with IT supply sibility and human rights in a business context. The chains. Issues such as factory employee health and safety session brought together regional representatives with and excessive working hours are persistent challenges in their counterparts. HP cochaired two breakout sessions IT supply chains, which HP is aggressively targeting in our focused on “Workplace Rights and Vulnerable Groups” Supply Chain Responsibility program. For more informaand “Integration into Corporate Policies, Processes, and tion, see Supply chain responsibility. Management Systems.” During 2013, we added a human rights module to HP’s We also partnered with SHIFT, a nonprofit center for busiStandards of Business Conduct (SBC) annual refresher ness and human rights. Throughout the year, we helped training. Taken by 99.7% of active employees, the training the organization develop tools for its water stewardship is designed to raise awareness of potential issues that project—in regions of extreme water stress, access to employees may encounter. HP’s Ethics and Compliance water can be a human rights issue. We also contribOffice also provides confidential reporting channels uted to SHIFT’s Human Rights Reporting and Assurance globally for suspected SBC violations and human rights Framework initiative. allegations (see page 31 for reporting on grievances received by HP). risk assessment 9. Human rightsHuman across rights risk HP’s value chain assessment across HP’s value chain Supply chain Operations Products and solutions Customers’ employees Rights holders Employees of suppliers HP employees and customers and people impacted by our customers through the use of HP products Excessive working hours Top risks Due diligence Privacy Unsafe working conditions Forced labor Other risks Privacy Dual use Equal opportunity Risk of HP’s suppliers, partners, Risk of HP’s own operations Risk that sales and use Risk areas and contractors impacting human and practices impacting of HP’s products and rights human rights services impact human rights 31 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents In December 2013, HP partnered with the NEXUS Institute See Human rights policies on page 32 for links to other Governance to hold a Human Rights Day for HP employees in Palo HP policies and standards that also guide our approach to Alto, California, United States. The event gave attendees respecting human rights. Human Progress an overview of human rights and the role of companies in • Human rights respecting human rights. Employees were shown examThe following sections of this report describe how HP Supply chain ples of HP’s work to help improve respect for human rights manages a range of human rights issues: responsibility and address adverse human rights impacts in our supply • Corporate ethics on page 20 Privacy chain and took part in a discussion about human trafficking. • Supply chain responsibility on page 33 HP people • Privacy on page 50 Economic Progress Human rights management • HP people on page 54 Environmental Progress About this report HP’s Ethics and Compliance Office, within the Office of the General Counsel, is responsible for ensuring the impleWe believe that our products and services help advance mentation of our human rights policy and for defining society and enhance the lives of people worldwide. processes to assure the prevention, mitigation, and remeHowever, there is always the potential for goods and serdiation of any human rights impacts across HP’s business. vices to be used in unintended and inappropriate ways. In doing so, our Human Rights program works closely with HP’s business units and global functions to address HP sells products and services in countries around the human rights impacts across a wide range of business globe. Some of these countries lack the rule of law, or the activities, including consumer and employee data privacy, ability to enforce laws in order to protect citizens. When doing supply chain management, labor relations, employee business in these challenging markets, HP abides by all U.S. health and safety, and global trade. sanctions, restrictions, and embargoes. In addition, we utilize our due diligence process and oversight from the Global HP’s Global Citizenship Council ensures company-wide Citizenship Council to guide business decisions when there is commitment and alignment to HP’s Living Progress objecpotential for our products and services to be misused. tives, including governance of our Human Rights program. See Living Progress governance on page 15. We recognize that not all of our business decisions will necessarily align with the perspectives of all shareholdHP’s respect for human rights is not new. Since 2002, the ers, customers, and other stakeholders, and we strive to company has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact, consider their perspectives. For that reason, and conwhich includes 10 universally accepted principles in the sistent with our policy, we review our business decisions areas of human rights, labor, environment, and antiwhen questioned by stakeholders and investigate any corruption (see United Nations Global Compact index on allegations that our decisions are inconsistent with our page 140). commitment to human rights. HP’s Global Human Rights Policy (available in 21 lanOur commitment to respect human rights also extends to guages) includes the following key commitments: the communities where we operate. From local community and employee-engagement programs to large-scale • Comply with laws and regulations where HP does busisocial investment programs, we focus the collective power ness and adopt and apply international standards where of our people, portfolio, and partnerships for greatest laws are less stringent impact (see Social investment on page 71). • Complete due diligence to avoid complicity in human rights violations Grievance reporting Grievance mechanisms are a basic part of businesses’ • Regularly assess human rights risks, policies, and impacts, human rights programs and should serve individuals and provide visibility of the results to senior executives and communities who may be adversely impacted by a • Provide access to independent grievance mechanisms company’s activities. Grievance mechanisms serve two immediately to raise concerns or identify adverse main purposes: identifying potential adverse human rights human rights impacts impacts, and addressing the grievance through investi• Promptly investigate allegations and pursue actions to gation and remedy as appropriate. Having an effective mitigate any adverse human rights impacts grievance mechanism in place is important to businesses as it enables them to identify and remedy problems early on, • Promote continual improvement through capability before they become compounded and potentially escalate. building for our business partners, terminating relationships only as a last resort • Advance our human rights practices through a journey of cumulative progress • Report transparently on our efforts 32 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents HP provides several means for employees, customers, and stakeholders to file a grievance. Our main reporting Human rights policies Governance channels are: HP policies with particular relevance to human rights include: Human Progress • Human rights • A toll-free number, available to people inside and out• HP Standards of Business Conduct side the company, to report grievances anonymously Supply chain • HP Global Human Rights Policy responsibility • By e-mail to our Ethics and Compliance Office through our SBC mailbox • HP Contingent Worker Code of Conduct Privacy • HP Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) Policy HP people Read more about how to report a concern. Economic Progress • HP Global Citizenship Policy Environmental Progress In addition to formal grievances, we track and investigate • HP Global Master Privacy Policy potential human rights allegations that are brought to our About this report • HP Harassment-Free Work Environment Policy attention through other channels, such as stakeholder engagements and media relations. • HP Nondiscrimination Policy • HP Open Door Policy We track all reported grievances and allegations to closure regardless of the source. Formal grievances are • HP Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code reviewed by the Ethics and Compliance Office and the of Conduct (Supplier Code of Conduct) Audit Committee, at least quarterly. Insights gained from • HP Supply Chain Social and Environmental reported grievances and allegations are incorporated into Responsibility Policy improvement plans within the appropriate organization • Partner Code of Conduct and functions, such as our Supply Chain Responsibility program and our Human Rights program. • HP Student and Dispatch Worker1 Guidance Standard for Supplier Facilities in the People’s Republic of China During 2013, HP received 22 human rights-related grievances and allegations including media investigations and customer concerns not raised as formal grievances (see table). This number includes grievances brought to our attention related to our suppliers. All of these events have been investigated and responded to, and all but five have been closed. By comparison, in 2012 we received 27 grievances and allegations. Thirty items were closed in 2012 (including some from 2011). Two remaining grievances and allegations from 2012 were closed by April 2013. Grievance reports and allegations 2012 2013 Supply chain and materials sourcing 9 9 Operations and governance 2 4 Products and services 16 9 Total 27 22 1 Dispatch workers are temporary laborers provided by agencies. 33 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Governance Human Progress Human rights • Supply chain responsibility Privacy HP people Economic Progress Environmental Progress About this report HP final assembly supplier, China Supply chain responsibility HP supports human, economic, and environmental progress throughout one of the most extensive supply chains Progress in 2013 in the information and communications technology (ICT) In 2013, HP made progress across a number of supindustry. Our Supply Chain Responsibility (SCR) program— ply chain focus areas. We became the first information founded in 2001—is fundamental to HP Living Progress, technology (IT) company to introduce guidance for the the way our people and technology come together to solve treatment of student and dispatch workers, an emergsociety’s toughest challenges. Our supply chain standards ing challenge in the electronics industry supply chain. enhance the lives of people making our products and We began collecting data on these and other workers to reduce environmental impacts across our value chain. better understand the risks around this issue. We conThey also lead to higher-quality products and help ensure tinued to monitor our suppliers with specialized on-site the continuity of our supply lines. assessments and to require corrective action when we find potential issues. Furthermore, we continued our tradition We demonstrate our commitment to addressing chalof transparency, by publishing a list of the tantalum, tin, lenges in our supply chain through transparency and tungsten, and gold (3TG) smelters that we confirmed to action exemplified by our audits, assessments, and be in our supply chain, a major step in working toward the capability-building programs. Audits and assessments responsible sourcing of minerals used in our products. To help us determine potential suppliers’ ability to meet our better track our progress on these issues and others, in social and environmental responsibility (SER) require2013 we introduced the HP SCR dashboard. ments. Later, full re-audits and the regular collection of key performance indicators (KPIs) allow us to continue to Supply chain responsibility dashboard monitor suppliers’ progress as part of our manufacturing network. Capability-building programs empower our supWe are enhancing our transparency efforts by publishpliers with the knowledge, tools, and incentives to meet ing for the first time HP’s SCR dashboard. The dashboard and maintain HP’s SER requirements. highlights a range of KPIs representing significant labor, health and safety, and environmental impacts of our This section of the Living Progress Report explains how supply chain. Below we present a high-level version of the HP approaches these issues and what we accomplished in dashboard, which provides aggregate performance data 2013 to address challenges, such as: reported to us by our suppliers on working hours, student worker proportions, core labor rights, critical health and • Minimizing labor impacts safety issues, and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. In • Sourcing minerals responsibly our more detailed SCR dashboard we report additional environmental and transparency indicators. • Maintaining a diverse supply chain We report our audit findings in the Labor impact section. Learn more about the environmental performance of our suppliers in the Supply chain environmental impact section. 34 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents The findings in the dashboard showcase HP’s SCR proarea, we set an industry-leading 2020 supply chain GHG Governance gram’s strengths and our opportunities for continual emissions intensity reduction goal. Read more about our improvement. For example, our dashboard indicates that efforts in the Supply chain environmental impact section. Human Progress 83% of the workers in our final assembly facilities are Human rights working less than 60 hours per week. We recognize that Building capabilities • Supply chain we have made progress in this area, but also that we must Achieving long-lasting social and environmental progresponsibility continue our focus on helping to improve working hours ress in our supply chain relies on our suppliers’ ability Privacy performance for the remaining 17%. to improve their policies, processes, and operations. HP adopts a collaborative approach and invests in building HP people Additionally the dashboard shows that 96% of our major the capabilities of our suppliers to deliver substantial and Economic Progress final assembly sites in China have limited the use of student lasting SER performance improvements. We work with Environmental Progress workforce. With this in mind, we now focus our efforts on nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) and local training engaging our suppliers on the responsible management of groups to deliver capability-building programs that target About this report student workers and other vulnerable worker groups. critical SER issues. In 2013, we conducted 12 capabilitybuilding programs. They addressed areas including: Under critical health and safety issues, the dashboard indicates there were several zero-tolerance items in 2013. • Eliminating discrimination These items were emergency preparedness findings that • Improving health and safety conditions required immediate corrective actions and continued • Improving suppliers’ social management systems monitoring. To read more on how our suppliers corrected and resolved zero-tolerance items, see the section below. • Managing student and dispatch workers responsibly • Raising awareness of women’s health Finally, the dashboard shows our suppliers emitted 3 460,000 million tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) (in absoSince we launched our capability-building program in lute terms, allocated to HP) in 2013. HP’s supply chain 2006, companies that took part in these initiatives have represents 34% of our total carbon footprint. Tracking this performed better overall in SER audits than those that Suppliers’ employees information helped HP work with our first-tier suppliers to have not, as seen in the graph in the Audit result trends reached through capability-building reduce GHG emissions intensity by 7% in 2012, compared section on page 40. We highlight examples of capabilityprograms since 2007 with 2010 (2012 is the most recent year for which data building events throughout this section. Environmentally are available). In 2013, to make further progress in this focused capability building programs can be found in the Supply chain environmental impact section. Supply chain responsibility dashboard* 2013 Working hours Suppliers’ employees working less than 60 hours per week on average ** [%] 83% Suppliers’ employees receiving at least one day of rest each seven day workweek** [%] 89% Student workers Suppliers in China with student workers representing 20% or less of total employees ** [%] 96% Core labor rights Zero-tolerance audit findings related to the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work: 1 freedom of association; forced, bonded, or indentured labor; underage labor; or discrimination *** Critical health and safety issues Zero-tolerance audit findings related to occupational safety, emergency preparedness, or industrial hygiene **** 5 Greenhouse gas emissions Production supplier Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions†, †† [tonnes CO2e] 3,000,000 View our full data and goals * This table includes both company-level and facility-specific data obtained during 2013 relating to HP’s first-tier production suppliers. Findings from our 2013 audits are limited to those facilities audited during the year and are not representative of all facilities in our supply chain. ** Based on production-line workers at final assembly sites participating in the HP KPI program in 2013 and audit results. We continue to expand the list of suppliers in the KPI program based on business risk, country risk, and identified nonconformances. *** Finding relates to underage workers observed at supplier facility. See section. **** Findings relate to emergency preparedness. See section. † Suppliers represent 95% of HP’s production supplier spend. 2012 is the latest year for which data is available. †† The World Resources Institute defines Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions in its Greenhouse Gas Protocol; see http://www.ghgprotocol.org/calculation-tools/faq. 35 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Capability-building summary* Governance 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Human Progress Number of programs 3 4 6 11 12 12 12 Human rights Workers and managers 170 2,500 12,800 50,600 115,500 322,100 460,000 reached [total, cumulative] ** • Supply chain responsibility * As HP first started capability-building programs in 2006, full data is only available from 2007. ** With the exception of train-the-trainer programs, HP only accounts for workers and managers directly reached by our Privacy capability-building programs. These figures are rounded. HP people Economic Progress Incentivizing suppliers: HP’s new SER scorecard scorecard to six strategic commodity supplier categories. Environmental Progress HP has long considered suppliers’ SER programs and In 2014, we are extending its use to all final assembly supperformance when awarding new and continuing busipliers and additional commodity suppliers.1 About this report ness. In line with the growing importance of SER issues, we updated our procurement scoring process in 2013, placing Labor impact greater emphasis on SER performance in the business award process. Rather than include SER as an integral part of our overall supplier scorecard, which we have done for many years, this year we created a new scorecard and HP is committed to fair working conditions. We use five-tier supplier rating system to act as a multiplier to our audits, assessments, and capability-building initiatives general supplier performance management score. This to help propagate and maintain our high labor standards new approach will result in significantly greater considerthroughout our global supply chain. We focus on addressation of suppliers’ engagement and SER performance. ing persistent challenges such as: Suppliers with strong SER performance can increase their • Workers at high risk, including student, dispatch, and New overall scorecard results, which increases their opporforeign migrant workers tunities for new or expanded business. Suppliers with • Excessive working hours persistently poor SER performance may see a reduction in their scorecard rating of up to 50% and a decrease in • Wages and overtime payments SER scorecard for the business they are awarded. HP has introduced the • Health and safety stronger influence of purchasing decisions Our supply chain management approach Address SER risks We manage SER nongovernmental organizations conformance. Through a common risks by assessing suppliers against (NGOs), training partners, government foundation, HP aims to elevate stanlocation, procurement category, agencies, and other suppliers. Our prodards across our industry. company information, and external curement scorecard encourages supstakeholder reports, as well as by pinpliers to take part in capability-building Integrate procurement Our procurepointing high-risk issues. Additionally, initiatives. ment team is trained in SER perforwe work to prevent risks through mance evaluation, education, and capability-building programs and Engage stakeholders HP collabomentoring. Supplier relationships setting progressive policies and stanrates with a broad range of stakeinclude regular engagement in this dards for our supply chain. holders, including industry bodies, area. In 2013, HP introduced a more governments, socially responrobust SER procurement scoreMeasure performance Our audit and sible investors (SRIs), and NGOs, to card with stronger incentives tied assurance program, KPI monitorresearch and better understand supto SER performance. In addition, we ing, independent assessments, and ply chain issues, and to formulate launched a site-based assessment input from third parties identify issues programs and initiatives on issues of process for the on-boarding of major and help us target areas of concern to concern regarding supply chain SER. new suppliers. This new assessment improve supplier SER performance. We will ensure an acceptable level of SER also measure progress through engageDevelop policy and standards HP performance from new suppliers prior ment with suppliers and industry bodies. aims to introduce updates to leading to doing business. policies and standards that approBuild capabilities We help supplipriately communicate our expectaSee Supply chain responsibility: Our ers’ managers and workers improve tions to our suppliers. These policies approach, a separate document on their SER performance through and standards are supported by our website, for more information programs and partnerships with assurance mechanisms to check about how we manage our program. 1 Commodity sites make components for HP but do not assemble our final products. 36 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents We support the rights of workers in our supply chain to HP is reducing the risks these workers may face through Governance associate freely and on a voluntary basis, to seek repreenhanced standards, audits, focused assessments, realsentation, to join or be represented by works councils, to time performance monitoring and validation, and our Human Progress join or not join labor unions, and to bargain collectively as capability-building programs. Specifically, in February Human rights they choose as established by local law. Some of our capa2013, we introduced the “HP Student and Dispatch Worker 2 • Supply chain bility-building programs demonstrate HP’s commitment to Guidance Standard for Supplier Facilities in the People’s responsibility helping workers better understand their labor rights. Republic of China,” the first such standard in our industry. Privacy To develop these guidance standards, HP collaborated HP’s support for labor rights is emphasized by our with China-based NGOs such as the Center for Child HP people endorsement of the Electronic Industry Citizenship Rights and Corporate Social Responsibility and the Labor Economic Progress Coalition (EICC) Code of Conduct in its entirety. We have Education Service Network, as well as industry peers, supEnvironmental Progress also supplemented the Code with additional requirepliers, and other stakeholders. ments specific to freedom of association (standard A7). About this report See Supply chain responsibility: Our approach, a separate HP’s guidance standard requires suppliers to follow document on our website, for more information. responsible management principles such as: • All student and dispatch work must be voluntary. Additionally, we seek independent feedback on labor rights practices from multi-stakeholder organizations that compare • Suppliers should pay dispatch and student workers our labor rights management systems to those of our peers. similar rates to full-time, entry-level workers. In 2013, HP completed the Global Social Compliance Program • Student workers may discontinue internships without (GSCP) Equivalence Process, through which HP benchmarks penalty. our audit tools and processes against multi-industry standards. HP also participated in a similar initiative using Social • Suppliers must follow or exceed national and local Accountability International’s (SAI) Social Fingerprint process. labor regulations. We use both of these labor rights benchmarks to continu• Suppliers must employ only a limited number of ously improve our SER management systems and processes. student workers. For example, we developed our new, five-tier supplier SER scorecard (see above) based on SAI’s recommendation to • Student work must complement the student’s primary further integrate SER and business performance. area of study. • Suppliers may only use dispatch workers for temporary, auxiliary, or substitute job positions. Protecting workers at high risk To implement the guidance standards, HP established regIn some parts of the IT supply chain, certain workers are ular reporting of supplier KPIs covering student, dispatch, more likely than others to encounter inadequate working and juvenile workers and held public roundtables, supplier conditions. These workers at a high risk, particularly in training sessions, and additional site-specific assessments emerging economies, include student, juvenile, dispatch, and foreign migrant laborers. Building capabilities Supporting workers’ rights These capability-building programs demonstrate HP’s program helps workers better understand their rights and commitment to helping workers, students, interns, and how to raise grievances about their working environment. their supervisors and trainers to understand workers’ rights and how to raise concerns. Predeparture/employing interns training Since January 2011, HP and the Labor and Education Service Network Worker management communications/Supervisor (LESN) have partnered to train vocational schools and human Training Program With the support of the Chongqing govresources departments at supplier sites on labor rights in ernment, HP launched the Supervisor Training Program, preparation for incoming interns and recent graduates. After which includes more than 220 supervisors from three supattending this event, we expect our trainees to then share this pliers in Chongqing. This HP-Chongqing government colknowledge with their students and new workers. We have laboration, as reported in the Mainland Chinese media, is conducted this training throughout China, starting in Wuhan in designed to improve suppliers’ management and commucentral China and then expanding west to Chongqing, south to nications skills. The program lasts three days. Guangdong, and east to Jiangsu. In 2013, the program reached more than 330 trainers and more than 50,000 graduates. EICC workers’ rights training Almost 3,000 workers from two suppliers in Shanghai and Jiangsu, China, benefited from View a comprehensive list of HP’s capability-building our workers’ rights training initiative in 2013. Delivered in projects online. partnership with Home of New Citizens, a Chinese NGO, this 2 Dispatch workers are temporary laborers provided by agencies. 37 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents at nine first-tier facilities. We will assess conformance to improve conformance on this issue. In 2013, 83% of workGovernance the guidance standards in all remaining final assembly ers at final assembly supplier sites worked fewer than 60 sites in China in 2014. hours per week on average.3 Human Progress Human rights Following the release of these guidance standards, HP Since 2009, HP has helped drive this kind of improvement • Supply chain organized two supplier SER summits in China to promote through our key performance indicator (KPI) program. We responsibility change across the electronics industry around this emergmonitor supplier sites in areas at risk for working hour Privacy ing issue. About 170 participants from 70 electronics nonconformances against our working hours expectaproduction suppliers attended along with government tions outlined in HP’s EICC Code of Conduct. This program HP people officials, vocational school staff, and NGO professionals requires supplier sites to report on working hours, the Economic Progress specializing in labor and student rights. We hope that number of workers who received at least one day off per Environmental Progress further engagement will allow us to refine and spread our week, and other SER labor metrics. We verify accurate guidance standards throughout our industry. reporting during on-site SER audits. About this report In addition to our efforts on student and dispatch workers, HP expanded the KPI program in 2013 by: HP will also expand our program on training and oversight • Monitoring KPI data more frequently; we now track data of foreign migrant labor in 2014 with assessments in on a weekly basis instead of a monthly basis Southeast Asia and training for labor agencies on responsible sourcing and fair methods of compensation. • Enrolling additional high-risk final assembly sites into the program • Integrating HP procurement managers to demonstrate Excessive working hours the importance of the program to the supplier’s commercial relationship with HP Supplier audits across the IT industry continue to identify excessive working hours as one of the most persistent SER • Tracking additional labor issues, such as the presence of issues. HP’s EICC Code of Conduct states that work weeks workers at high risk must not exceed the maximum length set by local law and should not exceed 60 hours, including overtime, except in Currently, the KPI program covers our final assembly sites emergency or unusual situations. HP’s efforts are helping in China and Southeast Asia with a history of nonconformances against our working hours expectations outlined Building capabilities Creating a healthier, more inclusive workplace Through programs covering a diverse range of issues such Occupational Health and Safety Improvement program as reproductive health, mental health, and disease pre(POHSI). In 2013, POHSI established a 28-member safety vention, HP is helping our suppliers maintain a healthier committee at one supplier site in China. This low cost and workforce that fosters greater productivity. practical approach aims to address mental health and other health and safety issues related to work at this facility. HERproject Female workers often arrive to supplier facilities with limited awareness of basic personal healthcare. Hepatitis B anti-discrimination and prevention program HP seeks to bridge this gap through the BSR program Discrimination against people with Hepatitis B (HBV) remains Health Enables Returns (HERproject), which addresses a significant issue in China. Since 2009, HP has hosted trainwomen workers’ general and reproductive health needs ing sessions on HBV anti-discrimination and prevention and raises awareness of birth control and how to prevent programs to help mitigate this issue in our supply chain. To and treat sexually transmitted infections such as HIV. In raise awareness of HBV and eliminate discrimination against 2013, we brought this program to suppliers in Malaysia HBV-positive workers, we show suppliers how to teach and Thailand, building on our existing programs in China workers about HBV and prevent it through “Health Corners” and Mexico. In 2013, HP-sponsored programs reached and internal training. We also inform suppliers that requiring seven new suppliers. Since we began our involvement with HBV tests for employment is a violation of HP’s EICC Code of HERproject, HP has been able to reach more than 36,000 Conduct. In 2013, we visited six supplier sites and provided workers and 610 managers. more in-depth medical training. Since we began the program, we’ve reached more than 167,000 workers. Job stress prevention/mental and occupational health program Together with the Hong Kong Workers View a comprehensive list of HP’s capability-building Health Centre, HP is helping empower workers to improve projects online. their working environment through the Participatory 3 Based on final assembly sites participating in our KPI program in 2013 and audit results. We continue to expand the list of suppliers in the KPI program based on our business, country risk profiles, and identified nonconformances. 38 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents in HP’s EICC Code of Conduct. In 2014, we will expand the The results of the study were mixed. In western China, Governance program to other geographic regions and suppliers where where HP sees the most growth in our supply chain, we find persistent working hour challenges. We will also workers were able to earn a living wage without working Human Progress expand the program to include final assembly sites withexcessive hours. Conversely, supplier wage structures in Human rights out working hour audit nonconformances in order to have other parts of China resulted in workers having to work • Supply chain a more complete view of the working hour performance significant overtime to earn a living wage with limited responsibility across our supply chain. opportunities to improve earning potential. With these Privacy results in mind, HP will continue to work with our suppliers Beyond our KPI program, HP works across our industry to to evaluate wage structures in our supply chain. HP people address excessive working hours in our collective supply Economic Progress chain. In 2013, we cochaired the EICC working group on Environmental Progress excessive working hours, establishing a common approach Health and safety to capturing and reporting working hours KPI data in the About this report industry. This was a fundamental step to actively managWe aim to ensure the health and safety of the people ing and improving performance in this area. In 2014, HP working in our supply chain. Health and safety issues such will participate in the newly formed EICC Working Hours as access to a hygienic working environment, occupational Taskforce with the goal of a phased approach to ensuring safety, and emergency preparedness continue to play conformance with our working hours expectations outa major role in our assessments, audits, and capabilitylined in HP’s EICC Code of Conduct and local laws. building programs. In 2013, we augmented our auditing program to help Wages suppliers more aggressively develop site-management systems that meet HP’s EICC Code of Conduct health and The issue of wages is pivotal to addressing excessive safety provisions. Additionally, we began performing more working hours—among other influences, a well-designed frequent inspections of emergency preparedness programs wage structure means workers can earn sufficient wages at supplier sites, and, together with SAI, developed safety in less time, which reduces the motivation to work longer assessments for use during these inspections. These hours. To better understand wages in our supply chain assessments evaluate facilities’ emergency preparedness and their effect on working hours, HP commissioned management systems as well as training and coaching a wage study across China. The study, conducted by systems. The assessments also cover a supplier site’s Impactt Limited, an ethical trade, human rights, and labor ability to evacuate during an emergency and the condition standards consultancy, explored the amount of work necof evacuation routes, procedures, and equipment. These essary for laborers to earn a living wage—as defined by assessments additionally evaluate how safely a facility SAI4—in eastern, southern, and western China. The study manages and handles flammable equipment and materials. also assessed workers’ desired wage levels. Case study Improving factory safety through worker engagement Risk of injury from physically demanding work was a leadOne of our larger suppliers, Flextronics, saw dramatic ing cause of major nonconformances in our Latin America results. Using worker surveys, the program team identiregion in 2012. To build our suppliers’ ability to address fied several areas for improvement and addressed them this issue, we partnered with SAI, the Rapid Results through a combination of quick fixes—such as adjustInstitute, and Labor Link to conduct a 100-day improveing workstations—and long term investments includment program at three major HP suppliers in Brazil. ing ergonomics training and the creation of a permanent Through a founding grant from The Walt Disney Company, ergonomics committee with worker representation. The the Brazil Worker Engagement program—a Brazil-specific program team reached their goal of reducing absenteeversion of SAI’s Rapid Results program—helped improve ism due to injuries to 4.8% from more than 8% in 100 factory conditions by increasing workers’ input on safety days, both protecting workers and lowering costs. We issues. These efforts included opening up more channels hope that this example of worker engagement and crossof communications such as anonymous mobile surveys, stakeholder collaboration will improve safety and demestablishing grievance mechanisms, and empowering onstrate that investing in social improvement creates newly formed “social performance” teams. Social perforpositive business results. We aim to continue this promance teams are made up of both workers and managegram with suppliers in Brazil and examine opportunities ment, and help drive further improvement projects. in other countries and regions. 4 According to SAI’s Extrapolated Market Basket methodology, a living wage is one that is sufficient to provide food and the remaining basic needs for the worker and the average number of dependents per wage earner in an average household, with an additional 10% added on for discretionary income. 39 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Supplier audits Contents Initial and full re-audits cover all provisions of HP’s EICC Governance Code of Conduct. We compare full re-audits with initial audits to see how a supplier has improved management Human Progress systems and programs over time. The audit graphs below HP first piloted SER audits in 2004, and we have conHuman rights ducted or commissioned 1,090 audits and assessments show both initial and full re-audit data. • Supply chain of production and nonproduction supplier facilities since responsibility launching our program in 2005. To promote fair working In addition to comprehensive audits, HP uses numerous Privacy practices and reduce the environmental impact of our assessments to target specific issues and risks uncovered supply chain, we aim to increase the number of audits we through audits, our KPI program, and external stakeholder HP people feedback. For more information on HP’s approach to conduct by using the EICC Validated Audit Process (VAP). Economic Progress While the EICC VAP program leverages external auditors, audits and assessments see Supply chain responsibility: Environmental Progress it also includes separate, third-party quality control of Our approach, a separate document on our website. About this report audits for added credibility. We intend to progressively transfer audit responsibility to suppliers, as experience shows that suppliers perform better and are more invested when they commission their own audits and take ownership of their performance, especially when these efforts are rewarded through procurement incentives. SER audits and assessments conducted, 2005–2013*, ** [total, cumulative] 1,200 900 600 300 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total initial audits 78 154 204 235 260 295 334 412 471 Total follow-up audits 7 57 144 221 292 321 345 390 443 Total full re-audits 0 0 6 30 39 68 94 116 142 A ssessments 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 34 Total audits 85 211 354 486 591 684 773 918 1,090 * Data for past years may differ from previous reports because HP receives the details of some audits after the Living Progress Report publication deadline. ** The graph above shows the cumulative total number of production and nonproduction supplier audits and assessments per type (including recycling vendor SER audits) for the period 2005–2013. Ernst & Young has reviewed 2012 and 2013 reported data only. Please see Ernst & Young’s Independent Accountants’ Report on page 138 regarding the number of audits by type completed in 2013. 40 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents SER audits and assessments conducted Supplier SER audit performance trend relative to years Governance per region, 2013 in SER audit program [for audits conducted in 2012–2013] Audit score Human Progress Excellent 120 Human rights 100 • Supply chain responsibility 80 Privacy HP people 60 Economic Progress 40 Environmental Progress 20 About this report 0 Poor Greater Asia Americas Europe China Pacific 0 1 2 3 4 5 Number of years in SER audit program Health and safety 7 0 0 0 assessments Average audit score, all audits Lowest audit score observed On-boarding 2 0 1 0 assessments The following graph illustrates the correlation between the level of supplier involvement in HP’s SCR program and audit High-risk supplier 9 0 0 0 performance. Suppliers with a low level of involvement, that assessments have not participated in HP capability-building programs, achieved the lowest average score in audits. Suppliers that S  AI Social Fingerprint 3 0 1 1 assessments completed at least one HP capability-building program achieved noticeably higher scores. Though our capabilityGSCP Environmental 10 0 0 0 building programs are related to specific audit items, the Reference Tools proactive attitude among companies investing time and resources to engage in these programs often results in Initial audits 33 15 7 3 enhanced audit performance overall. In addition, our capability-building programs generally include an aspect of worker Follow-up audits 33 12 4 4 education, empowerment, and worker-management communications, which external studies have shown to improve Full re-audits 12 2 7 4 overall SER performance at factories. The highest scores were achieved by suppliers that participate in HP capabilitybuilding programs and also initiate EICC VAP audits. Audit result trends Impact of supplier engagement on audit results Audit results from 2012 and 2013 show suppliers are [average scores for full audits] * responding to HP’s SER initiatives. The data shows that Excellent the longer suppliers participate in HP’s SCR program, the better they perform in SER audits, despite more challenging standards (see Global findings below). The difference is most evident when comparing suppliers that are new to HP’s SCR program with suppliers that have been in the program for five years. Poor Suppliers not involved in HP capability-building programs Suppliers that have completed at least one HP capability-building program Suppliers that have completed at least one HP capability-building program and initiated a third-party audit * Data covers full audits (initial and full re-audits) of production suppliers, 2011–2013. Some suppliers are included in multiple categories. Scores are based on priority findings and the quantity of major nonconformances identified. 41 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Global findings Child labor Governance As a result of more rigorous audit criteria this year, we saw Human Progress Our multiyear plan involves auditing all high-risk supplia slight increase in the number of findings related to child ers annually and conducting more frequent audits and labor avoidance management systems compared with Human rights assessments at every high-risk supplier site. We have the previous year. Approximately 20% of audits showed • Supply chain extended the scope of auditing to include both new and insufficient management systems and age checks to responsibility existing suppliers that were not previously monitored prevent child workers from being employed. We uncovered Privacy under our SCR program and, therefore, may not have one instance of underage labor in our supply chain in HP people mature SER management systems. In addition, together 2013 and five historical cases. For more information, see with the EICC, we are encouraging continual improvement zero-tolerance findings below. Economic Progress by adding new requirements, requesting additional proof Environmental Progress of conformance, and using more rigorous scoring criteria. Working hours About this report As a result, we have seen an increase in nonconformances Globally, we continue to find that many major nonconin some areas. formances are related to working hours, the majority of which are in China. We have dramatically increased our HP has also further clarified audit findings reported under monitoring of working hours performance and conthree specific audit provisions: forced labor, child labor, tinue to collaborate with the EICC and other partners to and nondiscrimination. We have separated findings in address this issue. these critical areas to distinguish between audit results showing a deficiency in policy, procedures, and manageNondiscrimination ment systems and audits that identify cases of forced In 2013, audits uncovered eight instances of discriminalabor, child labor, or discrimination. tory practices. HP required these facilities to correct these practices, improve their management systems, and ensure Each provision of the EICC audit protocol includes a numappropriate training for factory personnel to prevent ber of audit questions, each with a potential for no finding, future cases of discrimination as part of our corrective risk of nonconformance, minor nonconformance, or action process, including on-site follow-up audits. major nonconformance. HP identifies the most significant nonconformance found in each provision and aggregates Hazardous substances those results across all audits. This helps us to develop iniIn 2013, we increased our expectations on the mantiatives to address, and externally report, those provisions agement of hazardous substances. HP now considers with the most frequent occurrence of major nonconforinsufficient worker training on hazardous materials, mance in our supply chain. as well as inadequate hazardous material transport procedures as major nonconformances. Our stronger See audit findings online for breakdowns of audit results requirements have resulted in more nonconformances in by region. this area in 2013 than last year. The most significant audit findings in 2013 are described below. As in the past, when nonconformances are found in this area, HP expects suppliers to provide a plan to correct the Health and safety issues, including proper identification, management, and Our 2013 findings reveal continuing concerns in health and disposal of hazardous substances. Suppliers must also safety, especially around emergency preparedness, where train workers on how to use, handle, store, and dispose of we found major nonconformances in 55% of audits. With hazardous materials. Closure of nonconformances is verithe help of SAI, we have implemented additional emerfied through our corrective action process and follow-up gency preparedness assessments and are applying our audits. More information on reporting waste in our supply more rigorous approach to help improve our suppliers’ chain can be found in the Supply chain environmental SER performance. impact section. Forced labor/freely chosen employment Business integrity and protection of identity We did not uncover the presence of forced labor in supplier HP demands that our suppliers operate their businesses audits in 2013, but there were instances of insufficient ethically. Working with the EICC, HP has tightened auditing management systems relating to freely chosen employstandards in this area to verify the presence of policies, ment in 35% of audits. Lacking policies and procedures to procedures, record keeping, and training that demonstrate ensure freely chosen employment is the primary source of an ongoing commitment to preventing unethical behavior major nonconformances in this area. and protecting whistleblowers. Due to our higher expectations, there was an increase in the number of findings in As part of new requirements in HP and EICC’s audit protomany ethics provisions of our Code of Conduct, including col beginning in 2013, suppliers are expected to establish business integrity and protection of identity, although we effective policies and procedures specifically against uncovered no actual cases of ethical misconduct during slavery and human trafficking, strengthening controls to our audits. As with other audit provisions, we require our ensure that any form of forced, bonded, or involuntary suppliers to correct and close these issues. We then conprison labor is not used. If audits find such managefirm that the supplier sites took corrective actions through ment system nonconformances, HP requires suppliers to on-site follow-up audits. aggressively close these as part of our corrective action process and follow-up audits. 42 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Distribution of major nonconformances by section of HP’s EICC Code of Conduct, 2013* [percentage of total] Governance Human Progress Health and safety 30% Human rights • Supply chain Labor 25% responsibility Privacy Management system 21% HP people Economic Progress Environmental 12% Environmental Progress Ethics 12% About this report General 0% Rates of major nonconformance of sites audited by category Health and safety Management system Occupational safety 40% Company commitment 8% Emergency preparedness 55% Management accountability and responsibility 16% Occupational injury and illness 25% Legal and customer requirements 13% Industrial hygiene 28% Risk assessment and risk management 29% Physically demanding work 21% Performance objectives with implementation plan and measures 13% Machine safeguarding 19% Training 4% Dormitory and canteen 27% Communication 7% Worker feedback and participation 5% Labor Freely chosen employment management systems 35% Audits and assessments 20% Presence of forced labor 0% Corrective action process 1% Child labor avoidance management systems 20% Documentation and records 1% Presence of child labor 1% Supplier responsibility 20% Working hours 57% Wages and benefits 31% Environmental Environmental permits and reporting 13% Humane treatment 4% Pollution prevention and resource reduction 16% Nondiscrimination management systems 4% Hazardous substances 41% Presence of discriminatory practices 8% Wastewater and solid waste 4% Freedom of association 13% Air emissions 11% Product content restrictions (See Materials on page 91) * Data excludes minor nonconformances that do not indicate a systemic problem butEthics typically represent an isolated finding. Year-over-year data does not necessarily represent audits of the same supplier sites. Business integrity 20% No improper advantage 12% Hazardous substances 41% ctices 8% Wastewater and solid waste 4% 43 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress 13% Air emissions 11% Contents Rates of major nonconformance of sites In 2013, we found six zero-tolerance instances: Governance audited by category (continued) • During a third-party audit of an HP commodity supplier, Human Progress the auditors discovered one worker several months Ethics Human rights younger than the legal working age and two historical Business integrity 20% cases. In subsequent investigations, three additional his• Supply chain torical cases of underage hiring were discovered at the responsibility No improper advantage 12% same facility, indicating not only the presence of underPrivacy age labor, but also a lack of effective age verification Disclosure of information 3% HP people management systems. Following our policy, we pressed Economic Progress the supplier for an immediate resolution. Together with Intellectual property 1% Impactt Limited, a third party, HP required the supEnvironmental Progress plier to create and execute a remediation plan in line Fair business, advertising, and competition 9% About this report with Impactt Limited’s Operational Procedures on the Protection of identity 15% Remediation of Child Labor, including but not limited to: • Remove the worker from production line immediately Community engagement 13% • Safely return the worker home Privacy 5% • Continue to pay the worker’s salary until the age of 16 years Nonretaliation 3% • Provide the worker with a subsidy for skills training • Ensure that the worker can be recruited again by the factory upon reaching legal age General • Upgrade the on-site age verification management Supplier management program 0% system to prevent recurrence Compliance with laws 0% • A third-party audit was performed within 30 days to ensure the supplier audit findings were properly closed, EICC aware 3% and monitoring is ongoing to ensure long-term actions are being implemented and resolved. We reduced business with the supplier by approximately 60% to send Zero-tolerance items a strong signal that nonconformance in this area is Zero-tolerance items are the most serious type of nonconunacceptable while maintaining influence to improve the formance. They include underage workers younger than situation for workers. the local legal working or apprenticeship age, forced labor, • We found five suppliers exhibiting inadequate emerhealth and safety issues posing immediate danger to life gency-preparedness measures. These violations or risk of serious injury, and perceived violation of environinvolved the lack of fire detection and alarm systems, mental laws posing serious and immediate harm to the locked and/or blocked emergency exits, and missing community. Our zero-tolerance policy requires auditors exit signage. Suppliers corrected and HP immediately to escalate such items immediately. Suppliers must cease verified resolution of all cases of locked and/or blocked any zero-tolerance practices and report their corrective fire exits. Cases with missing safety exit signage and fire action to HP no later than 30 days after the original audit. detection and alarm systems are being monitored to HP will then re-examine the finding through an in-person ensure proper closure with interim measures in place. visual verification to confirm resolution. Zero-tolerance items also result in suppliers being downgraded in our SER scorecards. HP’s SER policy now requires all suppliers to disclose a fatality, debilitating injury, or any other HP EICC Code of Conduct zero-tolerance condition related to manufacturing an HP product. Please read HP’s revised policy under Transparency for complete detail. 44 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Conflict minerals Contents tungsten.5 While electronics are a significant user of tantaGovernance lum, the information and communications technology (ICT) industry is a relatively small user of other 3TG metals, and Human Progress HP believes it is imperative that we work across all relevant The exploitation of natural resources in the Democratic Human rights Republic of Congo (DRC)—mineral precursors of the industries to address this issue. • Supply chain metals tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold (3TG)—to responsibility fund groups engaged in extreme violence and human HP has collaborated with other businesses, nongovernPrivacy rights atrocities has resulted in calls for action that have mental organizations (NGOs), and government agencies to garnered international support. The possibility that the begin to establish viable sources of conflict free minerals HP people in the DRC and neighboring countries. Significant milemanufacture of our products might be connected to the Economic Progress funding of armed conflict is unacceptable to HP. We are stones in HP’s leadership include: Environmental Progress working hard to ensure that the minerals used in our sup• 2008–present: Helped establish the working group that About this report ply chain are not associated with the conflict in the DRC. was the precursor to the Conflict Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI) and participated in many of the CFSI subcommitStarting in May 2014, companies that file reports with tees responsible for the due diligence programs and the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under tools made available to all companies the Exchange Act are required by the Dodd-Frank Act to disclose to the SEC and publically on their website • 2010–present: Regular contributor and thought leader the results of their due diligence into the use in their to the Multi-Stakeholder Group, providing consensusproducts of necessary conflict minerals obtained from based recommendations to the SEC and European the DRC and adjoining countries. See HP’s SEC Conflict Commission from NGOs, investors, and companies Minerals Report. • 2011–present: Member of the CFSI Conflict Free Smelter Program Audit Review Committee Addressing a problem that has persisted for almost two • 2011: Committed to use conflict free DRC tantalum in HP decades requires fresh thinking. Beginning in 2010, as a products from the Solutions for Hope project and in 2012 part of the company’s broader Supply Chain Responsibility visited the DRC to review the supply chain at first hand program, HP responded by assembling a team of internal experts to develop and manage a comprehensive conflict • 2012–2013: Governance Committee Member of the Publicminerals program. HP senior management has provided Private Alliance for Responsible Mineral Trade (PPA) the company’s conflict minerals experts with the author• 2012: Significant financial contributor to the Conflict ity and resources to help HP on the journey to achieve a Free Smelter Initial Audit Fund to help offset the cost of conflict mineral-free supply chain. smelters validating their conflict free status The 3TG metals are found in relatively small amounts in • 2013: Became the first IT company to publish a list of virtually all HP products that use electrical current. For smelters in its supply chain example, a laptop weighing approximately 2 kg contains • 2013: Joined the International Tin Research Institute approximately 10 g of tin (equivalent to the tin in three (ITRI) Tin Supply Chain Initiative (iTSCi) as associate soupcans), 0.6 g of tantalum, 0.3 g of gold (about 1/10th member and contributor to the largest traceability the gold in a typical wedding band) and just 0.0009 g of scheme operating in DRC and Rwanda Case study Inkjet supplies Understanding the link between specific HP products and We surveyed and audited the tantalum-sourcing practices smelters on the CFSI list is a complex undertaking requirof each of these direct suppliers and confirmed that all ing research and validation of information provided to us suppliers associated with the manufacture of HP inkjet carby our suppliers. tridges only source tantalum from smelters on the CFSI list. The tantalum supply chain for electronics is generally Although this is important progress, it is a small step shorter and contains more conflict free smelters than the towards a conflict free supply chain. Other products’ suptin, tungsten, and gold supply chains. For example, HP ply chains are more complex and may consist of as many uses small quantities of tantalum in inkjet print heads to as five hundred times the number of intermediate supensure their reliability. Three direct suppliers and several pliers. However, our commitment to responsible mineral of their suppliers support the manufacture of HP inkjet sourcing is strong, and we continue to push more suppliers print head parts that contain tantalum. and smelters to source conflict free minerals. 5 A.T. Kearney. (2012). Conflict Minerals: Yet Another Supply Chain Challenge. Retrieved from http://www.atkearney.com/metals-mining/featured-article/-/asset_ publisher/S5UkO0zy0vnu/content/conflict-minerals-yet-another-supply-chain-challenge/10192. 45 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents In 2014, we will continue engaging with our supply chain HP supported direct 3TG suppliers with training materiGovernance to promote transition to DRC conflict free minerals. We are als on conflict minerals regarding completing the CFSI engaging smelters directly to accelerate the rate at which Template. Later in the year, we followed up with a request Human Progress smelters in our supply chain comply with conflict free audit to update the information provided. In addition, to help Human rights programs, resulting in the majority of 3TG procurement educate all ICT suppliers, HP led a number of training webi• Supply chain spend being DRC conflict mineral free by the end of 2016. nars and breakout sessions at industry conflict minerals responsibility workshops (in Hong Kong, China; Washington, D.C., United Privacy States; and Tel Aviv, Israel). HP people Policy and due diligence in our HP reviewed each Template and asked suppliers to Economic Progress supply chain improve any that did not meet HP’s expectations. During Environmental Progress the 2013 calendar year, HP obtained responses from 3TG HP has set clear expectations with our direct suppliers direct suppliers estimated to represent more than 95% of About this report regarding conflict minerals. Our goal is that our prodour spend with 3TG direct suppliers. ucts should be conflict mineral-free. HP emphasized its conflict minerals policy in 2011 by adding a paragraph to HP created a cloud-based software solution to help other our Supply Chain Social and Environmental Responsibility companies with their supply chain engagement and Policy, and we continue to reinforce this message annually. 1st conflict minerals compliance. Our commercial CDX service, Further expectations are communicated in HP’s General which we have also used ourselves, supports the review, Specification for the Environment and Code of Conduct. storage, traceability, management, and aggregation of Templates. Usage is free for reporting directly to HP or Engaging the 3TG supply chain $680 for broader use on an annual subscription basis. Visit HP is progressively identifying the smelters used in the supwww.cdxsystem.com to learn more. IT company to publish a ply chain for our products. Smelters purchase and process list of 3TG smelters the mineral ores to produce 3TG metals. Because smelters Smelters are several manufacturing steps removed from HP, we HP’s journey toward DRC conflict free minerals is dependon’t have any commercial relationship with them and rely dent upon growing the number of conflict mineral-free upon information gathered from our 3TG direct suppliers. smelters. A smelter’s decision to obtain a conflict free Working with our suppliers, we are collecting information validation or certification is influenced by demand from propagated by the companies in our extended supply chain its customers. The ICT industry has achieved most sucto identify the smelters associated with our products. cess with tantalum because it is a significant user of that metal—about 16% of the world’s consumption. However, 3TG direct suppliers the ICT industry is a much smaller user of tin (~1.3%), of Prior to engaging our suppliers, the HP conflict minerals tungsten (~2.1%), and of gold (~3.8%)6 and will need the team provided training to more than 200 procurement support of other industries to require their smelters to representatives who manage relationships with HP supbecome validated as DRC conflict free. pliers. We also published two internal articles informing all employees about the actions HP is taking to fulfill our In 2013, HP published the list of smelters in our supply commitments regarding conflict minerals. chain to drive awareness and create a call to action for all users of these metals. Although they do not supply We identified the direct suppliers that could be supplyHP directly, we engaged with some smelters, requesting ing HP with products containing 3TG and required those that they participate in the Conflict Free Sourcing (CFS) suppliers to: program. The total number of CFS smelters has increased • Adopt a conflict minerals policy, due diligence framefrom 29 to 61 during the 2013 calendar year. works, and management systems and require the same from their suppliers The smelters and refiners on our list were identified by a survey of HP suppliers conducted between November 2012 • Conduct due diligence in their supply chain by engagand December 2013 as a part of HP’s conflict minerals ing their 3TG suppliers using the CFSI Conflict Minerals compliance program. The suppliers we surveyed contribute Reporting Template (Template) to identify smelters in material, components, or manufacturing to HP-branded their supply chain producing necessary 3TG used in HP products containing 3TG. Each smelter or refiner reported products was identified in at least one of the Conflict Minerals • Aggregate the results of the due diligence in their Reporting Templates received from an HP supplier. supply chain HP’s 2014 conflict minerals disclosure will include a list of • Submit a completed Template to HP identifying the all smelters reported to us, regardless of whether or not unique smelters associated with their supply chain for they source from the DRC and adjoining countries. This disHP products closure continues our legacy of supply chain transparency, • Transition to conflict free smelters (smelters on the CFSI highlights facilities that are DRC conflict free, and applies list) or encourage the smelters to participate in a CFSI audit pressure to facilities that have unknown 3TG sourcing. 6 Fitzpatrick, C., Olivetti, E., Roth, R., and Kirchain, R.R., “Conflict Minerals in the Compute Sector” 2014, under review. 46 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Industry collaboration Supplier diversity Contents Governance HP collaborates with industry partners to create and Human Progress socialize programs, tools, and trainings that advance the goal of responsible minerals sourcing. Within the CFSI, HP For more than 40 years, our Global Supplier Diversity Office Human rights has provided diverse companies with an equal opportuhas provided leadership by: • Supply chain nity to compete for HP business. Diverse suppliers bring responsibility • Improving the Conflict Minerals Reporting Template innovation to HP’s supply chain, helping us gain a competiPrivacy • Expanding the list of CFSI-identified smelters of 3TG tive advantage. Supplier diversity is mandatory for fulfilling HP people • Developing white papers and frequently asked quescontracts with many government agencies worldwide, and, tions to support interpretation of the SEC rule increasingly, large enterprise customers also require HP to Economic Progress demonstrate a commitment to supplier diversity. Environmental Progress • Disseminating information and training About this report • Planning and speaking at workshops Our Global Supplier Diversity program promotes a supply chain that is diverse and inclusive, reflecting the demo• Contributing resources to the governance of CFSI graphics of our customers and employees. We mentor suppliers, helping them to increase their capacity and HP also collaborates with other industries and stakecapabilities. We also maintain partnerships with more than holders through participation in the iTSCi, PPA, and the 20 supplier diversity organizations in Asia, Europe, and Multi-Stakeholder Group (see milestones above). North America. Sourcing from the Great Lakes region of Central Africa A global approach To make sure our efforts don’t inadvertently harm the population of this impoverished region of Africa by incentivizing In 2013, we expanded our supplier diversity programs in companies to source elsewhere, HP’s objective is not only Australia, Canada, China, India, Ireland, and the United to comply with any legal requirements, but also to support Kingdom (UK). We worked with governments and expert validated conflict mineral-free sources from the DRC. organizations to define diversity in ways that reflect local communities and cultures and to tailor our efforts to the HP is a leader in working to mitigate a de facto embargo types and needs of diverse suppliers in these regions. and is committed to using metals produced from “closed pipe” projects that directly benefit the local communities. We also began reporting our spend with diverse suppliHP participates in the Solutions for Hope Project, Conflict ers in Canada and the UK, which represents the first time Free Tin Initiative, and the Kemet Partnership for Social HP is reporting this information outside the United States and Economic Sustainability. (see data below). We plan to track and report data from Australia, China, and South Africa in the future. In 2013, HP confirmed that at least nine of the smelters identified in the supply chain for HP products source conflict free minerals from the DRC and adjoining countries, providing important revenue to the region. Most of our HP’s diverse suppliers 3TG direct suppliers reported at least one of these entities We encourage suppliers in the following categories to was present in their supply chains, which means suppliers work with HP: representing more than 85% of our 3TG spend were using at least one of these conflict free smelters. • Aboriginal/indigenous-owned businesses • Businesses located in historically underutilized commercial and industrial zones • Lesbian-, gay-, bisexual-, and transgender-owned businesses • Minority-owned businesses • Service-disabled veteran-owned businesses • Small businesses • Veteran-owned businesses • Women-owned businesses 47 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Expanding our supplier base Strategic suppliers and diversity Governance HP increases its impact on diverse suppliers by encourHuman Progress In early 2014 we implemented a number of updates to aging about 100 of our most strategic suppliers to the online registration tool in our supplier diversity portal implement their own diversity procurement policies and Human rights that makes it easier for current and potential suppliers programs. In addition, since 2011, we have requested that • Supply chain to express interest in working with us. In addition, we these suppliers report annually how much they spend with responsibility extended access to our capability-building programs to small and diverse businesses. In 2013, we met our goal to Privacy also include HP resellers and partners certified as owned increase the number of strategic suppliers reporting on HP people by minorities or other underrepresented groups. diverse spend by 10%, compared to 2012. Economic Progress Environmental Progress Supporting development Performance data About this report We help current and potential diverse suppliers to improve Strategic supplier spend*, ** their competitiveness and quality of service through 2011 2012 2013 matchmaking, mentoring, and assistance to expand capacity. For example, we sponsor and support diverse Amount spent by strategic suppliers $318 $498 $431 supplier development programs and provide suppliers on diverse suppliers [$ million] with access to technology and educational scholarships. * Figures include production and nonproduction suppliers. In 2013, HP procurement professionals participated in ** HP considers suppliers strategic based on a number of factors related to our more than 50 diverse supplier events in Australia, Canada, business, as well as various macroeconomic indicators. This list is updated annually and never includes more than 100 suppliers. China, India, the UK, and the United States. Progress during 2013 included the following: HP’s spend with U.S. diverse suppliers* • Business Matchmaking program We celebrated our 2010 2011 2012 2013 tenth anniversary as cosponsor of this U.S.-wide effort Small businesses [$ $4,316 $4,400 $4,792 $3,910 to provide small businesses access to governmental million] and major corporate procurement opportunities. HP colMinority-owned busi$827 $733 $989 $881 laborates with the Service Corps of Retired Executives nesses [$ million] ** (SCORE) Association, a resource partner of the U.S. Small Women-owned businesses $861 $476 $547 $536 Business Administration, to sponsor these multicity [$ million] ** annual events, which have enabled more than 90,000 seller-to-buyer meetings during the last decade. * All figures are for U.S. purchases from U.S.-based businesses. ** Beginning in 2011, suppliers were categorized as diverse or women-owned, • Mentoring programs We provide intensive develnot both. opment support to select HP diverse suppliers. For example, we take part in the U.S. Department of In addition to the spend reported above, in 2013 we spent Defense Public Sector Mentor-Protégé program, which roughly $37 million with diverse suppliers in Canada and connects small and diverse suppliers with large compa$182 million with diverse small and medium enterprise nies to compete for prime contracts. suppliers in the UK. • Diverse supplier events HP supported 52 events with local business councils worldwide in 2013. Of these, 30 were regional or national events, matching diverse suppliers with HP global procurement staff. • Donations HP donated laptops to WEConnect China to facilitate registration of new women-owned businesses in the WEConnect China network. • Expansion in India HP India’s Global Procurement team hosted the WEConnect India Advisory Board Meeting and Supplier Diversity Forum at the HP Salarpuria campus in Bangalore. 48 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Goals Contents Governance Human Progress Human rights Supply chain responsibility • Supply chain responsibility 2013 goals Progress Privacy Increased supplier ownership and management system discipline HP people Increase proportion of independent supplier audits to 40% in 2013. We increased independent supplier audits to 48% of the total in 2013. Economic Progress Implement a five-tier SER rating system with each of HP’s top five With the implementation of the SER scorecard, we have implemented a commodity supplier types. five-tier SER rating system to suppliers of our top six commodities and Environmental Progress further embedded SER practices into our procurement process. About this report Tackling new and persistent issues Expand and increase frequency of KPI tracking on working hours. Through our KPI program, we’ve increased our monitoring of working hours at supplier sites from monthly to weekly. We’ve also expanded our tracking of high-risk workers such as student and dispatch workers, among others. Train 90% of HP final assembly suppliers in China on the HP Student In 2013, we trained about 50% of our final assembly suppliers in China and Dispatch Worker Guidance Standard for Supplier Facilities in the on the HP Student and Dispatch Worker Guidance Standard for Supplier People’s Republic of China. Facilities in the People’s Republic of China. By 2014, all final assembly supplier sites in China will be trained on the standard. Expand programs to enhance health and safety awareness and capaHealth and safety programs have been expanded through these bility with suppliers in Brazil, China, and Southeast Asia. countries and regions, including occupational health and ergonomic programs in Brazil, HERProject, and the HBV anti-discrimination program in China and Southeast Asia. 2014 goals Conduct worker empowerment programs at 15 supplier sites in China, South America, and Southeast Asia. Increase the proportion of independent supplier audits to 50% in 2014. Conflict minerals 2016 goal Achieve a majority of HP’s 3TG procurement spend being DRC conflict mineral free by the end of 2016. Supplier diversity 2013 goals Progress Tailor our supplier diversity program in Australia, Canada, China, India, Achieved. During the year, we expanded our supplier diversity programs the UK, and the United States to the needs and definitions of diverse in Australia, Canada, China, India, and the UK. suppliers in each of those countries. Increase the total number of strategic suppliers reporting diverse Achieved. spend by 10%, compared to 2012. Report HP’s supplier diversity spend for Canada and the UK. Achieved. 2014 goals Increase the number of HP strategic suppliers reporting diversity spend by 10%, compared with 2013. Increase the number of HP suppliers participating in our mentorship programs by 10%, compared with 2013. 49 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Data Contents Governance Human Progress 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Human rights Suppliers engaged in SER program [total, cumulative] 720 879 907 958 969 • Supply chain responsibility Suppliers publishing sustainability reports using the GRI frame66% 82% 74% work [% of production supplier spend] Privacy Building capabilities HP people Economic Progress Number of capability-building programs 6 11 12 12 12 Environmental Progress Suppliers engaged in capability building [total, cumulative] 112 247 656 875 1,104 About this report Workers and managers reached through capability-building 12,800 50,600 115,500 322,100 460,000 programs1 [total, cumulative] Labor impacts Suppliers’ employees working less than 60 hours per week on 83% average2 [%] Suppliers’ employees receiving at least one day of rest each seven 89% day workweek 2 [%] Suppliers in China with student workers representing 20% or less 96% of total employees 2 [%] Zero-tolerance audit findings related to the ILO Declaration on 0 0 13 Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work: freedom of association; forced, bonded, or indentured labor; underage labor; or discrimination Zero-tolerance audit findings related to occupational safety, 0 0 54 emergency preparedness, or industrial hygiene SER audits and assessments conducted5 [total, cumulative] 591 684 773 918 1,090 Total initial audits 260 295 334 412 471 Total follow-up audits 292 321 345 390 443 Total full re-audits 39 68 94 116 142 Assessments 0 0 0 0 34 Response to conflict minerals survey of HP suppliers for products >95% that contain tin, tantalum, tungsten, or gold (3TG) 6 HP’s spend with U.S. diverse suppliers Small businesses7 [$ million] $4,316 $4,400 $4,792 $3,910 Minority-owned businesses7,8 [$ million] $827 $733 $989 $881 Women-owned businesses7,8 [$ million] $861 $476 $547 $536 Strategic supplier spend on diverse suppliers9 [$ million] $318 $498 $431 1 With the exception of train-the-trainer programs, HP only accounts for workers and managers directly reached by our capability-building programs. These figures are rounded. 2 Based on production-line workers at final assembly sites participating in the HP KPI program in 2013 and audit results. We continue to expand the list of suppliers in the KPI program based on business risk, country risk, and identified nonconformances. 3 Findings relate to underage workers observed at supplier facility. See section. 4 Findings relate to emergency preparedness. See section. 5 Data for past years may differ from previous reports because HP receives the details of some audits after the Living Progress Report publication deadline. Metric shows the cumulative total number of production and nonproduction supplier audits and assessments per type (including recycling vendor SER audits) for the period 2009–2013. Ernst & Young has reviewed 2012 and 2013 reported data only. Please see Ernst & Young’s Independent Accountants’ Report on page 138 regarding the number of audits by type completed in 2013. 6 Percentage represents portion of the total economic value of 3TG suppliers’ contracts with HP. 7 All figures are for U.S. purchases from U.S.-based businesses. 8 Beginning in 2011, suppliers were categorized as diverse or women-owned, not both. 9 Figures include production and nonproduction suppliers. HP considers suppliers strategic based on a number of factors related to our business, as well as various macroeconomic indicators. This list is updated annually and never includes more than 100 suppliers. 50 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Governance Human Progress Human rights Supply chain responsibility • Privacy HP people Economic Progress Environmental Progress About this report Privacy The transformation in data collection and analysis over The HP Privacy Accountability Framework (see graphic) recent years has brought many benefits to individuals, represents our comprehensive approach to assessing and companies, and governments. At the same time, the rapid managing the risks associated with collecting and hangrowth of big data brings potential risks to maintaining dling personal data. The framework helps us go beyond the privacy of personal information. HP is committed to minimum legal requirements, meet customer expectaprotecting privacy while delivering on the promise of a tions, and ensure transparency in our practices. It also data-rich society. takes into account our company values, ethical considerations, contractual agreements, and local cultures. HP We endeavor to go beyond legal obligations to safeguard continues to pioneer and advocate for accountability in personal information. Every HP employee receives privacy emerging regulatory models worldwide to address chaltraining, and we have rigorous policies and procedures in lenges related to the New Style of IT. place to secure the personal data we hold or process. Upholding our privacy commitments depends on the HP’s Privacy Office is charged with protecting our cusinvolvement and diligence of every employee. More than tomers’ data. It also collaborates with governments and 99% of employees completed privacy training in 2013 as industry groups on efforts to address the challenge of part of our required Standards of Business Conduct (SBC) privacy protection. We advocate globally for consistent, annual refresher course. Employees who routinely handle compatible privacy frameworks, and we share best pracpersonal information, in areas such as human resources, tices with our peers, governments, and other stakeholders. marketing, and client services, receive extra, role-specific privacy training. HP Privacy Accountability We also require privacy accountability from third-party organizations that have access to our customers’ personal data. Framework For more information about our commitment to privacy, HP’s privacy strategy is based on providing transparread the HP Global Master Privacy Policy. ency and choice to our customers. We create a chain of accountability for data privacy and security throughout our business and apply Privacy by Design in the product development process (see page 52 for more details). 51 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents HP Privacy 13. HP Accountability Privacy Accountability Framework Framework Governance Oversight Human Progress Identification of risks and opportunities Human rights Supply chain Integrated governance model responsibility • Privacy HP people Contextual approach Economic Progress Commitment Implementation Validation Environmental Progress Solid policies, management commitment, Mechanisms to ensure policies and commitments Monitoring and assurance that validate coverage and full transparency are put into eﬀect with employees and eﬀectiveness of implementation About this report Demonstration Demonstrate capacity to internal and external stakeholders and individual data subjects Privacy and Data Protection Board Our Privacy Assurance program ensures that all relevant >99% business units follow HP privacy policies and develop The HP Privacy and Data Protection Board (PDPB) has remediation plans when problems arise. Employees and oversight of privacy risk management, assessing risks customers can contact our Privacy Office in more than 30 Percentage of each year and identifying and leading mitigation stratelanguages with queries, concerns, or comments. We follow permanent employees gies. Composed of executives from business units and strict protocols for handling inquiries and requests approthat completed privacy functions across HP, the PDPB is part of our overarching priately and promptly. In 2013, the Privacy Office handled training more than 7,000 inquiries, primarily from users managing Ethics and Compliance governance structure (see page 20) and meets every quarter. their privacy preferences. In 2013, the PDPB focused on: Number of substantiated complaints regarding • Compliance with the U.S. Health Insurance Portability breaches of customer privacy and losses and Accountability (HIPAA) Omnibus Rule (see below) of customer data, 2013* Number of • Bring your own device (BYOD) program for employees Source of substantiated complaint substantiated complaints • Big data and the secondary usage of data Complaints received from outside parties (including 0 • Cross-border data transfer laws customers) • Product and service data collection Complaints from regulatory bodies 0 • Destruction and deletion of data on devices returned to * Breaches of customer privacy cover any noncompliance with existing legal HP prior to disposal or repurposing regulations and (voluntary) standards regarding the protection of customer privacy related to data for which HP is the data controller. Substantiated • Cloud computing complaints are written statements by regulatory or similar official bodies addressed to the organization that identify breaches of customer privacy, or complaints lodged with the organization that have been recognized as Monitoring compliance legitimate by the organization. Responding to changing privacy legislation HP monitors compliance with privacy laws and our own policies in various ways. These include a robust internal In 2013, the U.S. government passed the HIPAA Omnibus privacy audit and assurance program and customer and Rule, which regulates how companies with access to employee feedback. protected health information manage this data. During the year, HP formed a HIPAA program-management organizaAs part of our commitment to accountability, we also enlist tion, which efficiently responded to the new legislation and organizations such as TRUSTe and the Better Business created a foundation for further privacy compliance efforts. Bureau (BBB) to track compliance with our own privacy policy. TRUSTe and BBB also provide dispute-resolution mechanisms when customers have privacy concerns over the integrity of their data. 52 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Privacy in products and services Americas Governance HP worked closely with government officials in Colombia Human Progress HP uses several tools and resources to provide products to develop privacy laws and regulations, providing a and services that meet the highest privacy standards: private sector perspective on their importance. We also Human rights joined discussions on privacy regulation with officials from Supply chain • HP Privacy Advisor is an answer-driven dynamic Costa Rica, where HP informed the Ministry of Justice of responsibility questionnaire that helps employees across all busiour stance on privacy-related topics. In Mexico, HP disness groups apply our privacy standards. Through cussed cookie transparency guidelines and the role of data • Privacy consultation with the Privacy Office and a privacy impact privacy in development. In the United States, as an imporHP people assessment and risk-management process, employees tant stakeholder of the National Telecommunications and Economic Progress use the tool to assess in-development, new, and existInformation Administration, HP joined the U.S. Department Environmental Progress ing products and services for compliance. of Commerce to review proposed codes of conduct. We About this report • HP Labs provides a forum for scientists, our Privacy also engaged with the Federal Trade Commission on sevOffice, and external partners to develop new approaches eral initiatives related to privacy. to privacy protection. Since 2012, HP Labs has led the Cloud Accountability Project (A4Cloud). Made up of 13 Asia Pacific and Japan organizations, including Cloud Security Alliance, SAP, HP made recommendations regarding mandatory notificaand top universities in Europe, the consortium explores tions of data breaches to the Australian government’s accountability models for cloud services. Attorney General. In Malaysia, we provided input on the adoption of a data user registration plan and noted that the European Union (EU) had rejected such an approach. Global privacy regulation We continued to support the rollout of Asia-Pacific 22 and engagement Economic Cooperation’s (APEC) Cross-Border Privacy Rules (CBPR) and consulted with Asia Pacific Privacy Our Privacy Office works with government agencies, Authorities’ Network on data breach guidelines. lawmakers, regulators, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), and industry groups to encourage a more unified Europe Number of countries and In 2013, officials from several major EU member states, and robust approach to privacy regulation worldwide. We regions that sought and the EU Commission, and the Parliamentary Committees received advice from collaborate with these organizations to help shape privacy legislation that is consistent, reliable, and transparent— involved in the review of data protection frameworks HP on data and privacy regulation and works in the New Style of IT. While some variation by in Europe asked for HP’s views on data protection and country is inevitable, HP supports more global interoperprivacy regulation. We presented our positions on several ability of privacy regulations—both laws and binding topics, including: coregulatory programs. • Shortcomings of the current EU data protection framework Below are highlights from our efforts in 2013: • Proposed text for a new data protection regulation • Major reforms to EU laws concerning the protection of personal data Case study Shedding light on complex privacy laws Our commitment to privacy has allowed HP to be a trusted international data transfers by a third party. With BCR-P resource on data regulation around the world. In 2011, the certification, HP will be able to transfer data seamlessly on EU certified HP for Binding Corporate Rules for Controllers behalf of our clients. (BCR-C). This certification allows qualified multinational companies to transfer data freely between subsidiaries located in We expect BCR-P to play the same role as BCR-C by instilldifferent countries. BCR-C, originally designed for protecting ing confidence in our customers as we help them transfer data transferred from the EU to countries without an adepersonal data to HP facilities outside Europe. HP is one quate level of data protection, demonstrates to regulators a of the first U.S. companies to apply for this certification, company’s capacity for protecting personal data. which we plan to attain in late 2014. Building on this experience, European regulators have One essential requirement for ensuring effective data expanded certification to data processors, and HP has protection is to assess privacy impacts in the early been one of the few trusted advisors consulted for feedphases of development. HP’s Privacy Advisor tool is an back on BCR for Processors (BCR-P) certification. These essential element of the mechanisms that have been new rules are designed to remove the administrative demonstrated to regulators within the BCR-C and BCR-P burden of complying with several sets of regulations for certification processes. 53 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Collaboration with • Participating in APEC’s privacy subgroup on interoperability issues and examining similarities between Binding Governance nongovernmental and Corporate Rules and Cross-Border Privacy Rules. Human Progress Human rights intergovernmental organizations • Presenting on data protection and cloud computing to officials from Latin America and Spain at the XI Supply chain HP works closely with several NGOs and other organizaIbero-American Data Protection Meeting hosted by the responsibility tions to promote privacy and accountability. Examples of Ibero-American Data Protection Network, the Spanish • Privacy collaboration in 2013 included: Data Protection Agency, the Federal Institute of Access HP people • Working with the Foundation for Information to Information and Data Protection, and the Spanish Accountability and Governance (FIAG) and key stakeCooperation Training Center. Economic Progress Environmental Progress holders on privacy accountability and responsibility, • Participating in the World Economic Forum’s working group we began developing a code of ethics that covers the on privacy and providing feedback on its related report. About this report configuration and use of big data tools. Goals 2013 goals Progress Maintain HP’s position as the most trusted private sector advisor to HP continues to be seen as a trusted advisor to regulators. regulators by upholding an industry-leading privacy program that anticipates trends such as big data, cloud computing, Internet of Things, and evolving consumer marketing methods. Certify HP in the new APEC CBPR system. Certification was not available in 2013, due to a delay in APEC approving the accountability agent for the system, and is scheduled for the first half of 2014. Continue to advocate for accountability and global interoperability We continue to support and contribute input to these organizations by providing industry input on the mapping of the two coregulatory directly. systems of the Article 29 Working Group (EU Binding Corporate Rules) and APEC Privacy Subgroup (APEC CBPR). Provide industry input to the draft EU Privacy Regulation to ensure a HP continues to provide input to the EU on the role and structure of balanced approach that promotes privacy as a fundamental right and data protection offices, data breach notification, and incorporation of protects HP’s current and planned business interests. accountability into the new regulation. Support the development of BCR and CBPR for Processors by EU and HP is one of the first organizations being assessed and will be one of the APEC regulators by participating in the first trial of the new programs. first companies certified for the new EU BCR-P program, with certification expected in 2014. APEC CBPR for Processors is still in development by the member economies and we continue to contribute to this development. 2014 goals Maintain HP’s position as the most trusted private sector advisor to regulators by upholding an industry-leading privacy program that anticipates trends such as big data, cloud computing, Internet of Things, and evolving consumer marketing methods. Certify HP in the new APEC CBPR system. Continue to advocate for accountability and global interoperability by providing industry input on demonstrated, comprehensive programs and binding coregulatory solutions. Provide industry input to the continued revisions of the draft EU Privacy Regulation. Certify HP in EU BCR-P. Drive the development of a Privacy Code of Ethics for the configuration and use of big data tools. Advocate for frameworks that help us apply existing privacy principles or develop new principles that support the New Style of IT while continuing to protect the legitimate rights of data subjects. 54 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Governance Human Progress Human rights Supply chain responsibility Privacy • HP people Economic Progress Environmental Progress About this report HP employees clean up a local beach, India HP people HP’s employees are a global community of thinkers, • Best Work Environment Policy inventors, and doers. Numbering approximately 317,500 • Global Human Rights Policy worldwide1, they keep us ahead in our fast-moving industry, anticipating the future information technology (IT) • Harassment-Free Work Environment Policy needs of business and society. • Nondiscrimination Policy Supporting our employees’ professional development • Open Door Policy 5.8 and personal well-being benefits our business, custom• Standards of Business Conduct ers, shareholders, local communities, and society more broadly. We have focused recent engagement efforts on career development, the work environment, recognition and rewards, and fostering pride in our company. Employee feedback shows increasing satisfaction with HP. Engaging our million people The number of training Employment culture and policies hours employees When workers are engaged and loyal, companies completed in 2013 The HP Way Now is the integrated system of values, core perform better. We continually invest in improving the principles, leadership attributes, and behaviors that makes experience of working at HP, even in a challenging ecoour culture unique and compelling. This system has been nomic environment. We promote engagement through a built into all of our people processes, from employee wide range of programs—efforts that produced signifiengagement to performance management and recognition. cant increases in key measures of employee engagement and satisfaction in 2013. Our global employment policies reflect our commitment to treat all employees fairly. They often establish a more demanding standard than local laws or customs require. Progress in 2013 All employees can report HP policy violations anonymously, and HP investigates all concerns raised. Employee engagement trends Honest feedback from employees provides critical intelFollow the links on the right to read more about HP’s key ligence to improve our business performance. Our most global employment and ethics policies. See a full list of important feedback mechanism is the annual, confipolicies related to global citizenship in Policies and standential Voice of the Workforce (VoW) survey, available dards on page 26. online in 28 languages. In 2013, 80% of all employees worldwide took part, up from 79% in 2012. We revamped the questionnaire to better reflect HP’s business priorities, adding categories on employee attitudes related to innovation and quality. 1 As of October 31, 2013. 55 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Overall, the results confirmed increasing satisfaction with, to help the young people in our lives explore possibilities Governance and pride in, our company. Key findings included: for their future—and introduce the next generation to HP workplaces, people, and technologies. Human Progress • Overall employee engagement improved by five Human rights points to 70%. We also stay connected with retirees worldwide through Supply chain our HP Continuum online community, the retiree website, • Employees recommending HP as a great place to work responsibility and local clubs and events. climbed 11 points to 71%. Privacy • In 37 out of 38 areas assessed, employee ratings either • HP people matched or exceeded the results from 2012. Economic Progress Environmental Progress During the past five years, engagement ratings from HP employees have risen by 17 points—a 31% improvement. Building careers About this report In 2009, our ratings were 13 points less favorable than Our success, today and tomorrow, depends on recruiting, the industry norm on questions in areas such as employee developing, and retaining the best people available in recognition, career development, performance evaluation, our highly competitive industry. To this end, we pursue a and HP as a place to work. In 2013, we closed the gap and simple mission: to make HP the place where employees are now on par with the IT industry norm. want to work. After the VoW survey each year, HP leaders assess the When filling new or existing roles, we focus first on our findings, and our business units implement follow-up talented internal employee pool. Our businesses also actions. We will look to build on our engagement momenhire interns and college graduates from a wide range of tum in 2014. backgrounds. New recruits receive extensive training and ongoing coaching from managers. We aim to provide all HP Pride Builders employees with access to simple and integrated tools and To integrate our HP Way Now culture and make the connecresources to build their careers at HP. tion to daily work, in 2013 we established a global network of 2,100 Pride Builders. These leaders are helping to: Progress in 2013 • Drive engagement and awareness around HP Way Now • Reinforce positive behaviors and motivate employees New career-development model In 2013, we introduced a new career-development model. • Celebrate successes and identify new opportunities to It puts the employee at the center, providing an interacimprove business performance tive, inviting, and integrated experience. Employees can explore their strengths and interests, find roles that Networking fit them best, define their career goals, create plans to Networking comes naturally to HP. Our people collaborate achieve them, and make meaningful career choices. Each through many online and in-person forums including 148 phase builds upon the previous, resulting in a well-defined Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) worldwide, up from 50 career-development plan with actionable steps toward in 2008. In 2013, we expanded OneHP, a social network accomplishing individual aspirations. that allows employees to post their profiles and share projects, interests, expertise, and problem solving. Employees Our new approach embraces the idea that career movecan also tap into business-focused internal networks, ment is not only about advancement, but also about which offer training, skill sharing, and tools. collecting experiences that enrich people along the way. Employee development is built on three key areas: HP encourages employees to engage with company leaders through our intranet forums Top of Mind and CEO • Experiences: defining career direction based on interests Perspective. Town hall and all-employee meetings provide and competencies other venues for high-level dialogue. • Relationships: implementing a robust coaching and mentoring process Connecting with our broader HP community • Education: providing fast and easy access to training HP’s Take Our Children to Work initiative is making an through HP University impact by supporting family activities, encouraging volunteerism, and fostering collaboration. In 2013, more The early response from employees has been highly than 19,000 children attended 156 on-site events in 58 favorable. The Career Development @hp landing page countries. A complementary virtual experience drew received more than 285,300 visitors during 2013, comapproximately the same number of participants. In addipared to about 125,000 in 2012. In addition, there were tion to giving employees a meaningful opportunity to approximately 40,000 downloads worldwide of our new demonstrate their pride in HP, these events are designed career development plan template. In our VoW survey, 68% of employees said their career goals could be met at HP, up from 62% in 2012. 56 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents HP University Improving performance management Governance New in 2013, HP University (HPU) provides fast and easy Frequent and productive feedback is essential to sustainHuman Progress access to the learning and resources employees need to ing the high-performance culture that drives HP’s success. develop their careers and support the company’s current To help maximize performance and career mobility, in Human rights and future business goals. HPU combines face-to-face 2012–2013, we designed and launched midyear perforSupply chain instruction in our major offices with our vast web-based mance and career conversations for all employees. We responsibility and virtual instructor-led learning resources. also provided more information, training, and commuPrivacy nications about performance-management goals and • HP people Whether they work in sales, technical development, or our expectations to both managers and employees. business and professional functions, we give employees in Economic Progress all 19 job functions the time and resources to excel in their These efforts are paying off—92% of employees had Environmental Progress pres­ent positions and prepare for future opportunities. midyear performance and career conversations in 2013, About this report With about 10,000 courses to choose from, HP employees compared to 87% in 2012 and 79% in 2011. In addition, completed 5.8 million training hours in 2013, with 75% 99% of eligible employees completed a year-end annual delivered as virtual sessions or self-paced online courses, performance review. which allow people to learn anywhere, anytime. In addition to formal training, our learning resources include confer­ Voice of the Workforce scores for performance ences, seminars, and technical certifications. management Leadership and mentoring Item 2012 2013 Every HP employee has leadership potential, and develI receive sufficient information regarding my 72% 80% oping such qualities is a critical element of our culture. organization’s goals and execution priorities. In 2013, we launched a new leadership-development My manager and I set clear goals, aligned to 81% 85% curriculum in partnership with company-wide busiour team and/or unit goals for 2013. ness groups. It aims to develop leaders throughout their careers, including a fast track for high-potential I receive ongoing feedback that helps me 72% 77% employees. In addition to online pilot programs, in-person improve my performance. initiatives included: My manager is good at transforming goals into 76% 78% • Hosting two-day face-to-face management-excellence specific actions. training for nearly 2,900 employees in 43 countries • Piloting an accelerated development curriculum for Redeploying employees directors—called Align—with Harvard University, reachWe do our best to support employees when business deciing more than 220 global leaders sions such as restructuring and realignment affect their • Piloting an accelerated curriculum for managers— positions. Managers are encouraged to match the comcalled Engage—with Stanford University, reaching 200 petencies and skills of eligible employees with current job global leaders openings within the company. Such reassignment helps us retain talent and gives employees the opportunity to apply We also created the College of Leadership and their skills to other HP jobs. Management within HPU, offering tools and resources for managers and executives. In 2013, we redesigned the guidelines for our restructuring program to encourage redeployment by making eligibility We foster development through work relationships with requirements more flexible globally. We also continued to online mentoring tools that enable employees to learn from work with our global career-transition supplier to better each other and more senior colleagues. Mentoring @hp position employees affected by workforce reduction for connects employees across geographies and organizations, internal job opportunities. See more information about offering multiple types of opportunities to develop through HP’s Fiscal 2012 restructuring plan on page 110 of HP’s relationships. In 2013, about 6,250 people took part in menAnnual Report on Form 10-K. toring programs, with 77% expressing satisfaction. 57 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Diversity Progress in 2013 Contents Governance and inclusion Human Progress • We staged more than 350 diversity-focused events in 34 countries, led by our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs). Human rights Topics included career development, diversity recruitSupply chain ment, cultural awareness, and community volunteerism. responsibility HP’s global community is one of our great strengths. We employ people with a wide range of skills and interests • HP launched 16 new ERGs in 2013. Seven are for former Privacy from different nations, cultures, ethnic groups, genU.S. servicemen and women, including a program • HP people erations, and backgrounds. This diversity helps us to matching newly hired military veterans to mentors with Economic Progress understand customer needs, spark innovation and creativsimilar interests. Environmental Progress ity, and attract and retain talented employees. • In March 2013, we celebrated International Women’s Day About this report in more than 40 countries, with speakers, webinars, and HP requires our people to treat each other with dignity, networking events. HP’s business strategy, leadership respect, and courtesy. Our diversity and inclusion poliskills, and work-life navigation were among the most cies and practices, overseen by our Chief Diversity Officer, popular focus issues. lay the foundations for a positive work culture, often setting a higher standard than is legally required. (See Focus on female talent Policies and standards on page 26.) We do not tolerOvercoming the gender gap in HP’s leadership is a ate discrimination or harassment, and we encourage growing priority. employees to report suspected incidents to their human resources department or by using our confidential 24-hour In the United States, we support two major nonprofit orgaGuideLine, which is available worldwide. nizations that support women in technology—Catalyst and the Anita Borg Institute for Women and Technology. In Canada and the United States, the GuideLine number is 1-800-424-2965. For employees in other countries, we In 2013, we introduced two new initiatives to help talpublish numbers on our intranet. ented women, both within and outside HP, advance their technology careers. In July, we launched Ascend, a global To drive accountability for improving workforce diversity sponsorship program through which HP’s high-performing and maintaining an inclusive work environment, we set female employees receive mentoring, coaching, and netbusiness unit targets for various workforce demographworking support. CEO Meg Whitman led the kickoff event ics. They provide direction to our managers to ensure for the pilot, which matches 30 of our senior executives equitable representation in hiring, development, and with 30 high-potential female vice presidents and directors promotion processes. We routinely review our VoW survey as protégés for a year. At the launch, protégés highlighted results by demographic to understand how our diverse work-life balance issues, lack of feedback, and limited employees experience HP’s work environment. These networks as challenges to their career advancement. indicators measure the deployment of our global diversity and inclusion strategy company-wide. In the United States, we established a Women’s Innovation Council led by Bethany Mayer, Senior Vice President & General Manager, Network Functions Virtualization. This unique forum brings together 25 female technology lead“We all have an opportunity to be role models to the ers from among our customers, partners, and employees. next generation of women entering the workforce The goal is to help the next generation of women in our industry to overcome challenges, form networks, and by supporting and encouraging them to pursue leverage best practices. We held an inaugural annual careers in science, technology, engineering, and networking event in February 2014. math. I am personally committed to do what I can Building cultural competence to increase the impact of women in all facets of Given the global nature of our workforce, having employtechnology with the Women’s Innovation Council.” ees that can understand and engage people from different cultures is essential to our success. In 2013, we launched CQ, an online training program to increase cultural compe— Bethany Mayer, Senior Vice President & General Manager, Network Functions Virtualization, tence. Through July of that year, 4,500 people completed and sponsor of the Women’s Innovation Council the voluntary training. In the United States, HP also partners with organizations that can help us develop a diverse workforce and inclusive office culture, such as Leadership Education for Asian Pacifics (LEAP) and the National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering. 58 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Workforce demographics Employees (regular full time and part time) by employment type and gender, 2013 Governance Human Progress We track gender diversity globally and ethnic diversity in Full time our U.S. workforce. In 2013, 20.7% of our top executives Human rights Category Women % Men % Total (director level and above) globally were women, up slightly Supply chain from 20.1% in 2012. In the United States, minorities constiExecutives 184 17.5% 865 82.5% 1,049 responsibility tuted 17.6% of our top executives, up from 16.3% in 2012. Directors 786 21.5% 2,871 78.5% 3,657 Privacy We also promote diversity in our supplier base. See Managers 5,241 25.3% 15,453 74.7% 20,694 • HP people Supplier diversity on page 46 for details. Professionals 56,483 29.4% 135,642 70.6% 192,125 Economic Progress Environmental Progress Other 21,851 44.0% 27,798 56.0% 49,649 Employees (regular full time and part time) About this report Subtotal 84,545 31.6% 182,629 68.4% 267,174 by region and gender, 2013 Part time Men Women Total Americas 70,142 35,335 105,477 Category Women % Men % Total Asia Pacific and Japan 61,133 30,247 91,380 Executives Europe, Middle East, and Africa 52,364 22,764 75,128 Directors 5 83.3% 1 16.7% 6 Other * 45,515 Managers 90 80.4% 22 19.6% 112 Total 317,500 Professionals 2,625 77.5% 764 22.5% 3,389 * This Other 1,077 82.7% 226 17.3% 1,303 row includes employees of certain majority-owned, consolidated subsidiaries for which this human resource data is not available to HP. Subtotal 3,797 78.9% 1,013 21.1% 4,810 Total World workforce by age group, 2013 Other * 45,516 Age group % of total Total 317,500 30 and under 24.8% * This row includes employees of certain majority-owned, consolidated 31–50 57.6% subsidiaries for which this human resource data is not available to HP. 51 and over 17.6% U.S. workforce demographics, 2013 [as a % of total] Native All Hawaiian or Two or more Native Male Female White Black Hispanic Asian minorities other Pacific races American Islander Officials and managers 71.85% 28.15% 80.37% 19.63% 3.61% 4.68% 10.55% 0.04% 0.37% 0.38% Professionals 68.22% 31.78% 71.52% 28.48% 5.29% 5.52% 16.49% 0.07% 0.64% 0.47% Technicians 81.60% 18.40% 67.81% 32.19% 14.69% 7.89% 7.46% 0.23% 1.33% 0.59% Sales workers 61.63% 38.37% 62.57% 37.43% 8.26% 15.85% 10.04% 0.19% 2.72% 0.38% Office and clerical 17.88% 82.12% 64.79% 35.21% 20.01% 8.14% 4.66% 0.33% 1.35% 0.73% Operatives (semiskilled) 61.15% 38.85% 51.59% 48.41% 15.92% 14.65% 15.92% 0.64% 0.64% 0.64% Laborers 47.71% 52.29% 38.54% 61.46% 17.71% 24.79% 17.71% 0.21% 0.42% 0.63% Total 67.21% 32.79% 71.50% 28.50% 6.90% 6.06% 14.22% 0.10% 0.74% 0.48% See page 65 for data about women as a percentage of total employees, global new hires by gender, and U.S. new hires by ethnicity. 59 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Rewards and Contents We continually look to create valuable benefits programs Governance on a country-by-country basis. In 2013, we launched a new platform allowing U.S. employees to enroll in plans Human Progress Human rights recognition via smartphone and receive benefits information via text message. We also made a major global effort to highlight Supply chain the services offered by our Employee Assistance Program responsibility We acknowledge and reward our people for their work by developing toolkits for our HR partners and home mailthrough compensation, benefits, and recognition proings to help employees cope with grief, stress, substance Privacy grams. Despite continued economic challenges, HP has abuse, and other life challenges. • HP people returned to “business as usual” with respect to compensaEconomic Progress tion and benefits, with annual review cycles for pay and Recognition programs Environmental Progress benefits globally. Positive feedback can boost employee satisfaction and About this report morale. We show our appreciation for hard work and loyalty through the Recognition @hp program. In 2013, we proProgress in 2013 gressed popular new initiatives launched in 2012, including: Compensation • Celebrating Service, which marks milestone years of HP has made consistent investments in salary increases, working at HP bonuses, and other incentives during the past few years. As • Living Our Values, through which colleagues recognize a result, we have made progress toward an overall marketeach others’ support and achievements competitive pay position across the company, despite • HP Points, awarded by managers and redeemable for previous years of underinvestment. In 2013, we delivered merchandise, travel, or charitable giving significant bonuses for 2013 fiscal year performance, salary increases for 2014, and long-term incentive awards. These efforts are reaping their own reward—although we have further to go. Our comprehensive efforts to explain to employees how compensation relates to performance are also paying off. From 2010 to 2013, HP’s VoW survey showed a 41% improvement in employees’ understanding of pay practices and the link to performance, including a 9% rise from 2012 to 2013. Our score is now well above the information techWellness nology (IT) industry norm. The links between wellness and productivity at work are well established. HP views a healthy workforce as a busiAt HP’s annual meeting in March 2013, shareholders ness imperative, and our goal is to provide holistic programs voted in support of our existing executive compensation that promote physical, emotional, and financial well-being. programs and packages. We remunerate senior executives not only based on meeting financial targets, but also on factors such as business objectives, customer satisfaction, Progress in 2013 employee engagement, and people development. In 2013, employees in more than 40 countries accessed HP More than 18,000 employees in 50 countries opt into our wellness programs tailored to local needs. In 2013, for the Employee Stock Purchase Plan. It enables employees to third consecutive year, HP was among 65 organizations buy HP shares at a 5% discount. During the year through named Best Employers for Healthy Lifestyles by the U.S. October 31, 2013, 1,260 new enrollees joined the program. National Business Group on Health. Benefits In addition to base and performance-related pay and stock ownership, HP offers benefits everywhere we operate. Depending on the location, these benefits may include retirement and savings plans, income-protection insurance covering risks from injury or illness, health and wellness plans, and flexible working arrangements. 60 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Global highlights Managing healthcare can also be challenging. In the United Governance During 2013, successful wellness events around the States, HP introduced health advocate services in 2013 to world included: assist about 34,000 employees in effectively navigating Human Progress the healthcare system. Human rights • China 2,400 employees attended events with health Supply chain experts on eye protection. Financial wellness responsibility • Ireland 1,200 employees took part in Whacky Wellness HP is piloting financial wellness programs in the United Privacy Wednesday, which offered skin cancer screenings, wellStates. In 2013, we held our biggest event to date: Financial ness education, a rowing competition, and a carnival. Fitness Bootcamp, which drew about 10,700 employees • HP people to virtual and on-site workshops and 48,000 visits to our Economic Progress • Russia Throughout February, employees enjoyed financial wellness website. Skills taught included retirediscounts to local sports centers; classes on nutrition, Environmental Progress ment planning, investments and asset allocation, budget yoga, and parenting; and healthy breakfast choices in About this report and debt management, and personal savings. the HP cafeteria. • Global HP sites in 27 countries took part in Power of Prevention, a cancer-awareness program showcasing educational programs, screenings, and a dedicated website. Health and safety Physical wellness The health and well-being of our employees is a priority for More than 350 health enthusiasts at HP offices around the HP. We have a responsibility to provide a safe working enviworld act as our Wellness Ambassadors, promoting the ronment for our people, and we recognize that employees company’s health initiatives and planning local activities. are most productive when they are healthy. We have low We conduct many local and regional wellness events, as accident and injury rates across our offices, production well as company-wide efforts that encourage employees facilities, warehouses, and laboratories. Nonetheless, we to adopt healthier living habits. In 2013, more than 54,000 continually evaluate our training programs, policies, and employees in 84 countries participated in our yearly Global procedures to identify improvement opportunities and 54,000 Wellness Challenge, forming teams who compete against ways to avoid incidents. We are committed to identifying each other to boost their physical activity over an eightthe causes of accidents and taking action to prevent them. week period. Collectively, they: The number of HP employees, across 84 • Walked 14.6 billion steps, equal to nearly 300 trips The main health and safety risks across our facilities relate countries, who took part around the earth’s equator to slips, trips, and falls and to ergonomics, both in the in wellness challenges, up office environment and in situations involving the manual 37% compared to 2012 • Exercised for the equivalent of more than 120 years handling of materials. We work to continually improve in Watch this video to learn more. these areas through robust environmental, health, and safety (EHS) management and employee engagement. In In the United States, HP has on-site health clinics in Palo 2013, we started the global rollout of improved processes Alto, California, and Plano and Houston, Texas. In 2013, for assessing EHS risks and legal requirements. we made these available to dependent children older than seven and HP retirees. EHS policy and standards Stress management/emotional wellness Our EHS policy and comprehensive EHS management We offer programs to help our employees balance persystem are critical in ensuring employee health and sonal and work commitments, and reduce related stress. safety. Our EHS management system aligns with the In many countries, these offerings include flexible working internationally recognized Occupational Health and Safety options, child care, dependent care, adoption resources, Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001 standard as well as family and new parent leave, and stress-management the ANSI Z10 and ILO OSH 2001 standards of the American resources. We also offer flexible arrangements as National Standards Institute and the International Labour appropriate, such as nontraditional full-time hours and Organization, respectively. Eight HP sites—in Ireland, part-time employment. In 2013, HP was named among the Romania, Scotland, Singapore, South Africa, and Spain— Top 100 U.S. companies by Working Mother magazine, in are registered to OHSAS 18001. recognition of our work-life benefits and opportunities for female advancement. 61 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Our health and safety data-collection and tracking system, In 2014, every employee will have access to a new EHS Governance which we use to monitor injury trends at the individual site module included in the mandatory annual training on HP’s and corporate levels, adheres to the ILO Code of Practice Standards of Business Conduct. The module will focus on Human Progress on Recording and Notification of Occupational Accidents office ergonomics and how to avoid the most common Human rights and Diseases. cause of injuries and lost workdays at HP—slips, trips, and Supply chain falls. It will also teach employees about our EHS policy and responsibility EHS risks and legal requirements EHS management system, injury and illness reporting, and Privacy As a global company, we stay abreast of changes in emergency preparedness and response. health and safety legislation worldwide and standardize • HP people Employees at non-HP locations our processes for assessing EHS risks and legal requireEconomic Progress ments everywhere we operate. We routinely evaluate and In 2013, we also focused on the health and safety of HP Environmental Progress enhance these processes as part of our commitment to employees working at customer locations. We improved About this report continually improving our EHS management system. identification and characterization of EHS risks associated with working remotely, streamlined communications to For information about our environmental risk manageemployees at non-HP sites, and implemented programs ment, please see HP operations. and processes to reduce risks and ensure compliance with EHS requirements beyond our walls. Regional and global Working@non-HP web pages were published and stored Progress in 2013 on compact discs to provide off-site employees access to EHS resources. Global chemical management In 2013, we introduced global processes, tools, and trainContractors ing to help our operations comply with requirements of the Our responsibilities to keep people safe while working Globally Harmonized System (GHS) of Classification and for HP also extend to contractors. We strengthened our Labeling of Chemicals. Highlights included: engagement with Global Real Estate, Global Procurement, and other internal functions during the year to ensure • A GHS global training course for employees, available in contractors adhere to EHS standards. We also began a English, French, and Spanish quarterly review of the global EHS performance of our • A “GHS for EHS” training course for our EHS professionintegrated facilities maintenance (IFM) provider, which als worldwide, available through HP University complements regionaland site-levels reviews, and allows us to identify best practices and flag any locations In 2014, we will continue to help regional teams address that need additional attention. In addition, we revised and chemical labeling changes to align with GHS requirements. reissued the HP Global Contractor Environment, Health, We are also preparing our chemical management system Safety & Security (EHS&S) Handbook, now available on our to comply with the new format for safety data sheets intranet. We aim to improve digital access to the handbook required by GHS and requested by suppliers. for HP contractors outside the HP firewall. Health and safety communications and training With 317,500 employees2 worldwide and legal requirements that vary by country, keeping our workforce informed of health and safety standards, policies, and laws requires ongoing effort. We provide more than 150 instructor-led and web-based training courses to keep employees up-to-date on key health and safety issues. Course topics range from fire prevention and chemical safety, to earthquake response training and ergonomics. We continually add, update, and translate courses into additional languages to ensure that relevant health and safety information is widely accessible to our employees. 2 As of October 31, 2013. 62 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Performance data Governance 14.Lost workday case rate, 2009-2013* 15.Recordable incidence rate, 2009-2013* Lost workday case rate, 2009–2013* Recordable incidence rate, 2009–2013* Human Progress 0.20 0.8 Human rights Supply chain responsibility 0.15 0.6 Privacy • HP people 0.10 0.4 Economic Progress Environmental Progress 0.05 0.2 About this report 0.00 0.0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 G lobal 0.08 0.10 0.09 0.07 0.08 G lobal 0.30 0.24 0.22 0.20 0.19 A mericas 0.17 0.16 0.13 0.12 0.11 A mericas 0.57 0.43 0.41 0.36 0.34 Europe, 0.04 0.11 0.11 0.08 0.11 Europe, 0.29 0.18 0.17 0.18 0.19 Middle East, Middle East, and Africa and Africa A sia Pacific 0.01 0.02 0.01 0.01 0.02 A sia Pacific 0.03 0.03 0.02 0.01 0.04 and Japan and Japan * Lost workday case rate is the number of work-related injuries that result * Recordable incidence rate is the number of all work-related lost-time and in time away from work per 100 employees working a full year. Rates are no-lost-time cases requiring more than first aid per 100 employees working a calculated using Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) full year. Rates are calculated using OSHA definitions for recordability around definitions for recordability around the globe and using OSHA calculation the globe and using OSHA calculation methodologies. The figures are based on methodologies. The figures are based on employees working an average employees working an average of 2,000 hours during a full year. The U.S. average of 2,000 hours during a full year. The U.S. average in 2012 for the data in 2012 for the data processing, hosting, and related services industry was 0.8. processing, hosting, and related services industry was 0.2. Americas includes Americas includes incidents occurring in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, incidents occurring in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Panama, and Costa Rica, Mexico, Panama, Puerto Rico, United States, and Venezuela. Asia the United States. Asia Pacific and Japan includes incidents in India, Japan, Pacific and Japan includes incidents in Australia, India, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, Malaysia, and Singapore. Europe, Middle East, and Africa includes incidents in New Zealand, and Singapore. Europe, Middle East, and Africa includes incidents Austria, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, Israel, in Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Poland, South Africa, Spain, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. Israel, Italy, Poland, South Africa, Spain, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. Leading causes of all recordable incidents Leading causes of lost workdays, 2011–2013 (with and without lost time), 2011–2013* 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Slips, trips, and falls 40% 45% 38% Slips, trips, and falls 32% 35% 30% Ergonomics—materials handling 20% 12% 18% Ergonomics—materials handling 16% 12% 17% Ergonomics—office environment 12% 11% 5% Ergonomics—office environment 20% 20% 16% Automobile accidents 11% 11% 18% Automobile accidents 10% 10% 11% Struck by/against/cut by 6% 14% 10% Struck by/against/cut by 11% 15% 13% Other 11% 7% 10% Other 11% 8% 10% * Percentages may not add up to 100% due to rounding. Location of lost workdays, 2011–2013* 2011 2012 2013 Location of recordable incidents, 2011–2013* HP sites 50% 53% 54% 2011 2012 2013 Customer sites 27% 23% 21% HP sites 54% 57% 58% Business travel 15% 15% 21% Customer sites 25% 22% 20% Telecommuting/home office 5% 6% 1% Business travel 14% 13% 16% Events/team building 3% 2% 2% Telecommuting/home office 5% 6% 3% * Percentages may not add up to 100% due to rounding. Events/team building 2% 1% 2% * Percentages may not add up to 100% due to rounding. 63 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Community Contents more than 20 countries we conduct ScopeAthons, matchGovernance ing HP-certified project managers with local NGOs and social entrepreneurs to identify key organizational needs Human Progress Human rights engagement and that skills-based volunteering could meet. volunteering3 Supply chain We track the impact of our community engagement and responsibility volunteering activities, which have clear benefits for our Privacy partners and our business. A 2013 survey of HP’s key The drive to do good runs deep among HP employees. Each NGO partners found that 92% reported significant or very • HP people significant increases in capacity as a result of the relationyear, we support the many communities around the world in Economic Progress which we live and work by giving back our time and expertise. ship, including in the areas of: offering higher quality, more Environmental Progress innovative, or additional services; serving more people; HP has long incorporated the pursuit of societal good and employing more effective or productive staff. A 2013 About this report into the workplace. We believe this approach is key to employee survey showed that participants in HP volunthe company’s long-term success, benefiting local and teer activities had more than 10% higher rates of morale, global communities, and also helping us maintain a highly motivation, and intention to stay at the company than motivated global workforce. Employees are encouraged nonparticipants.5 to use their four hours of paid volunteer time per month to dedicate their energy, skills, and imagination to tackling significant human, economic, and environmental issues. “Serving others makes me feel proud and happy, that’s why I am a “Volunteering at HP allows us to see the volunteer.” reality lived in our communities while giving us an opportunity to have a — Nicolle Liu, China volunteer positive impact in our surroundings.” In 2013, HP’s community engagement activities received a range of external recognition. — Sergio Lopez, Mexico volunteer See below for selected examples of our community Progress in 2013 engagement and volunteering work in 2013: During the year, nearly 42,000 HP employees contributed 1.6 million hours, and their workplace skills, to help take HP volunteering on tough global challenges. This volunteer labor represents the equivalent of an approximately $104 million Global Volunteer Challenge 2013 contribution to global education, environmental issues, Launched: 2012 entrepreneurship, health, and other societal causes.4 Aim: Inspire and engage HP employees to serve their communities through a countryand business unit-based Nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) and communities volunteering competition benefit from the expertise of our employees in high-value Partners: Hundreds of local organizations addressing fields such as technology, engineering, human resources, challenges in education, health, poverty, environment, and finance, supply chain, and manufacturing. For example, in entrepreneurship 3 HP definition of employee volunteering/community involvement: For an employee activity to be considered as volunteering/community involvement under HP’s programs, it needs to meet these three criteria: • Serve the public good: The activity should serve a charitable cause for the public at-large, such as alleviate poverty, improve reading skills of underprivileged children, or clean up public waterways. If the service is conducted through a faith-based organization, it needs to benefit the public at-large and not only members of that organization or faith. • Be conducted through a formal or informal organization that is not for profit (including, for example, sports leagues and clubs, libraries, K-12 schools and universities, social clubs, community-based organizations, government agencies, and nongovernmental organizations) or through HP’s programs. Please note: A favor or charitable gesture toward a neighbor, friend, or other independent individual does not qualify as volunteering/community involvement. • Be unpaid: Employees should not receive compensation of any kind from the organization for their service, including cash, services, or other perks. Service conducted on HP time, and thus receiving employment compensation, is not considered paid and qualifies as volunteering/community service. HP employee volunteering/community involvement can be: • Conducted during paid work time per HP employee volunteerism policy (with management approval) • Conducted on an employee’s own time, completely independent of HP • Time invested to make a cash or goods donation, such as the time dedicated to shopping for toys that will be donated, giving blood, or walking for a charitable cause • Conducted as part of an HP department or team service project • A contribution of skills or talent, such as board service, professional services, or technology support • Any other form of service that serves the public good, is conducted through a formal organization and is unpaid, as specified in the defining criteria above • Conducted by HP employees who are leading or organizing events in support of Social Impact initiatives (such as Social Impact country and site leads) but who are not members of the Social Impact team. 4 Hourly rate based on type of volunteering: $150/hour for board, service corp, pro bono, and skills-based; $20/hour for hands-on and undetermined, adjusted using World Bank data for purchasing power differences across countries. 5 2013 Voice of the Workforce (VoW) survey. 64 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents HP’s Global Volunteer Challenge motivates employees to Hackathons Governance use their skills and resources to give back to their comLaunched: 2011 munities. The passion and commitment of the work done Aim: Engage HP software engineers and developers in Human Progress around the world is epitomized by the top three 2013 Most global skills-based volunteer projects with social and Human rights Impactful Project awards winners from China, Germany, business impacts Supply chain and Mexico, highlighted below: Partners: Benetech, Geeks Without Bounds, Random responsibility Hacks of Kindness, Santa Clara Frugal Innovation Lab Privacy More than 230 HP volunteers in China work with the Little Swan School, a primary school for children of migrant In January 2013, HP partnered with Geeks Without Bounds • HP people workers in Beijing. Without support, these children would to cosponsor EveryoneHacks. The aim of the event was Economic Progress be unable to attend school since they are not eligible to support women in technology, while solving educaEnvironmental Progress for public education, and their families cannot afford tional challenges through collaboration with teachers, private alternatives. Our volunteers take the students to students, and developers. About 100 people on 15 teams About this report participated. The winning team developed an idea called museums, parks, and activities in Beijing, enriching their educational experience and helping them to feel part of “Groupsail,” an app to help teachers and students manage the community. HP employees also raise money for the their group projects. Learn more here. school. In 2013, they provided enough funding to hire a new full-time teacher for one year. Learn more here. In June 2013, nearly 100 U.S. cities participated in a National Day of Civic Hacking. The event brought together participants from the public and private sectors to develop “HP offers a great opportunity for individual ideas for using software and technology to solve comengagement, and I am proud to volunteer munity challenges on a range of issues, from education to disaster response. HP led a hackathon in Palo Alto, for the Peace Village International project.” California, focusing on cyber security and its social implications. Learn more here. — Sascha Wittig, Germany volunteer In June 2013, HP volunteers partnered with the Santa Clara Frugal Innovation Lab to design and build a field tablet application for the Tropical Ecology Assessment and Monitoring (TEAM) Network project at Conservation International (CI). Peace Village International, based in Oberhausen, The application will enable field technicians to efficiently Germany, supports sick or wounded children from warand accurately gather and manage ecological data using HP torn regions and provides them with medical care that mobile tablet devices, creating a more flexible, secure, and cannot be accessed in their countries of origin. Our volunstreamlined process. Read more about our partnership with teers devote time to the children, engaging them through CI through the HP Earth Insights program. play and educational activities and also help maintain the Peace Village facility through, for example, gardening and Hackathons were also held in India in 2013. In Chennai, building a new playground. Learn more here. 75 HP volunteers contributed 3,660 hours (worth about $550,000). In Bangalore, 150 volunteers contributed In Mexico, people migrating from small towns to major cities approximately 5,700 hours (worth about $850,000). often have trouble finding homes with proper sanitation. During 2013, in partnership with Un Techo Para mi País, HP Advisors Program Mexico, A.C., 198 HP employees spent 7,600 volunteer hours Launched: 2011 erecting clean and safe prefabricated houses for 25 families Aim: Match HP employees with social entrepreneurs in in Mexico’s three biggest cities: Guadalajara, Mexico City, and global health, education, and environmental sustainability Monterrey. Donations from HP employees provided almost to work together to address urgent global challenges 40% of the $55,000 cost of the project. Learn more here. Partners: Schwab Foundation for Social Entrepreneurship, Global Health Corps “Volunteering not only helps the community Through this program, we work with our partners to identify leading nonprofits that have proven their ability and environment, it also helps provide to drive social transformations, but are in need of access work-life balance for each of us.” to professional business skills to reach their goals. The HP Advisors program bridges this gap, linking HP professionals with social entrepreneurs. The program benefits — Karol Zeledon, Costa Rica volunteer employees by enabling them to develop leadership skills and broaden their knowledge of social issues and emerging market-based solutions. It empowers social entrepreneurs to develop essential skills and expertise in key business areas. In 2013, 78 HP Advisors provided volunteer hours worth nearly $180,000. The program supported 30 social enterprises and mentored 48 Global Health Corps Fellows posted within global health NGOs in Burundi, Malawi, Rwanda, Uganda, and the United States. 65 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Data Contents Governance Human Progress 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Human rights Number of HP employees (approximate)1 304,000 324,600 349,600 331,800 317,500 Supply chain responsibility Employees (regular full time and part time) by employment type and gender, 2013 (see page 58) Privacy Employees (regular full time and part time) by region and gender, • HP people 2013 (see page 58) Economic Progress World workforce by age group, 2013 (see page 58) Environmental Progress Women employees2 [% of total] About this report Americas 35.0% 34.3% 33.3% 33.1% 33.5% Asia Pacific and Japan 32.5% 33.1% 32.3% 32.6% 33.1% Europe, Middle East, and Africa 30.0% 30.5% 29.8% 30.0% 30.3% Worldwide 32.9% 32.9% 32.0% 32.1% 32.5% Women managers2 [% of total] Americas 28.3% 27.8% 28.7% 30.1% 30.1% Asia Pacific and Japan 21.2% 21.8% 22.3% 22.2% 21.8% Europe, Middle East, and Africa 20.0% 19.8% 20.9% 22.4% 23.3% Worldwide 24.3% 24.1% 24.8% 25.5% 25.6% Global new hires, by gender 3 [% of total] Female 35.6% 35.2% 32.7% 34.6% 36.2% Male 64.4% 64.8% 67.3% 65.4% 63.8% U.S. workforce demographics, 2013 (see page 58) U.S. new hires, by ethnicity4 [% of total] White 65.0% 61.7% 52.4% 64.8% 54.0% All minorities 34.5% 34.8% 31.1% 34.9% 46.0% Black 11.2% 14.5% 7.7% 10.8% 11.3% Hispanic 7.1% 7.1% 6.7% 7.5% 9.1% Asian 12.5% 10.5% 14.6% 12.6% 15.3% Native American 0.7% 0.3% 0.4% 0.3% 0.4% Lost workday case rate5 Global 0.08 0.10 0.09 0.07 0.08 Americas 0.17 0.16 0.13 0.12 0.11 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0.04 0.11 0.11 0.08 0.11 Asia Pacific and Japan 0.01 0.02 0.01 0.01 0.02 continued 66 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Governance Recordable incidence rate 6 Human Progress Global 0.30 0.24 0.22 0.20 0.19 Human rights Americas 0.57 0.43 0.41 0.36 0.34 Supply chain Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0.29 0.18 0.17 0.18 0.19 responsibility Privacy Asia Pacific and Japan 0.03 0.03 0.02 0.01 0.04 • HP people 1 As of October 31 of the year noted. Numbers are rounded. 2 2009 data excludes Brazil. Economic Progress 3 2009 data excludes Brazil and reflect the time period January 1 to November 30, 2009. Environmental Progress 4 Sum of “White” and “All minorities” does not equal 100%, and the sum of “Black,” “Hispanic,” “Asian,” and “Native American” does not equal the total for “All minorities” because some people do not declare or do not fall into these categories. About this report 5 Lost workday case rate is the number of work-related injuries that result in time away from work per 100 employees working a full year. Rates are calculated using Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) definitions for recordability around the globe and using OSHA calculation methodologies. The figures are based on employees working an average of 2,000 hours during a full year. The U.S. average in 2012 for the data processing, hosting, and related services industry was 0.2. Americas includes incidents occurring in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Panama, and the United States. Asia Pacific and Japan includes incidents in India, Japan, Malaysia, and Singapore. Europe, Middle East, and Africa includes incidents in Austria, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Poland, South Africa, Spain, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. 6 Recordable incidence rate is the number of all work-related lost-time and no-lost-time cases requiring more than first aid per 100 employees working a full year. Rates are calculated using OSHA definitions for recordability around the globe and using OSHA calculation methodologies. The figures are based on employees working an average of 2,000 hours during a full year. The U.S. average in 2012 for the data processing, hosting, and related services industry was 0.8. Americas includes incidents occurring in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Mexico, Panama, Puerto Rico, United States, and Venezuela. Asia Pacific and Japan includes incidents in Australia, India, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, New Zealand, and Singapore. Europe, Middle East, and Africa includes incidents in Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Poland, South Africa, Spain, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. Contents Governance Human Progress Economic Progress • Contributions to the economy • Social investment Environmental Progress About this report Economic Progress Helping businesses and economies thrive 68 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Living Example: HP LIFE e-Learning Contents Governance Human Progress Providing business and information technology (IT) skills training Economic Progress through the cloud Contributions to the economy Social investment Environmental Progress HP LIFE e-Learning uses HP’s innovative cloud-based technology to help About this report entrepreneurs and students learn essential business and IT skills to establish and grow their own businesses, create jobs, and help support a thriving community. HP LIFE e-Learning training, Nabeul, Tunisia Problem • Modules are added and updated constantly, with the • More than 75 million unemployed and underemployed learning experience enhanced by an online community people around the world lack access to information of like-minded people, tips, resource links, and forums and business and IT skills training that could help them offered to students. develop or support a business idea. Impact • Entrepreneurs are the backbone of the global economy. Human Progress: HP LIFE bridges the knowledge When new ideas and innovations enter the market, comgap that many students and entrepreneurs face munities and economies thrive. that prevents them from turning their business ideas into action. HP LIFE e-Learning uses HP Vision cloud technology to make training available to • Empower entrepreneurs with free, online access to virtually anyone, giving people the skills to high-quality educational resources to help them learn or improve their lives. sharpen their business and IT skills on their own time, at their own pace. Economic Progress: Entrepreneurs are the backbone of the global economy. Access to Solution high-quality business and IT education helps • We partnered with leading educational organizations, launch or grow businesses, create jobs, and such as Education Development Center, Inc. (EDC), to stimulate economic growth. design an open-platform, interactive, online learning curriculum accessible to virtually anyone, anywhere— free of charge. • HP LIFE e-Learning curriculum is self-paced and includes core business categories, such as communications, finance, marketing, and operations along with special topics, like social entrepreneurship and energy efficiency, to help students enhance their skills. Students receive a certificate of completion for each module. 69 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Governance Human Progress Economic Progress • Contributions to the economy Social investment Environmental Progress About this report Contributions to the economy As one of the world’s largest companies, HP contributes This growth will be more sustainable, delivering lasting to economies globally through the value we create for our benefits for HP and the millions of people who benefit customers and our direct financial transactions. from our products and operations around the world. HP products and solutions make businesses and individuHP also benefits many of our stakeholders directly by proals more efficient and profitable. HP Living Progress—our viding jobs in the countries worldwide where we operate, integrated approach to business that simultaneously supporting the businesses of our suppliers in economies drives human, economic, and environmental progress— around the globe, and providing returns to investors. will unlock further growth for HP and the wider economy. Economic impact fiscal year 2013 The table below summarizes our economic impacts on our main stakeholder groups during fiscal year 2013 (FY13). Direct impacts result from financial transactions we have with our many stakeholders. Indirect impacts occur when the money we spend circulates through the economy. For more details, please see our financial statements, interactive stock chart, and Annual Report on Form 10-K. Group Direct economic impacts in FY13 Indirect economic impacts in FY13 Suppliers HP has one of the most extensive supply chains in the IT Our spending continued to support employment in supplier industry and made purchases from production suppliers companies. Suppliers and their workers, in turn, pay taxes (defined as suppliers that provide materials for our prodand support local economies, and suppliers may pay diviucts) as well as nonproduction suppliers worldwide. dends to their investors or reinvest in innovation or growth. Employees HP provided compensation and benefits to approximately HP’s employees pay taxes and generate further economic 317,500 employees worldwide.* activity by spending some of the money they earn. Customers HP’s net revenue was $112 billion. We continued to help customers improve productivity, increase efficiencies, and reduce their environmental impacts by offering reliable, high-quality products and services. For business customers, this may increase the jobs they create and taxes they pay. Sales, marketing, and HP helped create business for sales and service partners Our partners’ commercial relationships with HP can distribution partners worldwide. contribute to their growth. Local, state, and HP paid net cash income taxes of $1.391 billion. Taxes paid help enable government spending and national governments programs. Investors HP returned $2.6 billion to shareholders in the form of Investors may pay taxes on dividends. dividends and share repurchases. * As of October 31, 2013. 70 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Data Contents 1 Governance Human Progress 2011 2012 2013 Economic Progress Net revenue [$ million] $127,245 $120,357 $112,298 • Contributions to the economy Research and development expense [$ million] $3,254 $3,399 $3,135 Social investment Research and development expense as a % of net revenue 2.6% 2.8% 2.8% Environmental Progress Defined contribution expense2 [$ million] $626 $628 $603 About this report Net investment in property, plant, and equipment 3 [$ million] $3,540 $3,089 $2,546 Dividends paid [$ million] $844 $1,015 $1,105 Repurchase of common stock [$ million] $10,117 $1,619 $1,532 Number of patents (approximate) 36,000 36,000 38,000 1 Data in this table are for the fiscal years ended October 31. 2 HP offers various defined contribution plans for U.S. and non-U.S. employees. U.S. employees are automatically enrolled in the Hewlett-Packard Company 401(k) Plan (the “HP 401(k) Plan”) when they meet eligibility requirements, unless they decline participation. The quarterly employer matching contributions in the HP 401(k) Plan are set to equal 100% of an employee’s contributions, up to a maximum of 4% of eligible compensation. 3 Net investment in property, plant, and equipment is calculated as investment in property, plant and equipment minus proceeds from sale of property, plant, and equipment. 71 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Governance Human Progress Economic Progress Contributions to the economy • Social investment Environmental Progress About this report Social investment We bring our people and technology together to solve skills and knowledge from within our company for greater, $6 society’s toughest challenges. HP Living Progress more sustainable benefit. We concentrate our efforts initiatives worldwide advance human, economic, and through Living Progress initiatives in the three areas environmental progress. where we can make the biggest impact. Business and technology have an essential role to play in Human Progress—advancing the overall health million addressing 21st-century challenges such as meeting the and well-being of people health and educational needs of a growing population, We use cutting-edge technology to bring healthcare ensuring economic stability and growth, and contributing to and medical expertise directly to the communities that Cash and products environmental sustainability. HP embraces this opportunity need it most. We believe that technology can transform donated by U.S. employees through and responsibility. As a leading technology company operaccess to care as well as quality and affordability, and we matching programs ating in countries worldwide, we bring together the right collaborate with governments, nonprofits, nongovernpartners to better understand complex global and local mental organizations (NGOs), and other private sector problems and develop effective, sustainable solutions. firms to accelerate the transformation of the health sector. For example, eHealth Centers connect physicians and other primary healthcare providers to citizens and Our approach patients in communities that are underserved or lack access to the necessary specialists. By utilizing cloud$135.3 HP employees drive our social investment activities, which extend far beyond one-off financial contributions. Through based information technology (IT) and data-sharing systems, eHealth Centers deliver 21st-century healthcare million our focus on volunteering and partnerships, we share services to patients in remote, resource-poor locations. Overall social investment Case study Matter to a million Launched: 2014 Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation will provide every Aim: Enhance economic progress by empowering entreHP employee worldwide with a $25 credit to make a loan preneurs around the world through microlending to a Kiva borrower. Once made, the loans will provide capiPartner: Kiva tal to entrepreneurs in more than 70 countries, enabling them to buy food, tools, supplies, livestock, and other Kiva is a microlending nonprofit that enables people to essential items. This unique program, we believe, will make microloans to small business owners around the change the lives of millions of people, creating a ripworld who need access to capital to start or grow their ple effect across hundreds of villages, towns, and cities enterprises. This five-year global partnership with the around the world. 72 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Other highlights in 2013 included the expansion of the and the American Red Cross. Below are the approximate Governance HP-supported Early Infant Diagnosis program from Kenya values of cash and product contributions for major events and Uganda to Nigeria, in partnership with the Clinton in 2013. Human Progress Health Access Initiative. Economic Progress Donations for disaster relief, 2013 [$] * Contributions to the Economic Progress—helping businesses and economy economies thrive Disaster name and location Amount • Social investment We provide people with opportunities to learn essential Hurricane Sandy, United States $651,000 business and IT skills, empowering the next generation Earthquake, China $250,000 Environmental Progress of entrepreneurs to succeed in a global economy. For About this report example, HP LIFE e-Learning uses our innovative cloudFlooding, India $108,000 based technology, enabling entrepreneurs and students Cyclone Phailin, India $100,000 to establish and grow their own businesses, create jobs, Typhoon Utor (Labuyo)/Tropical Storm $100,000 and help communities thrive. We extend the reach of Trami (Maring), Philippines HP LIFE e-Learning with partners such as the Education Development Center Inc., United Nations Industrial Others $275,000 $7.3 Development Organization, and the National Association American Red Cross Annual Disaster Giving Program ** $500,000 for Community College Entrepreneurship. In 2013, we Total $1,984,000 also expanded the HP Catalyst Academy to help teachers integrate technology solutions into their classrooms and * The totals shown in this table represent the total donation per disaster, to the built on our Social Innovation Relay activities to stimulate nearest $1,000 and may span multiple fiscal years. Figures include employee million entrepreneurial thinking among students in partnership with the U.S. nonprofit Junior Achievement. donations and products, grants, and matched funds from HP and the HewlettPackard Company Foundation. Figures are for the 2013 calendar year. ** The American Red Cross Annual Disaster Giving Program grant enables the Cash and product Red Cross to respond to U.S. and international disasters more rapidly. donations matched by Environmental Progress—making the environHP and the Hewlettment stronger as we grow Employee giving Packard Company We apply our innovation and technology capabilities to U.S. Employee Cash Matching and Product Matching Foundation analyze environmental problems holistically, catalyze programs In 2013, nearly 10,400 employees participated solutions, and create a more sustainable world. For examin the HP U.S. Employee Cash Matching and Product ple, HP Earth Insights, an innovative collaboration with Matching programs.1 These employees, HP, and the Conservation International, uses the power of big data Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation together provided analytics to deliver new insights about biodiversity loss more than $13.3 million to NGOs and schools through cash in our tropical forests, enabling better decision making to and product donations. protect people, species, habitats, and economies. Read $1.9+ more about our flagship environmental progress initiative. Recognition In 2013, our community-engagement programs received Partnership the Corporate Excellence Award from Points of Light. HP million Collaboration is core to HP’s approach to social investwas also recognized by Bloomberg’s The Civic 50 as the ment, based on a common understanding of the Most Community-Minded Tech Company, and for being the strengths, capabilities, and contributions of all partners, industry leader in measuring social investment impact. Disaster relief as well as shared expectations of what will be achieved Our work with the Clinton Health Access Initiative received and how. Our Living Progress initiatives often begin as the Ethical Corporation Responsible Business Award for pilot programs, and we use this experience to scale them the best business-NGO partnership. in a sustainable manner. Doing so requires the long-term commitment and cooperation of multiple organizations working in partnership, including governments, NGOs, Performance summary academic institutions, customers, thought leaders, social entrepreneurs, and industry peers. Our employees’ contriThe total value of our social investments, including butions—time, money, and expertise—are also essential contributions from HP and the Hewlett-Packard Company to these activities. Read more in HP people—Community Foundation plus the valuation of employee volunteer engagement and volunteering. hours, equaled $135.3 million in 2013. This is an increase of $16.7 million from 2012, largely due to an increase in Disaster relief employee volunteer hours. See Community engagement In 2013, HP employees, HP, and the Hewlett-Packard and volunteering. Company Foundation donated more than $1.9 million of money and equipment in response to natural disasters in partnership with organizations such as Save the Children 1 Some employees participate in both programs. Therefore, this number is different than the sum of the two data points in the U.S. employee participation in Cash Matching Program and Product Matching Program section on page 73. 73 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents In addition to the total amount invested in our programs, Social investment, 2009–20131 [$ million] Governance we use a range of metrics on a project-by-project basis to $150 2.5% measure our impacts: Human Progress Economic Progress • Social impact We measure how many people and $120 2.0% places we’ve impacted through our programs. Contributions to the economy • Business impact We measure how our programs $90 1.5% impact our competitive advantage and reputation. • Social investment Environmental Progress • Operational excellence We track how many employees $60 1.0% support our programs and completion of milestones. About this report $30 0.5% • Financial impact We track total investment by HP and the Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation as well as $0 0% funding by partners in support of our programs. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Cash $21.1 $27.3 $20.3 $22.3 $23.8 Products and $35.0 $17.7 $31.2 $96.3 $111.5 services2 Total $56.1 $44.9 $51.5 $118.6 $135.3 P  ercentage 0.60% 0.41% 0.57% N/A 3 2.08% of pre-tax profits Data 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Social investment [$ million] 1 $56.1 $44.9 $51.5 $118.6 $135.3 Cash $21.1 $27.3 $20.3 $22.3 $23.8 Products and services 2 $35.0 $17.7 $31.2 $96.3 $111.5 Social investment [% of pre-tax profits] 3 0.60% 0.41% 0.57% Not 2.08% applicable U.S. employee participation in Cash Matching Program and Product Matching Program [number of employees] Cash Matching Program 5,400 5,600 7,000 7,100 8,600 Product Matching Program 1,800 1,100 1,700 1,600 2,700 Contributions for Cash Matching Program and Product Matching $11.3 $10.8 $12.0 $12.4 $13.3 Program 4, 5 [$ million] U.S. employee contributions for Cash Matching Program 4 $3.4 $3.2 $3.8 $4.2 $4.9 Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation contributions for Cash $2.3 $2.7 $3.1 $3.5 $3.9 Matching Program4 U.S. employee contributions for Product Matching Program5 $1.4 $1.2 $1.3 $1.2 $1.1 HP contributions for Product Matching Program 5 $4.2 $3.7 $3.8 $3.5 $3.4 1 Social investments include all grants made to nonprofit organizations from the HP Company and the Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation, plus the valuation of employee volunteer hours. Data excludes contributions to the Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation and employee donations but includes HP’s matching contributions and contributions from the Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation to other organizations. Prior to 2010, HP did not report contributions from the Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation to other organizations as a part of these data. All years represented in this chart have been updated to reflect these contributions. Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. 2 Product donations are valued at the Internet list price. This is the price a customer would have paid to purchase the equipment through the HP direct sales channel on the Internet at the time the grant was processed. Beginning in 2010, services include the valuation of HP employee volunteer hours. Valuation rates are based on CECP standards. The numbers in 2012 and 2013 are considerably higher than past years due to increased employee programs and more complete volunteer hour data. 3 In FY12, HP recorded a pre-tax net loss, therefore a percentage of pre-tax profits cannot be calculated for that year. 4 Figures reflect the cash donations pledged by HP employees and the respective match from the Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation in each fiscal year. Variances to actuals can occur based on attrition. Fiscal year totals also vary based on the payment cycle completing after the fiscal year end. Does not reflect donations made to disaster relief efforts. 5 Product donations are valued at the Internet list price. This is the price a customer would have paid to purchase the equipment through the HP direct sales channel on the Internet at the time the grant was processed. Contents Governance Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress Environmental sustainability Products and solutions Product return and recycling HP operations Supply chain environmental impact About this report Environmental Progress Making the environment stronger as we grow 75 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Living Example: HP Earth Insights Contents Governance Human Progress Using HP technology to protect threatened species Economic Progress Environmental Progress Environmental HP created a unique early warning system for threatened species using the sustainability Products and solutions power of big data solutions, in collaboration with the nonprofit Product return and Conservation International (CI). recycling HP operations Supply chain environmental impact About this report A camera trap is installed to collect wildlife images and data for HP Earth Insights, Tanzania. Photo © Benjamin Drummond Problem Impact • Tropical forest loss is jeopardizing biodiversity and the Human Progress: Faster data insights enable health of vital ecosystems that we depend on for envibetter decision making for the 1.6 billion ronmental services and human health. people who rely on tropical forests for their livelihoods and protection of our planet’s vital • Conservation scientists collect data to track the health life-support systems, where 40% of the of the world’s most at-risk species and ecosystems. Earth’s oxygen is generated. • Data accuracy and the speed of analysis is a challenge. Historically, scientists have had to travel to remote regions Economic Progress: HP Earth Insights uses HP to collect data and study species in person. technology to process massive amounts of complex data and deliver near real-time analytics. Vision This is the same big data technology companies • Use the power of big data solutions to collect data and and organizations anywhere can use to gain deliver insights about biodiversity loss in our tropical critical insights to fuel their business growth. forests, enabling better decision making to protect people, species, habitats, and economies. Environmental Progress: HP Earth Insights’ first-of-its-kind early warning system for conserSolution vation efforts empowers proactive responses to • HP engineers partnered with scientists at CI to develop environmental threats as they emerge. HP Earth Insights, which uses HP hardware and software to store and analyze environmental data on the biodiversity of these regions. • HP Earth Insights uses big data to provide scientists an early warning system for threatened species, generating information and near real-time analytics that enable powerful analysis about species trends and tropical forest health. Click here to learn more. 76 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Governance Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress • Environmental sustainability Products and solutions Product return and recycling HP operations Environmental sustainability Supply chain environmental impact About this report With more than seven billion people seeking greater (GHG) emissions. Consumers and business customers use prosperity worldwide, balancing economic growth with our free online Carbon Footprint Calculator to compare environmental sustainability calls for innovation and leadproducts and identify steps to reduce the environmental ership. HP is responding to this challenge by improving impact of computing and printing. the efficiency of our products and solutions, as well as our supply chain and operations. By combining the experWorking with suppliers and other companies, we also tise of our people, our innovative technology portfolio, continue to improve our product return and recycling proand collaborative partnerships, we create solutions that grams. Through these efforts, we expand the number of reduce environmental impact and expand opportunities. take-back locations, reduce waste, and capture value from used technology products. In 2013, we recovered 134,500 We are working with our customers, suppliers, and other tonnes of computer hardware (for reuse and recycling) and stakeholders to create solutions that streamline and supplies (for recycling) globally. replace resource-intensive processes. We will move our business forward while helping people prosper and Learn more in Products and solutions on page 86 and companies thrive by reducing the environmental footprint Product return and recycling on page 108. across our value chain—in our products and solutions, throughout our supply chain, and within our operations. Supply chain Products and solutions Our supply chain is a major contributor to HP’s overall environmental impact, representing 34% of the company’s Use of the products and solutions we sell accounts for carbon footprint and 18% of our water footprint. We work 61% of our overall carbon footprint and 77% of our water with suppliers to better understand and improve their footprint. This represents one of our biggest opportunities environmental performance, from raw materials sourcing to improve HP’s and our customers’ environmental perto product manufacture and shipping. In 2013, we became formance. To capitalize on this, HP develops information the first major IT company to set a supply chain GHG emistechnology (IT) innovations that help solve environmental sions reduction goal. In this report, we also disclose data challenges and disconnect growth in our industry from for the first time on supply chain waste generation. increased environmental impact. We assess the carbon footprint and other impacts of our products and soluLearn more in Supply chain environmental impact on tions and work to improve environmental performance page 127. across the product life cycle. We draw insights from life cycle assessment and research and development tools to inform product design. We continually develop innovations Operations in energy efficiency and materials use across our portfolio. The environmental impacts from our own global operations HP enables customers to operate their IT systems more represent just 5% of our carbon footprint and 5% of our effectively, supporting both business and environmental water footprint. However, we are committed to reducing goals. For example, our ProLiant Gen8 and Moonshot servimpacts from our operations whenever possible. ers offer increased processing power using less energy and space, reducing the environmental footprint of large-scale We deploy HP technologies and implement other innocomputing. Our Smart Meter Managed Service supports vative initiatives to reduce our facilities’ environmental smart meter programs for customers around the world, footprint and drive sustainable growth. Our focus areas contributing to improved consumer and business energy include decreasing energy consumption and related management, and reductions in related greenhouse gas GHG emissions, and reducing our use of water and other 77 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents natural resources. These initiatives improve our environpaper used by customers in our products also consumes Governance mental performance while also saving money. In 2013, significant quantities of water. Based on these findings, for example, we installed two HP Pod 240a units (also improving product energy efficiency and helping customHuman Progress known as “EcoPODs”) at our data center in Austin, Texas, ers improve paper use are the most powerful levers we Economic Progress United States, which reduced energy consumption while have to reduce our carbon and water footprints, since Environmental Progress increasing data capacity. We also reduced our global water product use by customers accounts for 61% of HP’s carbon consumption by 10.0% compared to 2012, due in part to emissions and 77% of water use. • Environmental sustainability the completion of a number of water conservation projects. Products and solutions Learn more in HP operations on page 114. Our carbon footprint1 Product return and recycling In 2013, we updated our carbon footprint to include three Energy, climate, HP operations years of data, from 2011–2013 (see additional detail on Supply chain next page). This information continues to reveal that the environmental impact largest proportion of our GHG emissions (approximately About this report and water 61%) relates to customer use of our products. Our supply chain accounts for about 34% of total emissions, and HP operations for about 5% of total emissions. This analyThe concentration of greenhouse gases (GHGs) in our sis informs our decisions and goal-setting related to atmosphere has begun to reach dangerous and unsusenergy and GHG emissions reduction activities. In 2013, tainable levels. Driven by climate change and population our carbon footprint equaled 62,055,000 tonnes CO2e, a growth, water scarcity is also an increasingly significant reduction of 16% compared with 2012 and 21% less than challenge in many regions. HP recognizes that “business in 2011. The year-over-year decrease in GHG emissions as usual” is no longer an option. We are taking a leadership since 2011 can be primarily attributed to a combination of role in global efforts to apply the power of information changes in product shipment volumes, increased accuracy technology to the challenges posed by these issues. in our product carbon footprints,2 and improvement in the energy efficiency of our products. Our response is based on understanding environmental impacts across our value chain. In 2013, HP was the first Our carbon footprint analysis follows the guidelines of IT company to publish its carbon footprint. Building on our the Greenhouse Gas Protocol developed by the World commitment to transparency, this year we published our Resources Institute and the World Business Council for complete water footprint. Sustainable Development. Ernst & Young has reviewed certain indicators (see Independent Accountants’ Report Our analysis revealed a close relationship between energy on page 138) and we detail our methodology and use and water consumption, because power stations use assumptions in the HP carbon accounting manual. considerable amounts of water, and the manufacturing of Our carbon footprint, 2013 Supply chain Operations Products and solutions Total emissions 62,055,000 34% 5% 61% tonnes CO2e Supply chain GHG emissions Operations GHG emissions Products and solutions GHG emissions tonnes CO2e tonnes CO2e tonnes CO2e 37,800,000 18,500,000 500,000 300,000 2,000,000 1,682,800 112,200 260,000 900,000 De minimis De minimis De minimis Materials Capital goods Upstream Transport Facilities Transportation Commercial Employee Product use Product Buildings Investments extraction energy fleet air travel commuting end of life leased through production to others manufacturing 1 The GHG Protocol categorizes direct and indirect emissions into three broad scopes: Scope 1: All direct GHG emissions; Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions from consumption of purchased electricity, heat, or steam; Scope 3: Other indirect emissions, such as the extraction and production of purchased materials and fuels, transport-related activities in vehicles not owned or controlled by the reporting entity, electricity-related activities (e.g. transmission and distribution losses) not covered in Scope 2, outsourced activities, waste disposal, etc. 2 Details on calculations and methodology can be found in the HP carbon accounting manual. 78 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Supply chain Governance Greenhouse gas emissions in this phase are primarily due to raw materials use and manufacturing. Through innovative Human Progress design, HP works to decrease materials volume and impacts. We also collaborate with suppliers to improve their environmental performance, from raw materials sourcing to product manufacture and shipping. View additional data and goals Economic Progress in Supply chain environmental impact on page 127. Environmental Progress • Environmental Emissions [tonnes CO2e] Category Description sustainability 2011 2012 2013 Products and solutions Materials extraction 23,500,000 21,500,000 18,500,000 Emissions associated with all levels of our supply chain from materials Product return and through manufacturing extraction through the manufacture of HP products. recycling In addition to our work with suppliers, HP’s Design for the Environment program considers environmental impact in the design of every product HP operations and solution, from the smallest print cartridge to entire data centers. We Supply chain have set a new goal to achieve a 20% decrease in first-tier manufacturing environmental impact and product transportation-related GHG emissions intensity * by 2020, compared to 2010. About this report Learn more in Supply chain environmental impacts on page 127. Capital goods 800,000 700,000 500,000 Emissions associated with capital goods, from raw materials extraction through manufacturing and building construction. HP practices sustainable building design to decrease these impacts. In 2013, we obtained LEED® sustainable building standard certification for three sites, including our sales office in Gurgaon, India. Learn more in Sustainable building design on page 118. Upstream energy 400,000 400,000 300,000 Upstream emissions of purchased energy, from raw material extraction production up to the point of combustion, as well as transportation and distribution losses in the grid. In 2013, we increased installed capacity for self-generated renewable energy by 17.7% over 2012 levels. Learn more in Renewable energy on page 119. Transport 3,700,000 3,300,000 2,000,000 Emissions from upstream and downstream product transportation and distribution, including retail and storage. To reduce impacts, we work to maximize the efficiency of our supply chain network, shift to less energy-intensive modes of transport, and influence our logistics service providers. Learn more in Transportation greenhouse gas emissions on page 129. * To calculate Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 emissions, HP has followed the principles outlined in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. HP calculates intensity as its suppliers’ GHG emissions divided by HP’s annual revenue. This method normalizes performance based on business productivity. Ernst & Young has reviewed HP’s global Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions for the years included. 79 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Operations Governance Greenhouse gas emissions from HP operations are primarily due to facility energy use. View complete Data on page 83 Human Progress and additional information in Energy and GHG emissions on page 115. Economic Progress Emissions [tonnes CO2e] Environmental Progress Category Description 2011 2012 2013 • Environmental Facilities 1,828,400 1,741,600 1,682,800 Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions associated with energy consumption, sustainability perfluorocarbons (PFCs), and hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) in facilities under Products and solutions HP’s operational control. Product return and In 2013, we decreased these emissions by 11.6% from our 2010 baseline. recycling Learn more in Energy and GHG emissions on page 115. HP operations Transportation fleet 142,800 133,100 112,200 Emissions associated with HP-owned or leased vehicles. Supply chain In 2013, we began tracking the emissions of our European auto fleet against environmental impact the European Union’s 2015 target of 130 g CO2 per km travelled for all new cars. About this report Learn more in Travel on page 120. Commercial air travel 320,000 270,000 260,000 Emissions associated with employee business travel by commercial business aircraft. We promote digital communications such as videoconferencing as an alternative to travel when feasible and encourage less carbon-intensive forms of travel when possible. In 2013, we provided an eco-travel portal with tips for employees on alternatives to air flights. Learn more in Travel on page 120. Employee commuting 900,000 1,000,000 900,000 Emissions from employee transportation between their homes and their work sites (in vehicles not owned by HP) and teleworking. We promote programs in some locations such as ride-sharing, bike storage, and free shuttles from local public transportation to help employees reduce commuting emissions. In 2013, we launched guidelines for HP sites on how to further encourage the use of electric vehicles for commuting. Learn more in Travel on page 120. Products and solutions More than half of HP’s total carbon footprint is due to the energy our products and solutions consume during use. View complete data and goals on page 83. Emissions [tonnes CO2e] Category Description 2011 2012 2013 Product use 47,100,000 44,900,000 37,800,000 Emissions associated with energy consumption of HP products across each of our major business groups, as well as the impact of paper and print cartridges. We work to design increasingly efficient products and solutions that help customers reduce the environmental impact of their operations and personal lives. Learn more in Products and solutions on page 86. Product end of life De minimis * De minimis De minimis Emissions associated with the disposal and treatment of sold products. HP’s product return and recycling programs, which recovered 134,500 tonnes of hardware and supplies in 2013, reduce and potentially make this impact net positive. For example, through our “closed loop” recycling process, Original HP ink and LaserJet toner cartridges are reduced to raw materials that can then be used (along with recycled plastic from bottles and hangers) to make new cartridges, as well as other metal and plastic products. Learn more in Product return and recycling on page 108. Buildings leased to De minimis De minimis De minimis Emissions associated with the operation of assets leased to other entities. others Investments De minimis De minimis De minimis Emissions associated with corporate investments in business intelligence solutions, HP Labs, software, and certain business incubation projects. * De minimis values are less than 0.25% of total Scope 3 emissions. 80 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Our water footprint The second major factor is the manufacturing of paper used by customers in our products, 21% of the total. The Governance HP published its comprehensive water footprint across information technology (IT) industry is not a traditionally Human Progress water-intensive industry, so this agricultural component of our entire value chain for the first time in 2014 (see below). Economic Progress This demonstrates our commitment to transparency and HP’s value chain represents a substantial amount of total Environmental Progress builds on publishing our first complete carbon footprint water consumption and presents additional opportunities last year. Our water footprint will be an important catalyst for water conservation. The next largest factor (13% of the • Environmental sustainability for HP as we investigate ways to continue improving the total) is the generation of electricity used by our suppliers. efficiency of our products, supply chain, and operations— Helping our suppliers decrease their energy use and also Products and solutions using water efficiently in our own operations are central to as well as the efficiency of our customers and suppliers. Product return and our approach. recycling This effort demonstrated that electricity consumption HP operations is the largest driver of our overall value chain water Learn more about water use in HP operations on page Supply chain use—72% of the total—because power generation 114 and in our Supply chain environmental impact on environmental impact consumes significant amounts of water. The bulk of that page 127. About this report amount—56% of the overall total—is associated with the generation of electricity for our customers’ use of our Ernst & Young has reviewed our water footprint 2012 (see products. This illustrates the close connection between Independent Accountants’ Report on page 138), and we energy, climate, and water consumption, and reinforces detail our methodology and assumptions in the HP water the importance of improving product energy efficiency. accounting manual. Our water footprint, 2012 Total water Supply chain Operations Products and solutions consumption 18% 5% 77% 504,650,000 cubic meters Supply chain consumption Operations consumption Products and solutions consumption cubic meters cubic meters cubic meters 280,846,000 108,378,000 64,343,000 24,599,000 17,991,000 8,493,000 Direct consumption Indirect consumption Direct consumption Indirect consumption Indirect consumption— Indirect consumption— electricity for product use paper use 81 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Supply chain Governance Our supply chain accounts for about 18% of HP’s water footprint. HP promotes responsible water consumption and disHuman Progress charge among its suppliers, and provides tools to help them improve their water management practices. Economic Progress Category Cubic meters Description Environmental Progress Direct consumption 24,599,000 Water consumed by our suppliers in their operations. HP started reporting on water withdrawal by our first-tier production suppliers in 2012 (for the year • Environmental 2011).* We encourage suppliers to track and share their water impact and work with suppliers to improve sustainability the accuracy of their water data reporting. Products and solutions Learn more in Supply chain environmental impact on page 127. Product return and Indirect consumption 64,343,000 Water consumption associated with the generation of electricity used by suppliers. recycling HP collaborates with several partners to promote energy efficiency among its suppliers through the HP HP operations Energy Efficiency Program (EEP). Since 2010, we’ve helped supplier sites in China and Southeast Asia save Supply chain 66 million kWh of electricity. environmental impact Learn more in Supply chain environmental impact on page 127. About this report * This metric reports the amount of water consumed by HP’s multi-tier supply chain, and not the amount withdrawn by first-tier suppliers as reported in Supply chain environmental impact on page 127. Because water withdrawn can also be returned, water consumption is inherently lower. Operations HP’s operations are not water intensive and represent just 5% of our water footprint. However, we recognize that water availability is a growing concern globally, and we are committed to reducing our water use, especially at operations in water-stressed regions. Category Cubic meters Description Direct consumption 8,493,000 Water consumed in our own operations, primarily for uses such as sinks, toilets, and irrigation as well as manufacturing support activities. We have implemented water conservation projects in support of our 2015 goal to reduce freshwater use at water-stressed sites by 3% from 2011 levels. We met this goal two years early and finished 2013 with an 8.8% reduction compared to 2011. In 2013, we reduced total water consumed in HP operations by 10.0%, compared with 2012. Learn more in Water on page 122. Indirect consumption 17,991,000 Consumption associated with the generation of electricity used in our own operations. Improving energy efficiency in HP’s operations is the most effective way to reduce the company’s indirect water consumption from operations. In 2013, our operations consumed 4.5% less electricity than in our baseline year 2010. Learn more in Energy efficiency on page 117. Products and solutions Water consumption associated with the use-phase of HP’s products accounts for 77% of HP’s total water footprint. This water is indirectly consumed through the production of electricity and the manufacturing of paper consumed during the use of our products. Therefore, improving our product energy efficiency and helping customers improve paper use are the main levers we have to improve performance in this area. Category Cubic meters Description Indirect consump280,846,000 Consumption associated with the generation of electricity used by HP products. tion—electricity for Between 2005 and 2010, we reduced product energy consumption by 50%*, and we continue to advance product use energy efficiency across our product portfolio. Learn more in Energy efficiency on page 94. Indirect consump108,378,000 Consumption associated with the manufacturing of paper used by our customers with our products. tion—paper use We encourage customers to use responsibly sourced and certified paper, to use it efficiently—such as through duplex printing—and to recycle after use. Our goal is for 50% of HP-branded paper worldwide by tonnage to be FSC®-certified and/or contain at least 30% postconsumer content by the end of 2015. We are on track to meet this goal. Learn more in Paper on page 103. * The average energy consumption of HP products was estimated annually between 2005 and 2010 using high-volume product lines representative of the overall shipped product volume. The high-volume product lines include notebook and desktop computers, inkjet and HP LaserJet printers, and industry-standard servers. 82 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Progress in 2013 • Participating in WWF’s Climate Savers program has helped HP set aggressive GHG emissions-reduction Governance We are reducing our carbon and water impacts across the targets for our company, including the industry’s first Human Progress supply chain GHG emissions-reduction goal. value chain by: Economic Progress • We also work with WWF to refine our climate change Environmental Progress • Helping companies in our supply chain improve their policies and to advocate for governmental policies to energy efficiency • Environmental curb climate change. In 2013, we shared our experisustainability • Introducing measures to decrease energy use and ence of buying renewable energy with other large Products and solutions conserve water in our own operations businesses at a WWF-led Renewable Energy Buyers • Investing in innovative, energy-efficient products and Day workshop in Washington D.C. (See Advocating for Product return and enabling customers to improve their paper use renewables on page 119). recycling HP operations • HP is a signatory to the 2°C Challenge Communiqué, In 2013, we expanded our work with suppliers to help which calls for intergovernmental measures to stabilize Supply chain reduce their GHG emissions. During the year, HP became global average surface temperatures at a maximum of environmental impact the first IT company to publish a global supply chain 2° Celsius above preindustrial levels. During 2013, we About this report GHG emissions-reduction goal. Our target is to achieve presented to the U.S. government’s energy committee, a 20% decrease in first-tier manufacturing and product urging a stronger approach on climate change. transportation-related GHG emissions intensity3 by 2020, • We joined with five other Climate Savers partners to compared with 2010. Learn more in Supply chain announce new 2.0 targets and magnifiers to address environmental impact on page 127. climate protection at the Climate Savers Power of Power Business Summit in Mexico City, hosted by WWF in We also updated our Climate Change Policy during 2013. October 2013. At the Summit, HP received an award for The revised policy clearly outlines how we prioritize delivering on the targets set in its first Climate Savers investments to decrease GHG emissions, with energy commitment period. efficiency as the most impactful approach. HP’s actions to reduce GHG emissions and mitigate the risks Employee of climate change have been recognized by CDP, the world’s only global environmental disclosure system.4 In 2013, HP’s disclosure score was 99/100, and our performance was in the “A” band. HP was included in the CDP Global and S&P 500 Performance and Disclosure Leadership Indexes (CPLI engagement and CDLI). We were also named one of the top 12 companies in the CDP Global 500 Climate Change Report 2013, an Around the world, HP creates opportunities for employees annual update on GHG emissions data and climate change to learn about, demonstrate, and share beneficial environstrategies at the world’s largest public companies. mental practices. Our employees apply these insights to help customers and other businesses adopt more sustainable practices, improving the customer experience and increasing sales of HP products. Key programs include: “Through the development of next-generation • HP Sustainability Network, one of HP’s largest employee products and services, such as the Moonshot volunteer groups with more than 3,000 members server, HP is transforming its business practices worldwide. This year, we formed seven new chapters, and looking beyond its corporate boundaries to bringing the global total to 40. help others realize emissions reductions.” • HP Planet Partners Education Program, a worldwide environmental education and volunteering initiative, launched this year, which educates employees on HP — Tom Carnac, President, CDP North America programs for product take-back. • Eco Advocates Program, which provides tools and information to share with customers looking to reduce Collaboration their environmental footprint. In 2013, we expanded the program to include Asia and Europe and educated more HP collaborates with industry groups and nonprofit than 1,500 HP employees. organizations to further our own efforts to reduce GHG emissions and to advocate for more urgent governmental • WWF’s Living Planet @ Work program, which is champiaction on climate change. For example: oned by HP and offers free tools and resources to more than 600 businesses on how to engage their employees • In 2013, we cofounded Future of Internet Power, a coalion environmental sustainability. This year, we increased tion of leading technology companies that will share our commitment and sponsored Living Planet @ Work’s efficiency best practices and develop a platform for supSmart Office Challenge, which educated workers at plying low-carbon, sustainable power to data centers in member companies about how to reduce the environcollaboration with utility companies and policy makers. mental impacts of IT in their workplaces. 3 HP calculates intensity as its suppliers’ GHG emissions divided by HP’s annual revenue. This method normalizes performance based on business productivity. 4 As of April 2014. 83 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Data Contents Governance Human Progress Carbon footprint (Scopes 1–3, including from operations)1 2010 2011 2012 2013 Economic Progress GHG emissions from operations2 [tonnes CO2e] 2,027,700 1,971,200 1,874,700 1,795,000 Environmental Progress Americas 1,205,100 1,170,300 1,079,800 1,033,800 • Environmental sustainability Europe, Middle East, and Africa 354,800 282,500 264,700 255,500 Products and solutions Asia Pacific and Japan 467,800 518,400 530,200 505,700 Product return and GHG emissions intensity 3 [tonnes CO e/$ million of net revenue] 16.1 15.5 15.6 16.0 recycling 2 GHG emissions by scope [tonnes CO2e] HP operations Supply chain Scope 1 environmental impact Scope 1 emissions, by region [tonnes CO2e] 327,700 310,400 247,300 207,900 About this report Americas 193,000 184,600 144,800 122,300 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 104,800 102,600 84,100 74,300 Asia Pacific and Japan 29,900 23,200 18,400 11,300 Scope 1 emissions, by type Natural gas [tonnes CO2e] 86,200 77,600 64,500 63,400 Americas 51,400 45,400 36,800 35,500 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 33,300 30,800 26,100 26,000 Asia Pacific and Japan 1,500 1,400 1,600 1,900 Diesel/gas/oil [tonnes CO2e] 16,100 7,300 8,600 6,900 Americas 3,200 1,400 2,400 2,400 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 1,000 900 600 1,200 Asia Pacific and Japan 11,900 5,000 5,600 3,300 Transportation fleet [tonnes CO2e] 144,800 142,800 133,100 112,200 Americas 80,300 77,200 78,900 69,600 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 63,700 61,700 51,100 41,500 Asia Pacific and Japan 800 3,900 3,100 1,100 Refrigerants (hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs)) [tonnes CO2e] 77,000 75,200 37,500 21,100 Americas 54,500 53,100 23,100 10,500 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 6,800 9,200 6,300 5,600 Asia Pacific and Japan 15,700 12,900 8,100 5,000 Perfluorocarbons (PFCs)4 [tonnes CO 2 e] 3,600 7,500 3,600 4,300 Americas 3,600 7,500 3,600 4,300 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 0 0 0 Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 0 0 Scope 2 Scope 2 emissions, by region [tonnes CO2e] 1,700,000 1,660,800 1,627,400 1,587,100 Americas 1,012,100 985,700 935,000 911,500 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 250,000 179,900 180,600 181,200 Asia Pacific and Japan 437,900 495,200 511,800 494,400 Scope 2 emissions, by type 1,700,000 1,660,800 1,627,400 1,587,100 Purchased electricity for operations [tonnes CO2e] 1,906,700 1,932,400 1,921,300 1,878,000 continued 84 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Carbon footprint (Scopes 1–3, including from operations)1 2010 2011 2012 2013 Governance Americas 1,078,400 1,065,600 1,031,000 1,001,400 Human Progress Europe, Middle East, and Africa 391,100 377,500 382,600 385,700 Economic Progress Asia Pacific and Japan 437,200 489,300 507,700 490,900 Environmental Progress District cooling (purchased) for operations 2 [tonnes CO 2 e] 700 5,900 4,100 3,500 • Environmental sustainability Americas 0 0 0 0 Products and solutions Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 0 0 0 Product return and Asia Pacific and Japan 700 5,900 4,100 3,500 recycling Reductions from voluntary purchases of renewable energy and -152,800 -229,100 -247,300 -245,900 HP operations renewable energy credits [tonnes CO2e] Supply chain Americas -66,300 -79,900 -96,000 -89,900 environmental impact Europe, Middle East, and Africa -86,500 -149,200 -151,300 -156,000 About this report Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 0 0 Reductions from voluntary upgrades to other no/low-carbon energy -54,600 -48,400 -50,700 -48,500 sources (such as large hydro) [tonnes CO2e] Americas 0 0 0 0 Europe, Middle East, and Africa -54,600 -48,400 -50,700 -48,500 Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 0 0 Scope 3 [tonnes CO2e] 76,720,000 72,070,000 60,260,000 Materials extraction through manufacturing (Scope 3, category 1; also see 23,500,000 21,500,000 18,500,000 Supply chain GHG emissions on page 127) [tonnes CO2e] Capital goods (Scope 3, category 2) [tonnes CO2e] 800,000 700,000 500,000 Upstream energy production (Scope 3, category 3) [tonnes CO2e] 400,000 400,000 300,000 Transport (Scope 3, categories 4 and 9; also see Transportation GHG emis3,700,000 3,300,000 2,000,000 sions on page 129) [tonnes CO2e] Waste generated in operations (Scope 3, category 5) [tonnes CO2e] De minimis5 De minimis De minimis Commercial air travel (Scope 3, category 6) 6 [tonnes CO2e] 304,000 320,000 270,000 260,000 Employee commuting (Scope 3, category 7) [tonnes CO2e] 900,000 1,000,000 900,000 Upstream leased assets (Scope 3, category 8) [tonnes CO2e] 07 0 0 Processing of sold products (Scope 3, category 10) [tonnes CO2e] De minimis De minimis De minimis Product use (Scope 3, category 11) [tonnes CO2e] 47,100,000 44,900,000 37,800,000 Product end of life (Scope 3, category 12) [tonnes CO2e] De minimis De minimis De minimis Buildings leased to others (Scope 3, category 13) [tonnes CO2e] De minimis De minimis De minimis Franchises (Scope 3, category 14) [tonnes CO2e] Not Not Not applicable applicable applicable Investments (Scope 3, category 15) [tonnes CO2e] De minimis De minimis De minimis 1 To calculate Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 emissions, HP has followed the principles outlined in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Ernst & Young has reviewed HP’s global Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions for the years included. Additional details on calculations and methodology can be found in the HP carbon accounting manual. 2 Total includes HP’s reported values for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in table. Some of the values in this table have changed for previous fiscal years for three reasons: • The use of district cooling at the Malaysia Cyberjaya site was identified in FY13 and tracked retroactively to 2010 • Revised U.S. eGrid emissions factors with year 2010 data from ninth edition, published February 2014 • Revised Australia emissions factors using NGER Technical Guidelines, reporting year 2013–14, published July 2013 3 Historical emissions-intensity values were calculated using HP’s annual revenue as characterized in financial reporting and Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. 4 Use of updated industry standard emissions factors for process tools resulted in a considerable increase in estimated emissions in 2011. Estimated emissions decreased in 2012 due to changes in process activity. These data are based on the calendar year. 5 De minimis values are less than 0.25% of total Scope 3 emissions. 6 Values were provided by HP’s global travel agency, which factors the type of aircraft, passenger and cargo load, cabin class, and miles traveled for each ticketed trip. 7 All facilities accounted for in Scope 1 and 2. 85 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Water footprint 2010 2011 2012 2013 Governance HP water footprint [cubic meters] 504,650,000 Human Progress Water consumed by HP suppliers in their operations * [cubic meters] 24,599,000 Economic Progress Water consumption associated with the generation of electricity used 64,343,000 Environmental Progress by HP suppliers [cubic meters] • Environmental Water consumption in HP operations [cubic meters] 8,493,000 sustainability Water consumption associated with the generation of electricity used 17,991,000 Products and solutions in HP operations [cubic meters] Product return and Water consumption associated with the generation of electricity used 280,846,000 recycling by HP products [cubic meters] HP operations Water consumption associated with the manufacturing of paper used 108,378,000 Supply chain by HP customers with HP products [cubic meters] environmental impact * This metric reports the amount of water consumed by HP’s multi-tier supply chain, and not the amount withdrawn by first-tier suppliers as reported in Supply chain About this report environmental impact on page 127. Because water withdrawn can also be returned, water consumption is inherently lower. 86 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Governance Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress Environmental sustainability • Products and solutions Product return and recycling HP operations Supply chain environmental impact About this report HP Moonshot System Products and solutions Exponential growth in computing and data is changing Solutions for thefor New theStyle of ITof IT 10 [set2] 7. Solutions New Style how society and business function. More data is created every two days than in all of human history up to 2003. Access to unprecedented amounts of data has many Services human, economic, and environmental benefits. But the million growing amount of energy and material needed to store, process, secure, and use data is simply not sustainable. Advise Transform Manage Finance Square feet of data The information and communications technology induscenter space saved if try’s share of total greenhouse gas emissions is projected all new servers in the to increase from 1.9% in 2011 to 2.3% in 2020.1 Business next three years were as usual is not an option. HP Moonshot servers— equivalent to more than Printing and Converged Software HP offers solutions for the New Style of IT that helps Personal Systems Infrastructure Performance 173 U.S. football fields1 customers manage this explosion of data and capitalize Printers, PCs, tablets Servers, storage, Suites on the opportunities it presents while reducing related networking IT, legal/compliance, 1 Based on the expansion of cloud and environmental impacts. With one of the industry’s broadand marketing, security web services over the next three years requiring an estimated eight to est technology portfolios, HP continually works to improve 10 million new servers. environmental performance across the life cycle of our products and solutions—from single-user, personal computing devices and printers to enterprise servers, storage and networking equipment, and entire data centers. Through this company-wide effort, we are transforming the environmental footprint of information technology (IT) Cloud Security Mobility Big Data while meeting our customers’ needs. This section describes HP’s approach to designing products and services with the environment in mind. Our advances draw on insights from life cycle assessment, carbon and water footprinting, and other analyses, and build on HP’s long-standing strengths in research and development. To illustrate progress, we also highlight numerous examples of innovation across the products and solutions we sell. 1 According to GeSI SMARTer 2020: The Role of ICT in Driving a Sustainable Future, pages 11, 18. 87 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Design for the Our approach Contents Governance Environment Human Progress In 1992, HP adopted a pioneering company-wide Design for the Environment program that considers environmenEconomic Progress tal impact in the design of every product and solution, Environmental Progress from the smallest ink cartridge to entire data centers. Over Environmental innovation across our portfolio begins with Environmental the past 20-plus years, this program has led to numerous design. This maximizes our efforts, since most of the envisustainability innovations, including those highlighted in this report. ronmental impact of a product or solution is determined • Products and solutions by decisions made during that stage of development. Through this program, we prioritize the following Product return and considerations: recycling The vast majority of HP’s environmental footprint occurs 2 HP operations in our supply chain—34% of total greenhouse gas (GHG) • Energy efficiency Reduce the energy needed to manuemissions and 18% of overall water consumption—and facture and use our products Supply chain when customers use HP products and solutions (61% of environmental impact • Materials innovation Decrease the amount of materitotal GHG emissions and 77% of overall water consumpAbout this report als used in our products, and use materials with lower tion). Supply chain impacts are largely due to materials environmental impact processing, energy use during manufacturing, and water consumption associated with power generation. Impacts • Design for recyclability Design equipment that has during product use are mostly from energy consumption, more value at end-of-life and that is easier to upgrade associated water use, and paper manufacturing. and/or recycle 566 The scale of these impacts is determined largely by product design decisions, such as the amount and type of materials to use and inclusion of features that impact We apply a consistent framework to integrate these environmental considerations across our entire portfolio. million energy efficiency. As a result, product design is by far the single greatest lever available to improve our overall envi[set2] 2. Designing for the environment Designing for the environment Number of ink and toner ronmental performance, and it is a key focus for HP. cartridges kept out of HP initiatives landfill through our See more details about HP’s carbon footprint and water “closed loop” plastic footprint on page 77. recycling programs1 Designing more sustainable products also enables us to Eco-label certifications 1 Based on internal HP data meet increasing customer requirements in this area, helpContinuous ing customers reduce energy costs and improve their own improvement environmental performance. More broadly, environmental General Specification product innovation contributes to the “circular economy” for the Environment through increasing use of recyclable and recycled materials. Product environmental See extensive examples of product and solutions innovamanagement system tion in the following sections: 25% • Servers, storage, and networking on page 96 • Data centers on page 98 The foundation of our Design for the Environment • Services and software on page 99 program is a comprehensive product environmental CO2e emissions management system. Based on the ISO 14001 framework, reduction achieved with • Personal systems on page 101 this foundation guides our design teams and more than 50 innovative straw-based • Printing on page 101 environmental product stewards on a path of continuous packaging, compared to improvement. It includes the evaluation of environmental traditional paper-based • Paper on page 103 aspects and impacts of all HP products, as well as the pulp cushions1 • Packaging on page 105 identification of legal and other requirements such as public procurement specifications. The process also involves 1 These savings arise during the self-assessments and internal audits of product design pulping process. and compliance activities, as well as benchmarking against best practices from outside HP. We communicate materials, packaging, and other requirements that apply to all HP brand products in our General Specification for the Environment. We also design a large 2 In this context, environmental footprint refers to HP’s carbon and water footprints. 88 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents percentage of our products to qualify for voluntary thirdparty eco-label certifications, such as ENERGY STAR® and Eco-labels Governance EPEAT®. In addition, HP business groups opt to define addiHP is committed to meeting customer demand for Human Progress tional environmental specifications for certain products, products that qualify for voluntary eco-labels and to Economic Progress such as the ongoing phase-out of brominated flame retaraddressing other green procurement guidelines. In 2013, Environmental Progress dants (BFRs) and polyvinyl chloride (PVC) from personal we directly engaged with customers who had green procomputing products (see Materials for more detail). curement requirements in relation to approximately $20 Environmental sustainability billion of existing and potential business revenue. We communicate the environmental specifications of our prod• Products and solutions ucts to our customers through a range of eco declarations. We have a large number of eco-label product registrations Product return and worldwide that span our portfolio, including personal sysrecycling tems; printers; servers, storage and networking products; HP operations ISO certification of design and entire data centers. See a full list of ENERGY STAR® Supply chain processes and eco-label registered products. environmental impact About this report In 2013, HP’s LaserJet Enterprise Solutions product group HP is also a leader in ENERGY STAR®, EPEAT®, and ECMAjoined our Personal Systems product group in achieving 370 standards development. See Energy efficiency for ISO 14001 certification for product design and developmore detail on our ongoing collaboration with the U.S. ment operations. ISO 14001 defines the framework for an Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) on ENERGY STAR® environmental management system (EMS) that supports requirements. 60% continuous improvement. HP excels in EPEAT®-registered products This is an uncommon application of the certification, which EPEAT® is a global registry that helps organizations and Reduction in power is normally sought for facilities and operations (see HP individuals identify electronic equipment with lower enviconsumption with operations). It demonstrates that our entire design process ronmental impacts. It includes criteria such as design for HP’s software-defined across these two product groups adheres to rigorous EMS end of life, energy conservation, and material selection. storage solutions criteria, which in turn helps to create products with lower Products are registered as Bronze, Silver, or Gold based on compared to dedicated environmental impacts that benefit our customers. the number of required and optional criteria met. storage appliances As of March 2014, 61% of all HP personal computing Product longevity products are registered as EPEAT® Gold (U.S. registry). This includes 87% of commercial computing products and 91% Obsolescence in information technology (IT) products is of commercial display products. an important issue to stakeholders and has environmental implications. We improve product longevity across The recently implemented EPEAT® IEEE 1680.2 standard our portfolio using measures such as support services added printers, copiers, and other imaging equipment to (through warranties, repair and service manuals, and care the registry system. This new standard sets challenging packs), spare part guarantees for commercial customers, goals for environmental performance in categories such and upgrading product components or software. We also as reduction or elimination of sensitive materials, energy work to ensure the reliability of all our products through consumption, and indoor air quality. HP has more than rigorous product testing, for example, using the HP Total 100 EPEAT®-registered printing and imaging products Test Process. Once products reach the end of life, we in the United States, more than any other company as of provide customers with a range of options for responsible December 2013. Every registered product has met the return and recycling. 33 required criteria, and more than 70% of our products registered in the United States have achieved Silver level by meeting more than half of the optional criteria. To view HP products on the EPEAT® registry, visit: www.epeat.net. Design for accessibility We strive to create products, solutions, and online materiTelecommunications Relay Service, Video Relay Service, and als that are accessible to everyone, including people with Web-Captioned Telephone Service to help users who are disabilities and seniors with age-related limitations. Our deaf or hard of hearing. We also participate in the developproduct design teams explore ways to enhance usability, ment of worldwide standards and policies through indusproductivity, user comfort, and accessibility. Examples of try and government efforts to improve the accessibility of accessibility features on HP products include buttons ideninformation and technology for people with disabilities. tifiable by touch, ports and switches positioned within easy reach, and large adjustable displays. Our customer supSee the HP Accessibility and Aging website for more port programs incorporate assistive technologies such as information and examples. 89 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Life cycle Contents In addition, we developed a tool to compile and compare Governance LCAs across our inkjet and LaserJet product groups. Using this data, we can better assess the effectiveness of current Human Progress Economic Progress assessment product environmental design efforts and identify further opportunities for innovation. For example, although we Environmental Progress have reduced power requirements per printed page for HP uses life cycle assessment (LCA) to better understand laser printers overall, our LCA analysis shows that effect Environmental the environmental aspects and impacts of our products sustainability has been more pronounced for high-end machines. and solutions, from the sourcing of raw materials to reuse, • Products and solutions recycling, or disposal at end of life. These assessments Product return and complement our work analyzing HP’s carbon footprint and Representative carbon footprint for an HP LaserJet recycling water footprint. See details on page 77. printer * HP operations Carbon footprint = approximately 16.2 tonnes CO2e LCA informs a number of important processes within HP, Supply chain providing insights that we use to: environmental impact About this report • Assess our current materials, packaging, and products; model alternatives; and target areas for improvement • Determine which processes, components, and materials have the greatest environmental impact and prioritize them for analysis, with the goal of reducing those impacts • Develop metrics to help product designers compare the environmental impact of design options • Support Design for Recycling initiatives HP follows ISO 14040/14044 and ISO 14025, which define universal standards for LCA methodology. We also use product carbon footprints (PCFs) to determine the impacts of our products in terms of greenhouse gas emissions. Undertaking LCAs and PCFs for individual products contributes to our understanding of HP’s overall environmental impact, including our water and carbon footprints. It also sheds light on opportunities for improvements across our supply chain. Manufacturing 3.7% Transportation 0.2% Progress in 2013 Packaging 0.03% HP undertakes PCFs at the new product introduction stage for all HP monitors, desktops, and notebooks. Products Use 96.3% covered by this process made up 89% of HP’s personal systems revenues and 38% of the company’s overall prodEnergy 8.1% uct revenues in 2013.3 Cartridges and fuser 11.2% During the year, we completed 17 new LCAs, including for two inkjet printers, nine LaserJet printers, four ScanJet Paper 77.0% scanners, and HP’s Instant Ink program in the European Union. We also conducted a comparative LCA of HP’s origiEnd of life -0.2% nal LaserJet cartridges with remanufactured cartridges in Latin America. In total, we have completed full LCAs for * This chart shows the relative carbon impact of the different life cycle phases of the HP LaserJet Enterprise M4555fskm MFP, a high capacity monochrome products representing 96% of HP’s printing portfolio revprinter. The paper calculation assumes an industry average of 4% recycled enues and 31% of HP’s overall product revenues for 2013.3 paper in the manufacturing stream. Paper makes up a greater proportion of the life cycle impacts for this printer than would be the case for lower capacity printers. For more information about how HP is working to reduce the life cycle impacts of paper, see Paper. For more information on the life cycle impacts of this product, see the full Environmental Product Declaration. 3 Percentages are in terms of HP product revenue for Printing and Personal Systems Group and Enterprise Group, excluding Technology Services. The segments included accounted for approximately $75 billion in revenue in fiscal year 2013. 90 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Representative carbon footprint for an HP 14” commercial notebook* Governance Carbon footprint = approximately 300 kg CO2e Human Progress Economic Progress Manufacturing Environmental Progress Display 23% Environmental sustainability Mainboard and other boards 22% • Products and solutions Product return and Chassis 7% recycling HP operations Power supply 7% Supply chain environmental impact Battery 4% About this report Hard drive 4% Optical drive 1% Packaging 1% Transportation 9% Use 21% End of life 1% * This calculation was done using the Product Attribute to Impact Algorithm (PAIA) methodology. PAIA estimates the carbon footprint of notebook products, including uncertainty of the result. Uncertainty is included in order to provide our customers with greater transparency in estimation results. Uncertainty in product carbon footprinting stems from differences in the data, assumptions, and methodology used. Since uncertainty can be quite large, results should not be compared with that of other products. The PAIA tool is not released for use by the public; results above are based on a draft version of this tool and are subject to change as the tool is updated. Collaboration (including HP), suppliers, government organizations, and NGOs. PAIA provides an effective and universal carbon We collaborate with other industry leaders, academia, footprint methodology for information technology, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), and governments covering the impacts of the different life cycle phases to develop standardized LCA and PCF methodologies and and product components. Tools have been completed for to promote and share best practices. notebooks, desktops, and monitors, and are under development for tablets and personal system all-in-ones. Obtaining accurate, up-to-date data for carbon footprint calculations is a challenge due to a lack of consistent HP also collaborated with industry partners to publish collection methodologies and data gaps. We are leading a Product Category Rule (PCR) for high-temperature an initiative through the Electronic Industry Citizenship office printers (laser and solid ink). A PCR streamlines the Coalition to develop a consistent, industry-wide process evaluation process of product environmental impacts and for collecting and reporting productor component-spehelps to ensure consistent data reporting and analysis. We cific data from suppliers. also published a representative Environmental Product Declaration (EPD)—a report that documents a product’s The Product Attribute to Impact Algorithm (PAIA) was conenvironmental impacts across the life cycle. We plan to ceived through a multi-stakeholder collaboration between publish more EPDs for printers in 2014. the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, manufacturers 91 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Materials Using less material Contents Governance Human Progress HP applies innovations in technology and design to use HP evaluates environmental impacts across the life cycle materials more efficiently in our products. We first reported Economic Progress when selecting materials for use in our products. Our the estimated weight of materials used in our high-volume Environmental Progress supply chain accounts for 34% of HP’s carbon footprint, products in our 2012 Global Citizenship Report. In 2013, Environmental largely as a result of materials extraction and manufacturmaterials use compared to relevant net revenue decreased sustainability ing. Using less raw material and more recycled materials by approximately 23% for computers and by approximately reduces our overall environmental impact. While working 3% for printers, over the prior year. While there has been • Products and solutions to reduce our environmental footprint and any potena shift to thinner and lighter products—for example, our Product return and tial for human health impacts, we also strive to meet Elitebook 800 series and EliteDesk 800 G1 (see personal recycling customer requirements in areas such as weight, durability, systems)—differences in calculation methods between HP operations reliability, and cost. 2012 and 2013 make it difficult to state definitively that HP Supply chain personal systems have seen a significant decrease in mateenvironmental impact Reporting requirements and regulations around materials rials intensity as a result of this trend. Our 2013 calculation About this report use and restrictions are constantly evolving. HP complies methods are more representative of the overall personal with all relevant government regulations wherever we do systems product line, so we anticipate comparisons in business, and we extend these requirements to our prodfuture years will be more meaningful. ucts worldwide through the General Specification for the Environment, an approach we adopted for the European Union (EU) Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Estimated materials use in HP high-volume Directive. To help ensure HP meets legal requirements, as computers and printers, 2012–2013* well as our own materials standards, we follow a verifica[tonnes/$ million of net revenue] tion process. We met our voluntary objective to achieve Computers Printers worldwide compliance with the new EU RoHS require2012 2013 2012 2013 ments for virtually all relevant products by July 2013, and Metal 6.3 5.1 28.2 29.4 we will continue to extend the scope of the commitment Plastic 2.6 2.1 36.4 34.5 to include further restricted substances as regulations continue to evolve. Wires/Cables 0.9 0.9 1.3 0.6 PCAs 0.8 0.7 2.4 2.0 Our materials strategy goes beyond compliance and drives us to use less material, increase the percentage of LCDs 1.7 1.4 0.4 0.2 recycled content when possible, and replace substances of Batteries 0.3 0.2 concern with viable alternatives. We also collaborate with a range of external partners to push for higher industry Total 13 10 69 67 standards on materials use. At product end of life, we help * Estimates are based on several specific computer and printer products that our customers return items for reuse, when appropriate, are representative of the main HP product categories. Estimates for computer or recycle them responsibly when that is the best option. volumes do not include servers. Estimates for printer volumes do not include graphic arts, industrial, web press printers, or ink or toner cartridges. Data for 2012 were adjusted to correct for revenue for the represented product segments. Sourcing issues HP not only focuses on the nature of the materials we We also apply a comprehensive due diligence process to use, but also where they come from. For example, we sell attempt to ascertain the sourcing of certain materials (tin, responsibly produced papers and require suppliers to vertantalum, tungsten, and gold). For more information, see ify the origin of fiber used in HP-branded papers to ensure Conflict minerals. it is legally and responsibly sourced. All of our packaging and paper complies with our Environmentally Preferable Paper Policy. Read more about HP Paper and Packaging. 92 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Nanotechnology All of HP’s notebook products and 60% of our non-mobile Governance Nanotechnology holds long-term promise for creating product families are low halogen, as of January 31, 2014.4 electronics applications that require fewer materials and When technically feasible, we will continue to phase out broHuman Progress minated flame retardants (BFRs), polyvinyl chloride (PVC), consume less energy. For example, see HP Labs work on Economic Progress the memristor-based computer memory. As with any new and phthalates to meet market demands and customer Environmental Progress material, HP evaluates the hazard properties of nanomaexpectations. See Assessing alternatives below for more terials on a case-by-case basis to establish if there is a detail on our activities to replace substances of concern. Environmental sustainability potential for risk to human health and the environment. We also continue to engage with regulators and contribute • Products and solutions Understanding the usage and properties of nanomaterito emerging legislation on substances of concern. See als is becoming increasingly important as more of these Product return and Collaboration below for detail. materials are introduced and governments develop new recycling reporting regulations. HP operations Supply chain Assessing alternatives environmental impact Evaluating substances of concern Phasing out or replacing substances of concern relies on About this report the successful identification of viable alternatives. HP In 2013, we continued to proactively evaluate substances focuses on options that reduce the risk of human health of concern in HP products. We may restrict substances and environmental impacts, while meeting performance because of customer preferences, legal requirements, or and cost criteria. because we believe it is appropriate based on a precautionary approach. When scientific analysis reveals a Established in 2007, our alternative materials program potential impact to human health or the environment, we takes an integrated assessment approach to potential seek to replace substances of concern with commercially replacements. A key element is the GreenScreen® for Safer viable alternatives. Following the principle of informed Chemicals, developed by the nongovernmental organizasubstitution, HP carefully assesses the environmental, tion (NGO) Clean Production Action. GreenScreen provides health, and safety risks of alternatives prior to use. a framework for hazard-based screening to rule out alternatives that are of equal or greater concern than the substances they would replace. HP product proactive materials restriction/substitution timeline* HP product proactive materials restriction/substitution timeline* 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 Mercury/mercury PVC in compounds packaging Remaining uses of (except bulbs) phthalates (DEHP, BFRs in DBP, BBP, and DIBP) external Cadmium Lead in PVC cables case plastic HBCDD PVC from case plastics Lead parts Bis (2-ethylhexyl) Ozone-depleting substances Hexavalent chromium phthalate (DEHP), dibutyl Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) phthalate (DBP), and butyl DfE programs started benzyl phthalate (BBP) in Mercury in notebook products new personal computing PBB/PBDE (including DecaBDE) products Remaining uses of BFRs and PVC in new HP brand personal computing products Remaining uses of antimony Arsenic/arsenic compounds Bisphenol-A Beryllium/beryllium compounds Mercury in bulbs Nonylphenol Bisphenol-A in thermal paper Other perfluorinated chemicals Antimony trioxide in low-halogen products** Remaining uses of BFRs and PVC Antimony, chlorine in bleached paper, Remaining uses of and ortho-phthalates** certain phthalates Selenium/selenium compounds * Dates refer *** Dates refertotowhen when proactively adopted proactively adopted materials materials restrictions restrictions were were first introduced first introduced on an HPonproduct, an HP product, ahead of regulatory ahead of regulatory requirements. requirements. Materials Materials in gray Apriltext in gray text beyond 2014beyond Aprilidentified 2014 have have been been by stakeholders identified by stakeholders as potential as potential materials of concern. Futurematerials of concern. possible restriction Future of those possible materials restriction depends, in part, those ofon materials depends, the qualification in part, of acceptable alternative For aof qualification on thematerials. acceptable alternative comprehensive materials. list of HP’s materials For a restrictions, comprehensive list ofmaterials including numerous HP’s materials restrictions, restricted includingbasis by HP on a worldwide numerous in responsematerials restricted to regional by HPrefer regulations, on atoworldwide HP’s Generalbasis in response specification to regional for the regulations, refer to HP’s General Specification for environment. the Environment. *** These requirements apply only when specified by the HP Business. ** These requirements apply only when specified by the HP Business. 4 External components such as keyboards, mice, cables, and cords are not low halogen. 93 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Since the alternative materials program began, we have completed 160 assessments of materials that account Collaboration Governance for more than 80% of the weight of our products sold. HP continues to advocate for consistent materials compliHuman Progress Assessments have been completed on materials used ance standards across the industry. We provide technical Economic Progress in low-halogen power cords, alternatives to BFRs and information to support public policy efforts and wider Environmental Progress phthalate plasticizers, general plastic resins, and cleaners industry compliance, as well as promoting GreenScreen™ used in manufacturing. and HP’s integrated alternative materials assessment Environmental sustainability approach outside the company. Our partnerships with To facilitate transitions to safer materials, we share the businesses, NGOs, and governments on a global scale help • Products and solutions findings of our alternatives assessments with our supto raise supply chain standards for evaluating alternative Product return and pliers. For example, in 2013, we published procurement materials across the IT sector. recycling guides on nonphthalate plasticizers and nonhalogeHP operations nated flame retardants that go beyond restricting these In 2013, HP participated in the development of the new EU Supply chain substances by also highlighting preferable alternatives. RoHS methodology. We contributed to all three stakeenvironmental impact We shared these documents with relevant HP suppliers, holder meetings and met with the EU Commission to and they are available on our supplier portal. This enables provide direct feedback. We continue to provide inputs to About this report our suppliers to make better informed assessments of related legislation in Europe as well as China, India, Korea, the environmental impacts of potential replacements to and Vietnam. We believe the RoHS Directive and similar substances of concern. laws play an important role in promoting industry-wide elimination of substances of concern. We are advocating for the inclusion of additional substances—including PVC, Using recycled materials BFRs, and certain phthalates—in future RoHS-type legislation covering electrical and electronics products. HP’s leadership with “closed loop” plastics recycling began in 2005 with the recycled polyethylene tereIn 2013, we also worked with California’s Department of phthalate (PET) program in ink cartridges. Since then, Toxic Substances Control (DTSC) as it developed new Safer this program has manufactured more than 1.7 billion Consumer Products regulations. These regulations require ink cartridges using more than 34,000 tonnes of “closed companies to consider phasing out chemicals of concern loop” resin. In early 2014, we completed implementation and evaluate potential alternatives. HP provided detailed of a second “closed loop” process for polypropylene in ink comments on the alternatives assessment process and cartridges (see Printing). helped DTSC align the regulatory requirements with best practices. HP also cochaired a project with the BusinessIn 2013, 62% of HP commercial display product families NGO Working Group6 to pilot the assessment process. contained more than 10% postconsumer recycled plastic. We used more than 4,300 tonnes of postconsumer recycled plastic in PCs and displays shipped in 2013, equivalent to more than 228 million drinking water bottles.5 Read more about our product return and recycling activities. 5 Estimating 19 g of plastic per drinking bottle. 6 The Business-NGO Working Group is a project of Clean Production Action. 94 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Energy efficiency Progress in 2013 Contents Governance Human Progress See examples of energy efficiency in HP products and We prioritize making our products more energy efficient, solutions, such as our Moonshot servers, modular data Economic Progress as this is one of the most effective ways to decrease HP’s centers supported through our Critical Facilities Services, Environmental Progress overall environmental impact. Customer energy consumpand our Officejet Pro X printer. Environmental tion during the use of HP products and solutions accounts sustainability for 44% of our overall carbon footprint and 56% of our 20+ years of ENERGY STAR® water footprint. A close link exists between energy use HP was one of the original partners of the ENERGY STAR® • Products and solutions and water consumption, because power stations use conprogram in 1992, working with the U.S. Environmental Product return and siderable amounts of cooling water. recycling Protection Agency (EPA) and other industry partners to develop early criteria. Today, approximately 20,000 orgaHP operations Between 2005 and 2010, we reduced product energy nizations from many sectors take part in the program, and Supply chain consumption by 50%, and we continue to advance energy it is estimated that ENERGY STAR® products prevent more environmental impact efficiency across our portfolio.7 For example, our secondthan 150 million tonnes of CO2e emissions annually.8 About this report generation Moonshot server, launched in 2013, consumes up to 89% less energy than a traditional server environIn 2013, HP collaborated with the EPA to develop ENERGY ment. Such innovations are increasingly important in STAR® program requirements for information and comthe global IT market, given the rapid rise in demand for munications technology products that continue to be: computing power and capacity. • Relevant—requirements remain current with respect to We continually enhance energy efficiency in our products technology >50% and solutions by: • Exclusive—only high-performing products on the mar• Pursuing innovation We comply with all energyket can qualify for the ENERGY STAR® label9 Percentage of all efficiency regulations wherever we operate. In many • Appropriate—requirements do not inadvertently LEED® Platinumand cases, we go beyond regulatory requirements to help exclude whole classes of products or depend on propriLEED Gold-certified HP customers achieve more with less energy. Examples etary technology new construction data include our wide range of ENERGY STAR®-qualified and centers worldwide EPEAT®-registered products, continual energy effiFor products shipped in 2013, 84% of HP PC model famidesigned by our Critical ciency improvements in data centers, and cutting-edge lies had an ENERGY STAR® configuration available, and Facilities Services team, research such as HP Labs’ work on photonics. 70% of our displays were ENERGY STAR® qualified. For HP as of December 20131 imaging equipment shipped in calendar year 2013, 82% of • Working with our suppliers This collaboration is increasingly important to realizing ongoing gains in models were ENERGY STAR® qualified. 1 Based on U.S. Green Building Council and HP data. energy efficiency. We proactively encourage our suppliers to develop more efficient products. For example, HP has also been closely involved with the development of component suppliers continually develop more efficient ENERGY STAR® for servers (Version 2.0) and the associdrives, chip sets, graphics solutions, and power supplies, ated Server Efficiency Rating Tool (SERT). We are currently which we incorporate into HP products. working toward qualification of eligible storage platforms under the new ENERGY STAR® specification for Data Center • Educating customers We make it easy for customers Storage (Version 1.0) issued by the EPA in December 2013. to use our products in energy-efficient modes. All HP imaging equipment and all HP PCs with Windows are HP Carbon Footprint Calculator shipped with power management enabled, and we proOur web-based HP Carbon Footprint Calculator allows vide guidance on power management options and the customers to compare estimated energy and paper importance of using these energy-saving features. HP use and costs, along with CO2e emissions, for HPand also offers tools to help customers better understand Compaq-branded computing and printing products, takand compare energy use for HP and non-HP products ing into account user location.10 The calculator received (see HP Carbon Footprint Calculator below). more than 85,800 visits in 201311 and covers more than • Enabling wider efficiencies We help enterprises oper9,000 HP and non-HP devices, including printers, comate more efficiently and reduce their carbon footprints puters, and monitors. through our broad range of services and software, including our Data Center Consulting services. 7 The average energy consumption of HP products was estimated annually between 2005 and 2010 using high-volume product lines representative of the overall shipped product volume. The high-volume product lines include notebook and desktop computers, Inkjet and HP LaserJet printers, and industry-standard servers. 8 According to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. 9 See more detail. 10 Power, cost, and carbon calculations are estimates. Results will vary based on variables, which include information provided by the user, time PC is in different power states (on, standby, off), time PC is on AC, hardware configuration, variable electricity rates, and utilities provider. HP advises customers to use information reported by this Carbon Footprint Calculator for reference only and to validate impact on their environment. See more information about calculation assumptions. 11 Between November 1, 2012, and October 31, 2013. 95 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Research and Contents For example, copper interconnects between today’s server Governance blades can transfer data at rates up to 9.6 gigabits per second. Optical connections already greatly exceed that Human Progress Economic Progress development speed, and we see the potential to increase this to 6 terabytes per second—fast enough to transfer four days of Environmental Progress high definition video in one second. Photonic interconnects HP is creating the next generation of infrastructure to also optimize the performance of large-scale networks by Environmental support a data-centric world. We are developing disruptive sustainability reducing the number of switches needed in a network of new technologies to collect, move, process, and analyze any given size—further improving energy efficiency and • Products and solutions massive data sets easily, rapidly, and sustainably. data transfer speed. Product return and recycling We invest in innovation in HP Labs, our central research Photonics in action: a prototype is organization, and across our business groups. This modulating laser light. HP operations strengthens our ability to deliver leading products and Supply chain services that meet the evolving needs of our customers environmental impact and reduce impacts on the environment. Our researchers About this report collaborate across HP’s businesses and build partnerships with leading universities, governments, and other companies worldwide. HP Labs examines emerging trends and invests in an Memristor—a breakthrough in computer memory ambitious research agenda to build a strong and innoIn 2013, we continued our work on the development of vative pipeline of new technologies. Sustainability is memristor-based nonvolatile memory. Memristor offers a embedded throughout our research areas and is a key breakthrough opportunity to significantly outperform the aspect of many of our solutions. memory currently used in a range of computing devices, from smartphones and tablets to high-performance servers and supercomputers. Memristors also have the potential to serve as universal memory, where a single HP Labs type of memory replaces the traditional set of memory technologies in use today. We believe this approach will become increasingly important to process and analyze the vast data sets of the future. Memristor has the potential to run thousands of times faster and use thousands of times less power than an equivalent flash memory chip, offering Progress in 2013 the possibility of massive efficiency increases and associated greenhouse gas emissions reductions. In 2013, we brought our second generation of HP One memristor wafer could have a 1.5 Moonshot servers to market through a joint endeavor petabyte capacity by the end of the between HP Labs and the Enterprise Group. We also decade. progressed research into other innovative products with the potential for step change reductions in energy use at a systemic level—including photonics and memristor. A system using systems-on-a-chip (SoCs), memristor, and photonics technologies, could use up to 16,000 times less energy than a traditional computing system of today. Integrated photonics for faster information transmission At HP Labs, we are working on new silicon photonic interconnects that use light to transmit information instead of electrons. Photonics is already widely used in fiber optic cable systems that span the world’s oceans. In computing, the use of photonics to transport information between circuit boards has the potential to supersede the copperbased wire-and-pin systems currently in use. This shift promises to reduce the energy needed to process data by one to two orders of magnitude, while improving the speed and economics of high-performance computing. 96 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Servers, storage, Progress in 2013 Contents Governance Servers Human Progress Economic Progress and networking Moonshot Our second generation Moonshot server, launched in 2013, is the result of 10 years of sustained Environmental Progress effort from a dedicated team of HP Labs researchers, capiHP’s innovative server, storage, and networking portfolio Environmental empowers customers to do more with less. We provide a talizing on our industry-leading server intellectual property. sustainability It represents a paradigm shift in data center economics and Converged Infrastructure approach, which reduces envi• Products and solutions ronmental impacts without sacrificing computing power. environmental footprint. Moonshot is a new type of server, Product return and This approach enables both economic and environmental tailored for specific workloads and high performance. By recycling progress, and will become increasingly important as the sharing management, power, cooling, networking, and amount of global data continues to grow. capacity across a large number of units, it increases our HP operations customers’ computing capability while reducing resource Supply chain use. The Moonshot system consumes up to 89% less HP’s latest generation of ProLiant Gen8 and Moonshot environmental impact energy, uses 80% less space, and costs 77% less12 than a servers offers increased processing power while using About this report less energy and space than typical server environments, traditional server environment. A rack that once held 64 reducing the carbon footprint of large-scale computing. standard servers accommodates 1,800 Moonshot servers. Traditional approaches to enterprise data storage can produce data center sprawl by requiring as many as a HP Moonshot Servers dozen separate storage architectures. HP’s storage vision Compared to traditional servers, up to: for supporting Converged Infrastructure reduces this to a single architecture for primary storage and a single architecture for backup, recovery, and archiving (BURA). Our networking solutions provide simplicity and scalability while reducing energy use and physical space requirements. Read more about our ENERGY STAR®-qualified 77% less cost* 89% less energy** servers and storage solutions. HP Converged Infrastructure 80% less space** 97% less complex** Storage Servers * Based on HP internal estimates of total cost to operate HP Moonshot with ProLiant Moonshot Server Cartridges as compared to traditional servers. ** Based on HP internal analysis of HP Moonshot with ProLiant Moonshot Server Cartridges. Moonshot has already increased the efficiency of HP’s own Power and Network data centers. Our website, HP.com, receives about nine bilcooling lion hits per month. After moving it to the Moonshot server infrastructure, this high-traffic site is now powered by the equivalent of just 12 60-watt light bulbs. Moonshot has Management software far-reaching global implications. The expansion of cloud and web services over the next three years is estimated to require HP Converged Infrastructure supports a New Style of IT eight to 10 million new servers. If Moonshot servers were in which servers, storage, and networking devices are used, it would save more than 10 million sq ft of data center integrated to increase efficiency, improve hardware utilizaspace. Replacing 100,000 standard servers with Moonshot tion, and eliminate unnecessary powering and cooling. The reduces greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by the equivalent of ability of smaller and fewer products to deliver the same removing 18,000 cars from the road for one year.13 level of computing power enables less use of materials and decreases requirements for physical space and energy In addition to advancing environmental and economic consumption, which saves money and reduces overall progress, HP Moonshot helps drive human progress. data center footprint. By providing greater accessibility and capacity for cloud computing, we can further expand the use of technology to track trends and deliver insights that help improve the health and well-being of people worldwide. Learn more about Moonshot here. 12 When HP DL360p servers deployed for Dedicated Hosting are replaced by HP ProLiant Moonshot servers. Cost estimates include acquisition costs for server and networking, power costs, power distribution and cooling costs, and infrastructure costs for the data center floor space over three years. 13 When 100,000 HP DL360p servers deployed for Dedicated Hosting are replaced by 100,000 HP Moonshot ProLiant Servers. Based on HP internal research, including with calculations using http://www.epa.gov/cleanenergy/energy-resources/calculator.html. 97 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents HP ProLiant Our ProLiant servers also help customers Solid state drives HP’s 3PAR StoreServ, StoreVirtual, and Governance save energy and improve processing power. For example, MSA Storage families use solid state drive (SSD) technolour highly efficient ProLiant Gen8 servers consume 10% ogy, which can reduce the energy consumption required by Human Progress less energy and achieve 1.7 times the computing power conventional spinning media by an estimated 50–80%. We Economic Progress per watt compared to HP ProLiant Gen7 servers and are support SSDs on all our primary storage arrays and offer Environmental Progress more than 90% recyclable by weight.14 The HP ProLiant several arrays that eliminate the need for spinning media SL 4500 series server uses 50% less space and 61% less altogether. For example, the HP 3PAR StoreServ 7450 Environmental sustainability energy than traditional solutions. Both these products all-flash array, launched in 2013, replaces hard disk drives were launched in 2012, and in 2013 continued to enable (HDDs) with SSDs. The HP StoreServ Storage 7400, when • Products and solutions our customers to do more, with less energy (see case deployed with all SSDs, increases storage performance by Product return and study below). We also build our storage solutions on more than 300% while reducing energy consumption by recycling ProLiant Gen8 hardware. more than 75%. HP operations Supply chain Storage solutions Tape-based storage In 2013, we released the HP environmental impact Software-defined storage HP’s storage solutions offer StoreEver Storage portfolio of LTO-6 (Linear Tape Open customers the potential for significant energy and space version 6) tape media, tape drives, and tape automation About this report savings. Traditional data center storage utilizes dedicated products. StoreEver has been demonstrated to deliver a hardware—different storage devices are required for 93% reduction in energy consumption when used for longdistinct tasks, with each device requiring its own physical term archiving compared to HDDs or spinning media.19 storage capacity. With the average company utilizing just 72% of its available storage capacity, this often involves Networking wasted resources. HP’s converged approach drives up Virtual Connect FlexFabric Traditional network connecutilization through resource sharing and multitenancy, tion systems use a total of more than 200 parts and cables the ability to securely support multiple applications, to link up servers with storage systems and local networkloads, departments, and even customers on a single works. HP Virtual Connect, utilizing wireless connections, consolidated storage system. HP software-defined storuses just two parts and no cables. This decreases physical age solutions can further increase efficiency by identifying space requirements and simplifies the entire network unused disk space on existing servers and storage syssystem. It also reduces cost by 65% and power by 40% tems and consolidating this capacity into a virtual storage compared to traditional systems, which in turn decreases system. This allows customers to reduce or even eliminate GHG emissions from energy production. dedicated storage hardware by increasing the utilization of existing devices. 2920 Switch Series The new 2920 Switch Series provides an energy-efficient access switching solution for small, For example, HP StoreVirtual Virtual Storage Appliance (VSA) mid-size, and large enterprises and includes several software can reduce an enterprise’s physical space requirefeatures to reduce power consumption. These include ments for primary storage by 80% and associated energy variable speed fans that adjust with the ambient temconsumption by 60%, compared to traditional server/storperature, IEEE 802.2az Energy Efficient Ethernet to reduce age deployments.15 Similarly, by eliminating the need for power on unused network links, an LED power off mode dedicated backup hardware, our software-based StoreOnce to shut off indicators when they are not being actively Virtual Storage Appliance solution cuts hardware costs by monitored, and smart application-specific integrated cir65%, rackspace by 50%, and energy consumption by 70%.16 cuit power management technology. The HP 2920 switch uses energy 85% more efficiently than similar solutions20 HP provides StoreVirtual VSA software at no additional and has lower average running costs, saving 13% annually cost with the purchase of eligible HP ProLiant Gen8 over the industry average.21 servers—the only major server vendor currently making customers an offer of this kind.17 Through this approach, we anticipate eliminating the need for an exabyte of dedicated storage capacity over the next 12 months.18 14 Using the HP Recyclability Assessment Tool. Not all locations have suitable recycling infrastructure to recycle all materials used in HP products. 15 Based on HP comparison of StoreVirtual VSA licenses vs. a Single-Controller Dell EqualLogic Array. 16 Based on May 2013 HP internal comparative analysis of publicly available list price data of StoreOnce VSA vs. Dedicated backup appliance hardware from major competitors. 17 Based on HP internal comparative analysis of publicly available data regarding the deployment of storage software on servers versus array hardware. 18 Based on HP analysis of server and virtualized workload market trends applied to participating HP server models. Learn more. 19 Based on research reported by the Clipper Group in “In Search of the Long-Term Archiving Solution—Tape Delivers Significant TCO Advantage over Disk,” David Reine and Mike Kahn, December 23, 2010. 20 Power consumption of the HP 2920-48G switch compared to the industry average of products in a similar class, as tested and reported by Miercom in February 2013. 21 Running costs were calculated based on the projected use of the switch in a typical business environment and at a fixed rate cost for electricity. Cost savings compared to the industry average of products in a similar class, as tested and reported by Miercom in February 2013. Savings may vary depending upon the usage and rate for electricity in your area. 98 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Data centers Contents example, our experts help customers to plan and impleGovernance ment continuous automated monitoring of energy and water use. Such systems enable facilities managers to Human Progress better understand which situations consume the most Exponential growth in data and demands on information Economic Progress technology (IT) are increasing the physical and environenergy and at what time of day, as well as reducing the risk Environmental Progress mental footprint of the data centers managing information of downtime due to manual inspections. Environmental worldwide. HP offers products and solutions that help sustainability customers improve energy and environmental perforRead more about HP Converged Management Consulting mance across all aspects of data center strategy, design, Services here. • Products and solutions and operation, while saving space and facility costs. Product return and Critical Facilities Services recycling HP Critical Facilities Services (CFS) provides customers We design, build, and run highly efficient data centers HP operations for our customers, as well as for our own use, offering with strategic consulting, design-build, and operational Supply chain ongoing management and infrastructure services. See HP assurance expertise to create new facilities and upgrade environmental impact operations—Making data centers more efficient. existing data centers. CFS has designed more than 65 About this report million square feet of data centers worldwide. Through We also offer a range of Data Center Consulting services. Energy Efficiency Analysis, CFS compares customers’ These enable customers to reduce the physical and envienergy efficiency to industry best practices and recomronmental footprint of their data center activities while mends improvements. CFS also helps customers achieve improving operational efficiency. prominent energy-efficiency certifications such as LEED and ENERGY STAR®. As of December 2013, our team had Through our Converged Infrastructure approach, comdesigned more than 50% of all LEED Platinumand LEED bined with advances in data center design and more Gold-certified new construction data centers worldwide.22 efficient hardware technology, HP optimizes data center For example, we helped the University of Iowa to design energy consumption and space requirements. and build the first LEED Platinum educational institution data center. Learn more here. Data Center Consulting (DCC) services Instead of building large facilities in anticipation of future demand, we develop “flexible facilities” that help customIT infrastructure services ers plan and manage data center growth. Using modular HP’s IT infrastructure services team helps customers data center design principles and solutions, CFS helps define and implement their infrastructure strategy, while customers to build only what is needed today and expand enabling enterprises to increase their resource efficiency the facility in stages, so that size and load capacity always and decrease related greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. closely match demand. This approach uses capital more efficiently, decreases energy costs, and reduces GHG emissions. It also allows customers to take advantage of technology innovations that reduce or eliminate the need for more data center space in the future. See Servers, stor“The demands of our business environment age, and networking. continue to grow. But it won’t be painful due to Designing data centers in this way—what we term the HP the way HP has architected the HP Flexible Data Flexible Data Center, or FlexibleDC—requires us to take Center solution. We can achieve sustainability and a holistic approach and consider environmental impacts across the entire data center life cycle. Optimizing the efficiency gains and still meet our needs from an interaction between IT equipment and the overall data organizational and patient perspective.” center involves partnership between the facilities and IT organizations and leads to environmental efficiencies and cost savings that neither could achieve alone. — Scott Dresen, Vice President of Information Services, Spectrum Health HP FlexibleDC reduces water consumption and GHG emissions when compared with other data center models. For example, a traditional 1 MW data center with a power In 2013, we launched a new range of data center infrausage effectiveness (PUE)23 rate of 1.50 running at full structure management (DCIM) services—HP Converged load for one year consumes approximately 13 million kWh Management Consulting Services. We combine IT, facilities, of energy and uses more than 24 million liters of water. and service management expertise to enable customFlexibleDC employs air-cooled rather than water-cooled ers to align these functions internally and deliver a more efficient IT infrastructure across their organization. For 22 Based on U.S. Green Building Council and HP data. 23 Power usage effectiveness (PUE) is the ratio of total amount of energy used by a computer data center facility to the energy delivered to computing equipment. An ideal PUE is 1.0. This would mean all energy used by the data center was utilized by computing equipment and none by the facility itself in the form of lighting and cooling. The closer a data center’s PUE is to 1.0, the more energy efficient it is. 99 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents systems, enabling zero water use in some climates and significantly reducing consumption in others.24 Compared Collaboration Governance with a state-of-the-art data center operating at a PUE of NREL partnership—innovative data center cooling Human Progress 1.36, a FlexibleDC alternative delivers a 14% reduction in HP is partnering with the National Renewable Energy Economic Progress carbon footprint across the entire life cycle.25 Laboratory (NREL) to explore new ways to power and cool Environmental Progress data centers. We collaborated to develop the new Energy In 2013, we enabled Spectrum Heath to build a stateEnvironmental Systems Integration Facility (ESIF), designed to be the sustainability of-the-art modular data center to sustain the needs of world’s most energy-efficient high-performance computa growing healthcare business, now and into the future. • Products and solutions ing data center. It uses innovative warm water cooling and Through the HP FlexibleDC approach, the organizahas a PUE rate of 1.06 or better. This project demonstrates Product return and tion conserves energy, water, space, and money, while recycling the viability of a new approach to cooling that could lead gaining flexibility for business growth. This new data to power savings across a broad spectrum of industries. HP operations center operates at a 25% cost savings compared with a Read more here and watch a video about NREL here. Supply chain traditional facility and provides forecasted savings of $10 environmental impact million over 10 years. It reduces power usage by 27% and provides 99.999% uptime, reducing carbon footprint while Services and About this report increasing reliability and efficiency. Learn more about HP FlexibleDC here. Big Data Services The rise of big data brings opportunities for new levels of software analysis and insight for enterprises worldwide, but it also HP customers demand high performance from the IT presents challenges due to its volume and often unstrucsystems that support their businesses. Our services and tured nature. HP Big Data Services enables customers to software solutions enable them to meet their technology reshape their IT infrastructure and handle large amounts objectives and prepare for future needs, while increasing of data. We provide advice and implementation on big energy efficiency and reducing waste. data strategy, infrastructure, and protection, for example, through HP HAVEn—the industry’s first comprehensive, scalable, open, and secure platform for big data. The ability to analyze large data sets assists our customers Progress in 2013 in finding new efficiencies and related resource savings, enabling HP to contribute to environmental benefits Services beyond the scope of our products and solutions. Read HP Smart Meter Managed Service more in Living Example: HP Earth Insights on page 75. Smart meters can improve energy management, while reducing energy bills and decreasing greenhouse gas Converged cloud services (GHG) emissions. For example, the United Kingdom (UK) HP enables customers to get the most out of cloud comgovernment has identified potential savings to consumputing. We offer planning, design, and implementation ers of more than £6 billion ($10 billion) from reduced services to help organizations understand the implications energy consumption as a result of its planned smart meter and opportunities associated with cloud-based operations. program. By 2015, at least 15 countries will each have a From an environmental perspective, integration of activities million or more smart meters deployed. Utility compaacross private, public, and hybrid cloud settings can increase nies introducing smart meters, however, face challenges efficiency and reduce overall resource use. For example, an related to customer uptake, complex vendor manageenterprise may send data to the public cloud for management, and the need for new IT infrastructure. ment in a large, highly efficient data center. Or, it can manage data in a private cloud and maintain direct control over energy HP delivers the infrastructures and applications that use and related environmental impacts through data center support smart meter programs for customers around the design, build, and management. We help customers find the world. HP Smart Meter Managed Service, based around our right balance between the various options in a way that fulUtility Center software, provides a secure, flexible “payfills their business needs and reduces environmental impact. as-you-grow” option that helps companies minimize the technology investment required to deploy smart meters See an example of an HP-enabled data center designed to and accelerate time to market. We offer a combination of support the cloud environment here. data handling, meter management, and network management to support utility providers in the following areas: 24 Actual amounts can vary depending on system selection and local weather patterns. 25 Based on a 20-year study period. 100 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents • Energy efficiency and conservation programs Helping enables reduced CPU usage, faster search, a smaller Governance customers conserve energy through products, services, data index footprint, and more efficient reporting and and billing mechanisms indexing across all data. Human Progress • Energy consumption alerts Informing customers when • HP WorkSite for intelligent content management Economic Progress they hit consumption thresholds or face significantly includes workflow and process automation capabilities Environmental Progress higher bills than usual that, when combined with HP multifunction printers, Environmental streamline paper-based business processes and reduce • Load shedding or curtailment programs Asking sustainability waste and optimize paper usage. consumers to reduce energy use during periods of con• Products and solutions strained supply or directly controlling consumer devices • HP Records Management enables companies Product return and such as thermostats or pool pumps worldwide to effectively meet ever more stringent envirecycling ronmental and privacy regulations while reducing the • Residential peer comparison Informing consumers of HP operations need to create and store physical records. For example, how their energy use compares to that of their neighbors or in 2013, a major Japanese pharmaceutical company Supply chain other homeowners in comparable homes or environments moved approximately 500,000 e-mails and 200,000 environmental impact • Commercial and industrial energy management paper and electronic folders to HP TRIM (our records About this report Supporting customers interested in conserving and management software), replacing the need for about improving energy efficiency 20,000 archive boxes. • Economic demand response Enabling customers to • HP Exstream, a customer communications-management adjust demand to align with less-expensive price periods solution, enables enterprises to optimize printing by designing statements, invoices, and marketing collateral These activities improve consumer and business customer for fewer mailings and mailings with reduced page counts. energy awareness and management and help to reduce related GHG emissions. For example, HP has helped an • eDiscovery drives efficiencies and reduces the paper usage Italian utility design systems used to install and remotely associated with the previously manual process of analyzing manage 30 million smart meters. Utility Center was large amounts of data for legal matters and investigations. recently mandated for a multi-million meter program in • Advanced backup, recovery, and informationJapan. This initiative will help customers manage their archiving applications work with HP’s StoreOnce energy use and reduce GHG emissions. technology to minimize the number of copies of documents that need to be retained. This reduces storage Software footprints and associated energy consumption while HP Autonomy ensuring critical applications can deliver the needed HP Autonomy offers an industry-leading business solution for levels of business. information management and governance, marketing optimization, and information analytics. It enables organizations to access, understand, and act on large amounts of information Collaboration from virtually any source. Powered by HP IDOL (Intelligent Data Operating Layer), HP Autonomy facilitates the recogniWe utilize our skills and experience in software develoption of patterns in structured and unstructured data. This ment to work with partners promoting human, economic, helps customers spot trends, automate processes, mitigate and environmental progress through our Living Progress risks, cut costs, and uncover new efficiencies. We offer a range initiatives. For example, HP volunteers helped design and of solutions under the HP Autonomy banner, including: build a field tablet application for the Tropical Ecology Assessment and Monitoring (TEAM) Network project at • Information Governance solutions help many of the Conservation International (CI). The application enables world’s largest enterprises reduce the information they field technicians to efficiently and accurately gather need to store and manage, decreasing storage-related ecological data. Read more about our partnership with CI electricity use and cooling needs. In 2013, we released through the Earth Insights program. HP Consolidated Archive (HPCA) version 8.0, which Security Over the past 10 years, HP Security has protected more In 2013, HP Security announced Threat Central, an autothan 10,000 commercial customers from cyber threats. mated and integrated community-based security intelliOur Zero-Day Initiative team is the industry leader in gence-sharing platform. Three years in the making, Threat uncovering software vulnerabilities and sharing these with Central equips customers with the ability to automatically software vendors to ensure their products are safe. share security intelligence, ask questions about anomalies, and receive a real-time response from the community as malicious events are occurring. 101 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Personal systems Contents provide significant savings in energy consumption, material Governance use, and physical space requirements without sacrificing performance. For example, compared to its predecessor, Human Progress the EliteDesk 800 G1 Desktop Mini Business PC contains HP has long been an industry leader in providing consumEconomic Progress ers with energy-efficient options for personal computers 39% less material by weight,27 consumes 22% less energy Environmental Progress and devices. We go beyond compliance to develop prodper year28, and has an 11% reduction in product carbon ucts that meet leading international voluntary standards, footprint.29 The EliteDesk 800 G1 Desktop Mini Business PC Environmental sustainability such as ENERGY STAR® and EPEAT®. We are also reducing is ENERGY STAR® qualified and EPEAT® Gold registered.30 the amount of raw material that goes into making and • Products and solutions transporting our products. Product return and recycling Through energy-efficient and less material-intensive HP operations devices, we meet our customers’ high expectations for Supply chain more sustainable products while also fulfilling their environmental impact requirements for portability, performance, and cost. Product certification About this report We achieve a range of eco-label certifications across our Progress in 2013 personal systems portfolio. Read more about our ENERGY STAR®-qualified products in 2013. Many HP products are Reducing materials and energy use in also registered with leading national environmental labels, personal devices such as China’s SEPA (State Environmental Protection Administration) and CECP (China Energy Conservation We design our new personal devices to be smaller, thinner, Program), Sweden’s Tjänstemännens Centralorganisation and lighter than the previous generation. This approach Certification, Taiwan’s Green Mark, Japan’s PC Green Label, meets customer requirements for increased mobility and and Korea’s Eco Label. aesthetic value, while reducing the amount of materials needed to make our products. For example, our new 2013 EliteBook 800 series is on average 37% thinner and 23% lighter than the platform it replaces (see image). Printing HP’s printing and imaging portfolio spans a broad range of products from compact desktop models for personal use to industrial-scale digital presses. Whatever their size or function, we work continually to reduce the environmental We also continue to decrease greenhouse gas (GHG) emisfootprint of our printing products. sions attributed to the production and use of our products. Use of our 2013 EliteBook 800 series results in reduced life We work to ensure our product portfolio meets new and cycle GHG emissions of 7–28% and decreased annual energy evolving energy standards, as demonstrated by the recent consumption of 35–53%, compared to previous models. requalification of many HP inkjet and LaserJet products to meet the latest ENERGY STAR® and Blue Angel standards. We also pay attention to computer accessories. In 2013, we shortened our consumer notebook power cords from 1.8 m Through HP Managed Print Services (MPS), we are taking to 1 m. This eliminated the need for approximately 15,600 km steps towards the “circular economy” with a product-asof power cord and decreased our plastic and copper use by a-service business model.31 MPS provides a customizable approximately 900 tonnes26 per year compared to the prior set of solutions including imaging and printing devices, design. It also reduced our GHG emissions from manufacturnetwork print management software, supplies (including and shipping by 5,700 tonnes of CO2e, which is equivalent ing paper), support, professional services, and document to removing 1,200 cars from the roads for one year. workflow management. MPS also offers recycling for printing supplies and end-of-life management for hardware. Mini desktops—more mobility, less impact It helps businesses optimize their imaging and printing Launching in April 2014, our new HP EliteDesk 800 and infrastructure, with typical savings of 10–30% in printing ProDesk 600 Desktop Minis are our smallest enterprisecosts, millions of pages in reduced paper waste, and typical class desktops, measuring approximately 7 in x 7 in x 1.33 reductions in energy usage of 20–40%.32 Learn more. in. Both highly mobile and easy to use, these products 26 Based on FY13 shipment volumes and September 2013 rates. 27 Compared to the HP EliteDesk 800 G1 Ultra-slim Desktop Business PC. Product weight includes keyboard and mouse. 28 Compared to the HP EliteDesk 800 G1 Ultra-slim Desktop Business PC. As measured by the U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR® test methodology and reporting; TEC measure. 29 +/50 kg CO2e. Compared to the HP EliteDesk 800 G1 Ultra-slim Desktop Business PC. This calculation was done using the Product Attribute to Impact Algorithm (PAIA) methodology developed by MIT; results should not be compared with those of other products. 30 EPEAT® Gold registered where applicable. EPEAT® registration varies by country. See www.epeat.net for registration status by country. 31 See http://www.ellenmacarthurfoundation.org/circular-economy/circular-economy/services-not-goods. 32 Estimated energy and paper savings based on analysis of select HP Managed Print Services customers’ imaging and printing operations using data gathered on devices and paper consumption and comparing with post-MPS actuals or projections. Results depend on unique business environments, the way HP products and services are used, and other factors. Overall printing costs are unique to each company and should not be relied on for savings you may achieve. 102 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Through our Graphics Solutions Business, we continue to particles. Officejet Pro X printers are manufactured with Governance advance the analog-to-digital transformation of printing 5% postconsumer recycled plastic by weight from recycled and publishing. This shift clearly reduces our environmenHP printers, and their packaging incorporates 75–85% Human Progress tal impact. For example, a study by the Stockholm Water recycled content fibers. Economic Progress Authority in Sweden attributes the reduction of silver in Environmental Progress wastewater in the Stockholm area between 1981 and LaserJet Enterprise M800 series 2009 in part to the introduction of digital printing and the Launched in 2013, the HP LaserJet Enterprise M800 series Environmental sustainability phase out of conventional film processing. A recent report is the industry’s first enterprise multifunction printer on the graphics industry by the Swedish Environmental series with Auto-On/Auto-Off technology, touch-to-print • Products and solutions Protection Agency advocates the use of digital over analog functionality, and printing direct from phone through Product return and printing processes due to associated reductions in chemi“wireless direct.”34 Intelligent energy-saving technolrecycling cal consumption, waste, and transport requirements. ogy turns the printer on and off according to use, helping HP operations the device achieve ENERGY STAR® qualification and Blue Supply chain HP digital on-demand printing solutions, such as Indigo Angel compliance.35 environmental impact and Web Press, enable our customers to print exactly what they need, when and where they need it. This is in contrast About this report to analog printing, which encourages overproduction, resulting in large volumes of marketing collateral, books, and labels being wasted. HP is a Platinum Patron of the Sustainable Green Printing Partnership (SGP). The SGP helps printing companies worldwide reduce the environmental impact of their operations through certification and continuous improvement programs. Progress in 2013 Indigo press Officejet Pro X Our Officejet Pro X series, launched in 2013, is a range of HP Indigo digital presses, which provide solutions for publishbusiness class inkjet and multifunction printers that typiing, direct mail, collateral, and more, have a record of strong cally use 50% less energy, and produce 80% less supplies environmental performance. For example, when developing waste compared with color laser printers.33 These systems the HP Indigo 10000 Digital Press in 2012, we used a full have been qualified for use in some high-tech fabricalife cycle assessment to help us design-in requirements for tion facilities that require very low levels of airborne energy and waste reduction and recycled materials. Personal printers Office printers Wide format printers Digital presses Managed Print Supplies Media Services (ink and toner) 33 Compared with the majority of color laser printers <$800 and color laser MFPs <$1,000 as of August 2012. 34 Wireless performance is dependent upon physical environment and distance from access point. 35 HP Auto-On/Auto-Off technology capabilities subject to printer and settings; may require a firmware upgrade. 103 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Paper Contents Three models of our Indigo presses are independently Governance verified for specific environmental credentials through the Intertek Green Leaf Mark program. For example, the HP Human Progress Indigo 7600 Digital Press utilizes an oil-recycling system, Paper use is a major contributor to the life cycle environEconomic Progress eliminating the need for additional oil to be added during mental impacts of printing. Therefore, optimizing paper Environmental Progress printing and maintenance. use and sourcing paper responsibly are essential to reducEnvironmental ing the overall environmental impacts of HP’s printing sustainability HP Instant Ink products. We focus on: HP Instant Ink allows customers to print without wor• Products and solutions • Responsible paper sourcing and sales rying about running out of ink. Launched in 2013, this Product return and service enables the printer to order ink when it is running • Helping customers improve paper use recycling low, which is delivered automatically to the customer’s • Optimizing paper use across HP HP operations address. The ink replacement service eliminates trips to Supply chain the store and encourages recycling through the provision Our Environmentally Preferable Paper Policy details HP’s environmental impact of prepaid envelopes to return used cartridges. Using the principles for buying, selling, and using paper and paperHP Instant Ink program, customers can save up to 50% About this report based packaging. It applies worldwide to all our product on ink 36 and lower their carbon footprint related to ink lines, functions, and business units. Through this policy, we cartridge purchase and disposal by an estimated 70%.37 seek to source from suppliers that demonstrate responsible forestry and manufacturing practices. In 2013, we expanded Eco-labels across our printing portfolio the policy’s scope to include HP licensees and added more We achieve a range of eco-label certifications across our robust language on the role of forests in mitigating climate printing portfolio, including ENERGY STAR®, EPEAT®, and change and the importance of responsible forestry manageBlue Angel. Learn more. ment. Responsible sourcing of paper helps promote healthy forests today and in the future. Forests play a critical role in the health of the planet. They absorb carbon dioxide, harbor “By helping to grow the demand for responsible much of the world’s biodiversity, provide ecosystem services forest products, HP is helping to safeguard the and contribute to livelihoods of people around the globe. world’s forests.” In a related area, our environmental strategy for packaging prioritizes the use of renewable, recycled, and — Linda Walker, Director, WWF Global Forest & Trade Network-North America recyclable materials (see Packaging for more information). Case study “Closed loop” plastic recycling HP’s leadership with “closed loop” plastics recycling for ink inkjet supplies. This new initiative became fully commercartridges began in 2005 with our recycled polyethylene cialized in early 2014, having started development in 2010. terephthalate (RPET) initiative. RPET plastic from this proThe RPP program combined with the existing RPET initiacess has a 33% lower carbon footprint and 54% lower fossil tive has led to more than 75% of our Original HP ink carfuel consumption in its production than new plastic—even tridges containing recycled plastic. In addition, 24% of HP when accounting for the environmental impact associated LaserJet toner cartridges contain recycled plastic. with collecting, transporting, and processing used cartridges and plastic bottles.38 Manufacturing Original HP ink carAs of the end of January 2014, we have manufactured tridges with recycled plastic instead of virgin plastic reduced more than 2 billion Original HP ink and toner cartridges greenhouse gas emissions by 6,900 tonnes in 2013—equivusing more than 62,000 tonnes of recycled content matealent to taking 1,455 cars off the road for one year.39 rial. Through this process, HP has contributed to the “circular economy” by keeping 566 million cartridges, 498 We have built on this success with a second “closed loop” tonnes of polypropylene hangers, and 2.5 billion postconplastics initiative involving recycled polypropylene (RPP)— sumer plastic bottles out of landfills. polypropylene is used in a significant percentage of HP’s 36 Savings claim is based on HP Instant Ink Service plan price for 12 months using all pages in plan without purchase of additional pages compared to the cost per page (CPP) of the majority of color inkjet printers <$399, market share reported by IDC Q3 2013. CPP comparisons for standard capacity inkjet supplies are based on estimated street price and page yield as reported by Gap Intelligence MFP Weekly and IJP Weekly Reports Q3 2013. Actual savings may vary depending on number of pages actually printed per month and content of pages printed. 37 Analysis includes greenhouse gas emissions associated with customer trips to purchase ink cartridges at a retail store versus delivering directly to a customer’s house, and also includes recycling empty ink cartridges versus throwing them away. Data and assumptions drawn from a 2010 life cycle assessment performed by Four Elements Consulting and commissioned by HP. For details, see www.hp.com/go/RecycledPlasticsLCA. 38 For RPET cartridges produced in 2013 and beyond. Based on a 2014 life cycle assessment performed by Four Elements Consulting and commissioned by HP. The study compared the environmental impact of using polyethelene terephthalate (PET) plastic with the environmental impact of using recycled PET to manufacture new Original HP ink cartridges. See details. 39 Calculated with the EPA Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator. See details. 104 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents In 2013, we continued our longstanding participation in HP promotes industry-wide collaboration to improve paperGovernance WWF’s Global Forest & Trade Network (GFTN), as part recycling processes. As part of this effort, we have a research of our commitment to source fiber responsibly for HP and development program focused on deinking printed paper Human Progress branded paper products globally. for recycling. Deinking removes dirt, ink, and other contamiEconomic Progress nants, and is particularly important when the deinked pulp is Environmental Progress intended for use in high-grade recycled products. Learn more. Environmental Progress in 2013 sustainability We are also working to advance the analog-to-digital Responsible paper sourcing and sales transformation of printing and publishing, to reduce paper • Products and solutions waste that can result from overproduction (see Printing HP sold approximately 240,000 tonnes of HP-branded Product return and printer and copier papers in 2013. We require suppliers for more information). recycling to verify the origin of fiber used in HP-branded papers to HP operations ensure it is legally and responsibly sourced. We are working Optimizing paper use across HP Supply chain to increase both the percentage of postconsumer recycled At HP, we promote sustainable use of paper and responenvironmental impact fiber in HP-branded papers and our use of fiber that is certisible printing across our business. About this report fied by the Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®).40 Commercial print and publishing We guide the printing HP joined the FSC in 2011 and was among the first major and distribution of all our sales and marketing matericonsumer photo paper providers to offer FSC-certified als through our print and publishing program. HP has photo paper in Europe and North America. In 2013, our HP selected a single print management vendor in each region Everyday Paper portfolio became 100% FSC-certified in to provide print management services and act as the key North America—joining our 100% FSC-certified portfolio in interface from procurement to fulfillment. This ensures Latin America—and we increased FSC-certified HP Everyday consistent service levels and provides opportunities to Papers41 produced in Europe by 32%. Our goal is for 50% of increase efficiency of paper use and reduce cost. HP-branded paper worldwide by tonnage to be FSC-certified and/or contain at least 30% postconsumer content by the Paper use in our offices We use HP Everyday Papers— end of 2015. We are on track to meet this goal. made from fiber that is procured in line with our Environmentally Preferable Paper Policy and mostly Since 2009, we have held Chain of Custody (CoC) certificafrom FSC-certified sources. We use a default setting of tion from FSC for our media business, which includes one two-sided printing and provide HP employees with tips central office and a number of distribution centers. This to reduce the impact of their printing activities on the certification supports traceability for certified fiber, from environment. In 2013, we piloted an e-signature policy to forest through distribution, and helps us meet increasing reduce the need for printed documents. customer requirements and expectations in this area. Paper shipped “in the box” HP continues to reduce prodIn 2013, for the first time, we completed the Forestry uct documentation, including printed manuals, to decrease Module of the CDP, which examines the impacts of deforwaste and paper usage. Where possible, we replace in-box estation on climate change. materials with electronic versions of the warranty and full user guide on the hard disk drive of the device and offer Helping customers improve paper use customers printable versions or a printed copy on request. We encourage customers to use responsibly sourced Through this process, in 2013, we removed nearly 2,000 and certified paper, to use it efficiently—such as through tonnes of in-box materials for HP notebooks, printers, duplex printing—and to recycle after use. We commuservers, and accessories. Between 2008 and 2013, total nicate these messages in a variety of ways, including savings equaled more than 20,000 tonnes of paper. through videos and environmental briefings (for home and home office and for enterprise). Collaboration We also offer several tools that help customers use paper responsibly. Our online HP EcoSMART Console and EcoSMART HP’s ongoing partnerships with the FSC and International Fleet tools provide usage data and highlight options for savPaper (IP) are central to our paper, printing, and packaging ing paper and energy. Two-sided printing is set as the default activities. Together, we are helping HP customers meet across entire print fleets with tools such as HP Universal Print their sustainability goals with products that support their Driver and HP Web Jetadmin. HP Smart Print is free software businesses while decreasing environmental impacts. In that helps users print only the webpage content they need. 2013, HP hosted a joint webcast with representatives from the FSC and IP about environmental issues facing the HP also enables Pulland PIN-printing on certain enterworld today and the importance of supply chain collaboraprise printers. These features allow customers to type in tion to achieve shared goals. We also participated in the a code or swipe their badge to print their job when they first regional southeast U.S. FSC meeting in late 2012, arrive at a printer, providing a secure printing environment, where we described our efforts to encourage responsible and saving waste by reducing misprinted, reprinted, and printing to approximately 150 manufacturers, landowners, unclaimed jobs—potentially by 20–40%. conservation groups, and other stakeholders. 40 FSC trademark license code FSC-C017543. 41 HP Everyday Papers certified under FSC-C101994. 105 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Packaging Contents • Replace hard-to-recycle materials with more easily Governance recycled substitutes. Human Progress • Influence vendors to increase use of recycled fiber conHP has achieved significant reductions in environmental tent and sustainably harvested fiber in our paper-based Economic Progress impact through innovation in packaging design. We work packaging. Environmental Progress to improve the environmental performance of packaging Environmental while protecting products, complying with evolving regulaHP considers the intended customer when designing sustainability tory requirements, meeting customer expectations, and packaging. Our customers have diverse needs and no managing cost. single packaging solution can meet all of these require• Products and solutions ments. As a result, we make tradeoffs during the design Product return and We include environmental considerations in our guideprocess. Some customers prioritize easy curbside recyrecycling lines for packaging suppliers, driving them to create more clability. Others look for high levels of recycled content in HP operations innovative and environmentally responsible packaging packaging, or the lightest and smallest package available Supply chain designs. Our General Specification for the Environment to reduce shipping cost and transportation emissions. HP environmental impact restricts substances of concern, such as polyvinyl chloride considers these and other environmental factors during About this report (PVC),42 and requires 100% of materials used in HP packthe design process, to optimize packaging for our customaging to be recyclable.43 All HP packaging also complies ers and the environment. with our Environmentally Preferable Paper Policy. To reduce the environmental impact of HP packaging, we Progress in 201344 employ a strategy of reducing material use, optimizing shipping densities, and utilizing recycled and recyclable In 2013, we implemented a range of packaging initiatives materials. We achieve this through six underlying principles: designed to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, raw • Remove substances of concern when lower impact materials use, and waste. For example, initiatives across alternatives are readily available. For related informanine HP inkjet models saved a total of $6.6 million and tion, see Materials. reduced GHG emissions by more than 2,700 tonnes of CO2e. Reducing product and packaging size across our • Reduce the amount of packaging material used per LaserJet lines eliminated the use of approximately 3,600 product, compared with its predecessor. 40-ft ocean shipping containers during the year. This is • Design packaging for reuse where feasible, enabling equivalent to 50%–70% of an ocean cargo ship’s capacity. retailers, distributors, and enterprise customers to Across all packaging initiatives, in 2013 we reduced GHG return packaging materials to HP or redeploy the mateemissions by 41,600 tonnes of CO2e. rials for future shipments. The following examples, selected from more than 30 proj• Increase the proportion of recycled content in our ects undertaken in 2013, illustrate the range of packaging packaging. innovations across our product portfolio. HP environmental HP environmental packaging packaging mission mission Deliver our industry’s most eﬀicient and sustainable packaging designs Focus areas Using principles of With Reduce material usage Remove Recycle Conformance to Optimize shipping densities Reduce Replace HP’s General Specification for the Environment Utilize recycled materials Reuse Influence 42 The recycled plastic used in inkjet cartridges also contains recycled plastic from bottles. 43 Not all locations have suitable recycling infrastructure to recycle all materials used in HP packaging. 44 All savings and reductions occurred during either the fabrication or transportation phase of the packaging life cycle. 106 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Reduce Optimize Utilize Packaging innovation material shipping recycled Summary of benefits* Governance usage densities materials Human Progress Introduced paper-based cushioning for x Made more than 90% of packaging for this series now curbside Economic Progress the Color LaserJet M855 Series Printer recyclable and Color LaserJet M880 Series MFP Environmental Progress Reduced CO2e emissions from fabrication by approximately 14–27% (Multifunction Printer) Environmental Will avoid more than 1.6 tonnes CO2e emissions in total** sustainability Switched to 100% recycled polyethx Will divert 7.9 tonnes of foam from waste stream *** • Products and solutions ylene cushions for Color LaserJet M651 Series Paper Input Cabinet Product return and recycling Reduced packaging volume for two x x Avoided approximately 5,000 tonnes of CO2e emissions LaserJet models HP operations Reduced packaging volume by 42% for Color LaserJet M351/M451 Printer and 25% for Color LaserJet M375/M475 MFP Supply chain Avoided use of 1,020 ocean shipping containers **** environmental impact About this report Continued reuse of wooden pallets in x x Avoided the use of approximately 725,000 new pallets in 2013 North America Saved 14.9 million board feet of lumber **** Removed plastic packaging sheets x Avoided 47.2 tonnes of plastic waste from Designjet series products Avoided 126 tonnes of CO2e emissions Removed paper insert, and redesigned x x Reduced material use by 95 tonnes and reduced packaging for seven inkjet Avoided 56 tonnes of CO2e emissions supplies products Improved packaging production x x Reduced plastic packaging by 32%, saving 87 tonnes of material process for 44 inkjet supplies products Avoided 72 tonnes of CO2e emissions in 2013, with an additional 146 tonnes forecast for 2014 Reduced packaging on all consumer x x Reduced material use (corrugate, pulp cushions, and pallets) by and commercial notebooks 4,700 tonnes Avoided 11,000 tonnes of CO2e emissions from material fabrication and 9,700 tonnes of CO2e emissions from product transport Avoided use of approximately 900 40-ft ocean shipping containers (12–18% of an ocean cargo ship) Used 100% recycled packaging x Used 970 tonnes 100% recycled expanded polyethylene materials for some PCs and printers Used 22 tonnes 100% recycled expanded polystyrene at factories in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States; Juarez, Mexico; and Used 200 tonnes 100% recycled low density polyethylene Suzhou, China Reduced in-box documents and CDs x x Reduced paper use by 1,900 tonnes across notebooks, printers, servers, Avoided use of 8.5 million CDs and accessories Avoided 7,700 tonnes of CO2e emissions Eliminated desiccant (a material x x Eliminated 1,190 cubic meters (more than ten 53-foot truck loads) inserted in packaging to absorb of desiccant moisture) from all commercial and Reduced product transport CO2e emissions by 791 tonnes consumer notebooks Replaced virgin polyethylene foam x Avoided 44 tonnes of CO2e emissions per year due to part weight with recycled content polyethylene reduction and using a recycled material instead of virgin material foam for Enterprise Group’s DL380 server product Replaced wooden crate packaging with x Reduced packaging weight by 54% corrugated material for networking Avoided 11 tonnes of CO2e emissions per year products Redesigned packaging for ISS server x x Increased shipping density of incoming packaging due to the new hard disks and replaced polyethylene design, from 800–1,000 to 4,000–6,000 parts per pallet † foam with recycled polyethylene * All savings and reductions occurred during either the fabrication or transportation phase of the packaging life cycle. All savings are for 2013 unless otherwise indicated. ** Based on forecasted volumes in 2014; product introduced in late 2013. *** Based on forecasted volumes in 2014; product developed in 2013 and introduced in February 2014. **** Covers 2012 and 2013. † April 2013 implementation. Volume independent of timescale. 107 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Collaboration 100% recycled content packaging for HP PCs Governance HP collaborated with a key supplier and a polymer foam Human Progress Influence specialist to develop a process for manufacturing postAs a major purchaser of packaging materials, we encourconsumer polyethylene foam packaging. Our supplier, a Economic Progress age suppliers to use more recycled fiber content and factory manufacturing HP PCs in Indianapolis, Indiana, Environmental Progress sustainably harvested fiber in our paper-based packaging. United States, collects and returns foam bulk pack cushEnvironmental HP prefers suppliers that demonstrate environmental ions to the polymer foam specialist nearby, which cuts, sustainability values and a commitment to sourcing from responsibly shreds, and processes them into reusable pellets, before • Products and solutions managed forests. In support of this, HP relies on widelyreforming them into new packaging cushions. In 2013, recognized forest certifications, with preference given approximately 8 tonnes of such cushions were recovProduct return and ered, providing enough polymer foam to make more than recycling to those providing the most robust ecological and social criteria, such as FSC. 73,000 new cushions. HP operations Supply chain environmental impact About this report Case study Straw-based packaging offers climate and health benefits In 2013, we partnered with a paper and packaging supplier HP is the first company to market with this packaging in China to create packaging cushions using straw pulp. product. We currently ship the North American volume of These cushions are 10–15% lighter and produce 25% less our Deskjet 1512 product line using straw-based cushions, CO2e emissions during the pulping process than traditional and plan to expand the program to other customers and paper-based pulp cushions. They also display increased products around the world. moisture resistance and strength. This new approach reduces the need for straw field burning, leading to potentially reduced health and air quality impacts. Old cycle Burned waste straw Air pollution Wheat Waste straw New cycle Bio-enzyme plant HP straw-pulp cushions Goals Life cycle assessment 2014 goal Progress Promote and support the development of an International On track: A draft report is complete. Final Technical Report planned by Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) Technical Report to establish harmoJanuary 2015. nized product category PCF standards for PCs and displays. Paper 2015 goal Progress 50% of HP-branded paper FSC®-certified and or/containing at least 30% On track postconsumer waste by the end of 2015.* * Goal is worldwide, by tonnage. Annual fiber reporting for HP-branded papers based on agreement with WWF GFTN. 108 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Governance Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress Environmental sustainability Products and solutions • Product return and recycling HP operations Supply chain environmental impact About this report East African Compliant Recycling Company Product return and recycling When HP products reach the end of their useful lives, The value of electronic waste has increased substantially we work to provide options for responsible collection due to increases in the price of the recoverable underlyand treatment. HP extends the life of some information ing commodities. At the same time, processes to collect technology (IT) hardware through our remanufacturing and recycle electronic waste have become more efficient and refurbishment programs. We recycle what cannot be and cost effective. As a result, several regions globally reused, recovering most of the materials in the process. As are experiencing a shift from electronic waste managea last resort, we responsibly dispose of the materials that ment being a cost to a source of revenue. This trend tends cannot be reused, recycled, or reclaimed. to increase recycling rates but reduces returns to HP and other producers. HP provides product take-back programs in 70 countries 249 and territories, including in developing regions where we help raise recycling infrastructure standards. We work with Progress in 2013 a range of reuse and recycling vendors to ensure environmentally responsible options for processing HP products In 2013, we continued to collaborate with global partners, at end of life and commission third-party audits to track vendors, and governmental organizations to expand our million the performance of our global recycling network. For each end-of-life product recovered, we seek the highest take-back programs. Pounds of electronic value solution, as well as the solution that best minimizes During the year, we recovered a total of 134,500 tonnes of products and supplies environmental impacts. hardware and supplies. Of this total amount, we: recycled Since the inception of our take-back program in 1987, we • Recovered 3.7 million computer hardware units weighhave recovered a total of 1,525,000 tonnes (3.36 billion ing 21,400 tonnes for reuse and remarketing pounds) of computer hardware (for reuse and recycling) • Recycled 113,200 tonnes and supplies (for recycling). We achieved a total reuse and recycling rate in 2013 of In 2013, we expanded our product return and recycling approximately 10% of relevant HP hardware sales worldnetwork and launched new partnerships to capture wide, down from 14% in 2012. We believe this reduction is end-of-life products. In December, we collaborated with due partly to increasing competition for the collection of other organizations to open the first large-scale recycling used electronic products in developed, as well as developprogram in East Africa. HP also continued to partner with ing countries, as a result of the rising value of the materials major retailers in the United States to provide easy access they contain. For example, in the European Union (EU), for consumers to return their items. During the year, we large volumes of end-of-life products are being collected increased the number of locations in our United States supand managed by private collection companies outside plies take-back program with existing partners including producer collection systems. In several EU countries, Staples, OfficeMax, and Walmart, and added Office Depot. the amount collected by private collection companies is approaching or exceeding that collected by producers. See page 112 for detailed performance information. 109 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Expanding the global reach of our Our approach Governance recycling network Human Progress We work with governmental and nongovernmental organiAddressing the end of life of our products is a priority for zations to strengthen local recycling capabilities and HP and central to our efforts to decrease environmental Economic Progress standards in emerging and developed markets worldwide. impacts across our value chain. Environmental Progress Highlights during 2013 included the following: Environmental HP hardware products have an average life span of • Australia HP again partnered with TechCollect, the sustainability between three and 10 years. Consequently, at the time of country’s free national recycling service, nearly doubling Products and solutions disposal, product condition can vary greatly. Our solution the volume of hardware collected in 2012. is to provide a range of product end-of-life processing • Product return and • Brazil We increased retail drop-off locations for HP supoptions worldwide. recycling plies from 189 to 240. HP operations After a customer returns hardware, we determine the best • Colombia We introduced our product-recovery programs Supply chain to this country during the year, by adding hardware and option for processing. We prefer to refurbish and resell environmental impact supplies take-back at 12 HP retail locations. equipment because this solution has the lowest environAbout this report mental impact and creates the most economic benefit. • Kenya In December, we opened an innovative, new recyWhen reuse is not an option, we break down and recycle the cling facility in Nairobi through a collaboration with the materials, extracting as much volume and value as possible. German Investment and Development Corporation and East African Compliant Recycling Company (see case 3.7 study on page 111). • Mexico We now have 62 retail drop-off locations for HP LaserJet and ink cartridges, compared with five in 2012. • Morocco We launched supplies recycling in August. million • United States HP and Office Depot launched take-back programs for supplies in approximately 1,100 Office Depot stores nationwide, which increased the number of Approximate number of U.S. retail locations with HP supplies take-back procomputer hardware units grams to more than 7,100. recovered for reuse and remarketing Product return and recycling 2009-2013* [tonnes] Product return and recycling, 2009–2013* [tonnes] 200,000 150,000 100,000 50,000 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total reuse of equipment ** 30,000 30,000 26,700 26,000 21,400 Recycling—computer hardware 90,500 99,100 113,700 114,500 95,000 Recycling—supplies 21,900 21,800 20,300 19,100 18,200 Total 142,400 150,900 160,600 159,600 134,500 * Totals include all hardware and supplies returned to HP for processing, with ultimate dispositions including recycling, energy recovery, and, where no suitable alternatives exist, responsible disposal. Hardware recycling data from Europe, Middle East, and Africa, and HP LaserJet cartridge recycling data are calendar year. The remaining data are based on the HP fiscal year. Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. ** The decrease in tonnage from 2009–2013 is due to a reduction in the average weight of returned units, rather than a decline in the total number of returned units. Returned units during that period were: 2009: 3.58 million units; 2010: 3.81 million units; 2011: 3.44 million units; 2012: 3.9 million units; 2013: 3.7 million units. 110 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Product returnreturn [set2] 9. Product and recycling and recyclingoptions * options* Governance Customer Outcomes Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress Reuse in 2013 Remarket Environmental 21,400 tonnes to customer (hardware only) sustainability Products and solutions • Product return and recycling Materials for Responsible recycling in 2013 other products HP operations 95,000 tonnes Supply chain (hardware) Energy recovery environmental impact About this report 18,200 tonnes (supplies) Disposal (if necessary) *** Segments in this graphic are not drawn to scale. * Segments in this graphic are not drawn to scale. HP take-back programs 70 Countries and territories with HP take-back HP offers hardware reuse, hardware recycling, and ink and toner cartridge recycling programs, including through our program HP Planet Partners. We use a global network of vendors in 70 countries and territories to collect, process for resale, and recycle returned products. HP and its partners follow strict protocols to ensure 100% of returned products go through a data-cleansing process to ensure customer privacy. Service Overview Scope programs Hardware reuse * We resell refurbished products, from PCs to data center equipment, at the end of leasing This service is available (trade in, return for terms or as part of trade-in agreements. We follow strict processes set out in our Hardware in 52 countries and cash, leasing return, reuse standard to protect user data and meet environmental requirements. territories. donation **) View a virtual tour of our HP Financial Services asset-recovery centers. Hardware recycling We recycle returned products that are not suitable for reuse. Consumer recycling services This service is available vary by country, depending on local regulations and infrastructure. in 56 countries and territories. We are a cofounder of the European Recycling Platform, which provides pan-European takeback and recycling services to HP and other companies. In the United States, our Consumer Buyback Program allows consumers to return IT equipment of any brand and see how much money or purchase credit they can receive in exchange. Even if the product is not eligible for buyback, consumers can recycle HP and Compaq products through this program at no cost and other brands for a small charge. Consumers can drop off hardware products at more than 3,700 Staples and FedEx Office locations throughout the United States.*** We also provide recycling services to commercial customers. See a list of recycling options by country. HP ink and toner Consumers and commercial customers can return used HP ink and LaserJet toner cartridges to We provide free recycartridge recycling authorized retail and other collection sites through HP Planet Partners, at one of approxicling for HP cartridges mately 9,000 drop-off locations around the world. in 56 countries and territories. For some products and in selected countries, we offer free return options, including postagepaid printable labels and shipping envelopes as well as collection boxes and the option to order bulk pickup. Learn more. Through our “closed loop” recycling process, Original HP ink and LaserJet toner cartridges are reduced to raw materials that can be used to make new cartridges, as well as other metal and plastic products. See Printing on page 101 for more information. See a list of recycling options by country. * Availability of each reuse offering varies by location. ** The relationship is directly between customer and charity. Available in the United States only. *** As of October 31, 2013. 111 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Advocating for regulations that promote reuse HP contracts a third party, Environmental Resources Governance and responsible recycling Management (ERM), to audit our recycling vendors to HP engages with governments and stakeholders to ensure conformance with the following HP policies and Human Progress improve national and international approaches to managvendor standards: Economic Progress ing the movement of end-of-life electronic products. • Export of Electronic Waste to Developing Countries Environmental Progress During 2013, we helped regulators to understand the Policy Environmental impact of current and future regulations and provided sustainability thought leadership on the following: • Supplier Code of Conduct Products and solutions • Reuse and Recycling Standards • The Basel Convention on the Control of • Product return and Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and recycling ERM’s audits assess our vendors’ environmental, health Their Disposal HP supports the Convention’s objective and safety practices and performance, and also check HP operations to avoid transporting hazardous waste to developing downstream material flows based on shipment and receipt countries that do not have the resources or means to Supply chain records to certify no “leakage” of materials to facilities environmental impact manage recycling and treatment facilities. that are not in our approved vendor network. When audits About this report • Legitimate movement of used equipment We support identify areas of nonconformance, vendors have 30 days the legitimate movement of used equipment, which to submit a corrective action plan and 90 days to complete promotes repair and reuse of electronics and thereby it. In extreme cases, we stop doing business with vendors reduces the generation of electronic waste. who lack sufficient transparency or the willingness to • Increased competition for electronic waste Despite make the required changes. a trend towards more recycling of electronic products by private collection companies, most existing legisla2013 audits and findings tion holds manufacturers exclusively responsible for In 2013, through ERM, HP audited 15 reuse and 25 recycollection and treatment of their used products. HP is cling vendor facilities in 19 countries, including 18 repeat helping regulators consider the impact of increased site audits to confirm vendors’ ongoing commitment to recycling by nonproducers and is leading a discussion responsible recycling and improved performance. All site within DIGITALEUROPE on how producers and Extended audits evaluated vendor facilities and their material dispoProducer Responsibility legislation should adjust in sition networks. response to these changes. To learn more, read an industry guidance document by DIGITALEUROPE and In these audits, ERM found 17 major nonconformances by a paper produced by HP about this issue in Africa and our vendor facilities globally. Ten were from new audits other emerging markets. and seven were from re-audits. The two most common categories of major nonconformance were environment, Vendor audits health and safety (45% of the total) and security, logistics, and asset tracking (40%). HP works closely with our venHP works with specialist third-party vendors that provide dors to confirm that nonconformances are addressed and reuse and recycling programs on our behalf. We require resolved in a timely manner. these recyclers to fully comply with relevant regulations and to process all materials according to best practices. HP Read a statement from ERM. requires vendor certification to third-party recycling standards (R2 and e-Stewards) in the many countries where they are available. Case study Expanding our reach in Africa HP collaborated with the German Investment and equipment from a network of trained and registered inforDevelopment Corporation (DEG) and East African mal collectors. They then sell this equipment to the EACR Compliant Recycling Company (EACR) to open a new recyrecycling facility for processing. cling facility in Nairobi, Kenya, in December 2013. It is the first large-scale recycling facility in East Africa and the first This innovative business model helps transform the recytake-back system for end-of-life products in Kenya. cling process in those locations, minimizing environmental impacts and health and safety risks while creating jobs for As of April 2014, there are four collection points across the local residents. country, with plans for a total of roughly 50. The collection points operate as microbusinesses, purchasing end-of-life Watch a video about this program. 112 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Goals Contents Governance Human Progress 2015 goals Progress Economic Progress Recycle 3.5 billion pounds (1.6 million tonnes) of electronic products HP recycled 249 million pounds of electronic products and supplies, Environmental Progress and supplies by the end of 2015 (since 1987). bringing the total since 1987 to 2.8 billion pounds. Environmental Reuse 40 million electronic products and accessory units by the end of HP reused 3.7 million computer hardware units, bringing the total since sustainability 2015 (since 2003). 2003 to 34.7 million. Products and solutions • Product return and recycling Data HP operations 1 Supply chain environmental impact About this report 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total cumulative recycling—computer hardware and supplies 763,000 884,500 1,018,400 1,152,000 1,265,000 combined [tonnes] Total cumulative recycling—computer hardware and supplies 1,682 1,949 2,245 2,540 2,789 combined [million pounds] Total reuse and recycling combined [tonnes, approximate] 142,400 150,900 160,600 159,600 134,500 Reuse of equipment 2 30,000 30,000 26,700 26,000 21,400 Recycling—hardware and supplies 112,400 120,900 133,900 133,600 113,200 Number of countries and territories with HP return and recycling 56 58 60 69 70 programs Total recycling, by region [tonnes] 112,400 120,900 133,900 133,600 113,200 Americas 37,500 38,600 49,600 60,165 55,200 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 69,300 76,300 77,100 67,700 50,600 Asia Pacific and Japan 5,600 5,900 7,200 5,685 7,400 Total recycling, by type [tonnes] 112,400 120,900 133,900 133,600 113,200 Hardware 90,500 99,100 113,650 114,455 95,000 HP LaserJet toner cartridges 3 20,100 19,600 18,550 17,350 16,200 HP ink cartridges 3 1,800 2,200 1,700 1,745 2,040 HP LaserJet toner cartridge recycling HP LaserJet market covered by program [%] 90% 92% 94% 94% 90% Composition [%] Materials recycled into new products 80% 85% 82.1% 80.1% 78.8% Materials used for energy recovery 20% 15% 13.9% 15.9% 17.3% Reuse of components 4 4.0% 4.0% 4.0% Material in storage—pending processing 4 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Incineration 4 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Landfill4 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% continued 113 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Governance HP ink cartridge recycling Human Progress Ink market covered by program [%] 88% 87% 88% 88% 88% Economic Progress Composition [%] Environmental Progress Materials recovered for recycling 64% 73% 74.2% 69.1% 70.9% Environmental sustainability Materials used for energy recovery 31% 23% 21.6% 29.3% 27.6% Products and solutions Reuse of components 4 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% • Product return and Material in storage—pending processing 4 0.2% 0.0% 0.0% recycling Incineration 4 4.0% 1.5% 1.5% HP operations Landfill4 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Supply chain environmental impact 1 Totals include all hardware and supplies returned to HP for processing, with ultimate dispositions including recycling, energy recovery, and, where no suitable alternatives exist, responsible disposal. Hardware recycling data from Europe, Middle East, and Africa, and HP LaserJet cartridge recycling data are calendar year. About this report The remaining data are based on the HP fiscal year. Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. 2 The decrease in tonnage from 2009–2013 is due to a reduction in the average weight of returned units, rather than a decline in the total number of returned units. Returned units during that period were: 2009: 3.58 million units; 2010: 3.81 million units; 2011: 3.44 million units; 2012: 3.9 million units; 2013: 3.7 million units. 3 Includes cartridges returned by customers and cartridges from HP internally through 2010. The 2011, 2012, and 2013 figures are cartridges returned by customers only. 4 This category of data was added in 2011. 114 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Governance Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress Environmental sustainability Products and solutions Product return and recycling • HP operations Supply chain environmental impact About this report Solar installation at HP headquarters, Palo Alto, California HP operations The environmental impacts from our worldwide operaWe also work to decrease waste, reduce paper and 95 tions are much less significant than those from customer water consumption, and use less ozone-depleting use of our products and services, or from our supply chain. substances. Some of our manufacturing facilities have Nonetheless, we reduce those impacts wherever possible. additional impacts, including wastewater discharges and permitted releases of regulated substances, which we Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from our offices, data strive to minimize. million centers, and manufacturing facilities account for 5% of emissions across our value chain. We employ energy See Awards for the recognition HP has received for envikWh efficiency measures, smart building design, and renewable energy installations to reduce our operational ronmental management and performance. Decrease in total energy carbon footprint. use from HP operations, compared with 2012 About our operational data Data throughout this section are based on our fiscal year, sites and our largest owned and leased offices, warewhich ends October 31. houses, data centers, and distribution sites). These facilities represent 86% of our total floor space of almost 6.6 As of October 31, 2013, HP owned and leased nearly 700 million sq m. We extrapolated data from comparable data sites in 98 countries.1 During the year, we collected data centers and offices for the remaining floor space, unless from 333 sites (including all HP-owned manufacturing stated otherwise.2 1 This site count and reported square meters may differ from other published information, such as HP’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2013, due to the assumptions used for greenhouse gas accounting. 2 The availability of data varies by location and utility. Electricity data are most commonly available and cover 86% of our space. For other components of Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions, plus water and solid waste, HP develops intensity factors for nonreporting locations based on the actual performance of reporting sites. This ensures the most complete and accurate representation of environmental performance in operations possible. 115 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Management Energy and Contents Governance Human Progress Economic Progress and compliance GHG emissions Environmental Progress HP is committed to leadership standards in environmental, Although our operations account for only 5% of HP’s total Environmental health, and safety (EHS) performance. This includes concarbon footprint, we take every reasonable opportunity sustainability ducting our operations in an environmentally responsible at our facilities to reduce emissions and address climate Products and solutions manner and enabling employees to work without injury at change. Our approach, illustrated in the graphic below, is Product return and our facilities and other locations. to improve energy efficiency in our operations, use lowrecycling carbon and renewable energy sources where possible, • HP operations Our EHS management system ensures that we comply and reduce impacts from employee business travel. These with applicable laws and regulations and meet company activities can reduce costs while driving progress toward Supply chain standards across all HP facilities. At its core is our EHS our goal to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope environmental impact Policy. Newly acquired companies must implement our 1 and Scope 2)3 from our operations 20% by 2020, comAbout this report EHS management system as part of their integration. pared with 2010 levels. HP manufacturing operations in owned and leased space worldwide are certified to ISO 14001, the international Progress in 2013 standard for environmental management systems. In In 2013, our operations produced 1,795,000 tonnes of 2013, we continued efforts to achieve ISO 14001 certifica37.5% carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emissions, a 4.3% reduction for data centers in the UK and for offices in several tion from 1,874,700 tonnes of CO2e in 2012 and an 11.5% continental European countries. reduction from our 2010 baseline. Reduction in total waste We investigate thoroughly all allegations of noncompligenerated from HP HP’s total operations-related GHG emissions, normalized ance with the law to correct any issues, determine the root operations, compared against net revenue, equaled 16.0 tonnes of CO2e per with 2012 causes, and, if applicable, take action to prevent recurrence. $ million in 2013, up 2.6% from 2012 and a 0.6% reduction compared with 2010. Our management of health and safety and wellness are covered in HP people on page 59 and page 60. Driving towards energy leadership 10.0% Reduction in total Goal water consumed in HP Reduce total operations, compared GHG emissions from with 2012 our operations (Scope 1 and Scope 2) by 20%, compared to 2010 Contracts Green the rest Purchase renewable energy in larger volumes Make our own power Solar, fuel cell Self-generate where we can, reduce emissions, and hedge against energy price increases Be eﬀicient Reinvestments Increase building eﬀiciency with retrofits as technology improves Smart buldings Extract the most out of our existing portfolio LEED® and green leases New buildings are top performers Build a strong foundation Sponsorship and accountability Global Real Estate employees and HP management engage and sponsor energy goals and plans 3 For a list of HP’s Scope 1 and 2 emissions, see Sources of GHG emissions from HP operations, 2010–2013 on page 116. 116 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Our emissions continued to fall due to energy efficiency efforts globally and a 17.7% increase in our renewGHG emissions from operations Governance able energy-generating capacity during the year (see Energy use accounted for 92% of the GHG emissions our Human Progress Renewable energy on page 119). operations generated in 2013 and is one of our largEconomic Progress est operational costs. The remaining 8% came from our Environmental Progress During 2013, HP engaged a major consulting firm to assess transportation fleet, refrigeration equipment, and HP its energy-management practices. The study highlighted semiconductor development processes, which use perEnvironmental sustainability several positive findings, such as our progressive strategies fluorocarbons (PFCs). to use risk and cost management in sourcing energy and the Products and solutions inclusion of renewable energy in many of our large energy Product return and contracts. The analysis also identified leading practices Sources of GHG emissions from HP operations, recycling related to energy project development, self-generation, and 2010–2013* • HP operations facility manager engagement in several locations. We are 2010 2011 2012 2013 Supply chain working to leverage these best practices across HP. We are Scope 2 Electricity ** 84% 84% 87% 88% environmental impact also responding to the firm’s recommendations to improve our design standards and further develop our capability Scope 1 Natural gas 4% 4% 3% 4% About this report to collect, analyze, and act on energy data. These results Transportation 7% 7% 7% 6% reflect a growing accountability across the company to fleet reduce natural resource consumption in our operations. Refrigerant 4% 4% 2% 1% emissions 79,700 GHG emissions from operations, 2010–2013* [tonnes CO2e] Diesel Perfluorocarbons <1% <1% <1% <1% <1% <1% <1% <1% tonnes 2,000,000 20 * Numbers do not equal 100% due to rounding. CO2e ** Takes into account self-generated electricity from diesel and PV solar. 1,500,000 About our GHG emissions data 15 Decrease in GHG emissions from HP 1,000,000 We calculate our GHG emissions according to the 10 operations, compared Greenhouse Gas Protocol of the World Business Council for with 2012 Sustainable Development and World Resources Institute.4 500,000 5 In this section, we report Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions5 arising from HP’s operations, transportation fleet, and 0 0 employee business travel. 2010 2011 2012 2013 • Scope 1 emissions include those from the direct use of natural gas, diesel fuel, refrigerants, and PFCs in operaA mericas 1,205,100 1,170,300 1,079,800 1,033,800 tions and from fuel used by HP’s transportation fleet. • Scope 2 emissions are primarily from purchased Europe, Middle 354,800 282,500 264,700 255,500 East, and Africa electricity used in our operational real estate and trade data centers. A sia Pacific 467,800 518,400 530,200 505,700 • Scope 3 emissions in our operations result from and Japan employee business travel by commercial airlines and employee commuting. In other sections of this report, Total 2,027,700 1,971,200 1,874,700 1,795,000 we also disclose estimated Scope 3 emissions from production and nonproduction suppliers, product transport, G  HG emissions 16.1 15.5 15.6 16.0 intensity ** product use, and product recycling. [tonnes CO2e/$ million of net View HP’s carbon footprint on page 77 for more detail. See revenue] page 83 to view HP’s GHG emissions grouped by Scope. * Total includes HP’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. Emissions in this table have changed for previous fiscal years for three reasons: • The use of district cooling at the Malaysia Cyberjaya site was identified in FY13 and tracked retroactively to 2010 • Revised U.S. eGrid emissions factors with year 2010 data from ninth edition published February 2014 • Revised Australia emissions factors using NGER Technical Guidelines, reporting year 2013–14 published July 2013 ** Historical emissions-intensity values were calculated using HP’s annual revenue as characterized in financial reporting and Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. 4 HP reports actual performance each year. Historical values are restated for the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures when deemed material. 5 The World Resources Institute defines Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions in its Greenhouse Gas Protocol; see www.ghgprotocol.org/calculation-tools/faq. 117 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Energy efficiency Contents Energy use from operations, 2010–2013 [million kWh] Energy use from operations, 2010-2013 Governance 5,000 40 Human Progress Improving energy efficiency in HP’s operations is the most Economic Progress 4,000 32 effective way to reduce the company’s energy use and GHG Environmental Progress emissions. It’s a strategic investment that drives business 3,000 24 Environmental growth, saves money, and reduces environmental impact. sustainability A focus on sustainability guides our decisions on build2,000 16 Products and solutions ing design and operation. Energy efficiency and resource Product return and conservation inform our construction guidelines and 1,000 8 recycling operating standards, covering areas such as efficient • HP operations lighting, heating and cooling equipment, and data center 0 0 Supply chain design. Our infrastructure management suppliers audit 2010 2011 2012 2013 environmental impact 20–30 HP sites each year against the U.S.-based ASHRAE About this report energy standard for buildings. Since 2011, they have also Stationary 509 448 377 367 reviewed operational practices at HP sites for additional combustion (natural gas and diesel) improvement opportunities. Electricity * 3,825 3,795 3,738 3,654 Progress in 2013 District cooling ** 1 9 6 5 HP operations consumed 4,026 million kWh of energy in Total 4,335 4,252 4,121 4,026 2013, 2.3% less than the 4,121 million kWh in 2012 and a 7.1% drop from 4,335 million kWh in 2010. The decrease  nergy intensity E 34.4 33.4 34.2 35.9 from our 2010 baseline is the result of a 4.5% reduction in [thousand kWh/$ electricity consumption combined with a 27.9% decrease in million of net revenue] *** natural gas and diesel use during that period. * Includes purchased electricity and energy consumed during on-site Our energy intensity equaled 35,900 kWh per $ million electricity generation. of net revenue, a 5.0% increase from 2012 and a 4.4% ** The use of district cooling at the Malaysia Cyberjaya site was increase compared with our 2010 baseline. identified in 2013 and tracked retroactively to 2010. *** Historical energy intensity values were calculated using HP’s annual revenue as characterized in financial reporting and direct and In 2013, our corporate headquarters in Palo Alto, indirect energy use. California, United States, as well as our lab at Fort Collins, Colorado, United States, achieved certification from Making data centers more efficient ENERGY STAR®, a U.S. government-backed program that Reconciling growing demand for data with sustainable helps businesses and individuals protect the environment growth is a challenge. We operate client-serving (or through superior energy efficiency. “trade”) data centers worldwide, in addition to six internal data centers in three U.S. cities. Growing customer demand Energy-efficiency initiatives in 2013 included: makes consolidating, building, retrofitting, and operating • Introducing more efficient chillers at seven sites highly energy-efficient data centers all the more important. • Installing lighting improvements in offices and parking In 2013, HP completed the construction and commislots, plus the use of occupancy-sensing lighting controls sioning of two energy-efficient data centers in Sydney, at several sites Australia, and Toronto, Canada. They were designed and • Deploying specialized controls to minimize the number built to achieve a highly efficient power usage effectiveof power modules in an uninterruptible power supply ness (PUE) rating of 1.2 or better.6 Both data centers take (UPS) system needed to support data center demand maximum advantage of local climatic conditions, using • Launching a project at HP’s Mississauga, Canada, data natural air-cooling most of the year. Built without raised center to improve performance of air conditioning units floors, they use full air containment to prevent the inefduring mild weather conditions through special elecficient mixing of hot and cold air and overhead power and tronic controls network cabling trays. View examples of innovative, energy-efficient features in our data centers in Toronto, Canada, and Sydney, Australia. During 2013, HP’s data center in Austin, Texas, United States, installed two HP Pod 240a units (known as “EcoPODs”) to reduce energy consumption while 6 PUE is the ratio of the total energy used by a data center compared to the amount used for computing. The lowest theoretical rate is 1.0. 118 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Sustainable Contents increasing data capacity. Designed and sold by HP, each Governance unit offers the equivalent of more than 800 sq m of traditional data center information technology (IT) in an Human Progress Economic Progress 84-square-meter package7 and uses 95% less energy compared with traditional data centers.8 We plan to building design Environmental Progress commission more EcoPODs at our data center in Atlanta, Georgia, United States, in 2014. By using our buildings more efficiently and improving Environmental design of new and existing facilities, we reduce energy use sustainability We continued to consolidate facilities during 2013 by and decrease environmental impact in other areas, such as Products and solutions closing down older, less-efficient sites and moving client materials use, waste generation, and water consumption. Product return and activity into our newer, energy-efficient locations, with no This approach conserves natural resources and money recycling adverse impact to customers. As a result, HP-operated while extending the life of our buildings. • HP operations data center space and computer lab floor space has been reduced by more than 14,000 square meters, while mainSupply chain environmental impact taining our ability to support customers worldwide. Progress in 2013 About this report For several years we have used a sustainable building In addition, we completed energy efficiency initiatives at data centers over the year that are estimated to save 23 design checklist to help project managers incorporate million kWh annually. This will reduce associated GHG emissuch features into office improvements. It covers costsions by about 8,600 tonnes of CO2e a year, equivalent to effective, sustainable design elements related to energy removing nearly 1,800 passenger vehicles from the road. and materials use, waste management, and water efficiency. A scorecard completed at the end of each project notes the building’s performance in each area and helps identify areas for further enhancement. The sustainability “Three years ago we began to consolidate our data survey was applicable to fewer projects in 2013 than in centers and transform them into best-in-class the prior year. Though our real estate and project plans vary each year, we strive to apply our design guidelines facilities to house our premier infrastructures and wherever possible. services. We have achieved outstanding results, with zero adverse incidents and no negative Sustainable building design progress summary impacts on our clients. With 72 sites closed so far, [Percentage of seven projects tracked in 2013 addressing each [set 2]scorecard element] 11. sustainable building design progress summary we continue to consolidate high-cost, end-of-life, Waste management 86% nonstrategic, and redundant data centers into Material resources 66% fewer, highly efficient, strategic locations.” Planning for conservation 61% — Ed Pomerleau, Vice President, HP Global Data Center, Toronto, Canada Indoor environment 59% Innovation and design process 57% In 2013, HP Enterprise Services’ Global Data Center Water eﬀiciency 54% Facilities organization was named a Computerworld Energy and atmosphere 53% Honors Program Laureate in the sustainability category. Our Streetsville Data Center in Mississauga, Ontario, 0% 100% Canada, was runner-up in the DataCenterDynamics North American awards, which recognize innovation and leadership in the data center industry. We will replace this checklist in 2014 with design guidelines that more closely align with sustainable building HP supports international efforts to improve the environstandards such as LEED. mental performance of data centers. For example, we lent our expertise to the development of the European Code Innovation is critical to HP and its Global Real Estate (GRE) of Conduct for Data Centres accreditation program, a volorganization. An important area of focus is a collaborative untary initiative managed by the European Commission. effort between GRE and HP Labs to make our buildings Participants report energy-saving technologies implesmarter by taking advantage of the large quantities of mented at data centers and the resulting savings. At the data they generate on energy and water consumption and end of 2013, six HP data centers in Europe, the Middle East, other equipment performance. We are in the early stages and Africa (EMEA) had been accredited under this program. of learning how to make this data actionable and expect During 2014, we plan to expand accreditation across our insights from this project to help reduce the consumption EMEA data centers. of natural resources, recover capacity, and increase occupant comfort. We ran pilots at four U.S. sites during 2013 and plan to expand this work to other locations in 2014. 7 Values based on 1.3 MW of IT load at 5 kW per rack, where one rack equals 3 sq m; there are an estimated 260 racks in a traditional data center. 8 New POD technology from HP offers 95% greater energy efficiency compared with a traditional brick-and-mortar data center, based on internal HP testing. 119 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Eight HP building projects worldwide were LEED certified • Mexico: a second solar panel project in Guadalajara, 0.78 Governance by the end of 2013, up from five in 2012. The three projMW in capacity, that will avoid an estimated 930 tonnes ects that achieved LEED status in 2013 were in Gurgaon, of CO2e emissions yearly Human Progress India (Gold certification); Sunnyvale, California, United • United States: a 1 MW solar installation at our Palo Alto, Economic Progress States (Gold certification)9; and Palo Alto, California, United California, site that will avoid an estimated 360 tonnes Environmental Progress States (Platinum certification). We plan to complete six of CO2e emissions annually more LEED projects in 2014. Environmental sustainability While all our renewable energy projects so far have Products and solutions been solar, we are also planning the installation of a Renewable energy fuel cell at one of our California sites to diversify our Product return and self-generation capacity. recycling • HP operations HP also purchased 498 million kWh of renewable energy Using renewable energy sources, such as solar power, Supply chain at HP facilities reduces greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from outside providers in 2013, mostly through energy environmental impact while providing a hedge against rising fossil fuel prices. contracts in Ireland, the UK, and other European countries, About this report We hope to raise self-generated capacity to 10 MW by plus renewable energy credits in the United States. Our 2017—a fivefold increase from 2012 levels. reporting excludes renewable energy provided by default in the power grid. Progress in 2013 HP renewable energy self-generation capacity, 2008–2014 [MW] In 2013, our installed capacity for on-site renewable Goal energy rose to nearly 2.4 MW, up 17.7% from 2012. The 10 additional capacity is from new solar installations in Kiryat Gat, Israel, and Guadalajara, Mexico. 8 In 2014, our installed capacity will more than double to 6 nearly 6 MW, putting us on track to reach 10 MW by 2017. Projects due to come online in 2014 include: 4 • India: four PV solar panel installations that will increase capacity by 1.6 MW and avoid an estimated 2,300 tonnes 2 of CO2e emissions a year • Israel: a fourth phase to the existing installation that 0 adds 0.17 MW and will avoid an estimated 260 tonnes of 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2017 (projected) CO2e emissions yearly Case study Advocating for renewables Renewable energy enables sustainable growth within the limits of our planet’s resources. In addition to our own clean energy commitment, HP engages with others to promote the global scale-up of renewable energy generation. In September 2013, HP sponsored and took part in a Renewable Energy Buyers Day workshop in Washington, D.C., organized by WWF and the Rocky Mountain Institute. We shared ideas and experiences with other large businesses and explored how we might collaborate to increase the availability of renewable energy. 1 MW photovoltaic solar installation at HP headquarters, Palo Alto, California 9 The LEED Gold certification in Sunnyvale, California, was erroneously reported in the HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report. Certification was actually awarded in October 2013. 120 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Travel Contents GHG emissions from employee business travel, Governance 2010–2013 [tonnes CO2e] 2010 2011 2012 2013 Human Progress Approximately one-third of HP employees travel for work. Total emissions 448,800 462,800 403,100 372,200 Economic Progress To decrease the associated environmental impact, we Transportation fleet 144,800 142,800 133,100 112,200 Environmental Progress promote use of more efficient forms of transportation, (Scope 1 emissions) Environmental such as rail, compact cars, and electric vehicles, as well sustainability as virtual communication tools, such as videoconferencCommercial air 304,000 320,000 270,000 260,000 travel (Scope 3 Products and solutions ing, that reduce the need for travel. We also encourage emissions) employees to choose commuting options that reduce their Product return and GHG emissions. Emissions per 1.38 1.32 1.21 1.17 recycling employee * • HP operations * Based on employee numbers as reported in past HP Global Citizenship Reports. Supply chain Progress in 2013 environmental impact About this report In 2013, employee business travel (excluding commuting) generated 372,200 tonnes of CO2e emissions, a 7.7% Waste and recycling decrease from 2012. Emissions per employee decreased by 3.3% during the year and have dropped by 15.2% since Although our facilities do not generate large amounts of 2010. Air travel represents the majority of emissions from waste, we work to reduce related environmental impacts employee business travel (69.9%). through a policy of “reduce, reuse, and recycle.” In 2013, we improved our travel portal with a link to the We minimize the amount of nonhazardous solid waste— U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s emissions calsuch as paper, pallets, and packaging—that we send to culator, which helps users measure the carbon footprint landfill. For waste managed as hazardous10 —mainly liquid of possible trips. We also created an eco-travel portal from our ink and inkjet manufacturing facilities and batterproviding employees with tips on sharing rental cars, ies from data centers—we prioritize waste management selecting more efficient aircraft, and using the train, as options with lower environmental impacts and only use well as travel alternatives, such as videoconferencing. We disposal as a last resort. require vehicle rental companies to provide SmartWay Certified vehicles (as designated by the U.S. Environmental We reuse electronic equipment when appropriate. Protection Agency) and to include hybrid and fuel-efficient Otherwise, we recycle it responsibly through the same cars when available. programs we offer our customers. See Product return and recycling on page 108 for detail. Reducing GHG emissions in our auto fleet In 2012, we reduced CO2 emissions from our European auto fleet to 128 g CO2/km, from an average of 141 g CO2/km in Recycling programs 2011, exceeding the European Union’s 2015 target of 130 g CO2/km for all new cars. In 2013, we improved that figure Our global recycling programs drive our efforts to reduce further, to 122 g CO2/km. In the United States, we continue waste sent to landfills. HP employees recycle paper, plasto support the Clinton Global Fleet for Change initiative. tics, and batteries at convenient recycling points within This commits us to reduce GHG emissions from our U.S. many of our buildings. We also recycle glass, plastic, and auto fleet by 10% per vehicle by 2015, from 2010 levels. We aluminum containers disposed of in our dining rooms and are on track to achieve this goal, primarily through introconference facilities. ducing more fuel-efficient vehicles to our fleet. In addition to initiatives implemented at the corporate Commuting level, local sites and regions set up and run their own recycling activities, including materials such as wood and oils. In October 2013, we launched guidelines for implementIn 2013, our Guadalajara, Mexico, and San Jose, Costa Rica, ing electric vehicle charging stations at HP sites globally. facilities launched a joint campaign to encourage employWe plan to increase the number of charging stations in ees to increase recycling rates by installing stations where 2014, helping more employees to reduce the impact of people can more easily separate waste products for their commute. This complements the variety of programs recycling. At the Costa Rica site, these measures increased already in place in some locations such as free bus passes, the proportion of waste diverted from landfill from 19.9% ride-share programs, and preferred parking for carin 2012 to 58.1% in 2013. pools. We also have offerings for bicycle commuters such as bike racks, showers, lockers, emergency repair kits, and tune up events. 10 Hazardous waste classification varies by country. For ease of calculation, HP data include some waste not considered hazardous in the country where it is generated. 121 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Progress in 2013 Nonhazardous waste composition, 2013* [percentage of total] Governance Human Progress In 2013, HP generated approximately 78,600 tonnes of total waste compared with 125,700 tonnes in 2012, Economic Progress a reduction of 37.5%. The vast majority (89.9%) was Environmental Progress nonhazardous solid waste (see breakdown below). Waste Environmental volume in 2012 was unusually high as a result of two sustainability major building demolition projects in the Americas region. Products and solutions We reused, recycled, or incinerated around 61,500 tonnes Product return and of nonhazardous waste in 2013, achieving a landfill-diverrecycling sion rate of 86.9%. This was a decrease from 88.2% in • HP operations 2012 when two major building demolition projects helped Supply chain raise the diversion rate. In all, 59 HP sites around the world environmental impact diverted 100% of their waste from landfills during 2013. About this report Reused or recycled 79.5% Almost 30% of the nonhazardous waste we generated in 2013 was paper. We continue to use paper more efficiently Paper 29.8% to lessen HP’s environmental impact and save money. See Paper on page 103. Pallets 16.7% Nonhazardous waste, 2010–2013* [tonnes] Electronic equipment 5.0% Packaging materials 4.9% 125,000 100% Metals 1.7% 100,000 80% Other 21.4% 75,000 60% L andfill 13.1% 50,000 40% Incineration 7.3% 25,000 20% * Segments do not add up to 100% due to rounding. 0 0% 2010 2011 2012 2013 Hazardous waste, 2010–2013* [tonnes] 10,000 A mericas 55,800 51,300 88,900 43,000 8,000 Europe, Middle 19,400 15,900 13,500 12,700 East, and Africa 6,000 A sia Pacific 17,300 15,800 15,200 15,000 and Japan 4,000 Total 92,500 82,900 117,600 70,700 2,000 L andfill 84.8% 82.1% 88.2% 86.9% diversion rate 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 * Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. A mericas 3,600 3,030 2,760 2,020 Europe, Middle East, 2,570 2,560 3,040 3,560 and Africa A sia Pacific 2,270 1,810 2,270 2,340 and Japan Total 8,430 7,400 8,060 7,920 * Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. 122 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents HP facilities globally implement waste-reduction initiaWater-reduction initiatives during the year included: Governance tives that help improve our performance in this area. • India: a rainwater-harvesting project in Bangalore will Examples in 2013 included: Human Progress reduce water consumption by 27,900 cubic meters Economic Progress • India: our Bangalore site reuses paper for business cards annually. The use of treated industrial wastewater for and notepads. the site’s landscape irrigation and toilets is anticipated Environmental Progress to save more than an estimated 98,000 cubic meters of • Singapore: a new project uses an ink-manufacturing Environmental water each year. process waste to run a boiler at our ink-manufacturing sustainability facility. As a result we recycled 146 tonnes of hazardous • Ireland: various measures at our site in Dublin—includProducts and solutions waste generated at the site this year, 31 tonnes of which ing the replacement of restroom taps, improvements Product return and was reused in a boiler eliminating the need for diesel. in our high-purity water-generation plant, and producrecycling In addition, our recycling vendor uses the remaining tion equipment modifications—will save more than • HP operations recycled waste to fuel its incinerators, reducing its use of 100,000 cubic meters of water a year based on 2012 diesel fuel as well. site consumption. Supply chain environmental impact • United States: since 2012, our Corvallis, Oregon, and • Israel: we are testing an innovative leak-detection About this report San Diego, California, sites reuse packaging, reducing system that identified several leaks from running toilets nonhazardous waste each year by nearly 4 tonnes comand irrigation. The resulting water savings are estimated pared to not reusing those materials on-site. to pay for the project within two years. • Singapore: a new rainwater-harvesting program and use of reclaimed water in cooling towers will together save Water 12,950 cubic meters of water annually. Globally, in 2013, we recycled and/or reclaimed more than HP’s operations are not water intensive, but we recognize 350,000 cubic meters of water. Water recycling and reclathat water availability is a growing concern globally. We mation initiatives included: are committed to reducing our water footprint, especially • India: using treated industrial wastewater for landscapat operations in water-stressed regions. We take part in ing and flushing of toilets. the CDP water program to improve our understanding of water issues and enhance our disclosure. This year, we • Singapore: reclaiming reject water from high-purity expanded our reporting to include a breakdown of water water operations and reusing it in a cooling tower. consumption by source (see page 123). • United States: reclaiming reject water from high-purity water operations at our Corvallis plant in Oregon, In 2013, we modeled HP’s water footprint across our value recycling it back into the process or reusing it in acid chain for 2012. This showed that only 5% of total water exhaust scrubbers. use was related to our operations, both direct consumption as well as water associated with electricity generation. 18% related to our suppliers (in the same categories as Water consumption, 2010–2013* [cubic meters] operations) and 77% was associated with the generation 10,000,000 of electricity for product use and paper manufacturing. For more detail, see Energy, climate, and water on page 77. 8,000,000 We have implemented water-conservation projects in support of our 2015 goal to reduce freshwater use at 6,000,000 water-stressed sites by 3% from 2011 levels. We met this goal two years early and finished 2013 with an 8.8% 4,000,000 reduction compared to 2011. In 2014, we will develop a new water goal that continues to focus on water-stressed 2,000,000 facilities but will also target improvement at non-waterstressed sites. 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 Progress in 2013 A mericas 4,977,000 4,609,000 4,641,000 3,985,000 In 2013, HP consumed 7.7 million cubic meters of water Europe, Middle 1,205,000 1,245,000 1,291,000 1,156,000 worldwide, predominantly for use in buildings, coolEast, and Africa ing, and landscape irrigation. This represents a 10.0% decrease from 2012, due to the completion of a number A sia Pacific 2,360,000 2,436,000 2,608,000 2,543,000 of water conservation projects and a drop in ink cartridge and Japan production at one site. Consumption at our priority sites in water-stressed locations decreased by 11.7% in 2013, Total 8,542,000 8,290,000 8,540,000 7,684,000 compared to the prior year. * Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. 123 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Chemical Contents Water consumption, by source, 2013 [cubic meters] Governance Human Progress Economic Progress management Environmental Progress Environmental sustainability and releases Products and solutions Five HP operations worldwide—those involved in the manufacture of imaging and printing products—use Product return and chemicals listed on the U.S. Environmental Protection recycling Agency Toxics Release Inventory (TRI). While only the two • HP operations HP operations within U.S. jurisdiction are required to report Supply chain annually under the TRI regulation, we include the collecenvironmental impact tive data for all five sites in this report. Municipal water 6,804,000 88.5% About this report In 2012, worldwide releases11 of such chemicals fell by Wastewater from another organization 735,000 9.6% (NeWater *) 34.5%, mainly driven by significant reductions at our inkjet-manufacturing facility in Singapore. Since 2004, Tanker water ** 124,000 1.6% worldwide releases have fallen by 69.2%. We expect the figures to continue to decline as we eliminate, scale down, Well water 21,000 0.3% and improve the HP processes that use these chemicals. Total 7,684,000 100% TRI releases, 2008–2012* [tonnes] * NeWater is ultra purified wastewater used in manufacturing operations in 500 Singapore. ** Well water that is delivered to the site by tanker truck. 400 Wastewater 300 Wastewater is not a significant environmental aspect 200 of HP operations. While our six imaging and printing product-manufacturing facilities generate some process 100 wastewater, those effluents are pretreated, strictly monitored, and discharged under government-issued permits 0 to municipal wastewater plants where they undergo 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 further treatment. We also implement procedures to prevent unauthorized discharges of chemicals to our facility wastewater systems and ensure we do not discharge A ir 16.7 26.1 18.3 17.5 15.6 wastewater directly from these HP operations to surface water or to groundwater. Wastewater 9.3 6.1 6.9 6.5 4.2 O ff-site treatment 60.5 106.1 49.1 53.3 52.5 O ff-site recycling 365.8 269.0 260.5 294.7 171.4 Total 452.2 407.3 334.8 372.0 243.7 * TRI reports are due to the U.S. EPA July 1 each year, so the most recently completed reporting year is 2012. 11 Releases are defined as emissions plus shipments to recycling or treatment facilities. 124 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents TRI[setreleases by substance, 2] 19. TRI releases 2012 by substance, 2012** [tonnes] [tonnes] facility caused by a mechanical malfunction of a backup Governance power generator. HP worked quickly to ensure that the fuel was recovered before it could leave HP property, and the Human Progress incident has been closed by the state regulatory authority Economic Progress overseeing the response. Environmental Progress Environmental Ozone-depleting sustainability Products and solutions substances Product return and recycling • HP operations Supply chain HP facilities use ozone-depleting substances (ODSs) in environmental impact N -methyl pyrrolidone (off-site recycling) 171.3 70.3% cooling and air-conditioning systems. Although these About this report systems are sealed, leaks during operation and mainGlycol ethers (off-site treatment) 27.8 11.4% tenance can result in emissions. We continue to replace chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) in our existing systems with Xylene (off-site treatment) 18.7 7.7% hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs). HFCs are greenhouse gases, but do not deplete the ozone layer. We are also replacXylene (air emissions) 10.2 4.2% ing HFC-based cooling systems with HFC-free equivalents when they reach the end of their operational lives. These Nitric acid (off-site treatment) 6.0 2.5% HFC-free equivalents are not ozone-depleting and have no or very low global warming potential. HP completely Glycol ethers (air emissions) 5.4 2.2% eliminated the use of Class 1 ODSs in all manufacturing operations in 1993. Nitrates (wastewater) 4.2 1.7% We calculate ODS emissions by tracking those sites that Lead (off-site recycle) 0.1 0.0% report replacing refrigerants due to leakage. In 2013, estimated global ODS emissions from HP facilities fell to Total 243.7 100% 290 kg of CFC-11 equivalent, compared with 474 kg in 2012 and 9,168 kg in 2010.12 * TRI reports are due to the U.S. EPA July 1 each year, so the most recently completed reporting year is 2012. See performance data, including regional breakdowns, in Data on page 83. We apply the risk-prevention and management procedures of our EHS management system to help prevent unplanned releases at our facilities. In 2013, the only significant unplanned release was of diesel fuel at a U.S. 12 In 2012, we began to calculate ODS emissions by tracking sites that have reported replacing refrigerants due to leakage. We apply an intensity factor based on those actual quantities for nonreporting sites. Previously, we estimated the level of leakage across the entire real estate portfolio based on the inventory of refrigerants in equipment and in storage. 125 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Goals Contents Governance Human Progress Economic Progress Energy and GHG emissions Environmental Progress 2013 goal Progress Environmental sustainability Reduce the GHG emissions from HP-owned and HP-leased facilities by We achieved this goal in 2011, two years early. We have also deployed 20% relative to 2005 levels by the end of 2013 on an absolute basis. Hara software as our new system of record and improved GHG-emissions Products and solutions tracking and estimating methodologies. We recalculated historical data Product return and back to 2010 and are using it as our new baseline year. recycling 2015 goal • HP operations Reduce GHG emissions from HP’s U.S. auto fleet by 10% on a per unit We are on track to achieve this goal, primarily through introducing more Supply chain basis, compared to 2010. fuel-efficient vehicles into our U.S. auto fleet. environmental impact 2020 goal About this report Reduce total GHG emissions from our operations (Scope 1 and Scope 2) In 2013, our operations produced 1,795,000 tonnes of CO2e emissions, by 20%, compared to 2010. an 11.5% reduction from our 2010 baseline. Water 2015 goal Progress Reduce freshwater use at sites identified as water-stressed by 3%, We achieved this goal two years early. Water consumption at these compared to 2011 consumption at those locations. locations decreased 8.8% in 2013, compared with 2011. Data 1 (also see Carbon footprint data table in Environmental sustainability) 2010 2011 2012 2013 Energy use [million kWh] 4,335 4,252 4,121 4,026 Energy intensity2 [thousand kWh/$ million of net revenue] 34.4 33.4 34.2 35.9 Direct energy use in operations (corresponds to Scope 1 emissions) 512 450 379 370 Electricity (generated on site) [million kWh] 38 24 25 22 Natural gas [million kWh] 474 426 355 348 Americas 283 249 202 195 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 183 169 143 143 Asia Pacific and Japan 8 8 9 10 Renewable (generated on site) [million kWh] 2 3 3 3 Diesel/gas/oil 3 36 22 22 19 Indirect energy use (corresponds to Scope 2 emissions) 3,824 3,802 3,742 3,656 Electricity (purchased) [million kWh] 3,823 3,793 3,735 3,651 Americas 2,224 2,187 2,115 2,055 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 1,006 952 947 943 Asia Pacific and Japan 592 654 673 653 Voluntary purchases of renewable energy4 [million kWh] 309 467 494 498 District cooling (purchased)5 [million kWh] 1 9 6 5 Americas 0 0 0 0 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 0 0 0 continued 126 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents 2010 2011 2012 2013 Governance Asia Pacific and Japan 1 9 6 5 Human Progress Nonhazardous waste [tonnes] 92,500 82,900 117,600 70,700 Economic Progress Americas 55,800 51,300 88,900 43,000 Environmental Progress Europe, Middle East, and Africa 19,400 15,900 13,500 12,700 Environmental sustainability Asia Pacific and Japan 17,300 15,800 15,200 15,000 Products and solutions Nonhazardous waste landfill diversion rate [% of total produced] Product return and Global 84.8% 82.1% 88.2% 86.9% recycling Americas 81.8% 80.4% 88.9% 85.4% • HP operations Europe, Middle East, and Africa 89.3% 87.4% 89.1% 93.0% Supply chain environmental impact Asia Pacific and Japan 89.6% 82.0% 83.3% 86.4% About this report Hazardous waste [tonnes] 8,430 7,400 8,060 7,920 Americas 3,600 3,030 2,760 2,020 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 2,570 2,560 3,040 3,560 Asia Pacific and Japan 2,270 1,810 2,270 2,340 Water consumption [cubic meters] 8,542,000 8,290,000 8,540,000 7,684,000 Americas 4,977,000 4,609,000 4,641,000 3,985,000 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 1,205,000 1,245,000 1,291,000 1,156,000 Asia Pacific and Japan 2,360,000 2,436,000 2,608,000 2,543,000 Water consumption, by source 6 [cubic meters] 8,542,000 8,290,000 8,540,000 7,684,000 Well water 21,000 Wastewater from another organization7 (NeWater) 6,000 707,000 800,000 735,000 Tanker water 8 124,000 Municipal water 8,535,000 7,583,000 7,740,000 6,804,000 Reused treated sewage treatment plant water 9 [cubic meters] 0 0 0 98,000 Toxics Release Inventory releases10 [tonnes] 334.8 372.0 243.7 Off-site recycling 260.5 294.7 171.4 Off-site treatment 49.1 53.3 52.5 Wastewater 6.9 6.5 4.2 Air 18.3 17.5 15.6 Ozone depletion potential of estimated emissions11 [kg of CFC-11 equivalent] 9,168 6,678 474 300 Americas 6,493 5,894 320 147 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 59 82 45 46 Asia Pacific and Japan 2,616 702 110 107 1 Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. 2 Historical energy intensity values were calculated using HP’s annual revenue as characterized in financial reporting and direct and indirect energy use. 3 Diesel is mostly used at HP for testing generators. In limited cases, diesel is also used for long-term on-site energy generation. 4 Renewable energy and renewable energy credits, excluding renewable energy provided by default in the power grid. 5 The use of district cooling at the Malaysia Cyberjaya site was identified in 2013 and tracked retroactively to 2010. 6 Prior to 2013, well water and tanker water were included in the Municipal water category. 7 NeWater is ultrapurified wastewater used in manufacturing operations in Singapore. 8 Well water that is delivered to the site by tanker truck. 9 This water is used for landscaping and toilets. 10 Toxics Release Inventory reports are due to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency July 1 each year, so the most recently completed reporting year is 2012. 11 In 2012, we began to calculate ODS emissions by tracking sites that have reported replacing refrigerants due to leakage. We apply an intensity factor based on those actual quantities for nonreporting sites. Previously, we estimated the level of leakage across the entire real estate portfolio based on the inventory of refrigerants in equipment and in storage. 127 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Governance Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress Environmental sustainability Products and solutions Product return and recycling HP operations • Supply chain environmental impact About this report HP final assembly supplier, China Supply chain environmental impact Supply chain GHG Reducing the environmental impact of HP’s supply chain operations is a key objective of our Supply Chain Responsibility (SCR) program. Our supply chain accounts for 34% of HP’s carbon footprint. (See our carbon footprint on page 77 in emissions Energy, climate, and water). To address this portion of As our supply chain produces 34% of HP’s GHG emissions, our footprint, we set our industry’s first supply chain GHG in 2013, we introduced our industry’s first supply chain emissions reduction goal: to achieve a 20% decrease GHG intensity goal (see left). We have already achieved a in first-tier manufacturing and product transportation7% reduction in GHG emissions intensity since 2010 (see related GHG emissions intensity1 by 2020, compared with graph on next page). We worked with Climate Savers, 2010. Because we ship more than one million products a World Wildlife Fund (WWF) program that promotes between manufacturing sites, distribution centers, and aggressive private sector action to decrease GHG emiscustomer destinations worldwide on a typical day, improvsions, to set an industry leading goal. To learn more about ing product transport plays a pivotal role in this reduction. how we account for our GHG emissions, see the HP carbon accounting manual. We aim to reduce our supply chain’s environmental impact beyond GHG emissions. With this in mind, we are progresOur strategy for achieving this goal includes: sively expanding the scope of environmental reporting we ask of our suppliers. In 2012, we introduced water use to • Incentivizing suppliers to set and achieve GHG emissupplier reporting and, in 2013, added waste generation. sions-reduction goals through our new SER scorecard • Expanding our existing supplier energy efficiency As with the social focus areas of our SCR program, we supprograms port our environmental objectives with capability-building • Continuing to deploy efficiency initiatives for transportainitiatives and audits. For more on SCR at HP, read the tion suppliers Supply chain responsibility section. • Providing suppliers with support tools and guidance on GHG emissions reduction 1 HP calculates intensity as its suppliers’ GHG emissions divided by HP’s annual revenue. This method normalizes performance based on business productivity. 128 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Reduction in first-tier Reduction in first-tier manufacturing production and product supplier and product transportationIn 2012, HP’s first-tier production suppliers generated Governance related GHG emissions intensity [tonnes CO2e/million $tonnes transportation-related GHG emissions intensity 3 million HP revenue, of CO2e (see table). We are confident that, [tonnes CO2e/$ million of HP net revenue, 2010 = 100%] in collaboration with us, they can further improve energy Human Progress 2010=100%] efficiency, reduce their emissions, and contribute to meet100% Economic Progress ing our 2020 goal. Measurement and reporting are the first Environmental Progress steps towards encouraging our suppliers to establish GHG 80% emissions-reduction programs with tangible targets. In Environmental sustainability 2012, 89% of our production suppliers (by spend) had GHG 60% emissions reduction targets in place, up from 67% in 2008. Products and solutions Product return and 40% Though not a part of our supply chain GHG emissions recycling intensity-reduction goal, HP is also working to reduce GHG HP operations emissions with nonproduction suppliers. Nonproduction 20% • Supply chain suppliers are those that do not provide materials, environmental impact components or transport for HP’s products, such as 0% travel vendors, telecommunication firms, and staffAbout this report 2010 2011 2012 ing companies. We began reporting on emissions from nonproduction suppliers in the HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report, using data collected from their CDP (formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project) submissions. Production and nonproduction In 2013, we asked more of our nonproduction suppliers to report their GHG emissions. By the end of 2013, 65% supplier GHG emissions of our first-tier nonproduction suppliers reported their GHG emissions—through CDP or some other mechaProduction suppliers provide materials and components nism—compared with 51% reporting emissions via CDP for HP’s product manufacturing globally. They also submissions in the prior fiscal year. Additionally, though assemble the HP products our customers use. more nonproduction suppliers are monitoring GHGs, the reported amount of GHG emissions attributed to their In 2008, HP became the first major information technology work for HP decreased in 2012 (see graph below). (IT) company to measure and publish aggregated manufacturing supply chain GHG emissions (for the year 2007). We will continue to train and support these suppliers to This enabled us to better understand our supply chain improve GHG emissions disclosure and plan to publish data GHG impacts and how they relate to HP’s overall carbon covering more of our nonproduction supply chain in 2014. footprint. The data also helped our suppliers recognize the potential for environmental and cost savings in their businesses. Our supply chain emissions data covered 95% of our suppliers (by spend) in 2012—the most recent year that data is available—compared with 81% in 2007. Case study Progress towards a 20% supply chain GHG emissions reduction Many of HP’s suppliers are contributing to our GHG 265,000 kWh annually, and a site in Singapore has reduced emissions reduction goal. First-tier suppliers Seagate energy use by almost 967,000 kWh per year. To continue Technology, a leading data storage company, and Western to support this effort, Seagate has committed that all new Digital (WD), a major storage solutions provider, share our facilities will meet energy-efficient building criteria. commitment to environmental progress. As part of their participation in HP’s capability-building Seagate is reducing the amount of energy used in manuprograms, Western Digital has explored a variety of ways facturing processes. In 2012, Seagate used 11% less to increase their energy efficiency at sites in Malaysia and energy to produce hard drives compared to their 2008 Thailand. At their Malaysian facilities, WD has invested baseline. Seagate is also working on its operational footin more efficient heating, ventilation, and air conditionprint through facility retrofits and equipment upgrades. ing equipment as well as energy-efficient lighting. These Their facility in Penang, Malaysia, is saving more than upgrades are saving about 190,000 kWh annually. 129 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Supplier GHG emissions performance* [tonnes CO2e] Governance 10,000,000 100% Human Progress Economic Progress 8,000,000 80% Environmental Progress Environmental 6,000,000 60% sustainability Products and solutions 4,000,000 40% Product return and recycling 2,000,000 20% HP operations • Supply chain 0 0% environmental impact 2010 2011 2012 About this report Production suppliers Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions ** 4,500,000 3,500,000 3,000,000 Coverage [% of spend] 95% 95% 95% Scope 3 emissions **, *** [tonnes CO2e] 3,100,000 6,500,000 Coverage [% of spend] 48% 53% Nonproduction suppliers Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions ** [tonnes CO2e] 480,000 450,000 Coverage [% of spend] 51% 65% * Emissions are estimated based on suppliers’ emissions and their dollar volume of HP business compared with their total revenue. The majority of these companies report on a calendar year basis. The year 2012 is the most recent for which data are available. ** The World Resources Institute defines Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions in its Greenhouse Gas Protocol; see www.ghgprotocol.org/calculation-tools/faq. *** Suppliers may not report all Scope 3 categories. Their Scope 3 emissions will fluctuate as reporting becomes more accurate and categories are added. For this reason, in 2012 we saw a large increase. Transportation • Influencing our logistics services providers (LSPs) to decrease emissions GHG emissions • Redesigning product packaging to optimize product transportation Continuing to reduce the carbon footprint of our product GHG emissions from transporting HP products totaled transportation is key to achieving our new supply chain an estimated 1.6 million tonnes of CO2e in 2013, 6% less GHG emissions reduction goal. than in 2012. 2 On a typical day, we ship more than one million products between manufacturing sites, distribution centers, and More efficient supply chain network customer destinations. We use the following strategies to reduce fuel use and product transport-related environWe decrease the distance our products travel by shipping mental impact: them directly to customers or to the distribution centers closest to them. We also consolidate shipments to • Increasing the efficiency of our supply chain network maximize the capacity utilization of the trucks that carry and consolidating our shipments our products. • Increasing use of modes of transport that reduce environmental impacts (such as ocean or rail) 2 This figure for transport GHG emissions is based on data reported by LSPs that HP contracts to deliver our products. It differs from the larger product life cycle assessment-based estimate presented in Energy, climate, and water on page 77, which includes additional upstream and downstream transport related to our products, as well as retail and storage. 130 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents In 2013, HP expanded these efforts by launching CenterPool. Through this U.S. initiative, HP merges Efficient logistics service providers Governance smallerand low-density truck shipments into five HP selects logistics service providers (LSPs) that maintain Human Progress regional locations. Shipments are then further consolihigh standards in social and environmental responsibility Economic Progress dated into full truckload shipments and transported to our (SER), in line with our Supplier SER Agreement and HP’s EICC Environmental Progress reseller locations. The CenterPool program reduced emisCode of Conduct. These LSPs continually look to increase sions by an estimated 12,000 tonnes of CO2e and saved energy and fuel efficiency through improved routes and Environmental sustainability more than $2 million in 2013. upgraded engine technologies. To measure progress, we Products and solutions require LSPs to track GHG emissions associated with the transport of HP products. In 2013, we began to explicitly Product return and Less environmentally impactful consider environmental performance when selecting LSPs, recycling HP operations modes of transport along with cost, turnaround time, and other factors. • Supply chain We typically ship HP products by ocean or air from the Additionally, we work with a number of groups focused environmental impact manufacturing location to regional distribution centers, on decreasing the environmental impact of commercial About this report and then by truck or rail to their final destinations. Since air freight, such as Green Freight Asia (see case study on is by far the most GHG-intensive mode of transportation, the next page), Green Freight Europe, International Air shifting to other modes reduces carbon impacts substanTransport Association, Clean Cargo Working Group, and U.S. tially (see chart on next page).3 Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) SmartWay. Through these partnerships and related internal efforts, HP is drivIn 2013, select shipments of notebook PCs traveled by ing reduced logistics environmental impacts by helping to ocean instead of air from China to Europe, Latin America, develop new standards and calculation methodologies for and the United States, as well as within Asia, preventenvironmentally responsible product transportation. ing approximately 25,000 tonnes of CO2e emissions. In November 2013, HP opened a new logistics hub in Piraeus, In the United States, we ship 100% of HP products using Greece, to support shipments in Eastern Europe while SmartWay road transportation carriers designated by the maintaining the Rotterdam, Netherlands, hub for Western U.S. EPA. SmartWay trucks consume about 18% less fuel Europe and Nordic countries. The Piraeus hub will reduce than conventional class 8 freight trucks. shipping time to several growing markets by as much as 10 days, while reducing costs and GHG emissions. During the year, we also increased the use of our new rail route Enhancing logistics through from China to Europe (see Living Example below). innovative packaging HP is also reducing emissions from product transportation by We recognize the interconnection between product transusing alternative fuels. In 2014, we will begin to convert some port and packaging, and the potential that an integrated of our truck shipments to compressed natural gas (CNG) approach has to decrease our environmental impact. vehicles in Europe and the United States. Natural gas is lower For example, reducing packaging size and weight helps carbon, cleaner-burning, and less expensive than diesel fuel. optimize shipping densities and decrease associated GHG emissions. For more information, see Packaging. Living Example Go West For the past several years, HP has been working to build It created new jobs in Chongqing, which helped open more resiliency into our supply chain in China. We recognized the door for other businesses and commerce to that consolidating our manufacturing facilities in a single enter the region. The new facility helped us improve geographic area exposed us to greater risk, particularly in our operating margin, as well, driving value back to terms of labor shortages. The rapid growth of manufacturour shareholders. ing in eastern China had resulted in a significant number of migrant workers traveling great distances for work. Go West helps drive environmental progress. To create easier access between central China and Europe, So we worked with the Chinese government to create we helped establish a new freight train network from a new manufacturing center in Chongqing, nearer the Chongqing to Germany, along the Trans-Eurasian workers’ homes. Railway, which enables us to ship our products at a fraction of the carbon impact of air freight. This strategy, which we call Go West, helps lessen stress, keeping people closer to their families, culture, dialect, and cuisine. 3 According to the World Resources Institute GHG Protocol. Calculation methodology based on GHG Protocol distance-based method. 131 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Estimated GHG emissions from product transport, 2010–2013* [tonnes CO2e] Governance 2,000,000 Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress 1,500,000 Environmental sustainability 1,000,000 Products and solutions Product return and 500,000 recycling HP operations • Supply chain 0 environmental impact 2010 2011 2012 2013 About this report Road (includes rail) 500,000 400,000 500,000 400,000 Ocean 200,000 200,000 300,000 400,000 Air 1,200,000 1,300,000 900,000 800,000 Road (includes rail) Ocean Air 2010 2011 2012 2013 2010 2011 2012 2013 2010 2011 2012 2013 GHG emissions 25% 20% 30% 30% 10% 10% 20% 20% 65% 70% 50% 50% [% of total from transport] Shipment mix by weight-distance 20% 20% 15% 15% 70% 70% 80% 80% 10% 10% 5% 5% [approximate, kg-km] ** * This data for transport GHG emissions is based on data reported by LSPs that HP contracts to deliver our products. It does not include data from all recent HP acquisitions. It differs from the larger product life cycle assessment-based estimate presented in Energy, climate, and water on page 77, which includes additional upstream and downstream transport related to our products, as well as retail and storage. All figures rounded; improvements in efficiency of the mode of transportation may not be fully reflected. ** Improvements in capturing air emissions data increased reported air transport emissions compared to prior years. Case study Green Freight Asia Launched in 2013 by HP and four other companies, Green with the EPA’s SmartWay program across the Pacific. Freight Asia (GFA) works to lower product transport-related Ultimately, we aim to help GFA create a certification profuel consumption and associated GHG emissions across Asia. cess for members that meet certain criteria as found in other regions in our supply chain. Through GFA, which is open to shippers, LSPs, and industry associations, HP will build awareness of the benefits of reduced-impact transport and exchange best practices. Our involvement with GFA (including as a member of the board of directors) will allow HP to bring our experiences 132 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Water protection Water risk management Contents Governance Human Progress Water withdrawal and discharge from supplier faciliOur recent research indicates that our supply chain ties have the potential to affect local environments and Economic Progress accounts for about 18% of HP’s water footprint. (See our communities. Environmental Progress water footprint on page 80). Water resources are under Environmental increasing pressure in many regions. HP encourages HP uses the World Business Council for Sustainable sustainability suppliers to practice responsible water consumption and Development Global Water Tool to assess where our Products and solutions discharge. We provide tools to help them improve their production suppliers’ water withdrawal may pose a risk. water management practices. In 2013, we identified 15 supplier sites as candidates for Product return and an on-site water management improvement program recycling We started reporting on water withdrawal by our first-tier and piloted the program at one site. Management at the HP operations production suppliers in 2012 (for the year 2011). This year, facility compared their water management efforts to • Supply chain more first-tier production suppliers submitted data, and global best practices and began implementing improveenvironmental impact we have seen a slight increase in companies reporting ments, using the Global Social Compliance Program (GSCP) About this report water withdrawal goals. HP continues to encourage more Environmental Reference Tools. We plan to expand this suppliers to track and share their water impacts. We also initiative to additional supplier sites in water-stressed work with suppliers to improve the accuracy of their water regions in 2014. data reporting. In 2012, aggregated water withdrawn by suppliers decreased by about 1 million m3, which we Since 2012, HP has collaborated with several high-spend believe can be attributed to more accurate reporting on first-tier suppliers with the goal of ensuring that subtier water withdrawal and usage. suppliers comply with local environmental laws on water discharge. Using the Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs’ (IPE) China Water Pollution Map, we identified 21 Production supplier water withdrawal* subtier supplier sites with a history of water-related viola2011 2012 tions. We worked with the relevant suppliers to map out Aggregated water withdrawal for use 28,000,000 27,000,000 improvement plans at each location. We continue to moni[cubic meters] tor these facilities closely, provide reports on progress to Coverage [% of spend] 38% 62% local stakeholders, and ask our first-tier suppliers to check their nonconforming subtier supplier sites twice a year Companies with goals around water 38% 41% withdrawal [% of spend captured] following up with audits where necessary. Recognizing HP’s work in this area, the IPE rated us as one of the top IT * This metric reports the amount of water withdrawn by suppliers, not the companies with regard to environmental management in amount consumed by our multi-tier supply chain as reported in our total water footprint in Energy, climate, and water on page 77. Because water 2013. withdrawn can also be returned, this footprint is inherently larger. Refers to first-tier suppliers for manufacturing, materials, and components. Withdrawal is estimated based on suppliers’ reported water withdrawal and their dollar volume of HP business compared with their total revenue. The majority of these companies report on a calendar year basis. The year 2012 is the most recent for which data are available; 2011 is the earliest. Building capabilities Providing tools for a smaller footprint We collaborate with nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) supplier sites in China, 26 in Malaysia, and 12 in Thailand. to promote efficiency and sustainability at our suppliers’ sites EEP in Thailand included both firstand second-tier supand share best practices across our industry’s supply chain. pliers and helped to produce energy savings of more than 11 million kWh during a 12-month period. After completing HP Energy Efficiency Program (EEP) HP collaborates EEP, we invite supplier sites to join us in the Global Social with several partners to promote energy efficiency. Since Compliance Program (GSCP). 2010, we’ve helped supplier sites in China and Southeast Asia save 66 million kWh of electricity. By 2020, we aim GSCP HP is a long-standing GSCP member. We use the proto reduce supplier emissions by a total of 2 million tonnes gram’s Environmental Reference Tools, based on current CO2e, in part through the expansion of this program. best environmental practices, to help suppliers improve We work with first-tier suppliers to get sub-tier supplier performance in areas ranging from energy and water use sites involved. Depending on the event, we worked with to air emissions and pollution prevention. In 2013, 12 supNGOs BSR and WWF as well as local government offipliers implemented the GSCP tools. cials and two of our suppliers to implement EEP in China. In Thailand, Chiang Mai University and a supplier helped View a comprehensive list of HP’s capability-building us conduct the event, while in Malaysia we worked with a projects online. supplier on EEP. Since initiating EEP, we have engaged 132 133 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Waste Contents Production supplier waste generation* Governance 2012 Human Progress Nonhazardous waste generated 1,455,000 For the first time, in 2013 HP is also reporting data on sup[tonnes] Economic Progress ply chain waste generation. More than 50% of our first-tier Coverage [% of spend] 54% Environmental Progress production suppliers by spend responded to our request Environmental to report on the amount of nonhazardous and hazardous Hazardous waste generated 1,445,000 [tonnes] sustainability waste they generated in 2012. Coverage [% of spend] 64% Products and solutions Because hazardous waste is regulated in many areas, Product return and Companies with waste-related goals 44% many of our suppliers have more experience reporting [% of spend] recycling hazardous waste than nonhazardous waste. Currently, HP operations reported hazardous waste is almost equivalent to * Refers to first-tier suppliers for manufacturing, materials, and components. Waste data are estimated based on suppliers’ waste data and their dollar • Supply chain reported nonhazardous waste. As reporting on waste volume of HP business compared with their total revenue. The majority of environmental impact matures, we expect nonhazardous waste reported to these companies report on a calendar year basis. The year 2012 is the most About this report exceed hazardous waste. recent for which data are available. HP continues to encourage more suppliers to track and share waste generation data, including nonhazardous waste, and is working with suppliers to improve the accuracy of their reporting. Goals 2013 goals Progress Implement environmental improvement programs at high-risk top-tier In 2013, HP piloted a program to assist suppliers in water-stressed component manufacturing and final assembly suppliers located in regions. These suppliers are using the GSCP Environmental Reference water-stressed regions. Tools to understand water risks, compare their water management efforts to global best practices, and implement changes where necessary. We plan to expand this initiative to additional supplier sites in 2014. Expand the Energy Efficiency Program to Southeast Asia, including In 2013, we engaged 82 new first and subtier suppliers in China, 26 in subtier suppliers. Malaysia, and 12 in Thailand making a total of 170 suppliers involved in the program. Achieve a rate of 65% of first-tier strategic * nonproduction suppliers 65% of our first-tier strategic nonproduction suppliers (by spend) reporting on GHG emissions. reported their GHG emissions, compared to 54% in early 2013. 2014 goals Extend the EEP program to Malaysia and Chongqing, China, adding more than 40 new suppliers in support of the HP supply chain GHG emissions reduction goal. Increase nonproduction supplier reporting on GHG emissions to 80% in 2014 (by spend) compared with 65% in 2013. Increase the number of nonproduction suppliers participating in our GHG emissions reduction training by 10% from our 2013 baseline. 2016 goal Progress Implement network enhancements, mode changes, and route optimizaWe have replaced our 2016 goal with our 2020 supply chain GHG emistion that decrease GHG emissions from product transport by 200,000 sions reduction goal (see below). tonnes of CO2e since the end of 2012. 2020 goals Decrease first-tier manufacturing and product transportation-related GHG emissions intensity ** in our supply chain by 20% compared with 2010. Assist our suppliers in preventing 2 million tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) of GHG emissions, cumulatively between 2010 and 2020 through specific supplier environmental improvement projects. * HP considers suppliers strategic based on a number of areas relating to business, engagement, and other macroeconomic indicators. This list is updated annually and never includes more than 100 suppliers. ** HP calculates intensity as its suppliers’ GHG emissions divided by HP’s annual revenue. This method normalizes performance based on business productivity. 134 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Data Contents Governance Human Progress 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Economic Progress Reduction in first-tier manufacturing and product transportation100% 96% 93% Environmental Progress related GHG emissions intensity1,2 [tonnes CO2e/$ million of HP net Environmental revenue, 2010 = 100%] sustainability Supplier GHG emissions2 Products and solutions Production supplier Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions 3 [tonnes CO2e] 4,500,000 3,500,000 3,000,000 Product return and recycling Coverage [% of spend] 95% 95% 95% HP operations Production supplier Scope 3 emissions 4 [tonnes CO2e] 3,100,000 6,500,000 • Supply chain Coverage [% of spend] 48% 53% environmental impact Nonproduction supplier Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions [tonnes CO2e] 480,000 450,000 About this report Coverage [% of spend] 51% 65% Estimated GHG emissions from product transport5 [tonnes CO 2 e] 1,900,000 1,900,000 1,700,000 1,600,000 Supplier water withdrawal 6 Production supplier water withdrawn for use [cubic meters] 28,000,000 27,000,000 Coverage [% of spend] 38% 62% Production suppliers with water withdrawal goals [% of spend] 38% 41% Supplier waste generation7 Production supplier nonhazardous waste generation [tonnes] 1,455,000 Coverage [% of spend] 54% Production supplier hazardous waste generation [tonnes] 1,445,000 Coverage [% of spend] 64% Production suppliers with waste-related goals [% of spend] 44% 1 HP calculates intensity as its suppliers’ GHG emissions divided by HP’s annual revenue. This method normalizes performance based on business productivity. 2 Emissions are estimated based on suppliers’ emissions and their dollar volume of HP business compared with their total revenue. The majority of these companies report on a calendar year basis. The year 2012 is the most recent for which data are available. 3 The World Resources Institute defines Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions in its Greenhouse Gas Protocol; see www.ghgprotocol.org/calculation-tools/faq. 4 Suppliers may not report all Scope 3 categories. Their Scope 3 emissions will fluctuate as reporting becomes more accurate and categories are added. For this reason, in 2012 we saw a large increase. 5 This data for transport GHG emissions is based on data reported by logistics service providers that HP contracts to deliver our products. It does not include data from all recent HP acquisitions. It differs from the larger product life cycle assessment-based estimate presented in Energy, climate, and water on page 77, which includes additional upstream and downstream transport related to our products, as well as retail and storage. 6 This metric reports the amount of water withdrawn by suppliers, not the amount consumed by our multi-tier supply chain as reported in our total water footprint in Energy, climate, and water on page 77. Because water withdrawn can also be returned, this footprint is inherently larger. Refers to first-tier suppliers for manufacturing, materials, and components. Withdrawal is estimated based on suppliers’ reported water withdrawal and their dollar volume of HP business compared with their total revenue. The majority of these companies report on a calendar year basis. The year 2012 is the most recent for which data are available; 2011 is the earliest. 7 Waste data are estimated based on suppliers’ waste data and their dollar volume of HP business compared with their total revenue. The majority of these companies report on a calendar year basis. The year 2012 is the most recent for which data are available. Contents Governance Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress • About this report Overview Assurance Independent Accountants’ Report United Nations Global Compact index Global Reporting Initiative index About this report 136 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Overview Contents Reporting performance beyond our immediate operaGovernance tions can also be challenging. For example, we must make assumptions when estimating Scope 3 greenhouse gas Human Progress (GHG) emissions, product energy consumption and the This report describes HP’s global citizenship policies, Economic Progress programs, and performance through the 2013 fiscal year resulting GHG emissions, and the percentage of HP prodEnvironmental Progress (which ended October 31, 2013). It provides in-depth ucts sold that are recycled. • About this report information to stakeholders including customers, industry analysts, socially responsible investors, nongovernmental Wherever possible, we describe the context for perfor• Overview mance data so readers can understand any limitations and organizations, employees, sustainability specialists, and Assurance others. We report yearly on our progress, changes to our draw appropriate conclusions. Independent business, emerging issues, and our responses to stakeAccountants’ Report holder feedback. To improve our disclosure, we consider United Nations Global external standards such as the Global Reporting Initiative Your feedback Compact index and the United Nations Global Compact, as well as reporting trends and best practices. Your comments and suggestions are important to us. Global Reporting Please provide your feedback on HP’s Living Progress Initiative index Our Living Progress website provides summary informaperformance, website, or report using our online form. tion for readers seeking a higher-level overview of our approach and performance. Previous reports are available at the reporting page of our Living Progress website. Forward-looking statements This report contains forward-looking statements that Scope, dates, and measures involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. If such risks or uncertainties materialize or such assumptions prove • The information in this report is current as of the date of incorrect, the results of HP and its consolidated subsidiarits initial publication. This report has not been updated ies could differ materially from those expressed or implied to reflect any changes that may have occurred after by such forward-looking statements and assumptions. such date, including, among other things, any changes All statements other than statements of historical fact to HP’s business or strategy. HP assumes no obligation are statements that could be deemed forward-looking and does not intend to update this report to reflect any statements, including but not limited to statements of such changes. the plans, strategies, and objectives of management for future operations, including but not limited to the • The information in this report covers all HP operations expected development, implementation, and achievement but does not cover joint ventures. of environmental, social, and governance policies, goals, • All references to years are to HP’s fiscal year, which ends and objectives; any statements concerning expected October 31, unless otherwise stated. development, performance, market share or competi• All references to dollars are to U.S. dollars (USD). tive performance relating to products and services and the impact of those products and services on global • “Tonnes” refers to metric tons. (One metric ton is issues, the environment, and other elements of society; equivalent to 2,205 pounds.) any statements regarding anticipated operational and financial results; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of Metrics and goals the foregoing. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions include the need to address the many challenges facing The metrics and goals in this report are established by the HP’s businesses; the competitive pressures faced by HP’s HP teams responsible for measuring and achieving them, businesses; risks associated with executing HP’s strategy in consultation with internal, and in some cases external, and plans for future operations; the impact of macroecostakeholders, and taking into account leading practices. nomic and geopolitical trends and events; the need to This ensures that our metrics provide a meaningful and manage third-party suppliers and the distribution of HP’s balanced picture of HP’s performance, and that our goals products and services effectively; the protection of HP’s are realistic yet challenging. intellectual property assets, including intellectual property licensed from third parties; risks associated with HP’s Collecting data from hundreds of sites worldwide is international operations; the development and transition complex, and the process can vary by issue, business unit, of new products and services and the enhancement of function, and geography. As a result, it can be difficult to existing products and services to meet customer needs define and implement measures for the entire company. and respond to emerging technological trends; the execuWe continue to standardize our measurement systems tion and performance of contracts by HP and its suppliers, and metrics. Data are rounded as needed to reflect the customers, clients and partners; the hiring and retention appropriate level of certainty. of key employees; integration and other risks associated with business combination and investment transactions; 137 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents the execution, timing, and results of restructuring plans, In addition, the following data in this report received exterGovernance including estimates and assumptions related to the cost nal assurance during the year: and the anticipated benefits of implementing those plans; Human Progress • Product reuse and recycling In 2013, through the resolution of pending investigations, claims, and Environmental Resources Management (ERM), HP Economic Progress disputes; and other risks that are described in HP’s Annual audited 15 reuse and 25 recycling vendor facilities in 19 Environmental Progress Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October countries, including 18 repeat site audits to confirm ven31, 2013, and HP’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for • About this report dors’ ongoing commitment to responsible recycling and the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2014, and that are Overview improved performance. Learn more in Vendor audits on otherwise described or updated from time to time in HP’s page 111. • Assurance Securities and Exchange Commission reports. HP assumes Independent no obligation and does not intend to update these • Supply chain responsibility HP engages third-party Accountants’ Report forward-looking statements. audit firms to conduct verification audits of our suppliers. These include suppliers associated with a specific United Nations Global allegation in nongovernmental organization reports. Compact index We also use third-party audit findings to validate our Global Reporting Initiative index Assurance internal audit results. Learn more in Supply chain responsibility on page 33. We believe that obtaining assurance helps demonstrate • Financial data HP reports financial data in its 2013 that the information provided in our Living Progress Report Annual Report on Form 10-K. In accordance with describes our performance accurately and completely. the requirements of the US Securities and Exchange Commission, the Form 10-K is subject to audit by an independent registered public accounting firm. Ernst & External verification Young’s report, dated December 27, 2013, was included in the most recently reported Form 10-K. Selected data In 2013, HP engaged external assurance provider Ernst & from that report is included herein. Learn more in HP Young LLP to perform an independent review of a selected profile on page 8 and Contributions to the economy number of key performance indicators in our 2013 Living on page 69. Progress Report in accordance with AT 101, Statements on Standards for Attestation Engagements,of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. HP expanded the Other external reviews scope of assurance from Ernst & Young’s 2012 review to include our water footprint. We plan to expand the scope As part of HP’s global ISO 14001 and site OHSAS 18001 of this independent assurance in future years. registrations, we are assessed by independent, accredited auditors, including Bureau Veritas Certification and BSI For a full listing of the indicators within scope of EY’s Management Systems. review, please see their Independent Accountants’ Report on page 138. Internal Audit and review HP Internal Audit is an independent, objective assurance and consulting activity designed to add value and improve the company’s operations. Practicing worldwide, Internal Audit assesses risk and evaluates internal control processes regarding the achievement of objectives relating to operations, reporting, and compliance in areas such as ethics, privacy, and environment, health, and safety management, depending on the nature of the business operation and the scope of the audit. In addition, qualified HP professionals conduct internal audits of the environmental, health, and safety management systems at our operations, and we report the results to senior management. 138 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Independent Accountants’ Report Contents Governance Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress To the Board of Directors and Management of Hewlett-Packard Company • About this report We have reviewed selected performance indicators (the “Subject Matter”) included in Appendix A and as Overview presented in the Hewlett-Packard Company (“HP”) 2013 Living Progress Report (the “Report”) for the Assurance year ended October 31, 2013. We did not review all information included in the Report. We did not review • Independent the narrative sections of the Report, except where they incorporated the subject matter. HP manageAccountants’ Report ment is responsible for the subject matter included in the table below and as also presented in the United Nations Global Report, and for selection of the criteria against which the subject matter is measured and presented. Compact index Our review was conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Global Reporting Initiative index Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Those standards require that we plan and perform our review to obtain limited assurance about whether any material modifications should be made to the selected performance indicators in order for it to be in conformity with the criteria referenced in the table below. A review consists principally of applying analytical procedures, making inquiries of persons responsible for the Subject Matter, obtaining an understanding of the data management systems and processes used to generate, aggregate and report the Subject Matter and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. A review is substantially less in scope than an examination, the objective of which is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the selected performance indicators for the year ended October 31, 2013, are free from material misstatement, in order to express an opinion. Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion. We believe that our review provides a reasonable basis for our conclusion. The information included within Appendix A and as contained within corporate responsibility reports are subject to measurement uncertainties resulting from limitations inherent in the nature and the methods used for determining such data. The selection of different but acceptable measurement techniques can result in materially different measurements. The precision of different measurement techniques may also vary. Based on our review, nothing came to our attention that caused us to believe that the subject matter described above is not presented, in all material respects, in conformity with the relevant criteria. May 20, 2014 139 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Appendix A Governance Indicator name Unit Reported value1 Reference Human Progress Scope 1 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 2 Tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent 207,900 pages 83, 116 (tonnes CO2e) Economic Progress Scope 2 GHG emissions tonnes CO2e 1,587,100 pages 83, 116 Environmental Progress Scope 3 GHG emissions 2012 2 tonnes CO2e 72,070,000 page 84 • About this report Overview Scope 3 GHG emissions 2013 tonnes CO2e 60,260,000 page 84 Assurance Scope 1 energy consumption Million kWh 370 pages 117, 125 • Independent Scope 2 energy consumption Million kWh 3,656 pages 117, 125 Accountants’ Report Renewable energy consumption Million kWh 498 pages 119, 125 United Nations Global Compact index Water consumption Cubic meters 7,684,000 pages 122, 126 Global Reporting Recordable incidence rate 3 Number of recordable incidents / 200,000 .19 pages 62, 66 Initiative index work hours Lost workday case rate3 Number of lost work day injuries / 200,000 .08 pages 62, 65 work hours The smelters and refiners on our list were N/A Qualitative assertion N/A Qualitative assertion page 45 identified by a survey of HP suppliers conducted between November 2012 and December 2013 as a part of HP’s conflict minerals compliance program. The suppliers we surveyed contribute material, components, or manufacturing to HP-branded products containing 3TG. Each smelter or refiner reported was identified in at least one of the Conflict Minerals Reporting Templates received from an HP supplier. Supply chain social and environmental responNumber of SER audits conducted in 2013, Initial Audits: 59 page 40 sibility (SER) audit program results by type 4 Follow up: 53 Full Re-audits: 26 Distribution of major and priority nonconHealth and safety: 30% page 42 formances by EICC Category5 Labor: 25% Management system: 21% Ethics: 12% Environmental: 12% Number of supplier audits performed per region 6 page 40 Follow up Full Region Initial audits Total audits re-audits China 33 33 12 78 APJ 15 12 2 29 EMEA 3 4 4 11 Americas 7 4 7 18 Number of workers7 at supplier sites 67,000 External link audited on page 41 Total cash donations USD million $23.8 page 73 Water footprint 2012 8 Cubic meters 504,650,000 pages 80, 85 1 All indicators are reported for the year ended 31 October, 2013 except as otherwise indicated. 2 Carbon Accounting Explanations document available at: http://h20195.www2.hp.com/V2/GetPDF.aspx/c03742931.pdf. 3 Recordable incidents and lost workday case rates are determined at December 1, 2013 for the 2013 fiscal year. 4 Total initial audits and total full re-audits include one recycling audit each. 5 Includes initial audits and full re-audits only; EICC stands for Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition. 6 Regions include: China, APJ (Asia Pacific and Japan), EMEA (Europe, Middle East, and Africa), and the Americas (North, Central, and South America). 7 Number of workers as of the date of the site visit per the production and nonproduction supplier initial audit reports, rounded to the nearest thousand. 8 Water Footprint Accounting Explanations document available at: http://h20195.www2.hp.com/V2/GetPDF.aspx/c04278007.pdf. 140 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress United Nations Global Compact index Contents Governance Human Progress HP is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, a “To promote higher standards across the areas of Economic Progress set of voluntary commitments for companies to improve human rights, labor, environment, and antiEnvironmental Progress human rights, labor conditions, the environment, and anticorruption, we endorse the United Nations Global • About this report corruption controls. The table below links to the sections of Compact as a practical framework for the this report that address the Global Compact’s 10 principles. Overview development, implementation, and disclosure of Assurance sustainability policies and practices.” Independent — Meg Whitman Accountants’ Report President and Chief Executive Officer, HP • United Nations Global Compact index Global Reporting Principle Information in report Initiative index Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Human rights on page 29 proclaimed human rights; and Supply chain responsibility on page 33 Privacy on page 50 HP people on page 54 Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Human rights on page 29 Supply chain responsibility on page 33 Labor standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Human rights on page 29 recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Supply chain responsibility on page 33 Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Human rights on page 29 Supply chain responsibility on page 33 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Human rights on page 29 Supply chain responsibility on page 33 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination with respect to employment and Human rights on page 29 occupation. Supply chain responsibility on page 33 Diversity and inclusion on page 57 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Materials on page 91 challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Environmental Progress on page 74 and Environmental sustainability on page 76 Products and solutions on page 86 Product return and recycling on page 108 HP operations on page 114 Supply chain environmental impact on page 127 Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Environmental Progress on page 74 technologies. Environmental sustainability on page 76 Products and solutions on page 86 HP operations on page 114 Supply chain environmental impact on page 127 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extorAnti-corruption on page 22 tion and bribery. Supply chain responsibility on page 33 141 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Global Reporting Initiative index Contents Governance Human Progress We considered the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines when preparing this report. HP Economic Progress self-declares this report to the Core In Accordance level. Environmental Progress • About this report GRI guideline Disclosure title Location Assurance scope Overview Strategy and Analysis Assurance G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Independent maker of the organization Accountants’ Report Organizational Profile United Nations Global G4-3 Name of the organization HP profile Compact index G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services HP profile, HP 2013 10-K • Global Reporting Initiative index G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters HP profile G4-6 Number of countries where organization Locations of HP geographic headquarters and major product operates, names of countries where organizadevelopment, manufacturing, data centers, and HP Labs, tion has significant operations or that are Principal Subsidiaries of Hewlett-Packard Company, by specifically relevant to this report country, map of HP supplier sites G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form HP profile G4-8 Markets served HP profile, HP 2013 10-K G4-9 Scale of the organization HP profile, HP operations, HP 2013 10-K G4-10 Employee demographics Diversity and inclusion, A portion of the organization’s work is performed by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by HP follows its Global Human Rights Policy and its Standards collective bargaining agreements of Business Conduct. In about 40% of the countries where we have employees operating, some of those employees are represented by works councils or unions, or are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. The percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements is managed at a local level. HP considers this percentage on a consolidated level not relevant. G4-12 Description of organization’s supply chain Supply chain responsibility, Supply chain responsibility: Our approach G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting Supply chain responsibility, Transportation greenhouse gas period regarding the organization’s size, emissions, HP 2013 10-K structure, ownership, or its supply chain G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach Materials or principle is addressed by the organization G4-15 Externally developed economic, environSupply chain responsibility: Our approach, United Nations mental, and social charters, principles, or Global Compact other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 List of memberships of associations and Affiliations and memberships, Supply chain responsibility: national or international advocacy organizaOur approach, Transportation greenhouse gas emissions, tions in which the organization is involved Privacy Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s consoliHP 2013 10-K dated financial statements or equivalent Differences in entities covered in different parts of the report documents are noted in those sections G4-18 Process for defining report content and Materiality Aspect boundaries G4-19 Identified material Aspects Materiality G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Materiality Boundary within the organization G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Materiality Boundary outside the organization 142 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents GRI guideline Disclosure title Location Assurance scope Governance G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information Included in relevant sections as appropriate provided in previous reports Human Progress Economic Progress G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting The overall content in this report is similar to last year, periods in Scope and Aspect Boundaries although the structure has been updated to align with HP Environmental Progress Living Progress. Significant additions include HP’s water footprint and reporting on several specific Disclosures. • About this report Stakeholder Engagement Overview G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the Stakeholder engagement Assurance organization Independent G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeStakeholder engagement Accountants’ Report holders with whom to engage We identify appropriate stakeholders to engage by assessing United Nations Global factors such as their expertise, their willingness to collaboCompact index rate, their reputation, their location, and their sphere of influence. • Global Reporting Initiative index G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through Stakeholder engagement, Supply chain responsibility > stakeholder engagement, and organization’s Supporting workers’ rights response Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period About this report G4-29 Date of most recent previous report May 2013 G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding report About this report G4-32 GRI index GRI index, Independent Accountants’ Report G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to Assurance seeking external assurance for the report Governance G4-34 Governance structure, including committees Living Progress governance, Governance of highest governing body G4-37 Processes for consultation between Living Progress governance stakeholders and board on economic, environmental, and social topics G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body HP board of directors, HP board committee composition and its committees G4-39 Whether chair of the highest governance body Ethics and compliance is also an executive officer G4-40 Nomination and selection process for the Corporate Governance Guidelines highest governance body and its committees G4-41 Processes for the highest governance body to Corporate Governance Guidelines ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed G4-45 Highest governance body’s role in the Living Progress governance identification and management of economic, environmental, and social impacts, risks, and opportunities G4-47 Frequency of the highest governance body’s Living Progress governance review of economic, environmental, and social impacts, risks, and opportunities G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns Contact the board to the highest governance body G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest HP 2013 10-K governance body and senior executives and relation to economic, environmental, and social objectives 143 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents GRI guideline Disclosure title Location Assurance scope Governance Ethics and Integrity Human Progress G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards, Policies and standards, Corporate ethics, Human rights, and norms of behavior such as codes of Supply chain responsibility Economic Progress conduct and codes of ethics Environmental Progress G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking Corporate ethics • About this report advice on ethical and lawful behavior Overview G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for Corporate ethics reporting concerns about unethical or Assurance unlawful behavior Independent Specific Standard Disclosures Accountants’ Report Category: Economic United Nations Global Aspect: Economic Performance * Compact index G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Contributions to the economy, HP 2013 10-K • Global Reporting Initiative index G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and Contributions to the economy, Social investment, HP 2013 Total cash distributed 10-K donations G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and HP’s most recent CDP submission opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit HP 2013 10-K plan obligations Material Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Contributions to the economy G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, Human Progress, Economic Progress, Environmental including the extent of impacts Progress, Products and solutions Aspect: Procurement Practices* G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supplier diversity G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at Supplier diversity significant locations of operation Category: Environmental Material Aspect: Materials G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Design for the Environment, Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Materials G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are Materials, Printing recycled input materials Material Aspect: Energy G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Design for the Environment, Products and solutions > Energy efficiency, Management and compliance, Energy and GHG emissions, HP operations > Energy efficiency G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization HP operations > Energy efficiency, Renewable energy, Data Scope 1 energy dashboard consumption Scope 2 energy consumption Renewable energy consumption G4-EN5 Energy intensity HP operations > Energy efficiency G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption HP operations > Energy efficiency G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of prodProducts and solutions ucts and services Material Aspect: Water G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Energy, climate, and water, Management and compliance, Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Water Water consumption G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water Water recycled and reused 144 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents GRI guideline Disclosure title Location Assurance scope Governance Aspect: Biodiversity * Human Progress G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Living Example: HP Earth Insights Economic Progress G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of activiLiving Example: HP Earth Insights ties, products, and services on biodiversity in Environmental Progress protected areas and areas of high biodiversity • About this report value outside protected areas Overview Material Aspect: Emissions Assurance G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Energy, climate, and water, Management and compliance, Energy and GHG emissions Independent Accountants’ Report G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Energy and GHG emissions, Data dashboard, HP carbon Scope 1 GHG (Scope 1) accounting manual emissions United Nations Global Compact index G4-EN16 Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) Energy and GHG emissions, Data dashboard, HP carbon Scope 2 GHG accounting manual emissions • Global Reporting Initiative index G4-EN17 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) Energy, climate, and water, Data dashboard Scope 3 GHG emissions G4-EN18 GHG emissions intensity Energy and GHG emissions, Data dashboard G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions HP operations > Energy efficiency G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Ozone-depleting substances (ODS) G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Chemical management and releases Material Aspect: Effluents and Waste G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Management and compliance, Waste and recycling G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal Waste and recycling method G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills Chemical management and releases Material Aspect: Products and Services G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Design for the Environment G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental Energy, climate, and water, Materials, Products and solutions impacts of products and services G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their Product return and recycling packaging materials that are reclaimed by category Material Aspect: Transport G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Travel, Transportation GHG emissions G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of Travel, Transportation GHG emissions transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Material Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply chain responsibility: Our approach G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were Supply chain responsibility: Our approach Number of SER screened using environmental criteria audits conducted in 2013, by type Distribution of major and priority nonconformances, by EICC category Number of supplier audits performed per region 145 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents GRI guideline Disclosure title Location Assurance scope Governance Category: Social Subcategory: Labor Practices and Decent Work Human Progress Aspect: Employment * Economic Progress G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Rewards and recognition Environmental Progress G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees Rewards and recognition • About this report that are not provided to temporary or partOverview time employees, by significant locations of operation Assurance Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety * Independent Accountants’ Report G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Health and safety United Nations Global G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational Health and safety Recordable Compact index diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and incidence rate total number of work-related fatalities, by • Global Reporting Lost workday region and by gender case rate Initiative index Material Aspect: Training and Education G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Building careers G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per Building careers employee by gender, and by employee category G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong Building careers learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular Building careers performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category Material Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Diversity and inclusion G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakDiversity and inclusion, HP board of directors down of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Material Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply chain responsibility: Our approach G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were Supply chain responsibility: Our approach Number of SER screened using labor practices criteria audits conducted in 2013, by type Distribution of major and priority nonconformances, by EICC category Number of supplier audits performed per region Subcategory: Human Rights Material Aspect: Nondiscrimination G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply chain responsibility: Our approach G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination Supply chain responsibility > Global findings, Audit findings, Distribution and corrective actions taken Supply chain responsibility > Health and safety, HP discloses of major and the rates of nonconformance in supplier sites audited, but priority nonconnot the absolute numbers. Presenting this information in this formances, by manner provides additional context for the reader. EICC category 146 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents GRI guideline Disclosure title Location Assurance scope Governance Material Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Human Progress G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply chain responsibility: Our approach Economic Progress G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which Supply chain responsibility > Global findings, Audit findings Distribution the right to exercise freedom of association of major and Environmental Progress and collective bargaining may be violated priority noncon• About this report or at significant risk, and measures taken to formances, by support these rights EICC category Overview Material Aspect: Child Labor Assurance G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply chain responsibility: Our approach Independent Accountants’ Report G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having Supply chain responsibility > Global findings, Audit findings Distribution significant risk for incidents of child labor, and of major and United Nations Global measures taken to contribute to the effective priority nonconCompact index abolition of child labor formances, by EICC category • Global Reporting Initiative index Material Aspect: Forced or Compulsory Labor G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply chain responsibility: Our approach G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having Supply chain responsibility > Global findings, Audit findings Distribution significant risk for incidents of forced or of major and compulsory labor, and measures to contribute priority nonconto the elimination of all forms of forced or formances, by compulsory labor EICC category Material Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply chain responsibility: Our approach G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were Supply chain responsibility: Our approach Number of SER screened using human rights criteria audits conducted in 2013, by type Distribution of major and priority nonconformances, by EICC category Number of supplier audits performed per region Subcategory: Society Material Aspect: Anti-corruption G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Corporate ethics G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corrupCorporate ethics, Anti-corruption tion policies and procedures Material Aspect: Public Policy G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Public policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by Public policy, HP political engagement country and recipient/beneficiary Material Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach HP 2013 10-K (Note 17: Litigation and Contingencies; this information is as of the end of fiscal year 2013) G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for antiHP 2013 10-K (Note 17: Litigation and Contingencies; this competitive behavior, anti-trust, and information is as of the end of fiscal year 2013) monopoly practices and their outcomes Material Aspect: Compliance G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach HP 2013 10-K (Note 17: Litigation and Contingencies; this information is as of the end of fiscal year 2013) G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and HP 2013 10-K (Note 17: Litigation and Contingencies; this total number of nonmonetary sanctions for information is as of the end of fiscal year 2013) noncompliance with laws and regulations 147 HP 2013 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents GRI guideline Disclosure title Location Assurance scope Governance Material Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society Human Progress G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply chain responsibility: Our approach Economic Progress G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were Supply chain responsibility: Our approach Number of SER screened using criteria for impacts on society audits conducted Environmental Progress in 2013, by type • About this report Distribution Overview of major and priority nonconAssurance formances, by EICC category Independent Accountants’ Report Number of supplier audits United Nations Global performed per Compact index region • Global Reporting Subcategory: Product Responsibility Initiative index Material Aspect: Marketing Communications G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach HP is committed to responsible marketing and providing consumers and businesses accurate, relevant information. Our Standards of Business Conduct and corporate guidelines set expectations regarding the company’s advertising practices. These resources require that advertisements and marketing collateral be fair, factual, and complete. Advertising claims must be formally substantiated with current factual data before publishing. HP sells its products in compliance with laws in the jurisdictions in which it does business. Training is available for employees in relevant parts of our business as well as for agencies that act on HP’s behalf. This covers aspects of responsible marketing such as proper claims, substantiation, necessary advertising disclosures, and endorsement of HP products by third parties. G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of noncompliHP does not consider this metric to be highly applicable to ance with regulations and voluntary codes the information technology industry, given the lack of strict concerning marketing communications, regulations and voluntary industry codes in this area that are including advertising, promotion, and sponapplicable to some other industries. Further, the informasorship, by type of outcomes tion is not currently available. HP does not believe that this information will be feasible to collect in the future. Material Aspect: Customer Privacy G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints Privacy regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data * Although this GRI G4 Aspect was not determined to be material in HP’s materiality assessment, we recognize that it is relevant to some stakeholders and we provide information about HP’s programs and performance in this area. © Copyright 2014 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. The information contained herein is subject to change without notice. ENERGY STAR and the ENERGY STAR mark are registered U.S. marks.
