Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / i DELIVERING VALUE Corporate Responsibility Report Year to 31 December 2013 ii / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 01 DELIVERING Premier is a leading FTSE 250 independent exploration and production company with oil and VALUE gas interests in the North Sea, South East Asia, Pakistan and the Falkland Islands.1 Our strategy is to grow shareholder value through investment in Premier is a listed business with headquarters high quality projects within a disciplined financial in London and approximately 800 employees. framework. We seek to maintain the highest The majority of these are located in the United standards of corporate responsibility.2 Kingdom and Asia. 02 Performance highlights Section 5: HEALTH AND SAFETY TABLE OF FIGURES 31 Our policy framework 02 Man-hours worked 03 Map of our key operations 31 Our HSES Management System 02 Hydrocarbon spills to the environment and performance metrics 33 Targets and performance 02 Community investment trends 34 Occupational safety 02 High potential incident rate 04 Chief Executive’s review 36 Process safety 08 Delivering on our commitments 38 Safety by design 10 How we engage our stakeholders 40 Emergency preparedness 20 Our human rights framework Section 1: OUR APPROACH 41 Security 24 Employees by core country 06 About this report 24 Employees by gender and age group 09 Continuous improvement 25 Total number of employees 09 Engagement Section 6: ENVIRONMENT and contractors and transparency 43 Impact assessment 26 Ratio of female to male salaries, 10 Risk and opportunities 44 Climate change and at significant operations greenhouse gas emissions 29 Local minimum wage as a percentage of 48 Pollution prevention Premier standard entry wage (females) Section 2: BUSINESS ETHICS 29 Local minimum wage as a percentage 13 Global Code of Conduct Section 7: COMMUNITY INVESTMENT of Premier standard entry wage (males) 14 Suppliers and contractors 32 Tiered hierarchy of our HSES 51 Our policy framework 16 Public policy and Management System government relations 54 Indonesia 34 Occupational safety data 17 Promoting transparency 58 United Kingdom 35 Total recordable injury rate benchmarking and compliance 62 Pakistan 35 High potential incident rate 65 Vietnam 35 High potential incidents data 67 Norway Section 3: HUMAN RIGHTS 36 Process safety data 68 Falkland Islands 19 Our policy framework 37 Process safety data collection 20 Our Human Rights 38 Project safety reviews at all stages of the Management System APPENDIX project pipeline 70 Maplecroft: External Review 44 Key environmental data of Reporting 45 Total operated greenhouse gas emissions Section 4: EMPLOYEES 71 ERM CVS: Independent 45 Greenhouse gas emissions per function 23 Our policy framework Assurance Statement 45 Greenhouse gas intensity 23 Employee engagement 72 GRI: Sustainability Reporting 47 Energy use per tonne of production 24 Employee numbers Guidelines G3.1 47 Energy resources use 25 Pay and benefits 74 IPIECA: Oil and Gas Industry Guidance 48 Oil in produced water (tonnes) 27 Developing our workforce on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting 48 Oil in produced water (ppm-wt) 28 Freedom of association and 75 United Nations Global Compact: 49 Hydrocarbon spills to the environment collective bargaining Communication on Progress 53 Community investment trends 1 Premier solely sells crude oil to major upstream refiners and gas to defined users. We do not sell any products to the general public. As such, 29 Forced/compulsory labour 75 FTSE4Good: Sustainability criteria the health and safety impacts of any products/services or the nature of information on products/services are not relevant to our business. 53 Our community investment profile in 2013 We also do not conduct any surveys regarding customer satisfaction. Material Safety Data Sheets are prepared for our crude oil and gas and child labour 76 Glossary products, where relevant. 2 At the end of 2013, Premier’s estimated reserves and resources were 794 million barrels of oil equivalent. Production in 2013 averaged 58.2 thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day. Operating cash flow was US$832.6 million and profit after tax was US$234.0 million. Further information is available in our Annual Report. 02 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 03 Performance highlights Map of our key operations and performance metricsi United Kingdom During 2013, we achieved material growth in our reserves and resources, production levels and Number of employees: 237 (p24) cash flows. Over the same period, we increased the number of man-hours worked, recorded a Anti-corruption training: 100 per cent (p14) decrease in the high potential incident rate, reduced spills to the environment and expanded Greenhouse gas intensity:ii 499 (p45) Community investment: US$341,000 (p58) community investment. This demonstrates our ability to deliver growth whilst improving our health, safety and environmental performance. Norway Vietnam Number of employees: 83 (p24) Number of employees: 31 (p24) Anti-corruption training: 100 per cent (p14) Anti-corruption training: 100 per cent (p14) Greenhouse gas intensity: 451 (p45) Greenhouse gas intensity: N/A (p45) 91% Community investment: US$16,000 (p67) Community investment: US$171,000 (p65) Figure 01: Man-hours worked Increase Figure 02: Hydrocarbon spills (million man-hours) in man-hours to the environment (tonnes) worked 14.0 3.0 2.71 11.75 12.0 2.5 85% 10.0 2.0 7.19 Decrease 8.0 6.14 1.5 6.0 0.84 in hydrocarbon 1.0 4.0 spills to the 2.0 0.5 0.13 0 environment 0 11 12 13 11 12 13 71% Figure 03: Community investment trends Increase Figure 04: High potential incident rate (HIPOR) (US$ million) in community investment Target Total Pakistaniii Number of employees: 14 (p24) 2.5 Anti-corruption training: 100 per cent (p14) 1.4 1.15 2.00 2.00 Greenhouse gas intensity: N/A (p45) 1.2 2.0 Community investment: US$285,000 (p62) 1.0 1.50 48% 1.5 1.30 Falkland Islands Indonesia 0.8 0.67 Decrease 0.6 0.43 1.0 0.83 0.68 0.4 Number of employees: 31 (p24) iv Number of employees: 398 (p24) in high potential 0.5 0.2 Anti-corruption training: 100 per cent (p14) Anti-corruption training: 100 per cent (p14) 0 incident rate 0.0 13 Greenhouse gas intensity: N/A (p45) Greenhouse gas intensity: 141 (p45) Community investment: US$340,000 (p54) 11 12 13 11 12 i None of our facilities is currently in the process of being decommissioned. A complete list of all operations, stages of development as well as where we have equity in joint ventures is available on our website at www.premier-oil.com/premieroil/operations. ii Greenhouse gas intensity is measured as GHG tonnes per thousands tonnes of production. The United Kingdom GHG intensity figure is distorted by lower production levels in 2013. iii Non-operated joint venture. iv The majority of employees in the Falkland Islands business unit were based in London in 2013. 04 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 05 Chief Executive’s review We experienced a rise in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, particularly at our Chim Sáo site in Vietnam. This was largely due to unexpected flaring at the facility and third party damage to the gas export pipeline. I am pleased that a conclusion is in sight to the protracted contractual negotiations over operations and maintenance at the Chim Sáo FPSO. This will While our strategy is to add value for shareholders through commercial success in exploration and production, enable accelerated implementation of the environmental controls and standards which are we recognise that our social licence to operate has to be earned through best practice and responsible actions expected of us. where we do business. This involves a commitment to continuous improvement in our performance on business ethics, human rights, employees, health, safety, environment and community investment. We remain focused on I am also pleased to report that, while the group’s GHG emissions and GHG intensity rose applying the high standards necessary to maintain our reputation as a responsible oil and gas company. during 2013, there were improvements in our ability to deal with hydrocarbon leaks. Premier remains committed to ensuring our emissions are as low as reasonably practicable (ALARP) and to achieving a GHG emissions intensity for steady-state production operations in line Q: What were A: 2013 presented a number of operational advances, including six discoveries from with the current industry median of 160 tonnes of GHG per thousand tonnes of production. Premier’s main seven exploration wells, the capturing of new acreage, and several projects entering the Meeting this target will remain challenging over the short to medium term due to corporate development phase. Reflecting our ability to deliver growth while ensuring rigorous health, the increasing age of our operations, in addition to flaring often associated with the responsibility safety and environment (HSE) standards, Premier’s high potential incident rate decreased commissioning of new facilities. Nevertheless, Premier is committed to exploring all achievements from 1.30 per million man-hours in 2012 to 0.68 in 2013 – well below our target rate of 1.50. opportunities for net emissions reductions. This includes a new focus on measuring our in 2013? This positive trend was driven by strong HSE performances in particular at our drilling and carbon footprint. In 2013, we initiated a pilot study to capture data on terrestrial energy production operations. consumption and travel mileage, supporting our progress towards buying carbon offsetting The progressive increase in our community investment has also made a significant social, credits where we operate. economic and environmental impact in the areas where we operate. In 2013, Premier disbursed a total of US$1.15 million on an array of charitable donations, local development projects and community partnerships. Premier recognises that delivering lasting returns for Q: Which A: The Falkland Islands represents a core area of Premier’s expanding activities. While local communities and host governments enables us to consolidate and build on existing areas of Premier’s presence on the islands themselves was limited during 2013, a significant amount relationships as well as enter new geographies and acquire new licenses. Community the group of planning work was undertaken by the business unit at our other offices. This included the investment complements our stakeholder engagement as part of planning for new country experienced identification of stakeholders within the Falklands in order to carry out an impact assessment entries. We expect to see a progressive increase in the impact from community investment the most of potential impacts of our operations, as well as to ensure Premier brings tangible financial, and stakeholder engagement compared with previous years. change in social and environmental benefits to the islands. terms of Guided by the United Nations Global Compact and Guiding Principles on Business and The health, safety, environment and security (HSES) functional area also experienced a corporate Human Rights, we also made substantive progress – from an already healthy position – on number of changes during 2013. This included progress towards implementing a new responsibility? human rights during 2013. This included upgrading our Human Rights Management System HSES reporting tool in order to combine Premier’s existing data management systems. The and introducing a training package for employees on human rights and security forces. In tool will enable us to track actions and report on key performance indicators (KPIs) on one anticipation of potential onshore operations, Premier plans to apply for membership of the centralised system. Our understanding of environmental management was also enhanced Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights in 2014. following a comprehensive assessment of Premier’s water use and discharges, including an analysis of the local water situation at all our individual operations. Recognising our progress on corporate responsibility, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) has confirmed that this report is prepared in accordance with its Sustainability Reporting The creation of a Corporate Services Director position on our Executive Committee in 2012 Guidelines (G3.1) at Application Level A+. It is our intention to align with the GRI’s G4 has more generally enabled an increasingly coherent and effective approach to corporate guidelines, once we have reached this level of reporting. responsibility from the relevant functional areas of the group (including legal, HSES, human resources, supply chain and audit and risk). This is reflected by improved outcomes and a higher level of reporting during 2013. Q: Were there any A: The reporting period saw the total recordable areas for improvement injury rate (TRIR) increase from 1.79 per million manin terms of corporate hours in 2012 to 3.40 in 2013, significantly above our Q: What are A: 2014 will be another important year for Premier. We will continue to expand our responsibility? overall target rate of 2.00 per million man-hours. your key operations, including the planned start-up of the Pelikan, Naga, Dua and Solan fields, This included a TRIR of 3.61 for contractors working corporate sanction of the Catcher project, progress in front end engineering and design studies for the at contractor-operated sites and a TRIR of 5.72 for responsibility Sea Lion prospect offshore the Falkland Islands, and realisation of value from our disposal contractors working at Premier-operated sites. plans for programme. We will also maintain our ongoing efforts to increase production, advance 2014? exploration activities and secure new licences. In spite of our best efforts to provide active management support to address HSE performance While I shall be stepping down as Chief Executive later this year, corporate responsibility at construction sites, we did not see improvements will remain a key focus of Premier’s management team during 2014. Each of the relevant until late in the reporting year. In order to build on functional areas of the group have implemented action plans to ensure continued progress lessons learnt and improve our HSE performance in our corporate responsibility performance. We look forward to maintaining this trajectory across the group, we have implemented a more of continuous improvement through 2014 and beyond. proactive approach to manage the issues, including at contractor facilities. Premier recognises that there is always room for improvement. Simon Lockett, Chief Executive 06 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 07 1 Our approach GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE // Our Corporate Responsibility Report is aligned with the GRI’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. The GRI guidelines represent the most comprehensive and authoritative guidance available to oil and gas companies on sustainability reporting. The GRI has confirmed that this report is prepared in accordance with its Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1) at Application Level A+ (p73). The report covers all the profile disclosures, disclosures on management approach and performance indicators required to achieve this level of transparency. Specific information on our WE RECOGNISE THAT OUR SOCIAL LICENCE TO OPERATE AS AN alignment with the GRI is presented on p72. The report is also our annual Communication on Progress to the INTERNATIONAL UPSTREAM OIL AND GAS COMPANY HAS TO United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), which represents a public disclosure to stakeholders required by all BE EARNED THROUGH RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR WHICH DOES UNGC business participants. NOT COMPROMISE THE WELLBEING OF CURRENT OR FUTURE It is our intention to adopt the GRI G4 guidelines when we are ready to do so, reflecting our commitment to GENERATIONS. RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR IS A KEY DETERMINANT OF continuous improvement and enhanced disclosure. Aligning with the G4 guidelines will require a review of OUR BUSINESS SUCCESS. PREMIER’S PERFORMANCE IN THIS AREA current reporting procedure and mechanisms used to identify issues relevant and material to stakeholders. IS SET OUT IN OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT, WHICH COVERS ALL OUR OWN OPERATIONS FOR THE 2013 CALENDAR YEAR. DEFINING REPORT CONTENT // NON-OPERATED JOINT VENTURES ARE NOT INCLUDED EXCEPT Defining the materiality of the report content involved the identification of those issues most relevant to WHERE SPECIFIED. Premier’s sustainability footprint as an international oil and gas exploration and production company. Through a review of our internal risk registers, engagement with our internal and external stakeholders, analysis of About this report media coverage of the company, conducting independent risk assessments of our impacts, and holding various internal discussions, we selected six key areas for reporting: business ethics; human rights; employees; health and safety; environment; and community investment. Each of these key areas is discussed on the following This is our eighth annual Corporate Responsibility Report, with the previous report issued pages, informing the structure of this Corporate Responsibility Report. in 2013 covering the 2012 calendar year. We report in accordance with the International Materiality of report content was determined by a broad range of internal stakeholders, including senior Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) and the Global managers in the company, functional heads and the Audit and Risk Committee of the Board. A balanced and Reporting Initiative (GRI). There have been no significant changes in scope, boundary or objective approach was taken during this process, in order to ensure that the report content was aligned to measurement methods in this report versus previous reports. Premier’s overall business strategy whilst also considering the reasonable expectations of the organisation’s Premier has an active exploration and business development programme that in future various internal and external stakeholders. years will see entry and operatorship in new geographies. This may include the addition of operated onshore assets to our current offshore portfolio. AUDITS AND ASSURANCE // Premier’s policies and procedures are designed to ensure that our investment and operational decisions take appropriate account of the impacts that might arise from our activities. These policies cover Premier’s Global Code of Conduct, as well as relevant policies on human rights, employees, health, safety and environment, and community investment. All policies are compliant with applicable domestic and international legislation and take due account of appropriate standards, industry guidance and relevant best practice. We commission independent reviews or audits of our policies and supporting management systems to assure compliance with the requirements of the following bodies: GRI; IPIECA Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting (2010); Carbon Disclosure Project; FTSE4Good; and UNGC. This report discusses how we have applied and delivered on our stated policies in 2013, and explains any areas of non-compliance. It also includes a separate assurance statement from ERM Certification and Verification Services (CVS) on safety and environmental data integrity (p71). Further details of our policies and procedures are available on our website at www.premier-oil.com. This Corporate Responsibility Report has been prepared by the Group Audit, Risk and Public Affairs function. Further information on the governance structure of the company is contained within our Annual Report. There were no significant changes to Premier’s organisational structure in the reporting period. 08 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 09 1/OUR APPROACH Figure 05: Delivering on our commitments Continuous improvement Report section Our commitment in 2013 Actions taken during 2013 Page We are committed to continuous improvement in our corporate responsibility performance. Each year our Business ethics Implementation of the • Continued to ensure that training on the Global p12 Global Code of Conduct, Corporate Responsibility Report identifies opportunities and planned actions for the forthcoming year. Actions Code of Conduct and its requirements were with training across all were taken in 2013 to address gaps and further strengthen our underlying management systems. These provided to all business units business units involved significant revisions to the new Premier Oil Business Management System (BMS) architecture, including • Followed up on surveys carried out on the Code, updated standards and procedures on human rights, health, safety, environment and security (HSES), and to understand which key functions/areas of the community investment. The BMS will be further developed by the key functions and business units during 2014. business are most likely to encounter incidents All corporate policies are endorsed by the Chief Executive and the Board. of corruption and require additional support to A summary of key actions taken in 2013 is presented in Figure 05, with further information on these address these risks developments presented throughout the report. Human rights Completion of annual • Upgraded our Human Rights Management System p18 Engagement and transparency human rights risk in alignment with our revised Human Rights Policy assessments and ongoing improvement of • Introduced a screen-based training package on Premier’s Human Rights human rights and security forces, to be rolled out Proactive and transparent stakeholder engagement is at the heart of our business philosophy. Premier has Management System in 2014. Also prepared application to join Voluntary developed a programme of engagement with various stakeholders in order to build a greater understanding Principles on Security and Human Rights of their concerns about the impact of our operations, and to ensure we address issues that are relevant and material to our stakeholders. The result of this ongoing dialogue with stakeholders influences how we Employees Emphasis on employee • Continued to implement our People Strategy, p22 benchmark, evaluate and report on our performance over time. development, talent and which focuses on the recruitment, development succession planning, Our engagement activities consist of: and retention of top talent. This also included the in a year of significant establishment of a global talent team. • direct engagement, including organised dialogues, roundtable discussions, one-on-one meetings, internal emphasis on construction surveys and regular engagement with local communities at each operation and project; and and project development • Devised new ways to improve communication across the workforce, such as the introduction of • indirect engagement, including the use of external benchmarks and standards that are designed to reflect regular ‘video blog’ (vlog) sessions given by our and address societal expectations (p07). Chief Executive All our operations – including our corporate management and business units – identify, prioritise and Health and safety Enhance clarity of • Introduced a new HSES reporting tool which p30 directly engage stakeholder groups that have the potential to affect our production, financial and corporate reporting on process combines our existing health and safety data responsibility performance. Feedback from our operational and strategic stakeholder engagement is logged safety and occupational management systems and improves reporting of and addressed as part of Premier’s risk management process (p10). safety metrics, in key performance indicators (KPIs), to be rolled out alignment with the Premier will continue to evolve its stakeholder engagement programmes and structures in 2014, in order to align during 2014 continuous development with the GRI G4 requirements. We intend to provide greater detail on the identification of stakeholder groups; of international health and the process and frequency of engagement with stakeholders; and the key areas of interest to our stakeholders. • Devised a pilot system for assessing process safety safety standards and asset integrity risks at the company’s operated assets, employing ‘risk picture’ scorecards that show safety case compliance and assess the performance of people, procedures and plant Environment Enhanced insight into the • Initiated a study to measure our terrestrial carbon p42 local water situation and footprint, capturing data on metrics such as office the company’s carbon energy consumption and travel mileage. Recording footprint in countries this data will support our progress towards buying where we operate carbon offsetting credits in 2014. • Conducted a comprehensive assessment of water use and discharges, analysing the local water situation where we operate Community Implementation of further • Increased community investment spending (71 p50 investment community investment per cent), in particular from the UK, Indonesia and programmes relevant to Vietnam business units. Community investments each site of operation have also complemented our increased focus on stakeholder engagement. 10 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 11 1/OUR APPROACH Risk and opportunities “ As of the end of December 2013, Premier retained its Our approach to corporate responsibility is to manage and mitigate those risks that are most relevant and material to stakeholders and which can affect our commercial interests. Premier’s Risk Management Policy seeks to ensure: inclusion within the FTSE4Good Index for the 10th year • our people and our assets are safeguarded and protected; in a row.” • an increased likelihood of achieving our business objectives; Tony Durrant Finance Director • effective learning from and resilience to changing events and crises; • effective identification, evaluation and analysis of uncertainty; • high quality decision making and planning; Our Risk Management Policy is aligned with the principles and guidelines • compliance with laws and regulations; and of the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 31000, which represents a global benchmark for risk management practices. This • stakeholder confidence and trust. policy sets the standards for our risk appetite, helps to identify and evaluate those risks that most impact our business, and ensures that the necessary risk controls and mitigating measures are in place and are Figure 06: How we engage our stakeholders effective. It also supports our efforts to achieve the highest quality of corporate governance and associated requirements for listed businesses. Stakeholders Engagement mechanisms Standards and procedures supporting the implementation of these Investors: requirements are logged in the Premier Oil BMS and are reviewed and Current shareholders Annual Report, Corporate Responsibility Report, website, direct dialogue updated on an ongoing basis. Potential shareholders Annual Report, Corporate Responsibility Report, website, direct dialogue Premier also carried out a risk management survey amongst senior Investment analysts Annual Report, Corporate Responsibility Report, website, direct dialogue management during 2013. The survey focused on issues such as: the company’s risk appetite; attitudes to the Risk Management Policy; Employees: understanding of risk ownership, the effectiveness of risk management Employees Employee engagement, direct dialogue, 360° reviews procedures; and the extent to which risk management procedures have been disseminated amongst the workforce. Contractors Direct dialogue, integration into workforce, contract agreements The findings of this survey led to a number of new initiatives being rolled Organised labour Collective labour agreements, regular meetings out in late 2013, including a focus on those group functions and business Society: units undergoing the most organisational change (especially Norway Government Direct dialogue, including with the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office, and Falkland Islands). The survey has also helped to embed a culture Falkland Islands Government (FIG), members of the Falkland Islands legislative of best practice in risk management across the organisation. During assembly, Indonesian Ministry of Environment, Indonesian Ministry of Finance, 2014, Premier will continue to focus on embedding risk management Vietnamese government procedures within all business units and group functions. Regulatory authorities Direct dialogue, including with the UK Department of Energy and Climate This report and its associated disclosures focus on the key corporate Change, UK Health and Safety Executive, FIG Department of Mineral Resources, responsibility impacts, risks and opportunities for our business. Petroleum Safety Authority Norway, SKK Migas in Indonesia NGOs, opinion formers and media Direct dialogue through industry bodies including the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (OGP), IPIECA, Oil and Gas UK, Step Change, forums such as the Falkland Islands Offshore Hydrocarbons Environment Forum, as well as NGOs that we engage with through our community investment programmes www.premier-oil.com www.ftse.co.uk Current and potential Direct dialogue on contract agreements and joint projects www.globalreporting.org www.ermcvs.com business partners Suppliers Direct dialogue and contract agreements with seismic contractors, drilling www.ipieca.org www.iso.org rig owners, floating production storage and offloading (FPSO) vessel owners, www.cdp.net www.unglobalcompact.org construction companies and shipyards Local communities Community investment programmes and direct dialogue with public and private sector groups 12 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 13 2 Business ethics Global Code of Conduct Premier’s Global Code of Conduct – and associated due diligence process which provides assurance regarding compliance with the Code – is embedded across the group. For those employees and contractors based in Indonesia (our largest business unit abroad, representing 49 per cent of the workforce in 2013), the Code is A CULTURE OF INTEGRITY, HONESTY AND FAIRNESS IS FUNDAMENTAL available in both English and Bahasa Indonesia. Our staff in Vietnam (representing 10 per cent of the workforce TO THE WAY IN WHICH WE CONDUCT OUR BUSINESS, AND WE ARE in 2013) currently complete the Code in English but have access to supplementary explanatory material in COMMITTED TO TRANSPARENCY, RESPONSIBILITY AND COMPLIANCE Vietnamese. Availability of the Code in local languages is to ensure employees at Premier’s overseas production operations have every opportunity to address any gaps in their understanding of the Code. IN ALL OF OUR BUSINESS ACTIVITIES. WE WILL NOT ENGAGE IN ANY ACTIVITIES – INCLUDING BRIBERY OR CORRUPTION IN ANY FORM – Our Global Code of Conduct is compliant with the United Kingdom Bribery Act, and covers: WHICH UNDERMINE THE LEGITIMATE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT. • anti-corruption; • facilitation payments; • gifts and hospitality (given and received); • charitable and political donations; and • appointment of intermediaries. Premier reviews all new guidance issued by the United Kingdom Serious Fraud Office to ensure that the Code, its supporting policies, training materials and disclosures are consistent with government expectations and best practice. SCOPE OF APPLICATION // The Code applies to employees at every level of the organisation and those associated with Premier such as contractors, all of whom are required to behave ethically and with integrity. This includes adhering to laws in the countries in which we operate, explore and have joint venture interests (p03). Our newer joint venture engagements include the right to request an annual certificate of compliance, confirming alignment with the Code. All employees and associates are required to perform their duties in accordance with the Code, and to disclose any potential and actual conflicts between personal interests and those of Premier. The Code requires all transactions relating to Premier to be recorded in proper detail with appropriate supporting evidence and in accordance with applicable accounting and reporting standards. Any breach of the Code will result in disciplinary action, and in extreme cases will result in instant dismissal. The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board in monitoring ethical business conduct as well as the effectiveness of the Code and its supporting policies. There were no disciplinary actions or dismissals for breaches of the Code in 2013. 14 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 15 2/BUSINESS ETHICS TRAINING AND MONITORING // WORKING WITH INTERMEDIARIES // During 2013, our legal team continued to ensure that training on the application of the Code was provided to Premier sometimes uses intermediaries, agents or other independent all business units. The training programme includes a comprehensive set of workshops and an online course, parties in its engagements with government, government agencies, other which is made available to both employees and contractors. All our business units are analysed for risks relating oil and gas companies and third party service providers. These individuals to corruption, some being more exposed than others depending on geography and area of activities. A poster are appointed in accordance with our Intermediaries Policy, including due campaign on the Code was also rolled out for employees and contractors based in Indonesia during 2013. diligence screening procedures relating to corruption and other aspects of business ethics. This may include obtaining third party references The content of our training takes account of local nuances and cultural norms, in order to equip local teams and information searches. Intermediaries are formally obliged under our to manage risks related to business ethics. All Premier employees and consultants have now completed the standard contracts to adhere to our Global Code of Conduct and, where training programme. A briefing on the content of the Code is also included in the induction programme for appropriate, receive training on the obligations of the policy. new employees and consultants, all of whom are expected to complete online training on the Code within one month of joining the company. SCREENING OUR SUPPLIERS // An employee survey was carried out in 2012 which sought to establish how well the Code has been understood by employees and is effectively embedded in the way we work. We reinforced this in 2013 in each of our Premier’s suppliers and contractors play a critical role in our business. business units, through discussions with personnel from the key functions and areas of the organisation most We make decisions about the purchase of goods and services not only likely to face potential incidents of corruption. on the basis of price, quality, delivery, service and reputation, but on the business ethics, environmental, safety and human rights records Plans are in progress to implement video tutorials during 2014 which will cover aspects of the Code relating of suppliers.3 During 2014, Premier will evaluate how to implement to corruption and bribery. The video tutorials are designed to simulate real-life scenarios in which staff face more comprehensive screening measures which systematically ensure challenging decisions over matters, such as how to handle requests for bribes and how to deal with gifts from contractors are not subject to international sanctions. This will also suppliers or through other business engagements. This approach aims to bring compliance issues to life for require the completion of a pre-tender questionnaire to evaluate what personnel through recognising the various cultural contexts in which Premier operates. measures are currently in place, to ensure these risks are well managed. Premier has also implemented a new online platform for registering gifts and entertainment which will be rolled Those involved in the selection of suppliers and contractors are out across the organisation in 2014. required to avoid conflicts of interest, such as personal relationships, inappropriate gifts and entertainment, or any other kind of favouritism Suppliers and contractors that might compromise selection. This ensures that the award of contracts is made entirely on the basis of merit. All business units require approval for gifts/hospitality above certain limits, and any accepted gifts Premier’s Global Code of Conduct prohibits bribery and corruption in any form by employees and those require a record of approval. Our tender process requires suppliers and working for or connected with the organisation. This includes facilitation payments and also gifts made or contractors to confirm their compliance with and commitment to our received that might create an obligation or expectation of something in return. All business transactions Global Code of Conduct. must be properly recorded and accounted for. We expect the same ethical standards to be applied in all our business relationships in all areas of operation and we promote the Code with all our business associates. Premier has also initiated activities to support the development of local suppliers and contractors that engage with our operations. Such engagement is also aligned with local content requirements. For example, we are developing the technical competencies of our Vietnambased suppliers that provide offshore services and supply/maintain FPSO vessels, through mentoring their offshore crew/technicians at the Chim Sáo production operation. During the course of 2014, we will take further steps to enhance the capabilities of our suppliers, in particular those working at our Vietnam and Indonesia operations. 3 Premier has not identified any specific risks in its activities related to ‘significant’ investment agreements/contracts or Tier One suppliers, including: the right to freedom of expression/collective bargaining; the use of child labour; and the use of forced/compulsory labour. ‘Significant’ is defined as those contracts worth US$50 million or more. 16 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 17 2/BUSINESS ETHICS Promoting transparency and compliance INCLUSION IN CONTRACT AGREEMENTS // Anti-bribery provisions are explicitly included in all of our agreements, either in the form of an obligation to comply with Premier’s Global Code of Conduct, the inclusion of appropriate anti-corruption and business ethics Employees are expected to report bribery or attempted bribery to their direct managers, even if only suspected clauses in contract agreements, or confirmation that the counterparty will ensure compliance with their own or attempted. Any allegation of corruption would be investigated immediately and reported to the Audit and Code of Conduct. Risk Committee. Premier acknowledges that local, social, political and cultural conditions may make it difficult for our business partners to conform to our standards immediately. In such circumstances we will look for evidence of their ENCOURAGING A CULTURE OF OPENNESS // commitment to work towards such standards. Premier will, nevertheless, withdraw from such relationships where measurable progress is not made. Premier encourages employees, contractors and agency workers to voice their concerns to line managers if they believe the company or anyone working on behalf of the company has not acted in accordance with our Global Code of Conduct and associated policies. Individuals are able to report potential breaches of policy Public policy and government relations without fear of recrimination; and can do so in the knowledge that their report will be promptly and properly investigated with due regard to the maintenance of confidentiality. Premier recognises that in order to increase trust and develop enduring close relationships with governments, communities and civil society organisations, it must be proactive, open and clear in its AUDITING AND REPORTING // dealings with these stakeholders. Our legal team reviews adherence to the Code by business units on a cyclical basis. In 2013, reviews were Premier did not make any political donations or contributions during the reporting period, and did not receive carried out in Aberdeen, Norway and Pakistan, including a review of gift registers and contract implementation. any significant financial assistance from governments. Premier is a member of a number of local industry All employees were found to have a clear understanding of the Code and its requirements, and to be in bodies, some of which participate in lobbying activities. Examples include the OGP, Oil and Gas UK, Pakistan compliance with the Code. Petroleum Exploration and Production Companies Association, Indonesian Petroleum Association and Falkland Islands Petroleum Licensees Association. During 2013, Premier also acted as chair to the Association of British Premier was not subject to any fines or non-monetary sanctions for breaches of laws or regulation, or to Independent Oil and Gas Exploration Companies (BRINDEX). any legal actions relating to business ethics or anti-competitive behaviour during the reporting period.4 No incidents of corruption or non-compliance with the Code were identified in 2013. There were also no incidents We also adhere to national laws and standards related to marketing communications of the company, including of loss of customer data reported. advertising, promotion and sponsorship. Confidential third party hotline We recognise that in certain circumstances employees might not feel comfortable talking to their line manager. Premier therefore provides a confidential and well-publicised independent third party reporting hotline that is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week and allows employees to lodge concerns and questions about issues such as business ethics and compliance, health and safety, and human rights. Information on this confidential ‘whistle-blowing’ facility is available in the Premier Employee Handbook and on the BMS, and is provided during the induction day for new starters. A poster campaign also publicised the existence of this confidential ‘whistle-blowing’ facility throughout 2013. No reports were made via this service during the reporting period. www.ogp.org.uk www.brindex.co.uk www.oilandgasuk.co.uk www.ppepca.com www.safecall.co.uk www.ipa.or.id www.sfo.gov.uk 4 This includes no incidents of non-compliance with regulations or voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling. It also includes no incidents of non-compliance with regulations or voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship. 18 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 19 3 Human rights Our policy framework A global “protect, respect and remedy” framework for the advancement of human rights has emerged in recent years, culminating in the launch of the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. These outline a series of foundational and operational principles on the role of the state to protect human rights, the responsibility of businesses to respect human rights, and the obligation of governments to provide access to appropriate judicial, administrative or legislative means to remedy human rights violations. Global and industry sustainability reporting standards increasingly require organisations to report on the extent to which robust policy and due diligence processes have been implemented to meet these expectations. PREMIER’S HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY EXPLICITLY RECOGNISES THE MORAL, REPUTATIONAL AND OPERATIONAL VALUE OF RESPECTING Premier’s Human Rights Policy is based on the fundamental rights set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and is guided by the rights enshrined in the core labour conventions of the International AND PROMOTING HUMAN RIGHTS, BOTH INSIDE AND OUTSIDE THE Labour Organization (ILO) and the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Our policy addresses COMPANY. THE POLICY ADDRESSES THE RIGHTS OF OUR EMPLOYEES the rights of our employees – including their health and safety, security arrangements and working conditions AS WELL AS OUR EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS, IN PARTICULAR THE – and the development rights of our external stakeholders, in particular local communities. Promoting and LOCAL COMMUNITIES WHERE WE OPERATE. respecting human rights includes requirements to: • engage with stakeholders in our efforts to respect and promote human rights; • recognise the development and cultural rights of local communities as basic human rights; • recognise our responsibility to respect the rights of indigenous peoples where we operate;5 • help prevent, manage and resolve conflict where we are in a position to do so; • ensure we are in no way involved in or associated with forced, involuntary or child labour; • ensure our security practices do not undermine the human rights of local communities; • encourage joint venture partners to adopt the principles in this policy; • consider withdrawal from relationships with business partners including suppliers where there is no evidence that they are moving towards the application of international human rights standards; and • use our legitimate influence to promote human rights outside our areas of operation. Premier’s Human Rights Policy has been benchmarked against best practice standards – including the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the GRI – as well as the position of our peers in the oil and gas sector. This review was completed at the same time as an assessment of our corporate responsibility and community investment frameworks, in order to build a cohesive policy framework and management system. During the course of 2014, Premier will evaluate the feasibility of implementing more formal human rights clauses in significant investment agreements. Premier is also looking at ways to monitor suppliers and contractors with regard to human rights risks. This might, for example, include an evaluation of how to add human rights requirements into future agreements with our suppliers and contractors. There were no reported violations of our Human Rights Policy during the reporting period. 5 There were no violations involving the rights of indigenous peoples in 2013. There were also no disputes with indigenous peoples, and no involuntary resettlement activities took place. All our operated activities are currently located offshore. 20 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 21 3/HUMAN RIGHTS Our Human Rights Management System RISK ASSESSMENT // Premier’s portfolio currently includes only offshore operated assets, which reduces the risk of operations having Premier is committed to continuous improvement in its human rights performance. During 2013, we revised a significant impact on the local community. This is reflected by no incidents of human rights violations being and upgraded our Human Rights Management System (which is subject to routine and non-routine audit), registered during the reporting period. in alignment with our revised Human Rights Policy. The system is based on the identification, evaluation, Premier prepares environmental and social impact assessments (ESIAs) at each operated asset, as part of the management and resolution of human rights risks and conflict. These procedures are integrated into the standard planning process for exploration and development activities. These ESIAs provide an assessment of corporate responsibility and public affairs section of our BMS, and are available to local business units and all broader socio-economic impacts from Premier’s activities, including the identification of any potential human employees across the organisation (Figure 07). These enable us to identify appropriate local initiatives and rights impacts and appropriate solutions such as engaging directly with those who may be at risk. Future partners to deliver on our policy commitments. operations will abide by best practice, with human rights risk assessments carried out at all sites. During 2013, a screen-based training package on human rights and relevant issues surrounding security Premier conducted a human rights risk assessment of all operations globally in 2013, completed by a third forces was added to the BMS. This material is to be enhanced and rolled out to all employees as part of more party. The human rights risk assessment included an evaluation of the following criteria in each business unit: formalised training on human rights in 2014. Premier will continue to evaluate the need for human rights corruption, indigenous peoples, security forces, working conditions, freedom of association and collective training on other areas relevant to both our operations and sub-contractor engagements. bargaining, forced or involuntary labour, discrimination in the workplace, child labour, human security, and civil and political rights. The assessment is accessible group wide from the Human Rights Management System. This research helps Premier to assess whether or not we would be comfortable operating in each new country – assessing our risk appetite. It also helps identify strategic social investment opportunities by which we can help Figure 07: Our human rights framework further local development opportunities and contribute to long-term human rights advancement. During 2013, Premier confirmed the alignment of the company with the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, which provide human rights guidelines specifically for extractive sector companies. Initiatives Procedures included the review of our Human Rights Management System, preparatory consultation with our exploration Policies Standards Tools and production partners and the development of a training module that contains specific material on the and processes Voluntary Principles. Premier intends to apply for Voluntary Principles membership in 2014, reinforcing our commitment to best practice approaches to human rights across the organisation. UN Guiding Principles 1: Management on Business and Short aideSystem Overview memoires to help Human Rights managers and other IDENTIFYING METRICS // Human Rights Policy staff understand UNGC Ten Principles Premier is evaluating a number of metrics and targets on human rights, including: (a) the number of employees 2: Preparing their duties under the Human Rights trained in human rights, as well as the inclusion of human rights issues in induction programmes for all policy documents Management System employees, (b) the number of human rights related grievance from employees / local communities and other GRI G3.1 Sustainability and the sequence in Global Code of Conduct Reporting Guidelines stakeholders, and (c) the speed of ‘redress’ through internal and external mechanisms (for example, grievance which tasks and 3: How to embed processes need to procedures). Premier will continue to evaluate these metrics in 2014 with pilot reporting to be tested for GRI G3.1 Oil and Gas human rights take place inclusion in our 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report. Sector Supplement HSE Policy IPIECA Oil and Gas Industry 4: How to conduct a Guidance on Voluntary risk assessment Corporate Responsibility Sustainability Reporting Further Resources www.un.org/en/documents/udhr www.ilo.org Policy OGP-IPIECA Good Practice 5: How to prepare an www.voluntaryprinciples.org www.maplecroft.com Guidelines Community Investment annual Action Plan External initiatives www.ohchr.org Policy and reference FTSE4Good ESG Ratings documents to help 6: Implementing ensure the Employment policies and monitoring management system ILO Core Labour Standards is informed and guided by best practice and industry Voluntary Principles on 7: Audit and review specific expertise Security and Human Rights 22 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 23 4 Employees Our policy framework This report provides evidence of our ongoing commitment to upholding the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, which includes labour standards derived from the ILO’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. During 2013, we began the transition to the next phase of development of our human resources strategy. This involved the development of new employee initiatives, the restructuring of the global human resources team and the streamlining of existing frameworks. The new agenda will be rolled out in 2014, with an emphasis on global talent management and a focused rewards strategy. PREMIER IS COMMITTED TO PROVIDING STAFF WITH FAIR AND When recruiting, developing and dealing with employees and service providers, we will treat people fairly, COMPETITIVE TERMS OF EMPLOYMENT AND SAFE WORKING equally and without prejudice. We also respect the right of individual employees to join a legitimate trade CONDITIONS. WE ARE AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES EMPLOYER. THIS union. Through training and appraisal, we encourage staff to develop their professional skills to the advantage ENTAILS RESPECTING INDIVIDUALS REGARDLESS OF RACE, CREED, of both the individual and the company. This sentiment is embedded in our employment policies, which apply to all permanent, contractual and temporary staff, and also to all job applicants. COLOUR, NATIONALITY, ETHNIC ORIGIN, AGE, RELIGION OR BELIEF, GENDER, SEXUAL ORIENTATION, MARITAL STATUS OR DISABILITY. During 2013, we continued to roll out our People Strategy across the organisation, supporting Premier’s continued growth through the recruitment, development and retention of high calibre employees. The People Strategy promotes efficiency, innovation, knowledge sharing and leadership, all of which are essential to the delivery of our business goals. There were no reported violations of our employment policies in 2013, no reported incidents of discrimination, and no use was made of our formal grievance procedures. Employee engagement Premier encourages open communication between employees and managers to ensure that issues are aired and, where possible, resolved quickly to the satisfaction of all concerned. To supplement the informal day-today feedback by employees to line managers and human resources, Premier carries out structured employee satisfaction and engagement surveys from time to time. Premier first surveyed employees on their satisfaction with company employment practices in 2008, with a follow-up survey undertaken in 2011. The surveys sought employee viewpoints, such as on commitment, compensation, retention and the work environment. Premier continued to implement the findings of the surveys during 2013, through a focus on mentoring and workforce communication. The surveys have also enabled us to roll out our wider People Strategy, enabling us to recruit, develop and retain top talent. Additional feedback from employees has been obtained through a variety of mechanisms, including screen-based surveys on Premier’s Global Code of Conduct and the regular performance and development review processes. A formal, confidential grievance procedure is available in local languages in cases where employees feel uncomfortable raising concerns through informal discussion or the normal management channels. This procedure will not prejudice the aggrieved employee’s employment or future career prospects. Our external ‘whistle-blowing’ hotline (p17) further enables employees to raise such issues without fear of recrimination. During 2013, Premier focused on new ways in which to improve communication across the workforce. This included Chief Executive Simon Lockett giving regular ‘video blog’ (vlog) sessions on current exploration and production projects, which are made available on the Premier corporate intranet. Premier will continue to look at ways of engaging with its employees as the organisation expands during 2014. 24 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 25 Figure xx: Employees by gender and age group7 4/EMPLOYEES Figure xx: Total number of employees and contractors8 Employee numbers Pay and benefits At the end of 2013, Premier had 807 employees (2012: 816) and 240 contractors (2012: 213), the largest single Premier’s strategy is to provide a superior remuneration package Figure 10: Total number group of whom were located in Indonesia. This represents a slight increase in total employee and contractor in return for superior demonstrated performance. All contracts of of employees and numbers from the previous year, reflecting the continued expansion of Premier’s exploration, drilling and employment include information on roles and responsibilities, hours of contractors8 work, conditions of employment, intellectual property stipulations and project development activities. Most business units saw increases in employee numbers, especially the Contractors non-disclosure and confidentiality obligations. Our terms of employment Falkland Islands. As Premier continues to grow we will recruit and develop additional skilled employees across Permanent are explained to all new employees during the offer of employment largely technical disciplines such as drilling, engineering, geoscience and in offshore roles. process, and on the first day of work during the induction process. Premier holds information on employees by employee contract, employee grade, gender, age group, 1,200 The development and rewards process continues to be a vital part of nationality and geographical location, with the data stored in the People Portal (a new human resources 1,000 our People Strategy. It also provides flexibility in people transfers around 213 240 database formally rolled out in 2013). As our business develops, we are planning to collect information on the organisation as we bring a number of new projects on-stream over 800 minority group membership and other indicators of diversity, provided by employees on a voluntary basis. 150 the coming years. In 2014, the human resources team will be focusing on 600 Premier recognises that employees, especially those with dependents, sometimes require flexibility in order to the two key pillars of rewards and global talent management – to further 816 807 manage their work and home life. All employees who took parental leave during the reporting period returned boost Premier’s ‘employee value proposition’. 400 706 to work in 2013, or have indicated plans to do so in 2014. Premier’s rewards programme identifies four main components of 200 employee rewards: core salary, bonus, benefits and long-term incentives. 0 Our Global Pay and Benefits Policy provides a framework to ensure 11 12 13 Figurexx: 08: Employees bycountry core country6 6 Figure Employees by core that pay and benefits for all employees are appropriate for the markets Location 2011 Turnover 2012 Turnover 2013 Turnover in which we operate. The policy is approved by the Remuneration Committee of the Board, which also reviews and approves the Falklands N/A N/A 16 31 remuneration of the company’s executive directors and senior managers. Indonesia 433 42 449 28 398 36 Norway 23 2 27 3 31 1 SALARIES AND BENEFITS // Pakistan 16 15 1 14 Singapore 14 14 13 1 We commissioned independent benchmarkings of our salary bandings and pay scales in each business unit during 2013 in order to ensure United Kingdom 149 9 216 6 237 25 that our salary and benefits packages remain competitive both locally Vietnam 71 4 79 4 83 4 and globally. Premier continues to aim to pay top-quartile base salaries Total 706 57 816 42 807 67 in each country of operation where these are supported by individual performance. This policy supports our ability to recruit and retain the right skills for the growing activities of the company. Premier provides a set of core benefits which include bonuses and Figure 09: Employees by gender and age group7 pensions to all employees. The precise form in which these and other Gender Age group benefits take differs from country to country depending on national Location employment legislation and local circumstances. Benefits are available to Male Female 18-25 26-40 41-50 51-65 Over 65 both full and part-time employees. Falklands 22 9 13 10 8 Indonesia 340 58 2 209 135 52 Premier provides all employees with a total rewards statement for the calendar year. The statement includes a detailed breakdown of all Norway 21 10 11 12 6 2 payments to the employee including base pay and allowances, annual Pakistan 13 1 6 6 2 bonus and other benefits, as well as long-term bonus opportunities. Singapore 5 8 3 5 5 Specific guidance on salary reviews and awards – to ensure a consistent United Kingdom 161 76 5 101 70 58 3 approach is applied across all our operations and employee types – was Vietnam 37 46 4 50 22 7 implemented as part of a new human resources strategy during 2013. Total 599 208 11 393 260 138 5 Composition of 94% 6% 0% 4% 49% 45% 2% senior management 6 Figures do not include contractors. Employee turnover includes those who leave the organisation voluntarily or due to dismissal, retirement, 8 The term ‘contractors’ relates to individuals employed directly by Premier but on a fixed term contract (often related to project delivery). It or death in service. Figures for 2011 have been re-stated using data from our new People Portal, in order to ensure consistency in approach does not include contractors working for suppliers, such as those involved in the construction of rigs in Indonesia or Vietnam or cleaning with 2012 and 2013. services. Note that all of these groups are included in our health and safety statistics. 7 Figures do not include contractors. ‘Senior management’ is defined as grade five and above. 26 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 27 4/EMPLOYEES Figure xx: Ratio of female to male salaries, at significant operations9 Figure 11: Ratio of female to male salaries, at significant operations9 Developing our workforce UK female to male salary Indonesia female to male Vietnam female to male Employee grade Premier aims to expand its operations principally in five distinct geographic areas: Asia, the Middle East, (as a percentage) salary (as a percentage) salary (as a percentage) sub-Saharan Africa, the North Sea and the South Atlantic. Expanding our business in a sustainable way means Grade 12 90 N/A N/A recruiting, developing and retaining the best people. Grade 11 105 47 N/A Grade 10 N/A 122 N/A LOCAL EMPLOYMENT // Grade 9 100 118 N/A Premier’s strategy is to employ nationals wherever they are suitably Grade 8 87 121 N/A qualified, and to invest in the development of their skills, knowledge Grade 7 88 106 106 and experience, in order to enhance their effectiveness at all levels Grade 6.2 78 91 70 within the organisation. Nationals occupy various senior roles including Grade 6.1 91 98 58 those of vice-president government affairs and business support, chief Grade 5 117 N/A 38 accountant, human resource manager, HSES manager, senior drilling Grade 4 105 N/A N/A engineer, as well as senior geoscientists and project engineers. Premier is also looking to transfer positions occupied by expatriate managers (those employed on overseas contracts) to nationals. This PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT // process is now tracked and reported in our People Portal, as part Premier established a global talent team in 2013, starting with the appointment of a Global Talent Manager. of our recruitment programme and ongoing commitment to the The team plans to carry out a global talent review during the course of 2014, in order to ensure that high ‘nationalisation’ of various roles within the business units. In 2013, 96 potential employees across the organisation are identified. This initiative will build on the current performance per cent of our employees were nationals (locals) (2012: 95 per cent). management and appraisal system in place for all employees, including a review against performance targets Of Premier’s senior management employees (defined as grade five and set at the beginning of each calendar year. above), 84 per cent were nationals (2012: 82 per cent). Performance is monitored through regular dialogue with managers throughout the year. At the end of each calendar year, performance against the individual’s targets is assessed and feedback is provided by the RECRUITING, DEVELOPING AND RETAINING TALENT // line manager via an online performance rating tool. All our employees received performance and career Premier implemented a new global recruitment procedure in 2013. All development reviews in 2013. hiring managers and interviewing staff are given a ‘recruitment tool kit’, The appraisal system also provides an individual performance rating which is calibrated against group wide which provides information on interviewing techniques and Premier’s data to inform salary and bonus recommendations. During 2013, functional managers from our corporate office employment policies to help them recruit new talent to our organisation. in London additionally reviewed the performances of employees across the organisation, in order to ensure Premier recruited 117 new employees in 2013 (2012: 134). consistency and objectivity in performance reviews across the group. We continue to support all employees in their personal development, providing additional training and support where required. This includes Bonus and Long-Term Incentive plans mentoring and coaching, annual performance reviews, and also parttime and full-time training courses where relevant and applicable. The Premier recognises outstanding performance through its rewards programmes. Annual non-pensionable amount of time that Premier employees spent in training in 2013 was and discretionary bonuses may be paid to all employees on the achievement of a range of corporate and 20,814 hours (an average of 25 hours per employee).10 team performance targets. Premier also offers a Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), which is designed to encourage employee focus on longer-term performance and alignment with shareholder interests. The In order to develop the technical skills of our operational employees, LTIP encourages greater individual share ownership by all employees and is the principal incentive scheme Premier has begun to identify employee competencies for each role to offered by the company. The Remuneration Committee also has discretion to grant Conditional Share formulate bespoke training plans. Employees and their line managers Awards to new employees. Further details on bonus and performance related pay plans are contained in will be able to refer to these competencies via an online navigator tool in our Annual Report. 2014, in order to devise individual development and training plans. For those transitioning to management roles, there are also training In order to ensure that Premier continues to attract and retain the talent needed by our expanding opportunities. In 2013, Premier introduced a new mentoring system for business, a review of our rewards strategy will be carried out in 2014. Consultation with managers, managers, enabling managerial staff to receive guidance on improving employees and their representatives, shareholders and other stakeholders will be carried out regarding any their leadership skills. proposed changes. 9 Employee grades A-D are not included here due to the small sample size. N/A denotes employee grades in business units where only one gender was represented. Salary ratios are only indicative and do not reflect the differential in pay level between national and 10 The number of training hours in 2013 is less than the 2012 figure (48 hours of training per employee), due to training hour data from the expatriate employees, or between onshore and offshore workers. For instance, Vietnam grades 6.2, 6.1 and 5 include female nationals and London office not being available for the 2012 report. During 2014, Premier will look at ways to record information on training received by male expatriates. staff according to employee grade and indicators of diversity such as gender. 28 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 29 4/EMPLOYEES GROUP WIDE SUCCESSION MANAGEMENT PROGRAMME // Our Norway operations also have a trade union presence, although Figure 12: Local no employees were known to be members during 2013. In Vietnam, minimum wage as a In 2013, we piloted a new methodology for succession planning, which we plan to roll out during 2014 in there were 19 employees (out of a total of 83) who were members of a percentage of Premier all business units as part of the new talent management review process. Premier’s succession management standard entry wage12 trade union. In total, 28 per cent of Premier employees were covered by programme for senior managers, including both national and expatriate staff, aims to identify potential collective bargaining agreements in 2013. (females) successors for all key positions. Premier provides its employees and their elected representatives (where Our human resources team continues to work with each business unit to build ownership of the development 45 41.96 relevant) with one month’s notice on any significant operational changes process for key individuals and to implement plans for recruiting, developing and retaining key personnel. This 40 that might affect them.11 During 2014, Premier will consider the screening 35 includes tailored capacity building, experiential learning and individual development plans for future leaders. of significant suppliers for risks concerning the right to exercise freedom 30 Ongoing progress is monitored by the Nomination Committee of the Board. 22.84 of association and collective bargaining. 25 20 Figure xx: Local minimum wage as a percentage of Premier standard entry wage (females)12Figure xx: Local minimum wage as a percentage of Premier standardentry wage (males) 12.73 GRADUATE SCHEME // 15 Forced/compulsory labour and 10 In 2013, Premier launched a graduate programme for the United Kingdom, after having engaged with the 5 child labour 0 relevant stakeholders – such as universities, student representatives and Premier managers – to develop the UK Indonesia Vietnam project scope, management strategy and graduate development objectives. Five offers were made and taken up for placements in 2013 (and seven offers were made for 2014 placements). A project plan for the 2014 scheme was also established. Our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact recognises the need to eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour. The Figure 13: Local United Nations Global Compact also promotes the abolition of child minimum wage as a Freedom of association and collective bargaining labour. These commitments are reinforced in our own Human Rights Policy (p19). None of our operations has been identified as being at percentage of Premier standard entry wage12 Premier employees tend to occupy either administrative office-based or highly technical roles, and are paid significant risk for incidents of forced/compulsory labour or child labour, (males) more than the minimum wage (in those countries where the minimum wage applies). This is reflected by the and no incidents of forced/compulsory or child labour were recorded in significantly higher salary levels at entry grade as compared to the local minimum wage shown in Figures 12 the reporting period. Our employees largely hold administrative office45 41.93 and 13. based or highly technical roles. 40 35 We respect the right of employees to join a legitimate trade union, and we comply with all local legislation During 2013, Premier also began considering ways of ensuring that our 30 26.94 regarding collective bargaining. Only our Indonesia operations currently have a formal collective labour suppliers and contractors do not use forced/compulsory or child labour, 25 agreement in place between the local labour union and the company. The agreement regulates employee with a particular focus on our operations in South East Asia as well as 20 terms and conditions specific to Indonesia, including wage scales, working hours, overtime, shift work, national contracted sites where the risk of such practices tends to be higher 15 10 holidays and annual leave, health, safety, medical treatment and training. This agreement was renegotiated than elsewhere. 5 in 2011 with the labour union opting to adopt Premier’s group salary benchmarking and performance review www.ilo.org/declaration/lang--en/index.htm 0 N/A UK Indonesia Vietnam standards. Of the 398 employees at Premier’s Indonesia operations, 210 were members of a trade union in 2013. 11 In cases of redundancy, employees are entitled to receive services from an outplacement provider. 12 Standard entry grade for graduate technical roles is defined as grade nine. Salary ratios are only indicative and do not reflect the differential in pay level between national and expatriate employees, and between onshore and offshore workers. In 2013, males at grade nine in Vietnam were expatriates on a graduate scheme, and are therefore not included in the data (N/A). 30 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 31 5 Health and safety Our policy framework During 2013, we continued to focus on the reinforcement of our HSE Policy and associated Golden Rules at all operations worldwide. The HSE Policy is formally reviewed annually. No amendments were made in 2013. The Golden Rules underpin our HSE Policy, procedures and standards, and are designed to help address the most common causes of serious incidents at operating facilities in our industry. Reinforcement of the Golden PREMIER IS COMMITTED TO OPERATING RESPONSIBLY IN ORDER TO Rules during 2013 has been a key part of our commitment to excellence and continuous improvement in health ENSURE THE SAFETY OF EVERYONE INVOLVED IN OUR OPERATIONS and safety performance. AND TO PROTECT THE ENVIRONMENT. WE WILL NEVER KNOWINGLY Our policy on fitness for work is aligned with the Oil and Gas UK guidance. Premier has a policy of strictly COMPROMISE OUR HEALTH AND SAFETY STANDARDS TO MEET OUR prohibiting alcohol and illegal substances, and counselling is available to any individual who is found to be affected. OPERATIONAL OBJECTIVES. Our HSES Management System Premier reviews and updates the corporate HSES Management System on an ongoing basis to facilitate continuous improvement and to ensure compliance by the business units as new processes are rolled out. Health, Safety and Environment Policy At the end of 2013, Premier began work on implementing a new HSES reporting tool in order to combine Our goals are to ensure the safety of everyone Premier’s existing HSES data management systems, e.g. EARS, PATS and POEMS. The new reporting tool will involved with our operations and to protect the enable us to track actions and report on key performance indicators (KPIs) on one centralised system. environment. Our HSE Policy recognises the Being able to differentiate risks at the successive stages of projects will enable us to identify the root causes need to: and contributing factors. The tool will be rolled out by business units in 2014, starting in Vietnam. • encourage open and honest communication; Premier’s HSES Management System is aligned with the industry model prepared by the OGP and supported • seek ways to continually improve by a number of internal standards. It is made up of the following elements: leadership; risk; goals; organisation; our performance; contractors; procedures; emergencies; incidents; checking; and review. • assess and manage risks; The HSES Management System, which forms part of the broader Premier Oil BMS (Figure 14), prescribes how HSES issues will be addressed, monitored and measured in each area of our business (exploration, drilling, • provide appropriate resources; project development, project execution, production operation and office facilities) and in major contracts. Each • maintain clean, safe and healthy workplaces; business unit also holds ‘bridging’ documents, which serve to align HSES working practices of contractors with • investigate and learn from any incidents; Premier’s requirements. • plan and prepare for potential emergencies; Figure xx: Tiered hierarchy of our HSES Management System LEADERSHIP AND COMMUNICATION // • maintain high quality documented systems The Board is committed to achieving excellence in HSES performance. A summary of our HSES performance and process; is reported each month and reviewed both by the Board and by the Executive Committee, which also reviews • seek external certification of key management performance through quarterly performance reviews with each business unit. systems; and All Norway business unit employees are represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety • meet or surpass statutory requirements. committees. Whilst our employees at other operations are not formally represented in such committees, there are procedures in place for them to receive direct communications on HSES issues from senior managers/ It is the responsibility of everybody involved in supervisors. These senior personnel are members of our HSES Forum, which facilitates company-wide Premier to comply with our polices and to assist communication on HSES issues, including the issuing of safety alerts. Furthermore, Premier HSES advisors the company in their implementation. – supported by safety officers from the workforce – have a presence at all our production, drilling and construction operations. They conduct regular meetings to discuss health and safety issues with employees. 32 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 33 5/HEALTH AND SAFETY Team HSES performance contracts are prepared for each operational function and asset team, with individual Figure 14: Tiered hierarchy of our HSES Management System performance contracts set for individuals whose leadership and commitment is required to influence HSES performance. At an operational level, senior managers and supervisors are tasked with ensuring HSES matters maintain a high profile and that their personal commitment is visible to the workforce. During 2013, Premier also worked with external organisations to develop a process safety competency Group policy framework, ‘Professional Process Safety Engineers’. This will focus on hazard and incident identification, and provide a framework for enhancing the expertise of technical safety personnel. Group standards AUDIT AND ASSURANCE // An ongoing programme of both internal and external review and audit is built into the HSES Management System. This includes external audits and certifications to OHSAS 18001 (on health and safety management) and ISO 14001 (on environmental management) for production and drilling. Business unit standards Premier has been certified to OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 since 2004 for global drilling, and since 2006 for our Indonesian production operations. Our Chim Sáo production operation in Vietnam was audited by ERM Industry standards Business unit procedures and practices CVS in December 2013. The facility is progressing well towards full certification, with a third assessment audit scheduled for 2014. During 2013, Anoa and Gajah Baru in Indonesia and Balmoral in the North Sea retained Group procedures their drilling certifications. ts Contractor policy en um d oc Targets and performance ing Contractor standards dg Bri Contractor procedures In 2013, Premier launched the Process Safety Management Standard (PSMS). The PSMS defines Premier’s objectives and minimum requirements for process safety in all operations, including the responsibilities, Premier requires all employees and contractors working offshore to have a medical assessment every two years, verification and validation required to achieve them. Together with the Process Safety Performance process, the in accordance with the Oil and Gas UK Guidelines for Medical Aspects of Fitness for Offshore Work. Premier PSMS enables a systematic approach to the management of process safety in production operations, helping participates actively in dialogue with industry bodies such as OGP, Oil and Gas UK, Step Change in Safety, to ensure: as well as the Health and Safety Executive in the United Kingdom. These activities facilitate a sharing of best • legislative compliance; practice and ensure that this approach is integrated into our standard ways of working. During 2013, we reviewed and began updating the standards and procedures in our HSES Management • a consistent approach to process safety management; System, and will be implementing a number of enhancements and new initiatives during 2014. This will build • clear organisation and assignment of responsibilities; on work undertaken in 2013 to strengthen the management of occupational health and safety and associated process/technical safety disciplines. Our organisational structure includes dedicated HSES and process/ • effective and timely maintenance, testing and inspection of safety critical systems, equipment and structures; technical safety personnel in both project and production operations, as well as a support and assurance process across all levels of the organisation. • sound risk management and decision making; • timely and effective repair of degraded safety critical systems, equipment and structures; EMPLOYEE ACCOUNTABILITY // • and consistent management reporting and oversight at asset, business unit and company level. Every Premier employee is accountable and has a personal responsibility for the health, safety and environment of the organisation. Employees are expected to ‘stop the job’ if they see or believe something is unsafe or can HSES performance targets are monitored and measured monthly, reviewed quarterly by the Executive be better controlled. Committee and reported to the Board. All our safety performance data includes both Premier employees and HSES awareness is emphasised as part of the induction process for all new employees. Employees who (directly and indirectly employed) contractors at our operations and covers all areas of our business: drilling, work on, or travel to, offshore facilities are also required to complete a Basic Offshore Safety Induction and construction and production. In 2013, the Process Safety Performance Reporting Guidelines were launched to Emergency Training (BOSIET) programme, and every four years to complete a Further Offshore Emergency boost competency in this area. Training (FOET) refresher programme. A curriculum was distributed in 2013 to all HSES functional staff via the new e-learning system, following the launch of our online programme on the Golden Rules. Training material – published in English, Vietnamese Bahasa Indonesia and Norwegian – will be distributed in 2014. Premier is now reviewing other opportunities for e-learning, for example the OPITO-approved Minimum Industry Safety Training course. 34 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 35 5/HEALTH AND SAFETY igure xx: Total recordable injury rate (TRIR) benchmarking16 Occupational safety HIGH POTENTIAL INCIDENTS // Insight into high potential incidents (HIPOs) and their rate of occurrence Figure 16: Total In 2013, we worked 11.75 million man-hours (2012: 6.14 million man-hours). The increase in man-hours on the enable us to learn how to prevent or mitigate future incidents. This recordable injury rate previous year was mainly due to a number of projects moving into the construction phase (from 2.00 million involves addressing the root causes of such incidents. We believe (TRIR)* benchmarking16 man-hours in 2012 to 7.59 million in 2013). The majority of these man-hours were worked by contractors (2013: HIPOs act as a leading indicator of potential major accidents and 9.75 million man-hours; 2012: 4.31 million man-hours). There were no construction projects at Premier-operated serious injuries. The assessment of HIPOs complements the proactive Premier (total) OGP sites during 2013. testing of asset integrity safety systems and management under our OGP offshore safety case regime. 4.0 TOTAL RECORDABLE INJURY RATES // There was a decrease in the number of HIPOs per million man-hours 3.40 3.5 The total recordable injury rate (TRIR) for Premier employees at Premier-operated sites was 0.00 per million during the reporting period, from 1.30 in 2012 to 0.68 in 2013. This was 3.0 man-hours for 2013. The TRIR for Premier employees at contractor-operated sites was also 0.00 for 2013. Both well below our target frequency rate of 1.50. Eight HIPOs in total were 2.36 2.5 these TRIR figures – well within our performance target of 2.00 per million man-hours – reflected the strong recorded in 2013, the same number as in 2012. Five of these occurred 2.0 HSES performance of Premier employees. Significant improvements were reported at our Chim Sáo site in at our North Sea operations, and the other three at our Vietnam 1.79 1.5 Vietnam, where employee and contractor injury rates decreased from 2.77 per million man-hours in 2012 to operations. There was a significant decrease in the HIPO frequency rate 1.0 0.78 in 2013. in both the drilling phases (2013: 0.00, 2012: 2.49) and the production 0.5 phases (2013: 1.56, 2012: 3.30). However, there was an increase in the Nevertheless, our overall TRIR performance deteriorated, with an increase from 1.79 per million man-hours in HIPO frequency rate at construction sites working on our projects, from 0 2012 to 3.40 in 2013. This included a TRIR of 3.61 for contractors working at contractor-operated sites and a 11 12 13 0.00 in 2012 to 0.66 in 2013. TRIR of 5.72 for contractors working at Premier-operated sites. During 2013, we began enhancing our metrics for recording HIPOs in In order to improve HSES performance and build on lessons learnt, in late 2013 we instigated a more proactive order to differentiate between incidents related to personal safety and Figure 17: High potential approach to manage the issues at contractor facilities – an approach that is continuing in 2014 and will those related to major accidents (the latter including process safety incident rate (HIPOR)* be maintained. events). This new classification system aligns more closely with the OGP We also monitor all cases of occupational illness. Three cases were reported in 2013 (2012: zero), two of definition. Of the eight HIPOs identified in 2013, six were classified as Target which occurred at our UAE-based construction site and the other at our Chim Sáo site in Vietnam. In 2014, personal safety incidents and two as process safety incidents. Both of the Total occupational illness will be more comprehensively monitored and reported under our HSES KPIs. We will also process safety HIPOs were related to loss of primary containment (LOPC; implement further measures to mitigate the potential for occurrences of occupational illness. see p36). 2.5 All eight HIPOs identified in 2013 were investigated in depth for their 2.00 2.00 root causes, the new classification system enabling us to identify 2.0 13 Figure 15: Occupational safety data13 appropriate corrective actions and to monitor their implementation. 1.50 1.5 1.30 Safety alerts – citing the key incident causes and preventative actions Total14 Premier sites 201315 Contractor sites 2013 14 Key safety parameters required – were communicated to all relevant employees via the HSES 15 and indicators 2011 2012 2013 Personnel Contractors Personnel Contractors 1.0 0.83 0.68 Forum, in order to share learning across the organisation. Safety alerts Man-hours worked (million) 7.19 6.14 11.75 1.74 2.27 0.26 7.48 are mandatory for all HIPOs but may also be issued when there are 0.5 Fatalities 1 incidents that require heightened awareness and caution. 0.0 Lost work day cases (LWDC) 7 5 18 6 12 11 12 13 Restricted work day cases (RWDC) 3 2 5 1 4 Medical treatment cases (MTC) 5 4 17 6 11 Key performance indicators (KPIs) Figure 18: High potential incidents data Target recordable injury rate (TRIR)* 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 Parameter Figure xx: High potential incidents data 2011 2012 2013 Total recordable injury rate (TRIR)* 2.36 1.79 3.40 0.00 5.72 0.00 3.61 * per Highmillion man-hours potential incidents (HIPOs) 6 8 8 *per million man-hours Figure Targetxx: High high potential potential incident incident rate (HIPOR) rate (HIPOR)* 2.00 2.00 1.50 Total high potential incident rate (HIPOR)* 0.83 1.30 0.68 *per million man-hours 13 Premier uses the same definition for LWDC, RWDC and MTC as OGP, where LWDCs are identified as “any work-related injury other than a fatality which results in a person being unfit for work on any day after the day of occurrence of the occupational injury”. OGP defines RWDCs as “any work-related injury other than a fatality or lost work day case which results in a person being unfit for full performance of the regular job on any day after the occupational injury”. MTCs are “cases that are not severe enough to be reported as fatalities or lost work day cases or restricted work day cases but are more severe than requiring simple first aid treatment”. “Any day” includes rest days, leave days, public holidays or days after ceasing employment. 14 Occupational safety data for 2011 and 2012 aggregates Premier employees and contractors, whereas data for 2013 shows employees and contractors both separately and in combined form. We have presented additional detail on HSES performance for 2013 following our analysis of the issues that have emerged from increased construction activity. 15 In 2013, our operations in Asia (Indonesia and Vietnam) accounted for three LWDCs, zero RWDCs, seven MTCs and a TRIR of 1.65. Our operations in the North Sea (UK, Norway and Dubai) accounted for 15 LWDCs, five RWDCs, 10 MTCs and a TRIR of 5.64. The 2013 data for 16 OGP averages are calculated in May of the following year and therefore OGP averages for 2013 were not available when this report LWDCs includes one female employee; all the other cases were males. was issued. 36 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 37 5/HEALTH AND SAFETY Process safety One way of recording process safety events is through the measurement of loss of primary containment (LOPC). Process safety and asset integrity scorecards This is a new performance measure proposed by OGP, and adopted by Premier. Further work is required to During 2013, Premier initiated a pilot scorecard system for assessing process safety and asset integrity harmonise the process safety performance measurement across the industry, and we will continue to work with risks across the company’s operated assets. The project involved devising a base risk case model utilising OGP. We are a member of its Process Safety Subcommittee, and will assist in the development of an industrythe principles of API Recommended Practice 754, but extended to include safety case compliance at wide approach to indicators and reporting. each operated asset. Asset-specific scorecards were developed to evaluate the performance of people, procedures and plant. LOSS OF PRIMARY CONTAINMENT // Under this new scorecard system, all the relevant process safety and asset integrity metrics are assessed In 2013, we enhanced our process safety performance measures in line with the OGP, with LOPC events using a traffic light system and a score out of 10 is assigned. The compliance levels, for each metric, are classified in two tiers – as defined by the American Petroleum Institute (API): then aggregated to produce a final quantitative score. • Tier One, where there is a significant loss of containment from a process system, i.e. oil over 1,000kg or gas This new risk scorecard system enables Premier to assess process safety and asset integrity performance at over 500kg (per hour) each operated asset. It also allows improvement targets to be set and monitored. The risk scorecard system • Tier Two, where there is a moderate loss of containment from a process system, i.e. oil over 100kg and gas was piloted for the Chim Sáo site towards the end of 2013, with plans to roll this system out at Premier’s over 50kg (per hour) other operations during 2014. In 2013, there were 40 LOPC events (2012: 41) at our operations. Of these, one was a Tier One LOPC event (2012: zero) and two were Tier Two events (2012: seven). The remaining 37 incidents were events of lesser significance, which included small gas leaks and contained oil spills that did not reach the environment. In 2014, we will look at ways of clarifying the parameters within which LOPC events are being reported. This will, Figure 20: Process safety data collection for example, exclude cases of environmental non-compliance and fugitive releases (although such cases would still be captured for environmental reporting purposes). Under these new screening procedures, only 12 LOPC events would have been recorded at our operations for 2013 (2012: 20). Data collected by HSES function Risk picture twice a year, and delivered to Board and business unit Figure 19: Process safety data LOPC events 2011 2012 2013 Tier One 1 1 Data collected by asset manager on a Tier Two 5 7 2 Process safety and monthly basis, and delivered to HSES Events of lesser significance 29 34 37 asset integrity scorecard function, business unit and site Data informs Board’s monthly report and Total 35 41 40 business unit’s quarterly performance review Data collected at the site on a daily Maintenance basis, and delivered to asset manager Data informs process safety and asset integrity scorecard 38 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 39 5/HEALTH AND SAFETY SAFETY CASES AT OUR OPERATED INSTALLATIONS // “ Process safety is a disciplined framework for managing the integrity of operating systems and Safety cases are in place at all our operated installations. Our safety case regime is consistent with the processes handling hazardous substances. It is achieved by applying good design principles, regulatory standards of the United Kingdom. We believe this represents best practice and implement such engineering, and operating and maintenance practices. It deals with the prevention and control cases at all our operated production facilities worldwide, even when not required by the local regulatory of events that have the potential to release hazardous materials and energy. Such incidents regime. A safety case is developed during the early stages of a project, becomes more detailed as a project can result in toxic exposures, fires or explosions and could ultimately result in serious incidents nears the operations stage, and must be completed before production commences. including fatalities, injuries, property damage, lost production or environmental damage.” Each case includes a review and impact assessment of the relevant process safety risks against established safety benchmarks. When necessary, further steps are required to reduce risks to a level that is ‘as low as OGP Report 456: Process Safety – Recommended Practice on Key Performance Indicators (2011) reasonably practicable’ (the ALARP principle).17 Our operating assets are reviewed every five years to ensure continued compliance. Safety cases are reviewed by either the local regulatory authority or a competent independent third party to provide assurance of compliance. We encourage drilling contractors to adopt the International Association of Drilling Contractors HSE Case Guidelines for all drilling operations, although this is not always practicable in some of the regions where we Safety by design operate. In all cases, we obtain assurance regarding the integrity of our contracted drilling rigs at three stages before drilling commences. We conduct an initial high-level review during the bidding stage to ensure that the rig technical specifications meet our requirements. After selecting a rig we conduct a pre-hire audit. Before commencing drilling we conduct a drilling preparedness review, which includes a more in-depth assessment PROJECT SAFETY REVIEWS AT FACILITIES IN DEVELOPMENT // of crew competence, maintenance management systems and the integrity of safety and environmental critical Premier has integrated process safety protocols into the project safety reviews (PSRs) of all the company’s equipment (for example, blowout preventers). projects. These reviews, carried out at each project phase, provide assurance that material HSES issues have In 2013, safety cases were updated at Chim Sáo in Vietnam (inclusion of subsea tie-back) and Gajah Baru in been identified and are being effectively managed throughout the project. A typical project will require six Indonesia for the Pelikan and Naga wellhead platforms. In the North Sea, Balmoral is undergoing a five-year strategic reviews as the project moves from concept to construction and then to operation (Figure 21). review and Solan was preparing for the commissioning stage at the end of the reporting period. PSRs are closely aligned with our project approval gates, at which time strategic decisions are made to either progress a project further towards the operations stage or to delay or divest. Before progressing to the WELL EXAMINATION SCHEME // next phase, a project team must demonstrate that all risks and other key issues have been managed to an acceptable level. Premier’s well examination scheme was developed for all well operations we conduct on the United Kingdom Continental Shelf, to meet the requirements of the Offshore Installations and Wells Design and Construction Regulations 1996. This legislation requires the well operator to have a written scheme of examination in place to Figure Figure xx: 21: Project Project reviewsreviews safetysafety at all at all stages ofstages of the the project project pipeline pipeline ensure that, as far as reasonably practicable, wells are designed, operated, suspended and decommissioned so that there can be no unplanned escape of fluids and that risks to the health and safety of persons are minimised. All our well examinations are conducted by an independent, competent person to ensure that all appropriate measures have been taken to reduce risks to levels that are as low as reasonably practicable. Examinations Prepare Detailed are subject to annual review and are revised as appropriate. Each examination records all areas of risk, any Concept Feed Construction Installation HUC Operations PSR plan design recommendations regarding action to mitigate risks, and actions taken in response to those recommendations. PSR0 PSR1 PSR2 PSR3 PSR4 PSR5 PSR6 Project safety reviews Gate review Gate Gate review Gate review Gate review review Appraisal concept ready for end of project initiation Long project sanction selection leads production production Identify phase Study phase Design phase Executive phase Produce phase 17 Reasonably practicable implies that a computation is made in which the quantum of risk is placed on one scale and the sacrifice, whether in money, time or trouble involved in the measures necessary to avert the risk, is placed in the other. If it can be shown that there is a significant disproportion between them and that the risk is insignificant in relation to the resource required, then Premier as the duty holder discharges responsibility for proving that compliance was not reasonably practicable. 40 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 41 5/HEALTH AND SAFETY Emergency preparedness Security All our operations have emergency response plans which are regularly reviewed. During 2013, new standards for Evaluations of security risks for our operations and employees are driven by on-the-ground events in those emergency preparedness were rolled out and additional training on emergency crisis management was provided countries where we operate, explore and travel. to operational employees. This also included third party training and formal media training for managers. In addition, all relevant operated sites are required to conduct emergency response exercises on an annual TRAVEL SECURITY ARRANGEMENTS // basis. These drills take place offshore and are coordinated with the in-country office. They are designed to simulate real-life scenarios such as an oil spill during drilling. Premier has a clear travel risk assessment process in place for all its employees and is a member of International SOS, which provides medical assistance, international healthcare and security services, as well as updates Various health and safety drills also take place throughout the year at both our onshore offices and offshore on health-related risks in countries. These are assessed by our team and presented to employees as travel facilities, such as fire evacuations and defibrillator exercises. In addition, Premier conducts business continuity warnings where relevant. During the reporting period, there was continuing instability in Pakistan, as well as in exercises on a regular basis at the company’s onshore offices. Several business continuity exercises were carried Iraq where Premier made preparations to visit our new non-operated joint venture. Both countries warranted out in 2013, including with third party training. special travel risk assessments and enhanced security and evacuation precautions. There were no significant security incidents affecting Premier personnel in 2013. EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS EXERCISES // During 2013, Premier held a full emergency preparedness exercise at the Solan site in the North Sea. Premier’s HEALTH TRAINING AND AWARENESS // Crisis Management Plan was activated during the drill, which involved close coordination in crisis response between the Solan site and the group HSES management team based in the London headquarters. The Premier provides education, training and risk-control programmes to assist and prevent exposure of employees exercise took place in conjunction with the United Kingdom’s Department of Energy and Climate Change, to disease (and their families, where appropriate). This includes malaria awareness training and prevention which monitored Premier’s preparedness and response capabilities. for our employees travelling overseas. Health alerts on outbreaks of disease such as pandemic influenza and dengue fever are provided to local teams and those travelling to affected countries. The key learnings from the exercise were updated in the Crisis Management Plan, including recommendations to make the process more efficient and streamlined. During 2014, Premier is planning to carry out further full emergency preparedness drills at our operated sites in conjunction with the group HSES management team. SECURITY SERVICES // In 2013, a real evacuation took place at the Anoa FPSO when a contracted employee was severely injured and Our Human Rights Policy includes a clear commitment to ensure that security practices do not undermine the flown to Singapore to receive emergency medical treatment. Emergency procedures were carried out correctly human rights of local communities. Similar requirements would also be included in invitations to tender issued and efficiently, resulting in the affected employee receiving the appropriate medical treatment. to all eligible external providers, if and where such services might be required. All our current exploration, drilling and production activity occurs offshore and away from local communities. UNIVERSAL WELL CAPPING DEVICE // Owing to the offshore nature of our operated activities, Premier does not currently employ or contract security personnel, apart from those provided by the landlords at our office locations. There is also a minimal risk Premier supports work currently being undertaken by the Oil Spill Prevention and Response Advisory Group of security-related human rights infringements to our offshore operations, reflected by no incidents being (OSPRAG). In November 2010, Oil and Gas UK, through OSPRAG, took the decision to proceed with the registered in the reporting period. development of a universal well capping device that could close off a well in the event of a major incident, thereby enhancing the United Kingdom’s capability to respond to a major, sustained release of oil. The device During 2013, Premier carried out a human rights risk assessment of all operations globally, including a focus on was commissioned by Oil Spill Response Ltd (OSRL), assembled with industry partners, tested at operations security forces. This assessment was designed to acknowledge the different types of risks for onshore versus and unveiled at the Offshore Europe event in September 2011. It is now kept in a readiness state available for offshore locations. The assessment also evaluated the different measures that we can take to address human immediate deployment if needed. rights in projects where we are not the operator versus those we operate. These have been integrated into our forthcoming training, as we align company procedures with the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Premier is an associate member of OSRL and, as such, is entitled to call on any of its equipment, such as its Rights. Premier intends to apply for membership of the Voluntary Principles in 2014, thereby reinforcing our well capping device, to assist in the management of an oil spill at any of our drilling and production locations commitment to best practice. worldwide. In June 2013, OSRL announced the opening of a new base in Singapore with enhanced response capabilities, including the capping device which can be mobilised throughout the Asia-Pacific region. www.hse.gov.uk www.api.org www.stepchangeinsafety.net www.oilspillresponse.com 42 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 43 6 Environment Impact assessment All our operated activities are conducted offshore where we drill for and extract oil and gas from reservoirs underground. Our most significant environmental impact arises from the production of greenhouse gases and other emissions associated with the energy consumption and flaring at our operations. Other impacts include water consumption and discharges as well as hazardous/non-hazardous waste management. Environmental assessment, management and reporting form a major part of Premier’s HSES risk management process. We conduct baseline surveys and prepare environmental and social impact assessments (ESIAs) for PREMIER IS FOCUSED ON PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT IN LINE each operated activity. These involve an assessment of our potential impact on the physical, socio-economic WITH OUR STATED COMMITMENT TO REDUCE OUR IMPACT TO A and biological environments, including biodiversity and the rights of indigenous peoples.18 We measure and LEVEL THAT IS AS LOW AS REASONABLY PRACTICABLE. THIS INVOLVES review each impact in turn to gauge its significance and assess how it can be reduced to a level that is as low ONGOING ASSESSMENT, MONITORING AND REPORTING ON as reasonably practicable in line with our internal environmental ALARP principle. Potential actions to improve environmental performance are screened based on cost, duration and impact to determine which are feasible ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AT ALL OUR OPERATIONS. for implementation. Baseline survey and ESIAs indicate that none of our existing operations has significant impacts on the biological environment and none of our operations is located in or adjacent to any protected areas.19 ENSURING CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT // Our ambition is to reduce our impact in line with our stated policy to a level that is as low as reasonably practicable. We conduct periodic reviews of operations performance and identify where improvements need to be made. Energy use on offshore production facilities and drilling rigs is generally driven by the original design of the facilities. New facilities are designed with the best technology available at the time. This includes the use of more environmentally friendly dry low-emissions turbines and minimal routine flaring. As a field matures, production decreases and fluid handling increases due to an expansion in produced water, leading to an inevitable rise in the intensity of emissions and discharges. The rapidly changing mix in the age of our facilities as we invest in and commission new developments and acquire older facilities has, until recently, inhibited us from setting an emissions intensity improvement target year on year. Our current profile of only four operated production facilities (Anoa, Gajah Baru, Chim Sáo and Balmoral) and a number of large projects in development means that exceptions, additions or changes at any of these facilities will have a significant impact on our reporting and on the attainment of any emissions or other environmental targets. In this regard, our ongoing Chim Sáo operation – and the associated flaring – had a disproportionate impact on our greenhouse gas emissions in 2013. Premier incurred no fines or non-monetary sanctions during 2013 for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. 18 Premier is a signatory to the Energy and Biodiversity Initiative. Previous Social Performance Reports discussed the impact of our operations on biodiversity in detail, but this has been discontinued since baseline surveys and ESIAs have found no evidence of significant impacts on the environment. A number of our community investment programmes in Indonesia (p54), Pakistan (p62) and Vietnam (p65) actively support biodiversity protection and rehabilitation. Our offshore seismic surveys are compliant with all marine mammal standards and requirements. 19 This also mitigates the risk of operations affecting the habitats of endangered species, including those on the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List. 44 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 45 6/ENVIRONMENT REPORTING ON PERFORMANCE // DIRECT EMISSIONS // We report our environmental performance in line with the IPIECA Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary There were a number of further changes to our emissions profile during Figure 23: Total Sustainability Reporting (p71) and the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (p72). Our in-depth monitoring 2013, largely due to the continued development of new assets that operated greenhouse by facility/source across a range of environmental metrics in our EARS and POEMS monitoring systems (p31) increase our scope. Our greenhouse gas accounting over this same gas emissions21 will be integrated in the new HSES reporting tool in 2014. period has thus sought to represent both the full scope of our higher (thousand tonnes) total emissions as well as emissions intensity figures relative to our Premier’s emissions performance is benchmarked against an industry database compiled and published by the increased tonnes of production. Together these figures provide better OGP (p45). As an oil and gas company with production facilities in the North Sea, we comply with the European insight into progress towards our stated emissions reduction ambition 1,200 Union Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) and submit an annual, externally verified report on our emissions and ALARP commitment. 891 959 profile to the United Kingdom Department of Energy and Climate Change. 1,000 800 We also participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project. In 2013, we achieved a carbon disclosure score of 66 Total greenhouse gas emissions 615 out of 100 (2012: 66), which is broadly equivalent to the median average achieved by other FTSE-listed oil and 600 gas companies. Greenhouse gas emissions associated with hydrocarbon combustion 400 at Premier-operated facilities amounted to 958,566 tonnes in 2013, an 200 increase on 2012 emissions (890,809 tonnes) (Figure 23). This was largely Figure xx: Key environmental data Figure 22: Key environmental data due to unexpected flaring at Chim Sáo in Vietnam and its associated 0 11 12 13 offshore production, storage and offloading facility (exacerbated by third Parameter 2011 2012 2013 Figuredamage party xx: Totaltooperated greenhouse the gas export pipeline). emissionsabsolute gasPremier’s (thousand tonnes)21 emissions are likely to increase over the short to medium term as a number of new Figure 24: Greenhouse CO2 (tonnes) 543,545 797,028 840,094 operations come on-stream in the next five years. gas emissions per function CO (tonnes) 1,924 2,392 2,504 (thousand tonnes) N2O (tonnes) 31 12 14 Greenhouse gas intensity Drilling Production CH4 (tonnes) 2,923 4,292 5,432 Our operated greenhouse gas emissions intensity increased to 288 tonnes per thousand tonnes of production in 2013, up from 242 tonnes 1,200 VOCs (tonnes) 1,350 1,941 2,416 in 2012. This exceeded our target of the OGP median, mainly due to 1,000 14 unexpected flaring at Chim Sáo in Vietnam. Despite the overall increase, 43 NOx (tonnes) 4,449 4,747 4,198 800 there were significant improvements in performance at both of our SOx (tonnes) 455 447 387 Anoa and Gajah Baru facilities in Indonesia, with an average emissions 600 110 945 intensity of 165 tonnes per thousand tonnes of production (2012: 175 400 847 GHG (tonnes) 614,507 890,809 958,566 tonnes) and 104 tonnes per thousand tonnes of production (2012: 119 504 200 GHG (per thousand tonnes of production) 305 242 288 tonnes) respectively. 0 The overall increase on our 2012 figure is principally attributable to 11 12 13 Flared gas (tonnes) 82,571 122,298 154,920 emissions increases at Chim Sáo – from 326 tonnes in 2012, to 451 tonnes in 2013. With Chim Sáo figures removed, the overall emissions Figure 25: Greenhouse intensity figure for 2013 is 189 tonnes per thousand tonnes of production. gas intensity Climate change and greenhouse gas emissions As well as monitoring greenhouse gas emissions from our operated assets, we calculate greenhouse gas emissions on an equity basis for (tonnes CO2 per thousand tonnes of production) We manage our operations in accordance with our commitment to restrict our impact on the environment to a production across our global portfolio. Greenhouse gas emissions OGP average level that is as low as reasonably practicable. In doing so, we focus on effective design (including the adoption of intensity from our full equity portfolio amounted to 214 tonnes per new technologies where practicable), efficient operation, and responsible energy use. This involves, for example, thousand tonnes of production (2012: 170 tonnes).22 350 305 288 300 minimising the transport schedules of our employees, transporting material goods by sea for all operated assets, 242 250 and where possible reducing greenhouse gas emissions from power generation, flaring and venting. 200 150 EMISSIONS REDUCTION TARGETS // 100 Premier believes that all targets should be SMART (specific, measurable, attainable, relevant and time-bound) 50 and we will not therefore commit to an artificial target that cannot be realistically achieved. We conduct 0 11 13 environmental ALARP studies for every project. Our target is to achieve a greenhouse gas emissions intensity 12 for steady-state production operations in line with the industry median (as published annually by OGP).20 21 Represents our total Scope One emissions including combustion emissions; flaring and venting; significant stationary and mobile sources. 20 The OGP published median was 160 tonnes per thousand tonnes of production for 2012 (latest data available). 22 This amount only includes greenhouse gas emissions associated with flaring and fuel gas combustion. 46 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 47 6/ENVIRONMENT INDIRECT EMISSIONS // ENERGY CONSUMPTION // Premier is continuously making efforts to improve the group’s overall emissions performance. At several of Total energy consumption for all operations in 2013 was 6,349,108 Figure 26: Energy use our onshore offices we purchased renewable electricity from power suppliers through ‘green pricing’ schemes gigajoules (GJ) (2012: 7,186,336 GJ). Of this amount, 4,298,581 GJ was per tonne of production during 2013. We also procured energy saving office equipment and installed energy saving devices, such from fuel gas, with the remaining 2,050,527 GJ from diesel. Energy (gigajoules) as light sensors and automatic night time shut down of air conditioning systems. Further initiatives included consumption per unit of production decreased slightly from 1.96 GJ per making greater use of video conference calls in place of travelling to other Premier sites. Electricity consumed tonne in 2012 to 1.91 GJ per tonne in 2013. by our Norway business unit was supplied by hydroelectric plants. The decrease in total energy consumption between 2012 and 2013 was During 2013, Premier began capturing data on the energy consumption at our onshore offices and the travel largely due to a reduction in drilling activities. Our drilling activities 3.00 2.60 mileage of our personnel, including air, train and car travel. From this data, we were able to calculate that 1,730 accounted for three per cent of energy consumption in 2013 versus eight 2.50 tonnes of carbon dioxide in total would need to be offset to make our terrestrial emissions footprint for 2013 per cent in 2012 – explained by our increased focus on project delivery 1.96 2.00 1.91 carbon neutral. This included 736 tonnes from office energy consumption and 994 tonnes from travel. and production. Reduced drilling activities also partly accounted for the 1.50 In parallel, we investigated the purchasing of carbon offset credits (certified emission reductions, CERs), in order significant reduction in drill water use, from 25,953 tonnes in 2012 to to create a positive impact in countries where we operate. Two local projects were identified – one in Indonesia 5,544 tonnes in 2013. 1.00 and one in Vietnam – that provide quantifiable carbon offsetting services through reducing greenhouse gases Premier’s offshore operations primarily use diesel fuel, with a sulfur and 0.50 during waste treatment. The selection of these projects was based on tangible socio-economic benefits, benzene content comparable to that in diesel products available on the 0 including: reinvestment of money in the local community; the provision of clean water; energy security; and 13 international market.23 11 12 waste recycling. In 2014, we are hoping to make further progress on capturing data on the company’s terrestrial emissions footprint, and begin offsetting our emissions through contributing to the projects identified. Our ALARP process and ISO 14001 certification ensure that Premier is constantly working to improve energy efficiency at its operations. Whilst Since Premier’s operations – which are responsible for the vast majority of the group’s greenhouse gas this is difficult for larger items of industrial equipment which are replaced emissions – are located offshore, it is not currently practical for the company to generate energy directly from infrequently or may be in place throughout the lifetime of a project, renewable sources (including biofuels or other renewable energy-based products). we continue to identify smaller projects that might reduce our carbon footprint. These include more efficient travel (for example, ensuring EMISSIONS FORECASTING // that helicopters travel with the maximum number of passengers so as to reduce the number of flights) and energy efficient lighting at some of Our forecast growth over the coming years is likely to result in increased total emissions as we continue to our offices. Larger projects such as the selling of excess gas (rather than expand our operations. A new production forecasting methodology was developed and implemented during flaring) are also investigated where appropriate. 2013, improving our ability to forecast our emissions at our production sites, and enhancing our understanding of future emissions performance. OTHER GASEOUS EMISSIONS // Premier is also looking to include emissions requirements in our arrangements with production operations contractors, to increase the incentive for them to contribute to energy efficiency at our operations. All projects SOx (sulfur oxides) emissions amounted to 387 tonnes in 2013 (2012: 447 undertake environmental ALARP assessments, reflecting our concern to identify areas where we might reduce tonnes). The majority of these emissions resulted from our production emissions to a level that is as low as reasonably practicable. facilities, mainly a consequence of energy use and flaring at our Chim Sáo and Balmoral operations (which together accounted for around 76 per cent of all SOx emissions). The overall reduction in SOx emissions IMPACTS OF CLIMATE CHANGE ON OUR OPERATIONS // was largely due to our reduced drilling activities during the reporting Premier recognises that climate change may have an operational impact. We have undertaken a review of the period. NOx (nitrogen oxides) emissions amounted to 4,198 tonnes in potential impact this might have on our operations, all of which are currently offshore. The review considered 2013 (2012: 4,747 tonnes). Around 93 per cent of NOx emissions resulted rising sea levels and the increased frequency of unpredictable weather events. Our facilities are already from our production activities (2012: 80 per cent), with the remainder designed to withstand once in 50 years and once in 100 years storm cases. The review concluded that possible from diesel use during drilling. Premier has been phasing out the use of increases in the frequency of such storms would not present significant additional operational risks. ozone-depleting substances in all of its direct operations. Our project risk assessment process takes into account climate change risks, including both extreme weather events and sea level changes. This has included climate change risk assessments during the design process at our Catcher and Solan facilities in the North Sea and Chim Sáo facility in Vietnam. A climate change risk assessment will be an integral part of the design process during 2014 for our Falkland Islands activities. Figure 27: Energy resources use Meteorological and oceanographic studies are also carried out for all new projects. Parameter 2011 2012 2013 Fuel gas 53,173 101,126 90,282 Diesel (platform/rig) 28,728 30,260 28,120 Diesel (vessels) 27,955 25,074 18,586 Drill water Data not available 25,953 5,544 23 This includes, for example, diesel with a benzene content of approximately one per cent and a sulfur content of between 15 and 5,000 parts per million (ppm). 48 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 49 6/ENVIRONMENT Figure 28: Oil in produced water Pollution prevention UNPLANNED DISCHARGES // Figure 30: Premier has a target of zero significant spills, where ‘significant’ is (tonnes) Our HSE Policy commits us to preventing pollution and to protect the defined as any spill over one barrel of hydrocarbon. In 2013, there Hydrocarbon spills environment, including water sources and waste management. We to the environment were 12 spills to the environment (2012: 13 spills), five of which were measure and report water use as well as waste production monthly in our (tonnes) hydrocarbon spills (2012: 11 spills) and seven of which were chemical Premier Oil Environmental Monitoring System (POEMS, p31). POEMS spills (2012: two spills). Of the hydrocarbon spills, three occurred at 45 40.78 is independently certified to ISO 14001, and environmental data in this Balmoral in the North Sea and two at Chim Sáo in Vietnam. None of 40 report is independently reviewed by third parties. 3.0 2.71 35 these spills was over one barrel of hydrocarbon; the total volume spilt 28.64 30 26.80 was 0.97 barrels (bbls) or 0.13 tonnes (2012: 6.58 bbls or 0.84 tonnes). 2.5 25 PLANNED DISCHARGES // 2.0 20 The seven chemical spills to the environment included one at Balmoral, 15 All our operated activities are conducted offshore where we drill for and one at Chim Sáo, four at our drilling operations in the North Sea and 1.5 10 extract oil and gas from reservoirs underground. In extracting oil and gas one at a contractor site. The total volume of chemicals spilt was 4.97 1.0 0.84 5 from offshore reservoirs we encounter ground water, which is entrained bbls or 0.66 tonnes (2012: 0.02 bbls or 0.002 tonnes). We maintain oil 0.5 0.13 0 11 12 13 within the well fluid coming to surface. The oil, water and gas are spill contingency plans for each of our operations and have ongoing 0 separated from each other in our offshore processing systems and the contracts with oil spill response specialists to provide support in the 11 12 13 oil is exported. For the most part, the gas is either exported for sale or unlikely event of a major incident. used locally for fuel gas. The entrained water is cleaned and then either discharged into the sea or re-injected into the reservoir for pressure WASTE MANAGEMENT // Figure 29: Oil in support. This entrained water is called ‘produced’ water. produced water In 2013, 2,462 tonnes of waste materials (2012: 2,059 tonnes) were collected from our global drilling and (ppm-wt) The total volume of produced water discharged from our operations production operations and returned to shore for disposal; 1,930 tonnes (2012: 1,437 tonnes) was hazardous decreased from 3,905,611 tonnes in 2012 to 2,262,998 tonnes in 2013. waste, and 532 tonnes (2012: 622 tonnes) was non-hazardous waste (for example, scrap metal, wood, plastic, None of the reservoirs where we operate is significantly affected by etc.). Hazardous waste was mostly used oil that was sent for processing.26 We attempt to segregate and recycle the withdrawal of water as they are oil and gas reservoirs.24 In addition, as much of our waste as possible, where this is feasible and supporting recycling infrastructures are available.27 16 we do not operate in protected areas, thereby mitigating the impacts 13.93 14 from water discharges on significant areas of marine biodiversity.25 The Premier also encourages the use of recycled input materials where possible.28 Recycled paper and other 12 11.28 average oil in produced water increased from 9.95 ppm-wt in 2012 to recycled products are used at our offices and operated sites. We also try to minimise the volume of ‘hard 9.95 10 11.28 in 2013. In 2013, the volume of drill water used was 5,544 tonnes, copy’ company information sent out to shareholders and stakeholders by encouraging them to receive this 8 a significant decrease from the 2012 figure (25,953 tonnes), which was information electronically (including the Annual Report). In 2013, we continued to donate £1 to Pure Leapfrog 6 mainly due to reduced drilling activities. for every shareholder that registered for e-communication.29 4 2 In 2013, Premier conducted a comprehensive assessment of our water 0 use and discharges. We analysed the water situation in each of the 11 12 13 countries where we have operated assets (plus non-operated assets in Pakistan due to the country’s extreme water insecurity), using a variety of http://ec.europa.eu/clima/policies/ets www.iucnredlist.org indicators and maps to highlight the associated risks. In 2014, we will be /indexen.htm reviewing ways in which to expand our data collection. In addition, we www.pureleapfrog.org will look at ways to reduce freshwater use where possible. www.theebi.org 24 We do not report on total water withdrawal by source or freshwater as our operations are predominantly offshore, using desalinated 26 No treated/untreated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention (Annex I, II, III, and VIII) was imported or exported seawater, and we do not expect to have any meaningful data to report on onshore freshwater. during the reporting period. In addition, no such waste was shipped internationally. 25 Water discharges involve cleaned entrained water, with no runoff. 27 The reclaiming of packaging materials on products sold is not relevant to Premier’s operations. 28 Other than water, the majority of Premier’s input materials used in exploring, extracting and producing hydrocarbons are chemically-based and are not available in recyclable form. 29 Pure Leapfrog is a United Kingdom-based carbon offsetting charity dedicated to combatting climate change. 50 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 51 7 Community Our policy framework Premier recognises that the right to development is a fundamental human right. It is therefore our intention to make a positive difference by contributing to development goals in the communities and countries where we operate. This tenet informs our approach to community investment projects and, accordingly, our investment investment focuses on projects which address the impacts of our activities, contribute to local education and capacity, and deliver lasting social, economic and environmental returns for both local communities and host governments. For Premier this means: • operating with respect for people, communities and the environment; • acting transparently with all stakeholders, in compliance with the rule of law and human rights; • contributing to the development goals and value creation objectives of host countries; and WE RECOGNISE THAT OUR WIDER SOCIAL LICENCE TO OPERATE • integrating the principles of sustainable development and corporate responsibility into our business strategy, AS AN INTERNATIONAL OIL AND GAS COMPANY MUST BE planning, decision making and management systems. EARNED THROUGH BEHAVIOUR THAT DOES NOT COMPROMISE During 2013, we increased community investment substantially across the organisation. Steps were also taken THE WELLBEING OF CURRENT OR FUTURE GENERATIONS. THIS to broaden the impact of community investment by applying both a local and a regional focus on projects in RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR IS A KEY DETERMINANT OF OUR the areas of our operations. LONG-TERM BUSINESS SUCCESS. 52 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 53 7/COMMUNITY INVESTMENT POLICY DEVELOPMENT AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS // INCREASED COMMUNITY INVESTMENT IN 2013 // Our Community Investment Policy has been benchmarked against best All our global operations are supported by local community engagement Figure 31: Community practice standards and the position of our peers in the oil and gas sector. and development programmes. In 2013, Premier disbursed a total of investment trends The policy recognises the value of building positive external relationships US$1.15 million on charitable donations and community projects, a 71 (US$ million) and partnerships with communities, governments, NGOs, joint venture per cent increase on the amount in 2012 (US$674,000).30 The progressive partners and other stakeholders. It also includes requirements to: expansion of our community investment reflects in particular increased charitable donations from our London, Indonesia and Vietnam offices, as • maintain timely, constructive and transparent ongoing well as the inclusion of non-operated joint venture community projects in 1.4 engagement with all stakeholders; Pakistan (Figure 32). 1.2 1.15 • treat neighbours with respect and understanding, acknowledging Premier has also increased its financial support for community 1.0 community governance and seeking free and informed consent environmental projects, as part of its commitment to sustainability. 0.8 0.67 prior to initiating operations that have a potentially significant Total disbursements for environmental projects in 2013 amounted to 0.6 0.43 social impact on the community; US$231,000 (representing 20 per cent of the total amount of community 0.4 investment). This included both onshore and offshore initiatives, such as 0.2 • work to achieve a net positive socio-economic impact on mangrove planting, reforestation, restoration of a National Park and the 0 local communities, promoting opportunities which enhance development of a fish nursery. 11 12 13 sustainable benefit; • support the socio-economic sustainability and wellbeing of communities through local procurement and other engagements with local business; • invest in well-planned social projects that support the development priorities of host communities and governments, and Figure 32: Our community investment profile in 2013 (US$) seek to ensure that these are implemented in a way that leads to enduring benefit; United Kingdom 341,000 Singapore 1,000 • provide fair and adequate compensation for any losses for which we are liable; Figure xx: Our community investment profile in 2013 (US$) • provide local communities with access to appropriate grievance Figure xx: Our community investment profile in 2013 (US$ millions) mechanisms; and Vietnam 171,000 • encourage joint venture partners to adopt the principles in this policy. Indonesia 340,000 Figure xx: Community investment trends (US$ millions) Norway 16,000 Our Community Investment Policy is supported by a Community Investment Management System which is aligned with IPIECA standards and facilitates the systematic identification, management, evaluation and budgeting of disbursements and engagements in host countries. The procedures were first followed in 2011 to build country-specific community investment programmes. This includes the identification of appropriate local initiatives and partners to deliver on our policy commitments. Pakistan 285,000 Those new projects in 2013 were assessed and managed using these procedures. All our operations have implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programmes. In 2014, Premier intends to audit formally all community investments and other related disbursements across the organisation. 30 All of Premier’s operated activities are currently located offshore with minimal direct negative impact on local communities. A potential exception to this includes offshore local community fisherman in the vicinity of our Indonesia facility (p54). Premier has partnered with local community members to address potential impacts by establishing fish nurseries and developing alternative livelihoods. 54 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 55 7/COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Indonesia Premier Indonesia continued to contribute to a range of community development projects PROMOTING EDUCATION AND LOCAL CAPACITY // in 2013. The positive impact of our disbursements helped us earn the CI Award from the Riau provincial government. We were also awarded the Blue Award for PROPER 2013 Premier’s engagement in Indonesian education began with the construction of a kindergarten in the Anambas and recognised by SKK Migas (the upstream authority) for financial reporting, business Islands in 1999. We have now built a total of six kindergartens which enrol around 400 children from six process and corporate behaviour in 2013.31 Our community investment during 2013 focused remote Anambas villages. We continue to cover operational costs for teaching and learning activity at Anoa predominantly on projects in the Anambas Islands near our offshore Anoa production Kindergarten as well as school management operations and assistance in the procurement of teacher and operations – supporting education, social infrastructure, environmental integrity, local student uniforms. The Anoa Kindergarten will be handed over to the Anambas government in 2014. capacity building and economic development (particularly agriculture and fishing). We also We are also supporting 27 kindergarten teachers from the Anambas Islands to complete their bachelor degrees initiated some new community projects in the Natuna region, associated with the Tuna in ‘Education for Children in Early Years’ at the Open University. All but one of the participants completed exploration block. degrees in the reporting period, with the remaining teacher to complete studies in 2014. Two alumni have been Community investment in Indonesia totalled US$340,000 in 2013, a 27 per cent increase on appointed as the lecturer and tutor of the study programme. the amount disbursed in 2012 (US$268,000). This significant increase was mainly attributable Premier Indonesia supports tertiary education in the form of full tuition and board scholarships for university to additional funding for scholarship programmes of Anambas students and the renovation students originating from the Anambas Islands. The programme was developed with the local government, as of the Tanjung Pala jetty in the Natuna region. part of a sharing programme developed by the Institut Pertanian in Yogyakarta, Java. In 2013, we maintained our support to 20 students who were selected as scholarship beneficiaries for a bachelor degree in agricultural ENHANCING AND DIVERSIFYING THE LOCAL AGRICULTURAL ECONOMY // studies. This programme is now in its fourth year, with the local government providing an additional 15 scholarships. In addition, we are supporting 17 local undergraduate students and two local graduate students Premier Indonesia has supported the development of the local agricultural economy in the whose socio-economic research is expected to enhance community development programmes in the Anambas Islands since 2010. Initiatives included an assessment of potential farming areas, Anambas Islands. During 2013, Premier Indonesia launched two scholarships for a Master of Arts programme training of local communities on organic rice farming and horticulture, and support with at the Jakarta Arts Institute. The scholarships support students who are interested in preserving and composting, organic fertilisers and integrated pest control techniques. Both of the engaged developing Malay culture and arts. villages – Langir and Rintis – have established local institutions to develop these more organised farming activities. Cooperatives help manage the needs of members through the provision of revolving fund / capital structures, seed nurseries, the management of compost production and the maintenance of compost milling machines. They also help with the marketing of produce for local and national consumers. This project continues to have a significant positive impact on agricultural yields, diversity and farmer incomes. More than 10,000m² of rice paddy (up from 3,000m² at the initiation of the project) has been established in Langir village, as well as over 50,000m² of fixed vegetable plantation. The latter includes new varieties not previously grown locally such as cucumber, celery, spring onion, sweetcorn and peanuts. Fixed vegetable plantations in Rintis village now cover an area of more than 40,000m², and have generated successful harvests over the past few years. Farming methods in both villages have transitioned from the environmentally harmful ‘slash and burn’ approach to one based on fixed location using organic fertilisers and integrated pest control techniques. During 2013, Premier Indonesia continued to assist in expanding agricultural capacity in the Anambas Islands. This included supporting the construction of two screen houses to address challenges associated with extreme weather, thereby helping local farmers to maintain stable incomes. 31 PROPER is an acronym for Program Penilaian Peringkat Kinerja Penataan dalam Pengelolaan Lingkungan (the company’s Environmental Performance Rating Programme) which includes community development in its assessment criteria. 56 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 57 7/COMMUNITY INVESTMENT SUPPORTING BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEM HEALTH // As part of our commitment to increasing local capacity, we have developed a fish nursery project in Ladan village to support the economic independence of local fisherman. Assistance provided in 2013 included extra During 2013, Premier Indonesia continued to assist in the delivery of a tropical forest conservation and tree fishing nets for the nursery, grouper fingerlings as capital investment for the fishermen, and additional support planting project on the island of Siantan, in collaboration with KNPI. The initiative (also part of the ‘Bright and in growing the fish. The nursery infrastructure has made an immediate positive impact by reducing the reliance Green’ programme) promotes the planting of native trees in partnership with local government and NGOs – of local fisherman on offshore fishing in the vicinity of oil and gas operations, as well as providing an alternative contributing to awareness raising of local communities to prevent deforestation. income source. In particular, mangrove planting is serving to enhance the local coastline in the Anambas Islands, which Developing local capacity has also included support for the building of central cooperative units in the previously experienced high levels of illegal mangrove logging. During the course of 2013, around 10,000 engaged villages, including Ladan, Langir and Putik. Meanwhile, Premier Indonesia is working in collaboration additional trees were planted in the eastern region of Siantan, including 5,000 mangroves and 5,000 other with the National Committee of Indonesian Youth (KNPI) and local government to build the entrepreneurial native tree species. The project was carried out in conjunction with the KNPI. capacity of youth. This initiative is also helping to promote the role of KNPI within the local community. COMMITMENT TO LOCAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT // Engagements and plans for 2014 The development of local infrastructure remains a significant part of Premier’s commitment to the Anambas Premier’s existing community investment programmes in Indonesia will be maintained in 2014, with a government. This has included providing assistance for the construction and maintenance of a public health continued focus on the Anambas Islands, including the Natuna region. We are also planning to implement centre, school classrooms and multi-purpose facilities used for local meetings and cultural events. several new initiatives to enhance community empowerment and engagement: In 2013, we worked together with the KNPI and local government to build a new public library on Jemaja Island. • developing the village of Desa Mandiri as a pilot project in sustainability on the Anambas Islands; This included construction of the facility and supplying equipment and books. The library serves two villages, Jemaja and East Jemaja – with a total population of more than 6,000 people. • supporting the economic independence of local Anambas fishing communities, through assistance in sustaining the marine environment on which livelihoods depend; and Premier Indonesia has also supported the installation of a power generator on the Anambas Islands as part of a joint commitment with SKK Migas, the West Natuna consortium (which includes Premier, StarEnergy and • renovating existing buildings (kindergarten, public library, public health centre and multi-purpose facilities ConocoPhillips) and PT Pertalahan Arnebatara Natuna.32 Forming part of the SKK Migas ‘Bright and Green’ used for local meetings) that were originally developed by Premier. programme, this initiative has met the electricity needs of the 3,600 inhabitants in Payalaman village which borders our onshore supporting facility. These new activities, in line with Premier’s increased oil and gas production, will target other groups that need support or who may potentially be impacted by our operations. In addition to enhancing our In 2013, we supported several projects on Pulau Laut (the outermost island of the Natuna region), as part of our relationships with local communities, such initiatives help to build sustainable livelihoods that last beyond commitment to community investment during the exploration phase of the Tuna Block. Projects included the our operations. renovation of the jetty in Tanjung Pala village and the refurbishment of 10 housing units in Air Payang village. www.skspmigas-esdm.go.id www.instiperjogja.ac.id www.dkpp.go.id 32 SKK Migas was established by the Indonesian government to manage upstream oil and gas business activities under a cooperation contract and to enhance both the benefits and revenue to the state as well as the welfare of local communities. Engagement via SKK Migas helps to ensure that our oil and gas activities contribute to the sustainable development goals of host communities and government. 58 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 59 7/COMMUNITY INVESTMENT SUPPORTING CHARITABLE PROJECTS IN ABERDEEN // United Kingdom The United Kingdom business unit based in Aberdeen has a Charitable Donations and Sponsorship Committee which coordinates community investment activities. The Aberdeen office has committed to provide long-term support to three local ‘evergreen’ charities. We donated approximately US$7,800 to each of these in 2013: • Aberdeen Seafarers Centre: provides comfort, welfare, practical help, care and friendship as well as recreational activities to seafarers visiting the Port of Aberdeen. Community investment by Premier in the United Kingdom during 2013 involved continued support for charities promoting the empowerment of marginalised groups, local economic • Kincardine & Deeside Befriending: aims to reduce social isolation and loneliness experienced by opportunities and access to educational activities. We engaged in longer-term relationships older people by matching them on a one-to-one basis with a volunteer befriender, in order to provide with key local organisations as well as providing financial support to local charities. companionship, practical and emotional support, and improve physical and mental wellbeing. Beneficiaries selected by our employees were identified as important to our • Archway: provides innovative community based services to support around 200 children and adults in host communities. Aberdeen and the north-east of Scotland with learning disabilities through respite, shared and permanent Community investment in the United Kingdom totalled US$341,000 in 2013, a significant care services. increase on the amount disbursed in 2012 (US$150,000). This was in part due to increased The Aberdeen office also helped support a large number of other local good causes throughout 2013, in the donations from the corporate office based in London, including for charities such as form of donations and sponsorship. These included donations to Archway to provide a specially-adapted Newborns Vietnam, The Passage and the Welsh Guards Afghanistan Appeal Fund. There minibus (approximately US$42,100), Stepping Stones to refurbish the Forfar playgroup (approximately were also significant donations to Aberdeen-based charities such as Absafe, HorseBack UK US$9,400) and Barnardo’s Aberdeen to expand their mentoring service for young people (approximately and GeoBus. US$6,200; 50 per cent of which was raised by staff). Other beneficiaries included Sandpiper Trust, Aberdeen Care and Repair, Scottish Traditional Skills Training Centre, Scottish Snowcross Championship, Westhill District Amateur Swimming Club and Newtonhill Scout Group. COMMUNITY INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS IN ABERDEEN // As part of its commitment to the community, the Aberdeen office has focused on establishing long-term links with local good causes that provide sustainable, tangible mutual benefits for both parties. Our partnerships in 2013 included: • Absafe: Absafe is an Aberdeen-based safety awareness charity which aligns closely with Premier’s safety culture. Through hands-on learning experiences, Absafe promotes safety awareness to children on topics such as road, fire and home safety. In 2013, Premier donated approximately US$54,600 to help Absafe build ‘The Safe’ – which will house mock-up roads, railways, building sites and other sets where safety can be taught in a controlled environment. In addition, staff from the Aberdeen office provided voluntary assistance at a number of Absafe events, for example digging a community garden and promoting the use of free household safety equipment in the local community. Absafe has delivered a series of lunch and learn presentations to Premier’s Aberdeen staff, covering themes such as winter driving, child safety and home safety. • HorseBack UK: HorseBack UK is an Aboyne-based charity which provides a safe and secure environment to those who have suffered physical injury and/or acute stress as a result of serving in the United Kingdom armed forces. HorseBack UK combines western horsemanship, rural skills and adventure training to integrate serving personnel and veterans into the rural community. In 2013, Premier donated US$25,700 to buy a minibus for HorseBack UK, enabling the charity to transport their personnel – many of whom have physical disabilities. • GeoBus: GeoBus – developed by the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences at the University of St Andrews – is an educational outreach project for secondary schools in Scotland and northern England. The charity promotes STEM subjects (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) through a combination of inspiring young people, providing resources not readily available to educators, and offering a bridge between industry, higher education and schools. Jointly between the Aberdeen and London offices, Premier has committed to sponsor GeoBus to the sum of approximately US$25,000 a year for the next three years. We encourage staff with a geosciences background to volunteer to help with course input and delivery. 60 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 61 7/COMMUNITY INVESTMENT COMMUNITY INVESTMENT FROM THE LONDON CORPORATE OFFICE // During 2013, Premier’s corporate headquarters based in London provided sponsorship for a charity bike ride from Pembrokeshire to London, in support of the Welsh Guards Afghanistan Appeal Fund. This fund provides “ long-term assistance to the families of soldiers affected by their tours of duty in Afghanistan. Another area of key support was to The Passage, a Victoria-based charity providing outreach and support to the homeless. In Due to the generous sponsorship from 2013, the London office sponsored the establishment of a new post to run a weekend drop-in centre, a central Premier Oil, I was able to undertake my element in facilitating the reintegration of The Passage’s clients into society. dissertation research for two months in Indonesia this summer with Operation Wallacea…This gave me the opportunity to study a subject I had always dreamed of working on and hopefully lead me to further work that will help protect our seas from the changes in climate.” Chloë Boote Recipient of Operation Wallacea sponsorship Engagements and plans for 2014 United Kingdom community investment plans for 2014 include continuing financial support to Absafe, HorseBack UK, GeoBus and The Passage, amongst other organisations. Premier’s London office is also looking to establish a new annual bursary (worth approximately US$15,600) to support a larger number of undergraduate students engaged in sustainability research fieldwork. We will be in discussion with Another key area of community investment was the sponsorship of two UK-based undergraduate fieldtrips to Operation Wallacea during 2014 about prospective sustainability-related projects. the Wakatobi National Marine Park in Indonesia. The project focused on sustainability research in conjunction with the environmental expeditions organisation, Operation Wallacea. In addition, Premier will continue to provide assistance to local causes that share our values, in particular Reflecting the integrated approach to community investment across the organisation, the London office organisations which help vulnerable people or promote wellbeing, through a combination of funding of coordinated closely with the Vietnam business unit to support the ‘Cycle a Difference’ bike ride in 2013. This prevention and practical help. took place in Vietnam with the funds raised donated to Newborns Vietnam, a UK-based charity dedicated to improving the survival of Vietnamese newborn infants and their mothers. Several London-based employees joined with their Premier counterparts in Vietnam to cycle the 1,500km route from Lao Cai to Danang. During the course of 2013, the London corporate office also provided donations to a number of charities such www.aseafarer.com www.westhilldistrictasc.org.uk as Macmillan Cancer Support, Great Ormond Street Hospital, Prostate Cancer UK, Save The Children, Help for www.archway.org.uk http://opwall.com Heroes and Full Circle Editions. www.kdbefriending.org.uk www.welshguardsappeal.com www.absafe.org.uk http://passage.org.uk www.horsebackuk.org www.macmillan.org.uk www.geobus.org.uk www.gosh.nhs.uk www.steppingstones.org.uk http://prostatecanceruk.org www.barnardos.org.uk www.savethechildren.org.uk www.sandpipertrust.org www.helpforheroes.org.uk www.aberdeencareandrepair.co.uk www.fullcircle-editions.co.uk www.traditionalskills.com 62 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 63 7/COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Pakistan SUPPORTING ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND LOCAL ECO-TOURISM // In 2010, Premier initiated a long-term environmental project in the vicinity of our Islamabad office at Margalla Hills National Park. Located to the north of Islamabad in the foothills of the Himalayas, the park covers an area of approximately 67 square miles. The project is run as a joint public-private partnership in collaboration with the Himalayan Wildlife Foundation (HWF) and the Capital Development Authority. Formally inaugurated in Premier is a shareholder in four non-operated production operations in Pakistan: Bhit, January 2013, the project focuses on the remediation of environmental damage which is partly caused by the Kadanwari, Zamzama and Qadirpur. During 2013, Premier Pakistan continued to fund a continued impacts of local communities. number of community investments directly, while also supporting community projects undertaken by our joint venture partners and in collaboration with the Pakistan Petroleum Over the past four years, the project has assisted in the delivery of additional eco-tourism facilities including Exploration and Production Companies Association. a visitor information centre, numerous hiking trails in the hills and valleys of the park, and the opening of a biking trail to the public. It has also enabled the improvement of local vegetation management practices, the Community investment in Pakistan during 2013 totalled US$285,000 (2012: US$102,000). This removal of invasive species and the facilitation of valuable MPhil research into rare, threatened and endangered figure includes US$91,000 in direct contributions from the Premier Pakistan business unit, species. A number of protection measures, including a watch and ward system, have also been implemented to together with US$194,000 in contributions to non-operated joint venture community projects. safeguard endangered anteater and ungulate species. During 2013, an old well next to the shrine in Kalinjar village was restored, providing local villagers with access to potable water. The well was cleared up to a depth of 25 feet where the water table was reached, and a winch was installed to ensure ease of access. Premier also assisted Islamabad’s Capital Development Authority in capacity building, staff training and the provision of required equipment and uniforms during 2013. A detailed map of the Margalla Hills National Park and its trails has now been developed and is readily available from the HWF and the project website. Based on the flora and fauna studies of the area sponsored by Premier, posters of the flowers and reptiles were printed and distributed during 2013 to students and journalists – whose visits to the national park are arranged by the HWF through Premier sponsorship. Premier also sponsored five children from the remote northern town of Chitral to attend the 12th National Children’s Mountain Conservation Meet, held in Abbottabad and organised by the Adventure Foundation of Pakistan. As part of the 10-day activity, children visited different areas of the Ayubia National Park in northern Pakistan and participated in tasks such as tree planting, the study of flora and fauna and mountain clean-up under the supervision of environmentalists and conservationists. ACADEMIC AND LOCAL CHARITY SUPPORT // Premier Pakistan also continued to provide financial assistance to the following projects during 2013: • Academic Chair: Premier Pakistan funds an academic chair in the Department of Petroleum and Gas Engineering at the University of Engineering and Technology in Lahore, a leading institution in the field. There are only four universities in Pakistan that have a petroleum engineering department recognised by the Higher Education Commission and Pakistan Engineering Council. At the University of Engineering and Technology, there are just two qualified doctorate professors hired on a contract basis, and Premier’s sponsorship has helped retain a senior professor within the department. • Care for Special Persons Foundation: Premier Pakistan gives regular donations to Care for Special Persons Foundation, a local charity that provides education, training and psychotherapy to the mentally and physically handicapped of poor families. In 2013, we donated new physical education and physiotherapy equipment. 64 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 65 7/COMMUNITY INVESTMENT In 2013, Premier Pakistan also contributed US$194,000 to the costs of charitable projects undertaken by the operators of our four joint ventures in the respective local communities. These projects primarily focused on health, education and infrastructure development, including: Vietnam • community health centres • mobile health camps Premier Vietnam’s community investment during 2013 focused on a combination of economic growth, poverty reduction, job creation, environmental protection, education • veterinary camps and hospital and vocational skills development, with a particular emphasis on the development of young people. Our contributions were mainly delivered in partnership with reliable partner • adult literacy centres organisations such as Friends For Street Children, Saigon Children’s Charity and Vietnam Red Cross. This helps to ensure the application of appropriate expertise, as well as effective • scholarship awards (higher education and diploma in associate engineering) and sustained project delivery. • community schools infrastructure and management Community investment in Vietnam totalled US$171,000 in 2013, a significant increase on the previous year (2012: US$109,000). One of the main reasons for this increase was the • water supply schemes – water tanks, reverse osmosis systems contribution of US$75,000 to mangrove planting in Soc Trang province. We also provided • restoration and renovation of Lloyd Barrage on the River Indus, which enables water to feed into the largest additional financial assistance in 2013 to Newborns Vietnam. contiguous irrigation system in the world DEVELOPING OPPORTUNITIES FOR DISADVANTAGED CHILDREN // Small grants of around US$1,000 each were also arranged for the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Pakistan, the Youth Entrepreneurship Conference, the Pakistan Blind Foundation and Change in Education. In 2013, we continued our long-term funding commitment to the Binh Tho Development Centre in Ho Chi Minh City, which is run by Friends For Street Children. The centre provides education as well as healthcare and vocational training to around 150 disadvantaged children of poor families. It assists the integration of younger children into junior public high schools and helps older children to find meaningful employment. In addition to funding the project, Premier employees visit and volunteer in person to raise awareness of career Engagements and plans for 2014 opportunities and act as a positive role models to the children. During 2014, projects already in receipt of assistance from Premier Pakistan will receive our continued support. We are also looking to finance new projects in 2014 which include a focus on health, youth development, the environment and the empowerment of women: • APNA Shelter and Learning Centre: APNA is dedicated to the care of around 25 children, most of whom are orphans aged four to eight years. • Inspire Change Programme: The programme focuses on training for under-privileged youth and the development of communities around Islamabad. • Margalla Hills National Park: Plans for the park will be taken to Phase Two, concentrating on the construction of wetland, a bird sanctuary and environmental awareness among youth. • In collaboration with Dhaka Ahsania Mission Pakistan, low-income widows will be identified – in order to support them in undertaking commercial activities to help them achieve financial independence. http://hwf.org.pk www.adventurefoundation.org.pk www.solf.org.pk http://ahsaniamission.com.pk 66 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 67 7/COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Premier Vietnam also supports infrastructure and scholarship schemes managed by Saigon Children’s Charity. During 2013, we opened two kindergartens in Tieu Can district, Tra Vinh province. Phu Can kindergarten, which serves an average of 55 children aged three to five years every day in two classrooms, was opened in March Norway 2013. The Tan Hung kindergarten, which serves an average of 80 children aged three to four years every day in two classrooms, was opened in September 2013. During 2013, Premier Norway contributed to community investment projects with a positive In 2013 we developed a new link between Premier employees and the charity Newborns Vietnam. Our local impact. Three projects were selected, based on several criteria: holding a non-profit employees raised US$9,450 to buy five infant warmers for premature babies at Da Nang Hospital for Women status; being situated in Stavanger or the wider county of Rogaland; supporting vulnerable and Children, helping save the lives of some of the most vulnerable babies. Several Premier Vietnam employees groups of people; and imparting guidance to improve the future situation of local groups/ also took part in the Cycle a Difference bike ride, raising additional funds for Newborns Vietnam. individuals. All three projects received general acceptance from Premier employees, with employees given information on their activities during regular ‘lunch and learn’ sessions. ENHANCING AND PROTECTING ECOSYSTEM INTEGRITY // In 2013, Premier Norway spent a total of US$16,000 on community investment, which was During 2013, Premier Vietnam contributed US$75,000 to a mangrove project, in partnership with the Vietnam split equally between the three organisations: Red Cross. The funding enabled 20 hectares of mangroves (approximately 120,000 trees) to be planted in • IL Brodd: Brodd uses sport to bring young people from diverse backgrounds together, Soc Trang province, an area of environmental sensitivity where local communities are mainly dependent on including immigrants who have recently settled in Norway. This helps immigrants to aquaculture and agriculture. These mangroves help protect the coastline, offset carbon dioxide emissions develop an understanding of living within a multicultural community, thereby helping with and enhance the natural ecology of the inter-tidal zone, thereby improving aquaculture harvests for local the process of integration into Norwegian society. The sports currently on offer at Brodd communities. The planting also contributes to a wider series of projects focused on integrated coastal zone are indoor hockey, football, handball and badminton. management such as livelihood diversification, helping to address potential conflicts between economic development and the sustainable management of natural resources. • Cancer Care Rogaland (KOR): KOR is a local care and resources centre which provides services to families where a family member has cancer. With offices in both Stavanger and Haugesund, the charity is accessible to cancer patients and their families across the country. The majority of those who come to KOR are in particularly vulnerable situations, with often severe and incurable types of cancer. Many patients also have children, who may require extra assistance – such as counselling, mentoring and educational guidance. • Lundsvågern Naturskole: Lundsvågern is a community-owned education centre based in Stavanger. The school contains two departments: one which provides practicallyEngagements and plans for 2014 orientated day care for students who are unable to attend mainstream primary school (for instance, those with adaptability problems); and another which arranges marine biology Our work in 2014 will remained focused on the development of young people in Vietnam through the day excursions for other primary schools in the area. provision of scholarships, school development projects and the sponsorship of the Binh Tho Development Centre. We will also continue supporting the mangrove planting project in Soc Trang province. During 2014, we are planning to add another 20 hectares of mangrove trees in the area, further enhancing the natural ecology and livelihoods of coastal populations. In view of the success of the sponsored bike ride that took place in 2013, we intend to maintain our support www.kreftomsorg.no www.brodd-il.no for charity events on behalf of Newborns Vietnam. This includes some of our employees participating in the Asia Business Ride, taking place in March 2014. The Vietnam office will also continue to maintain close contact with Newborns Vietnam, both through visits and charitable donations. www.ffscvn.org www.redcross.org.vn www.saigonchildren.com http://newbornsvietnam.org 68 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 69 7/COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Falkland Islands The updated stakeholder and baseline data was used to carry out a socio-economic risk assessment, defining potential positive and negative interactions between planned Premier activities and the local socio-economic environment, thereby allowing the corporate responsibility team to prioritise issues of responsibility. These issues have driven the development of an Annual Corporate Responsibility Plan and Community Premier’s physical presence in the Falkland Islands was limited during 2013 as the majority Investment Principles. of technical design work was undertaken in London and Houston. Nevertheless, a significant During 2013, the Stanley office also continued to consult closely with the FIG Department of Mineral Resources, amount of planning work was carried out over the course of the year to ensure that the new local communities, NGOs, businesses and other key stakeholders on a variety of corporate responsibility business unit is formally aligned with Premier’s Corporate Responsibility Policy. issues. This engagement included extensive discussions with FIG on the formulation of a local content Code A new corporate responsibility team was established to set direction and manage corporate of Practice for the oil and gas industry. In addition, Premier engaged with the Falkland Islands Development responsibility in the Falklands – composed of the business unit manager, the country Corporation and the local Chamber of Commerce to ensure that local businesses are aware of Premier’s HSES representatives based in Stanley and managers responsible for HR and HSES. policies, and can plan to address these prior to bidding for any work with the company. Over the course of 2013, the team identified stakeholders within the Falkland Islands that Further engagement has been conducted with the Falkland Islands Offshore Hydrocarbon Environmental could influence or potentially be affected by Premier’s operations. The team also developed Forum, resulting in Premier – along with other oil and gas companies – agreeing to part fund a two-year a socio-economic baseline for the Falkland Islands using latest available information, environmental research project to fill identified gaps in offshore environmental scientific knowledge. This will building on previous work undertaken by Rockhopper Exploration and the Falklands Islands allow more accurate environmental impact assessments to be prepared for future planned offshore oil and Government (FIG). gas operations. Premier has also begun making direct investments in the local Falkland Islands community. In 2013, this included responding to an appeal for funding towards a dedicated Environmental Education Centre for the Watch Group, the junior branch of Falklands Conservation which is run for young Falkland Islanders between the ages of eight and 15. This aims to educate and enthuse young people about the environment and wildlife on the Falkland Islands. In addition, Premier responded to a request for sponsorship for a number of awards in the annual Goose Green sheep shearing competition. Engagements and plans for 2014 In 2014, Premier will maintain regular engagement with the Falkland Islands stakeholders, executing our new corporate responsibility plan and seeking to maximise benefits for the local community. We will also continue to invest in local community initiatives aligned with Premier’s Community Investment Principles, namely: • Falkland Islands culture and heritage; • education and development of young people, with particular reference to oil industry awareness and career opportunities; • health, safety and environmental protection and awareness; • supporting oil and gas industry readiness and awareness across the Falkland Islands; • enhancing access and opportunities for local businesses to support Premier’s operations; and • targeted donations to registered charities which best align with our Community Investment Principles. www.falklands.gov.fk 70 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 71 TM /APPENDIX Global Risk Analytics External Review of Reporting on Corporate Responsibility Independent Assurance Statement to Premier Oil plc ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was engaged by Premier Oil plc (Premier) to provide assurance in relation to the Maplecroft was commissioned by Premier Oil plc to: Premier has reported fully on its management approaches and on 92 information set out below and presented in the Premier Oil Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 (the Report). out of 98 GRI performance indicators – including those in GRI’s Oil • Confirm the accuracy of all corporate responsibility statements Engagement summary and Gas Sector Supplement. presented in this report Scope: Recommendations Whether the 2013 performance for the following selected IPIECA HSE indicators is fairly presented, in all material respects: • Confirm the claim stated by Premier on p07 that this report was Premier might consider taking the following steps as it expands its E1 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions E7 Other Air emissions HS2 Workforce Health prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) commitment to corporate responsibility and associated management E2 Energy Use E8 Spills to the Environment HS3 Occupational Health and Safety G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines at Application Level A+ practices. Doing so will also enable Premier to continue its E3 Alternative Energy Sources E9 Discharges to Water HS5 Process Safety (LOPC Tier 1 and Maplecroft recognises that it is not an independent party due our progressive alignment with the GRI’s G4 guidelines: E4 Flared gas E10 Waste Tier 2 events) role as an advisor to Premier on previous engagements. Maplecroft • Improve transparency by more explicitly defining how and why E5 Biodiversity and ecosystems services HS1 Workforce Participation did not directly verify the data relating to health, safety, environment material issues were identified. and security (HSES) or economic performance. We did however Reporting criteria: confirm the existence of Premier’s HSES policy statements and • Consider the inclusion of human rights clauses in significant Premier’s own internal guidance and definitions for the reporting of HSE which reference the International Petroleum Industry Environmental actions, the veracity of management systems, the rigour of internal investment agreements and contracts, as well as the continued Conservation Association (IPIECA) – Oil & Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting, 2nd Edition, 2010 reporting/review processes, and the company’s plans for 2014. expansion of a structured human rights due diligence process. Assurance standard: ERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000). Methodology • Enhance the risk assessment and management of Premier’s Assurance level: Maplecroft’s review of Premier’s corporate responsibility performance significant suppliers and business partners, in terms of their human Limited assurance involved the following activities over a period of four months rights, labour and environmental performance. Respective responsibilities: between late 2013 and early 2014: • Implement a more structured and rigorous approach to Premier is responsible for preparing the Report and for the collection and presentation of the information within it. ERM CVS’s responsibility is to • Review of standards: The report was informed by the standards stakeholder engagement in order to ensure consistency and provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities performed and exercising our professional judgement. of the following organisations: objectivity across the group. This might include enhanced Our conclusions The limitations of our engagement reporting on: -GRI (G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines) Based on our activities, nothing has come to our attention to The reliability of the assured data is subject to inherent -International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation -Identification of the relevant stakeholders uncertainties, given the available methods for determining, indicate that the 2013 performance for the selected IPIECA HSE Association (Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary -The issues that are material and relevant to stakeholders indicators, as listed under ‘Scope’ above, are not fairly presented, in calculating or estimating the underlying information. It is important Sustainability Reporting) all material respects, with the reporting criteria. to understand our assurance conclusions in this context. -Reasonable expectations of stakeholders Our work was undertaken at Premier head office in London only. We -United Nations Global Compact (Ten Principles and associated -Potential impacts of such engagement on Premier’s Our assurance activities did not undertake source data verification at any operated facilities. requirements on the annual Communication on Progress) business activities A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability, GHG and assurance Our observations -FTSE4Good (sustainability criteria) specialists performed the following activities: Premier might also want to consider further areas to enhance its The review also involved engagement with Premier on the reporting, including: We have provided Premier with a separate detailed management • A review of external media reporting relating to Premier to report. Without affecting the conclusions presented above, we have potential for further public reporting to meet the emerging identify relevant sustainability issues in the reporting period. the following key observations: • Additional detail on Premier’s operating contexts (for example, in expectations of investors and other stakeholders as well as the terms of socio-economic conditions, rule of law, governance and • Interviews with relevant staff to understand and evaluate the GRI’s G4 guidelines. • In view of Premier’s business strategy, including expansion environmental conditions/regulations), which might offer greater data management systems and processes (including internal in some sensitive environments, we recommend increasing • Gap analysis: A gap analysis was carried out to identify and, where insight on the company’s potential and actual impacts. review processes) used for collecting and reporting the selected coverage of environmental and biodiversity protection measures feasible, address gaps in Premier’s existing reporting practices HSE indicators. in future reports. • Further analysis of Premier’s decision-making processes around against the relevant reporting standards. its community investment disbursements, as well as the impact • A review of the internal reporting guidelines, including • Premier is committed to transparency and plans to align its • Performance enhancement: The outcomes from the review of of these disbursements on local community development and conversion factors and assumptions used. 2014 reporting with the GRI G4 guidelines, which will increase standards and gap analysis were used to enhance Premier’s level Premier’s risk management performance. the focus of the report on the determination and management • An analytical review of the year end data submitted by all sites of reporting. This report (a) discusses progress in addressing gaps included in the consolidated 2013 group data for the selected of material topics, together with related performance metrics. and commitments made in previous reports, and (b) provides HSE indicators. To enhance the credibility of future reporting, we recommend increased disclosures/transparency on Premier’s activities and aligning the report assurance with this approach by broadening performance – particularly on issues relevant and material • A review of the data consolidation for completeness and the assurance scope to cover a wider range of HSE and social to investors. During this process, Maplecroft also identified mathematical accuracy. topics, to be identified in relation to Premier’s commitments and opportunities to enhance Premier’s approach to corporate • A review of the results of site level ISO 140001 and OSHAS 18001 consultation with stakeholders. responsibility, including risk management and human rights. certification audits undertaken by ERM CVS in the reporting year. Materiality and completeness Professor Alyson Warhurst and Dr Kevin Franklin • Reviewing the presentation of information relevant to the scope 25 March 2014 of our work in the Report to ensure consistency with Maplecroft believes that the narrative and data presented in this Maplecroft, Bath, BA1 5JZ, United Kingdom our findings. Jennifer Iansen-Rogers report are an accurate representation of current Premier processes Web: www.maplecroft.com Head of Report Assurance Services and activities. Maplecroft is also satisfied that Premier’s claim to have Email: info@maplecroft.com 24 March 2014 applied the GRI G3.1 guidelines at A+ level is fairly stated. ERM Certification and Verification Services, London ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related to independent assurance activities and auditor training. Our processes are designed and implemented to ensure that the work we undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of interest. ERM CVS and the staff that have undertaken work on this assurance exercise provide no consultancy related services to Premier Oil plc in any respect. 72 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 73 /APPENDIX Global Reporting Initiative The table provides a summary of the application of the Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G3.1 at Level A+ (and associated Oil and Gas Sector Supplement) in the 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Standard disclosures: Profile disclosures Collective bargaining agreements 10,15,21,28-29 Full Strategy and analysis 04-11, Annual Report Notice on operational changes 29 Full Occupational health and safety 34-35,40-41 Full Organisational profile 01-07,09, Annual Report Training on serious diseases 41 Full Report parameters 06-11,76 Training and education 14,27-28,32,40-41 Partial Governance, commitments 06-11,13,16-17,20, Diversity and equal opportunity 22-24,26 Full and engagement 23-25,28-29,31-33,36,40, Equal remuneration 26 Full 43-44,50-69, Annual Report, ALARP (05,39, 43-47) Human rights Standard disclosures: Management approach Investment and 14-16,19 Partial procurement practices Economic 03,50-69, Annual Report Screening of suppliers/contractors 14-16,19 Partial Environmental 42-49,52-53 Training 20-21 Partial Labour practices 14-15,22-29,34-35 Discrimination 17,19-21 Full Human rights 15,18-21,28-29,41,43 Freedom of association and 10,15,21,28-29 Full collective bargaining Society 12-21,32,36-40,43,50-69 Child labour 15,19,29 Full Product responsibility 01,17,36-40 Forced and compulsory labour 15,19,29 Full Standard disclosures: Performance indicators Assessment 19-21 Full Economic Remediation 19-21 Full Direct economic value 16,25-26,29,50-69 Full Society Financial impacts of climate change 44-46 Full Local community engagement 09-10,50-69 Full Pension plan 25-26 Full 12-17 Corruption Full Financial assistance 16 Full Anti-corruption training 12-17 Full Local suppliers 14-15 Partial Remediation 12-19 Full Local hiring 27 Full Public policy 16 Full Infrastructure investments 50-69 Full Compliance 16-17 Full Indirect economic impacts 09-10,50-69 Full Impacts 18-21 Full Environmental Mitigation 18-21,50-69 Full Materials 47-49 Full Product responsbility Recycled input materials 46,49 Partial Customer health and safety 01,17,36-39 Full Direct energy consumption 47 Full Product and service labelling 01,17 Full Indirect energy consumption 46-49 Full Marketing communications 16-17 Full Protected areas 43,48-49 Full Impacts on biodiversity 43,48-49 Full Oil and Gas Sector Supplement Strategies on biodiversity 43,48-69 Full Volume of reserves and production 01, Annual Report Full Greenhouse gas emissions 44-46 Full Renewable energy investment 46 Full Indirect greenhouse gas emissions 44-46 Full Renewable energy generation 46 Full Initiatives to reduce emissions 43-44,46-47 Full Assessment of biodiversity risks 21,43,48 Full Other air emissions 44,47 Full Formation or produced water 43,48 Full Water 47-49 Full Flared and vented hydrocarbon 44-45,47 Full Waste 48-49 Full Drilling waste 48-49 Full Spills 48-49 Full Fuel content 47 Full Mitigation of environmental impact 43-44,46-47 Full Indigenous communities 19,21,43 Full Products and packaging 49 Full Disputes with local communities 19,21 Full Compliance 17,43 Full Decommissioning of sites 03 Full Labour practices Involuntary resettlement 19 Full Process safety events 36-39 Full Employee numbers 24-25 Full Biofuels 46 Full Employee turnover 24 Full Core performance indicators only 74 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report / 75 /APPENDIX IPIECA United Nations Global Compact IPIECA: Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting (2010) Page Status United Nations Global Compact: Our Communication on Progress (CoP) against the Ten Principles Page Status Environmental indicators Human rights E1 Climate change and energy Greenhouse gas emissions 43-47 Reported Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed 18-21,23,28-41 Communicated human rights E2 Energy use 47 Reported Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 18-21,23,28-41 Communicated E3 Alternative energy sources 46 Reported Labour E4 Flared gas 44-45,47 Reported Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the 18-21,23,28-29 Communicated E5 Ecosystem services Biodiversity and ecosystem services 43,48,54,57,63,66 Reported right to collective bargaining E6 Freshwater 48 Reported Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 18-21,29 Communicated E7 Local environmental impacts Other air emissions 44,47 Reported Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour 18-21,29 Communicated E8 Spills to the environment 36,48-49 Reported Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment 18-21,22-23,27 Communicated and occupation E9 Discharges to water 47-48 Reported E10 Waste 49 Reported Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 36-39,42-49 Communicated Health and Safety indicators Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 42-49,51-54, Communicated HS1 Workforce protection Workforce participation 23-24 Reported 57,63,66 HS2 Workforce health 34-35,40-41 Reported Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally 39-40,46,49,51Communicated friendly technologies 54,57,63,66 HS3 Occupational injury and illness incidents 34-35 Reported HS4 Product health, safety and environmental risks Product stewardship 01,16-17 Reported Anti-corruption HS5 Process safety and asset integrity Process safety 36-39 Reported Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 12-17 Communicated Social and economic indicators SE1 Community and society Local community impacts and engagement 09-10,50-69 Reported FTSE4Good SE2 Indigenous peoples 19,21,43 Reported SE3 Involuntary resettlement 19 Reported SE4 Social investment 50-69 Reported FTSE4Good: Sustainability criteria Page Status SE5 Local content Local content practices 15 Reported Environmental criteria SE6 Local hiring practices 27 Reported Policy 30-31 Compliant SE7 Local procurement and supplier development 14-15 Reported Management 31-33,43-49 Compliant SE8 Human rights Human rights due diligence 19-21 Reported Reporting 43-49 Compliant SE9 Human rights and suppliers 14-15,19-20 Reported Social and stakeholder criteria SE10 Security and human rights 19-21,41 Reported Policy 18-19,51-52 Compliant SE11 Business, ethics and transparency Preventing corruption 12-17 Reported Management 10-11,20,51-52 Compliant Preventing corruption involving business Reporting 50-69 Compliant SE12 12-17 Reported partners Human rights criteria SE13 Transparency of payments to host governments 16-17 Reported SE14 Public advocacy and lobbying 16 Reported Policy 18-19,30-31 Compliant Management 20-21,31-33 Compliant SE15 Labour protection Workforce diversity and inclusion 22-24,26 Reported Reporting 19-21,28-29,34-35 Compliant SE16 Workforce engagement 23-29 Reported SE17 Workforce training and development 26-28 Reported Supply chain labour standards criteria SE18 Non-retaliation and grievance systems 17,23 Reported Policy 14-16,19 Compliant Management 14-16,20 Compliant Reporting 15,29 Compliant Countering bribery criteria Policy 13 Compliant Management 13-14,16-17 Compliant Reporting 13-17 Compliant 76 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report /APPENDIX GLOSSARY ACKNOWLEDGMENTS ALARP as low as reasonably practicable Prepared, designed and produced by Maplecroft API American Petroleum Institute www.maplecroft.com BMS Business Management System (Premier) Printed by Opal BOSIET Basic Offshore Safety Induction and Emergency Training © Premier Oil plc 2013. All rights reserved. Association of British Independent Oil and Gas BRINDEX Exploration Companies Electronic Accident and Incident Reporting System EARS The material used in this publication is produced (Premier) using 100% recycled post-consumer waste. It is ESIA environmental and social impact assessment FSC Certified and Carbon Balanced. By using this EU ETS European Union Emissions Trading Scheme material, 1,087kg of carbon has been saved and 91.31m2 of land has been preserved. FEED front end engineering design FIG Falkland Islands Government FPSO floating production, storage and offloading FOET Further Offshore Emergency Training GHG greenhouse gas GRI Global Reporting Initiative CBP00086981903141147 HIPO high potential incident HIPOR high potential incident rate HSES health, safety, environment and safety HUC hook up and commissioning HWF Himalayan Wildlife Foundation International Petroleum Industry Environmental IPIECA Conservation Association DISCLAIMER ISO International Organization for Standardisation IUCN International Union for Conservation of Nature This report contains certain forward-looking statements that are subject to the usual risk factors and KNPI National Committee of Indonesian Youth uncertainties associated with the oil and gas exploration KPI key performance indicator and production business. Whilst the group believes the expectations reflected herein to be reasonable in LOPC loss of primary containment light of the information available to it at this time, the LTIP Long-Term Incentive Plan actual outcome may be materially difference owing to MIST Minimum Industry Safety Training factors beyond the group’s control or otherwise within the group’s control but where, for example, the group LWDC lost work day case decides on a change of plan or strategy. Accordingly, MTC medical treatment case no reliance may be placed on the figures contained in such forward-looking statements. OGP International Association of Oil and Gas Producers OSPRAG Oil Spill Prevention and Response Advisory Environmental data used for this report is subject to a degree of uncertainty caused by limitations in PATS Premier Action Tracking System measurement and estimation. Premier has in some POEMS Premier Oil Environmental Monitoring System cases been obliged to make estimates or use different approaches to data calculation to ensure all data covers PSMS Process Safety Management Standard the same scope. Data presented in this report includes PSR project safety review our office, production and drilling operations, but not the sub-contracted construction entities. The exception RWDC restricted work day case is our health and safety statistics that also include these TRIR total recordable injury rate construction entities. 78 / Premier Oil plc 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report www.premier-oil.com Premier Oil plc 23 Lower Belgrave Street London SW1W 0NR Telephone: +44 (0)20 7730 1111 Facsimile: +44 (0)20 7730 4696
