UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2 0 1 3 2 0 1 4 q From the Managing Partner q Company Identity q Dunamis Organization Services In This q Dunamis Mitra Pertiwi (Dunamis Foundation) REPORT q Implementation of UNGC Principles § Human Rights § Labor Standard § Environment § Anti-Corruption q Partnerships in Support of UN Goals q Distribution of this COP From the Managing Partner! STATEMENT OF SUPPORT June 2014, As the 8th anniversary of Dunamis’s signatory to the UN Global Compact, I am pleased to reconfirm our company’s commitment to the UN Global Compact We furthermore remain fully committed to sustainability in its broadest context and operate day to day on the basis that we have a responsibility to balance economic interests with those of the environment as well as with those representing the needs and interests of the communities in which we operate and serve. This Communication on Progress report showcases the implementation of UN Global Compact principles through the policies and practices of our company and the work of the Dunamis Mitra Pertiwi Foundation. It serves also as a baseline report against which we can measure our future accomplishments. With this publication of this report, Dunamis reaﬃrms our continued support to the principles of the UN Global Compact, covering human rights, labor rights, protection of the environment and anti-corruption. Satyo Fatwan Managing Partner Company Name : Dunamis Organization Services Address : Jl Bendungan Jatiluhur No. 56 Jakarta 10210 COMPANY Country : Indonesia IDENTITY Contact Name Contact Position : Asri Larasati : Corporate Communications Contact Telephone : +62 21 572 0761 Membership Date : April 8th, 2006 No of Employees : 130 Sector : Support & Services Dunamis Organization Services is an Indonesian professional services firm incorporated in 1991 and d e d i c ate d to e n a b l e g re at n e ss i n p e o p l e a n d organizations everywhere. COMPANY Our clientele is across industry of Indonesia's most progressive institutions. Dunamis Organization Services is IDENTITY the licensee partner of FranklinCovey (USA) and VitalSmarts (USA) in Indonesia. Brief Description of Nature Business! Our Practices include Leadership & Trust, Execution, Productivity & Sales Performance, VitalSmarts Skills, Organizational Alignment (Knowledge, Research & Culture), Human Capital System and Education. Mission We enable Greatness in people and organizations everywhere Vision To be recognized as a world class professional services firm – an OASIS for Indonesia COMPANY Values ~ ROCK 1. Result Oriented IDENTITY We deliver superior results to all our stakeholders. That’s our bias. 2. Open Feedback We h a ve r e s p e c t f u l b u t g e n u i n e a n d o p e n Mission, Vision, Values! communication. That’s how we grow. 3. Strong Character Integrity. Maturity. Abundance Mentality. That’s our basic character. 4. World Class “K”ompetence Applied Competence. That’s how we produce superior performance. Dunamis Foundation is a non profit organization dedicated to achieve community empowerment through Leadership Development Activities. Dunamis Foundation was founded in 2001 with the name of Dunamis Mitra Pertiwi by the people who have concern Dunamis with leadership development and organizational alignment to assist the unlucky and disadvantaged FOUNDATION people of Pasir Angin as pilot program and people outside the Jakarta as well. The fundamental motivating force in all activities of Dunamis Foundation is the development of people so that they are able to manage themselves, aware who are they, able to share to others, and able to do all things with the principle of sharing and togetherness. Dunamis Foundation assists persons on the basis of need, not creed, race, or nationality. Communication on Progress! IMPLEMENTATION OF UNGC PRINCIPLES human RIGHTS Respect for human rights is a fundamental principle of practicing good management and being a responsible business. Here in Dunamis, we reflected the implementation o Principle 1 ~ Business should support and of the human rights into our vision, mission, values policies as respect the protection of internationally well as the advancement opportunity, competitive proclaimed human rights! compensation and benefits, work environments and o Principle 2 ~Business should ensure that they obligation to the community in location where we are are not complicit in human rights abuses! operating (Corporate Social Responsibility). o Principle 3 ~ Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining! Dunamis oﬀers favorable working conditions to its employees. Conditions of employment at Dunamis are outlined by the company regulations document approved in 2003 by the Department of Manpower. The policy under Chapter 1, Article 3(e), states that all employees have the right to equal treatment in line with their Human Rights. It also outlines the company’s remuneration standards, working hours as well as employees’ rights to holidays and leaves and to practice their faith. The policy also outlines a warning system and disciplinary guidelines which provides employees with protection against WORKING unemployment. § Well beyond the minimum standards of employment, staﬀs at Dunamis are free to enjoy a healthy company-provided Condition! lunch on every work day, served at our indoor and outdoor lunchrooms. Staﬀs not at the oﬃce receive a lunch allowance. Outcomes: § Dunamis staﬀs enjoy a healthy lunch everyday. § Our employee relationship increases, they have a better communication one and another § No boundaries between employees and the management team § In order to increase the food quality, staﬀs feedback and suggestion are accepted, We also change the lunch menu regularly to give a better service to the staﬀs. § Dunamis policy defines that all hiring process, promotion and business decision are taken strictly on qualifications, business imperatives and merit. Every employee also has the equal employment opportunity. Dunamis established a comprehensive compensation and benefit and adequate allowance including medical, transportation, health assistance and pension plan. § For all new Dunamis employees we conducted New employee induction to share about the company profile, company policy and, code of business conducts. WORKING § Dunamis implemented a new Human Capital Management Condition! System to strengthen its employees relationship and management guideline. Employees could easily upgraded their job description and set their key performance indicators. Outcomes: § Dunamis renewing employee’s compensation every year based on the quarterly and yearly evaluation § Our employees felt more involved and improving their performance due we always set target and have a win-win agreement in every new quarter. § Our employees could have a favorable working condition because of a planned benefit for their health and safety support Future Target: In 2014, Dunamis maintain this policy to remain the same. § To promote a healthy life and encourage our staﬀ to exercise regularly, Dunamis signed a join cooperation with one of gym club in Jakarta. Employees are free to use the gym facilities everyday. Dunamis also support the establishment of Dunamis Futsal Team. Outcomes: Every employee are free to use all the gym facilities everyday. They also could join all the available classes. Dunamis Futsal team held a weekly practices on company expenses. They also held a friendly match with client’s institution. WORKING Future Target: In 2014, Dunamis maintain this policy to remain the same. Condition! § In collaboration with PMI (Red Cross) DKI Jakarta, Dunamis held a blood donor program to commemorate our anniversary. Outcomes: Every employee had the change to donate and join this blood donor program every year. Future Target: In 2014, Dunamis maintain this policy to remain the same. § To maintain and check the employees health, Dunamis sent all the employees to a medical check up once every two years. Outcomes: WORKING Employees could get their medical check up result also consult with the doctor about their health condition. This preventing Condition! and checking program help employees to keep maintaining their health. Future Target: In 2014, Dunamis maintain this policy to remain the same. WORKING Condition! As an act of respect for the rights of the community surrounding Dunamis’ training facility in Pasir Angin village, the property remains unfenced, allowing for community access to and from their livelihood. Although this was and still is an uncommon practice in Indonesia, the decision was made not to close-oﬀ the property during construction of the facility, when it was recognized that fencing oﬀ the property would create a community Access to Land! diﬃculty for the local community who would need to circle the area to get to and from home. Outcomes: By not fencing our property, the community around us could easily access to and from their livelihood. By giving them the access, they also help us in securing our property. Future Targets: The policy to unfenced the property will remain the same, we will also increase the community involvement in improving our property facilities. Dunamis procedures for using security personnel are based on human rights principles and include guidelines and restrictions on the use of force. Dunamis facilitates its personnel to contribute regularly to major Indonesian publications. Each month, articles written by Dunamis staﬀ appear in one of leading Indonesian newspapers and magazines also in our website. The articles represent themes that are of our business interest, covering organizational eﬀectiveness and human capital development, as well as wider ranging issues including corporate social responsibility, democracy and social justice. With this activity, while increasing our company’s contribution to the nation, we also become champions of another right presented in the UDHR: media “Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right includes freedom to hold opinions without Presence! interference and to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers.” -UDHR, Article Outcomes: § In 2014 Dunamis will keep maintaining both expanding the relationship with media (newspaper, magazines and radio). § Dunamis will also continuing the policy to uphold the freedom to associate and the right to collective bargaining following the guidelines provided under the relevant national law. Future Target: In 2014 we will keep maintaining also expanding the relationship with media; newspapers, magazines and radio. We will also continue the policy to uphold the freedom to associate and the right to collective bargaining following the guidelines provided under the relevant national law. media Presence! Dunamis facilitates various internal / employee communication programs to allow employees to express their aspiration to the management vice versa. The available programs include: § Kick Off Meeting! An annual meeting attended by all employees to recognize the achievers and to communicate company’s business direction and strategy. § Quarterly Stewardships Review (QSR)! Every quarter, we reviewed our business unit and personal internal progress. On second and fourth QSR, we held a bonding program to increase team bonding and employee relationship. Communication! § Dunamis Newsletter! Dunamis gives its staﬀ an opportunity to unleash their talent in writing by providing a coloumn in our monthly Dunamis Newsletter. The theme of the articles are various from their experiences in a class room or our practices. Dunamis Newsletters were published to all Dunamis ‘s clients and its website, www.dunamis.co.id. § TES (The Empowerment Session)! TES is bi-weekly forum for employees to share and learn each other on certain interest subjects relevant to business as well as for employee development. § PKS (Product Knowledge Sharpening)! PKS is a weekly forum for employees to learn and have depth understanding of our solution. This forum facilitate our sales people to have a better relationship with the clients by connecting their organizational problem with our solutions. internal Outcomes: § Purposes of kick oﬀ and QSR meetings were : Communication! 1. Eﬀective to communicate business direction 2. Express employee aspirations 3. Review our business. These activities gave company and employee bunch of ideas to improve business. § By having articles in the newsletter, Dunamis unleash it’s employees talent, we recognize their talent by providing the media to express their capability and knowledge. Future Target: The policies of kick oﬀ meeting, QSR and TES were remained the same. We will also continue publish our monthly newsletter. staff Activities! dunamis Newsletter! Ø Pre-School at Pasir Angin Viilage, Gadog, West Java! As part of its Community Capacity Building program, Dunamis Mitra Pertiwi Foundation manage Pre-School which provide pre-elementary education for children in Pasir Angin village, West Java, surroundings our learning center. We empowered Community and facilitate the women in the area to become the teachers. Outcomes: Capacity Building! § In 2013, Dunamis Foundation ran ten (10) Pre School at 7 locations (neighborhood community) with over 250 students and 10 teachers. § We continually trained the teacher with The 7 Habits for Educators. We evaluated their performance and ability through monthly meeting. Future Target: In 2014, we plan to continue managing the Pre-Schools and open new locations. We also plan to increase by giving them a routine training. Ø Pre-Schools at East Jakarta – Joint Cooperation with Asuransi Astra Buana & KSPA UNJ! As part of its Community Capacity Building program, Dunamis Mitra Pertiwi Foundation in May 2, 2013 signed an agreement with Asuransi Astra Buana & KSPA UNJ (Jakarta State University) to implement The Leader in Me program at 5 (five) pre-schools in East Jakarta. They are TKK Rawamangun, TKK Community Duren Sawit, PAUD Beo, TKK Warakas & TKK Kampung Bandar. Capacity Building! Outcomes: § Dunamis has trained 30 teachers for the pre-schools with The 7 Habits Educators program. § We also did a vision training among school community and did a school make over by painting the classroom and placed The 7 Habits posters. § Additionally, we also took the teachers to An-Nisaa’ Preschool for benchmarking on how to implement The 7 Habits in early age. Future Target: In 2014 we plan to continue the joint cooperation and keep maintaining the teachers ability by providing a routine 7 Habits program refreshment. Ø The 7 Habits of Highly Effective Teens SuperCamp Project! Every year Dunamis held a holiday program for Elementary, Junior & High school students called The 7 Habits of Highly Eﬀective Teens SuperCamp. The aim of this program is to unleash the teens leadership skill. We also used the inside-out approach to strengthen the teens character started from themselves. To sharpen their social responsibility, we gave them a project to renovate an elementary school around the training area. They were asked to prepare a project proposal, presented to Community our board of partners to get the fund and implement the project by themselves. Capacity Building! Outcomes: 2 elementary schools (At Tarmidziyah Elementary School & Madrasah Ibtidaiyah Sirojul Wildan) were renovated, painted and having a new school equipment such as blackboard, drawer, shoes rack, education poster etc. Future Targets: In 2014 we plan to continue the 7 Habits of Highly Eﬀective Teens SuperCamp project. community Capacity Building! Ø Sekolah Sobat Bumi Joint Cooperation with Pertamina Foundation! Dunamis Foundation supported a program held by Pertamina Foundation called Sekolah Sobat Bumi. Sekolah Sobat Bumi is an education program which aims to encourage schools in Indonesia to increase its quality standard. The program was held in 17 (seventeen) schools located in 8 (eight) provinces all over Indonesia. Dunamis Foundation supported this program by conducting the 7 Habits of Educators for principals and school supervisors at all Sekolah Sobat Bumi. The aim of the workshop is to develop leaders who will be responsible and proactively Community change their old behavior in order to increase theirs schools quality. Capacity Building! Outcomes: § Dunamis Foundation has trained 423 principals and school supervisors from 17 champion of Sekolah Sobat Bumi. § These 17 champion of Sekolah Sobat Bumi encompasses : SDN 04 Metro Timur Lampung, SDN 05 Bukit Raya Pekanbaru, SDN 003 Balikpapan Selatan, SMPN 1 Balikpapan, SMPN 10 Samarinda, SMAN 5 Denpasar, SMPN 4 Mendoyo Jembrana, SMKN 1 Probolinggo, SMAN 2 Probolinggo, Sekolah Alam Ciganjur, SMKN 3 Sukabumi, SDN Ungaran 1 Yogyakarta, SMPN 7 Bandung, SMAN 10 Malang, SMPN 1 Kedamean Gresik, SDSN Bendungan Hilir Jakarta, and SDN Bantarjati 09 Bogor Future Targets: Dunamis Foundation commits to support Sekolah Sobat Bumi program and will assist schools in the implementation. Ø Leadership Development for SMKI Utama – joint cooperation with Yasmin Foundation! Dunamis Foundation made a joint cooperation with Yasmin Foundation to implement a leadership development program for SMKI Utama students. Community Outcomes: § Dunamis trained the teachers, management and school Capacity Building! staﬀs with The 7 Habits for Educators program. § We a l s o l a u n c h e d t h e v i s i o n t ra i n i n g a n d T L I M implementation training. The class mission and rules are being aligned with The 7 Habits principles. § All students from 10th to 12th grade has studied The 7 Habits in their daily class activities. Future Targets: Dunamis will support the implementation of The 7 Habits in class. We also give the students an opportunity to do an internship program in our company. Ø The Leader in Me (TLIM) program for Kreativa Elementary School students – joint cooperation with Yasmina Foundation! Dunamis Foundation joint a cooperation with Yasmin Foundation run The Leader in Me Program for Kreativa Community Elementary School 5th grade students. Capacity Building! Outcomes: Dunamis has coached the school management, staﬀ and teachers and also trained them with The 7 Habits of Educators. Future Targets: Dunamis will assist the school on the implementation of The Leader in Me program. Dunamis also support the school make over as a leadership-based school. Ø Unleash The Leader Within Workshop – A collaboration with PT Trakindo Utama! Dunamis Foundation had collaborate with PT Trakindo Utama gave the Unleash the Leader Within workshop to teachers & principals which are under supervised of PT Trakindo Utama. The workshop were intended to give them a broader Community understanding about how to be a leadership based school. Capacity Building! Outcomes: 10 Trakindo internal instructors and 30 teachers from Aceh to Papua were trained with Unleash the Leader Within program. They also being guide to plan an activity related to one of The Leader in school pillars. Future Targets: Dunamis will evaluate the participants activity plan and handed a development report to PT Trakindo Utama. Dunamis will also prepare the following up action for the project. Ø The 7 Habits Program for Mentawai Refugee – A collaboration with KAUM (Kasih Abadi Untuk Mentawai)! Dunamis Foundation made a collaboration with KAUM Foundation share The 7 Habits for Educators and 7 Habits Community Success Guide program to teachers and students in Mentawai. They are the Padang earthquake refugee who saved by KAUM Capacity Building! Foundation in Mentawai. Outcomes: Dunamis delivered 7 Habits for Educators and 7 Habits Success Guide program to teachers and students in Mentawai. Future Targets: Dunamis will monitor the 7 Habits implementation in teachers daily class activities every 6 month. This activity is intended to keep the teachers motivation. community Capacity Building! Dunamis employs on the basis of job requirements and does not discriminate on grounds of age, ethnic or social origin, gender, sexual orientation, politics or religion. All Dunamis employees have chosen their employment freely and have the freedom to leave the company upon due notice, as human outlined in the company regulations. Dunamis strives to continue being an employer of choice, through the provision of favorable RIGHTS working conditions elaborated above in this report. Dunamis employs on the basis of job requirements and does not discriminate on grounds of age, ethnic or social origin, gender, o Principle 4 ~ Business should support the sexual orientation, politics or religion. elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor! All Dunamis employees have chosen their employment freely and o Principle 5 ~ Business should support the have the freedom to leave the company upon due notice, as effective abolition of child labor! outlined in the company regulations. Dunamis strives to continue o Principle 6 ~ Business should support the being an employer of choice, through the provision of favorable elimination of discrimination in respect of working conditions elaborated above in this report employment and occupation! Dunamis does not employ child labor, defined ILO Convention No. 138 as being children under the age of 15 years. Company regulations set the minimum age for employment at Dunamis as 19 years.Dunamis has also been involved in organizing a workshop with UNICEF Indonesia on the Elimination of Child Labor. Supporting the Abolition of Child Labor Dunamis Mitra Pertiwi Foundation also contributes to the abolition of child labor through its community-based programs, which assist in providing access to education for children who would otherwise be out-of-school and/or working. The programs cover: ü ü Leadership Training for Community Leaders, including teachers and youth group leaders. Capacity Building, including establishment and labor management of schools in Pasir Angin village in West Java. ü Participatory Engagement, in the form of Future Search dialogues designed to assess the needs of the community. Outcomes: By improving the children and youth education also leadership, we helped them to increase their practical skill, self-confidence and interdependence ability. Future Targets: The policy for our community-based programs will remain the same. Labor & Non-discrimination Policy A company with over 40% female staﬀ, Dunamis does not discriminate on the basis of gender with regards to recruitment and employment, nor do we discriminate based on faith, race or political association. labor Outcomes: To improve the employees skill and ability, we continue to give them a regular training. Employees are allowed to take a Personal Development Program (PDP) to develop their working ability. Future Targets: Dunamis will continue the non-discrimination policy also keep increasing our member skill and ability. Personal Development Program Every employee is eligible to get training in order to develop their skills and competency to support company objectives. To increase the employee capabilities and competencies, Dunamis held a Personal Development Program (PDP). This program allow every employee to take courses, seminars, training or workshops related to their personal development and job. This policies was started since 1995 when company starts to labor grow. Every employee has the right to improve their personal and interpersonal skill. They could take any program as long as it related to their day-to-day job. Outcomes: In 2013, 65 percent of employee took their PDP, it increasing 20 percent from 2012. Future Targets: In 2014 we plan to boost every employee to use their PDP so they will increase their capabilities and competencies. labor ! Male Employees = 83 Female Employees = 56 Dunamis staff chart Electricity & Water Usage In our everyday business activities, Dunamis encourages environmentally friendly practice. We targeted to reduce 10% in ENVIRONMENT electricity and water usage. Outcomes: In 2013, the electricity & water usage were increased 6% comparing to the previous year. o Principle 7 ~ Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental Future Targets: challenges! In 2014, we plan to maintain the electricity and water usage. o Principle 8 ~ Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Respect for environment sustainability is also showcased in the responsibility! surroundings of our company’s training facility in Pasir Angin o Principle 9 ~ Business should encourage the village, Central Java. During its construction, it was policy to cut development and diffusion of environmentally down as few trees as possible, none was removed around the friendly technologies! constructed buildings. In fact, vegetation around the property remains well-maintained. Dunamis Support One Million Coral Reefs Program Dunamis participated in Indonesia Global Compact Network environmental program “One Million Coral Reefs” at Pulau Umang – Banten Future Targets: We remain to support Indonesia Global Compact Network ENVIRONMENT activities. Dunamis is actively involved in the promotion of transparency in government and businesses. This view is incorporated in our company regulations, which prohibits bribery and extortion in all its forms. ANTI We sign Integrity Pacts with our major clients, which call for the elimination of all forms of corruption, including bribery and extortion. This is increasingly becoming common practice, CORRUPTION especially with our finance industry clients. Starting from last year, Dunamis seek to design a similar pact to be incorporated with all our Memorandum of Agreements with existing and future clients. o Principle 10 ~ Business should work against Outcomes: corruption in all its forms, including extortion § Dunamis maintains to do our business with good corporate and bribery ! governance standards and no bribery was reported during last year. § Dunamis also become a part of Corruption Eradication Commission (KPK) selection panel in 2011 Future Targets: Become as a part in government personnel selection panel. SCORECARD ! The scorecard below, outlines our performance against our Community, Environment and Labour targets for the financial year 2013. Overall performance against target: Target exceeded Target achieved (> 95%) On Track Behind Schedule Target Not Achieved Target Performance Target Date Activities Result Trend Commentary Early Childhood Education Dunamis provide an early childhood This year we opened 10 pre school class in 7 On going Education around Pasir Angin village to location. The students number was 245, over improve the children education the target for 200 students. Aptitude Test To help High School finding their potential This program help them recognize their On going & talent, starting this year Dunamis held potential and talent before choosing their an aptitude test major and continue their study. The beneficiaries were 26 students Personal Development Program To improver their working competencies, We keep encourage employee to take any On going employee are allowed to take any course course or higher education in order to through this personal development improve their skill also competencies. program Note: Trend from previous year improvement deterioration no change SCORECARD ! The scorecard below, outlines our performance against our Community, Environment and Labour targets for the financial year 2013. Overall performance against target: Target exceeded Target achieved (> 95%) On Track Behind Schedule Target Not Achieved Target Performance Target Date Activities Result Trend Commentary Employee Contribution Dunamis employee’s have to spent 1 day/ This year only 25 percent of Dunamis On going month working for Dunamis Foundation employee’s spent their time to volunteer in to do community services Dunamis Foundation Speaker’s Fee Dunamis member donate their fees after All Dunamis member consistently donate On going deliver speech for public audiences their fees as a contribution for Dunamis Foundation Media Presence Dunamis personnel contribute articles 50 per cent from target achieved. We On going regularly in Indonesian newspapers and continue to extend the relationship with magazines major Indonesian newspapers and magazines Note: Trend from previous year improvement deterioration no change SCORECARD ! The scorecard below, outlines our performance against our Community, Environment and Labour targets for the financial year 2013. Overall performance against target: Target exceeded Target achieved (> 95%) On Track Behind Schedule Target Not Achieved Target Performance Target Date Activities Result Trend Commentary Dunamis Newsletter Dunamis unleash its staﬀ talent in writing We achieved the target to always publish the On going by publishing their articles in a monthly newsletter every month newsletter to its clients Pre School Teachers Empowerment To increase our pre school teacher We scheduled a monthly & yearly program On going capability, Dunamis held an by inviting Dunamis member also public empowerment program speakers to teach the pre school teachers The 7 Habits Teens Supercamp Project We prepare a project in our teens camp We renovated five (5) pre school and On going to renovate pre school and elementary renovate one (1) elementary school also school around Pasir Angin Village build a library in Pasir Angin Village Note: Trend from previous year improvement deterioration no change SCORECARD ! The scorecard below, outlines our performance against our Community, Environment and Labour targets for the financial year 2013. Overall performance against target: Target exceeded Target achieved (> 95%) On Track Behind Schedule Target Not Achieved Target Performance Target Date Activities Result Trend Commentary Frontier Assist Dunamis Foundation always ready to help We always prepare ourselves to held a On going others in case of national disaster in form frontier assist program in case of national of frontier assist disaster Electricity Eﬃciency 10 percent reduction in electricity usage We increased the usage of electricity & 30 Dec 2014 water by 6% in 2013 Anti Corruption Dunamis policies in doing business based We support the anti corruption and no On going on good corporate governance bribery was reported during the year Note: Trend from previous year improvement deterioration no change implementation of UNGC Principles! Over the years, Dunamis has both initiated and participated in partnerships with government agencies, NGOs and other civil society organizations, as well as student and youth organizations. The existence of Dunamis Mitra Pertiwi Foundation within a relatively modest-sized company such as Dunamis Organization Services is hoped to inspire other companies to increase their participation in empowering their wider surrounding community. On a regular basis, we organize Public Programs for representatives of numerous groups at little to no cost on a regular basis. This includes representatives from educational institutions such as teachers and student organization representatives, government agencies and NGOs, located all over Indonesia. The programs are designed to increase the eﬀectiveness of the participants, which can then be transferred to the institution they belong to. distribution of the COP! This Communication of Progress will be made available to our stakeholders on our website http://www.dunamis.co.id, as well as being distributed to all company employees through our intranet system. For more information on this report or Dunamis Mitra Pertiwi Foundation, please contact asri@dunamis.co.id To obtain a copy, please contact our oﬃce at: Dunamis Organization Services Gedung GKBI Suite 503, Jl Jend Sudirman 28, Jakarta 10210, Indonesia. Ph: 62-21 5790 1420 Jl Bendungan Jatiluhur 56 Jakarta 10210. Ph: 62-21 572 0761, Fax: 62-21 572 0762 Website: www.dunamis.co.id Email: info@dunamis.co.id
