2013 Scotiabank Corporate Social Responsibility Report Building Bright Futures About Corporate Social CSR Strategy Scotiabank’s CSR strategy supports the Bank’s core purpose of Responsibility at Scotiabank helping customers become financially better off. It guides our focus on customers, diversity, strength and stability by focusing on five key Scotiabank integrates corporate social responsibility (CSR) areas: governance, customers, employees, the environment into all its business activities with the belief that success is and community. measured by more than financial results: it is also measured CSR Advisory Committee by customer satisfaction and employee engagement, The CSR Advisory Committee, consisting of a group of senior strong governance practices and support for communities executives from across the Bank, guides and supports key CSR issues and initiatives in all business areas. the Bank serves. About this Report Communicating Progress The Bank’s key performance indicators are available at the front Scotiabank’s CSR Report complements the Bank’s Annual Report and of this report. Scotiabank supports the Global Reporting Initiative is a high-level summary of the Bank’s CSR strategy and priorities. (GRI), a non-profit organization that provides a comprehensive The Bank’s CSR website, scotiabank.com/csr, provides a complete sustainability reporting framework that is widely used around the overview of the Bank’s strategy, key performance indicators and world. This framework sets out the principles and indicators by which examples of CSR activities. organizations measure and report their economic, environmental and Stakeholder Engagement social performance. Scotiabank reports at a G3 Application Level C, meaning the Bank reports fully on a minimum of 10 performance Scotiabank first issued a CSR Report in 2001 and, since then, indicators, including at least one from each indicator dimension has regularly solicited feedback from stakeholders on the report’s (economic, environmental, and social). content. In 2011, the Bank launched a formal annual stakeholder feedback process to obtain input on the report from a broad range This report also meets the Bank’s commitment to submit a of stakeholders, including Aboriginal organizations, suppliers, Communication on Progress (CoP) to the UN Global Compact (UNGC) governments, businesses, non-profits, trade-based and investor to showcase how the Bank is working towards the 10 UNGC principles. organizations and academia. Recognizing that some of Scotiabank’s stakeholders are looking for Feedback collected in 2013 recommended more detailed additional data on our CSR progress, a file has been created that communication of Scotiabank’s CSR achievements and priorities, provides key performance indicators and data charts specific to our as well as indicators of impact. The 2013 CSR Report addresses this activities in fiscal 2013. This information is available at feedback with the addition of impact highlights in each section and scotiabank.com/csr/reports a report from the Vice President of CSR about progress and goals. For more information on Scotiabank’s corporate social responsibility reporting, We continue to listen and look for ways to improve our reporting visit scotiabank.com/csr/ataglance year over year. UN Global Compact Message from the President and CEO 1 In 2010 Scotiabank Contents became the first Canadian bank to Message from Vice President, CSR 2 adopt the UN Global Compact (UNGC), How CSR at Scotiabank makes an impact 3 a commitment to uphold and protect human rights, labour, environment and Governance 4 Economic 10 Social 16 anti-corruption standards through business practices. How the Bank governs . . . . . . .4 Financial literacy . . . . . . . . . . 10 Diversity and inclusion . . . . . . 16 In this report, we have identified the areas in which we are working Addressing Microfinance . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 Human rights . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 towards the UNGC principles customer concerns . . . . . . . . . .7 Aboriginal banking . . . . . . . . 12 Leadership . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 with the UNGC logo. For more Environmental detailed information on how and social risk . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8 Multicultural banking . . . . . . 13 Bright Future . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 we are working towards the 10 UNGC principles, please visit Project financing . . . . . . . . . . . .9 Reducing scotiabank.com/csr/ataglance. environmental impact . . . . . . 14 Cover photo: Scotiabankers Appendix 22 volunteer to help children in a Naucalpan, Mexico classroom. Scotiabank is a leading financial services provider in over 55 countries and Canada’s most international bank. Through our team of more than 83,000 employees, Scotiabank and its affiliates offer a broad range of products and services, including personal and commercial banking, wealth management, corporate and investment banking to over 21 million customers. Business Line Overview % of Scotiabank’s total net income1 Scotiabank Total net income 2 CANADIAN BANKING 2013 $ 6,697 million results Net income 2 $ 2,304 34% Total revenue Employees allocation Net income before 29% INTERNATIONAL BANKING government taxes Suppliers 44% 21% Net income 2 $ 1,749 26% 6% Loan losses GLOBAL WEALTH & INSURANCE Net Government taxes income Net income 2 allocation $ 1,272 18% 30% 32% 35 % Reinvestment to BNS 3% Dividends to shareholders Non-controlling interest and capital instrument holders GLOBAL BANKING & MARKETS See the 2013 Annual Report for complete details on these figures. Net income 2 $ 1,482 22% Scotiabank’s Values Integrity We interact with others ethically and honourably. Respect We empathize and fully consider the diverse needs of others. Commitment We are committed to (1) % of 2013 net income attributable to equity helping customers succeed. Insight We use a high level of knowledge to proactively holders, excluding other. (2) 2013 (CAD$ millions) net income attributable respond with the right solutions. Spirit We enrich our work environment with to equity holders. teamwork, contagious enthusiasm and a “can-do” attitude. Our CSR Performance at a Glance The Year in Review PERFORMANCE Indicators* 2011 2012 2013 Total donations & sponsorships (global) $50 million $53 million $62 million Bright Number of global employee volunteer Future hours through formal community involvement programs 360,000 hours 500,000 hours 424,000 hours (3) Employee Engagement Survey question: “Scotiabank group is socially and environmentally responsible”(1) 91% favorable 91% favorable 91% favorable Salaries & employee benefits (global) $5.4 billion $5.75 billion $6.31 billion Economic Debt financing to business (Canada) over $90 billion over $100 billion over $105 billion Taxes (global) $2.4 billion $2.6 billion $2.9 billion Amount spent on goods & services from suppliers (global) $3.5 billion $4.0 billion $4.5 billion Return on equity 20.3% (2) 19.7% 16.4% Investment in employee training (global) $65 million $63 million $72 million Social Employee satisfaction (global) 85% 84% 84% Women in senior management (global) 23.5% 24.0% 25.0% Women in senior management (Canada) 33.6% 33.8% 33.3% Visible minorities in senior management (Canada) 9.5% 13.9% 13.6% Aboriginal employees (Canada) 1.1% 1.2% 1.2% Employees with disabilities (Canada) 3.8% 3.3% 3.2% Locations serving Aboriginal customers (Canada) 22 27 27 Energy consumption (Canada) 1,320,090 GJs 1,296,627 GJs 1,286,156 GJs Environmental Greenhouse gas emissions (Canada) 86,640 tonnes(4) 80,144 tonnes(4) 71,153 tonnes Business travel (air/rail) 57,813,611km 54,731,914km 62,519,510 km(5) Paper consumption (Canada) 4,899 tonnes 4,503 tonnes 4,516 tonnes Paper shredding/recycling (Canada) 4,237 tonnes 5,797 tonnes 6,011 tonnes Environmental disposal of computer equipment 4,384 items 4,096 items 6,483 items (1) This metric was introduced in 2011 (2) Restated number (3) Number of hours officially logged by employees (4) Numbers have been restated to account for amended provincial emissions factors for electricity generation. Unallocated energy losses have been removed from these factors. Scotiabank continues to expand the geographic scope of its reporting boundary with the objective of reporting total emissions. (5) Travel increases due to integrations *Monetary values expressed in Canadian dollars. A message from Brian Porter, President and CEO Dear Stakeholders, I’m pleased to introduce you to our 2013 Corporate Social To support governance and ethical leadership, Scotiabank donated Responsibility Report. Scotiabank is committed to corporate $1.5 million to Dalhousie University’s Rowe School of Business to social responsibility (CSR) and to integrating sound governance, help develop a program that engages business students and the economic, and social practices into our day-to-day business Canadian business community in shaping the future of ethical activities. CSR is an important part of who we are and how business leadership. we operate, and this report summarizes our progress and We have put a significant focus on financial literacy programs demonstrates our commitment to transparency. to provide individuals with access to education, resources and I am honoured to lead Scotiabank and I’m personally committed advice to help them make informed and responsible decisions. to ensuring that ethical leadership continues to be embedded This year we launched the second on-reserve Aboriginal Youth in our culture across the 55 countries in which we operate. Entrepreneurship Program in partnership with the Martin Scotiabank’s culture is a key ingredient to our success. It has Aboriginal Education Initiative. The program teaches Aboriginal roots in the fundamental values we’ve held since our founding – high school students based in Western Canada about the things like putting customers first and always acting with respect importance of staying in school, building a business plan and and integrity. learning financial literacy skills. Wherever we do business, we bring the Scotiabank standard To enhance our Bright Future program and to help develop our for ethical behaviour, prudent risk management, and future community leaders, we introduced the Scotiabank Bright governance with us. Future Awards. These annual awards recognize youth who are making an exceptional impact in their communities through By its very nature, our business has a direct economic and volunteerism. social impact across our geographic footprint. We bank the real economy whether it’s providing credit to large companies that Corporate social responsibility is about doing the right thing. employ many people or supporting individual entrepreneurs It’s also good business and what our customers expect from us. through our microfinance programs. We provide day-to-day I want to thank our great team of 83,000 Scotiabankers around banking services and consumer loans to a broad spectrum of the world who help us live our values and our focus on CSR retail customers: some well-established with us, others new to every day. Their continued commitment and hard work are the Scotiabank and banking. cornerstones of our success. Our Bright Future global philanthropic and employee volunteer We have a great team, a great strategy and a unique and program aims to have a direct and meaningful impact on people compelling platform as Canada’s most international bank. We will at a grassroots level. It is a program that defines our community continue to work with all of our stakeholders worldwide to build commitment and is overwhelmingly fueled by the passion of our brighter futures in an ethical and responsible way. employees around the world. I want to highlight three examples of our commitment to governance, economic, and social practices this past year. Scotiabank CSR Report 2013 1 Corporate Social Responsibility at Scotiabank: Where we have been and where we are going A message from Kaz Flinn, Vice President, CSR Corporate social responsibility (CSR) is an important part of One of our greatest strengths as an organization – our global Scotiabank’s cultural identity, customer relationships and strategic reach – is, at the same time, one of our greatest CSR challenges. decisions. Significant progress has been made this year, including The Bank has grown through many acquisitions in recent years. the expansion of the Scotiabank Bright Future program, the Throughout this growth we have made significant progress in introduction of a Board Diversity Policy and the development of expanding our CSR activities across the global organization, while financial literacy initiatives across our international locations. dealing with varying regulatory requirements, differing economic and social needs, and multiple technology platforms. Scotiabank’s CSR strategy includes five priority areas: corporate governance, customers, employees, environment and communities, For example, in recent years there has been considerable effort all described on the opposite page. made to collect information on Scotiabank’s energy consumption. The pages ahead highlight some of our work in these priority In spite of collecting this information across a multinational areas, and, for the first time, include an overview of CSR at ING platform with differing collection systems Scotiabank is now DIRECT (soon to be rebranded Tangerine) which was acquired reporting energy consumption for 86% of its global operations by Scotiabank in November 2012. The ING DIRECT Public – up from 43% in 2008. We have also begun a process of third Accountability Statement can be found on pages 28 and 29. party assurance to ensure accurate reporting, identify energy fluctuations, and ways to reduce. Our CSR Report is organized to demonstrate three spheres of impact – governance, economic and social. We focus on impact It’s important to note progress and set goals. Below are a few of in the report in order to illustrate progress in meeting our CSR the achievements over the past three years in which we take great objective, which is to help build bright futures worldwide. pride as well as a look at some of our priorities for the next three years. As we continue our work in the five CSR priority areas we • Governance is the first step in establishing a strong CSR will focus on expanding our impact globally. culture. In the Governance section, we describe the policies and processes that ensure our business practices are always ethical. I look forward to hearing from our local stakeholders on the impact • The Economic section covers how Scotiabank’s policies and practices they see from our programs in their communities. The interests have an impact on the economic well-being of our customers. of our employees, customers, shareholders and communities will • The Social section discusses our efforts to be a great place to continue to be at the heart of our efforts to build brighter futures. work and to help the communities where our customers and employees live. These two areas become even more closely linked when Scotiabankers volunteer their time for great causes, as so many of them regularly do. Achievements – last three years Aboriginal Youth Education – Microfinance – Over the Bright Future Awards – The Scotiabank launched a partnership past three years, Scotiabank Scotiabank Bright Future Awards with the Martin Aboriginal introduced and expanded were established in 2012 to Education Initiative to support Aboriginal microfinance services in Peru, Chile, encourage youth volunteerism and youth in Canada through entrepreneurship Dominican Republic and Jamaica where recognize young people who make a and education programs in on-reserve high small-scale and microbusiness owners difference in their communities. With schools, as well as through Scotiabank comprise 75% of the economy. Over the applicants from some 27 countries, employee-supported mentorship programs past three years Scotiabank has extended Scotiabank has rewarded 12 outstanding in Winnipeg, Manitoba. more than 520,000 microfinance loans. young people to date. 2 2013 Scotiabank CSR Report How CSR at Scotiabank makes an impact Governance Economic Social Governance describes the impact Scotiabank makes an economic Scotiabank makes a social of Scotiabank’s values, day-to-day impact by helping customers become impact in its hiring practices and business practices and policies such financially better off through relevant commitment to human rights, as well as managing risk for shareholders, products and services, environmental as philanthropic giving and social employees, customers and other stewardship and support of investments in communities. stakeholders. communities. Scotiabank’s CSR Priorities Corporate Customers Employees Environment Communities Governance and Scotiabank’s core Scotiabank aims to Scotiabank’s Through the Bright Shareholders purpose is to help provide a place for integrated approach Future Program, The Board of Directors is customers become talented employees to environmental Scotiabank contributes ultimately accountable financially better off. to thrive. issues helps to communities and for the Bank’s actions improve the Bank’s causes across the globe. and results. environmental footprint. Goals – next three years Board and Environmental EcoLiving – In 2011, Scotiabank Stakeholder engagement Policy – Scotiabank’s Board of created the EcoLiving program, a – Scotiabank will expand the Directors will provide oversight of resource for Canadians looking to scope of stakeholder advice and CSR through the Corporate Governance conserve energy at home. The content-rich feedback on its CSR process, strategy Committee. In addition, the Board will website and national awards program and report. The Bank also will seek re-approve the Bank’s Environmental support and encourage residential energy input from key stakeholders in the Policy (updated from 2009). efficiency initiatives. Over the next three international markets where it operates. years, the program will be expanded internationally. Scotiabank CSR Report 2013 3 Governance Supporting Principles 7, 8, 9, 10 Governance describes how the Bank’s values are articulated in day-to-day business including policies such as managing risk for shareholders, employees, customers and other stakeholders. How the Bank governs Accountability for Scotiabank’s actions current best practices. The Board approved and results is shared by all employees a number of recommended changes to the and ultimately rests with the Board of governance framework in June 2013. In Directors, which is elected to represent December 2013, the Corporate Governance shareholders’ interests. All directors, officers Committee assumed oversight of corporate and employees of Scotiabank must annually social responsibility matters. acknowledge their commitment to the Scotiabank is committed to appointing Guidelines for Business Conduct. Directors directors who are local, regional, national are also subject to the Directors’ Addendum, and international business and community which addresses conflicts of interest. leaders. The composition of the Board Effective corporate governance forms the and the skill mix of directors are assessed foundation of how Scotiabank operates. individually and collectively every year. It includes the way the Bank is governed, Directors are selected for their financial how it makes decisions, and how it develops literacy, risk management experience, and executes its processes and policies. integrity and demonstrated sound and Corporate governance is also about how independent business judgment. Scotiabank manages the interests of its The Board is also committed to diversity and, stakeholders, including shareholders, in 2013, approved a Board Diversity Policy, customers, employees and the broader acknowledging the Board’s commitment to community. As a leading financial services consider diversity criteria, including gender, provider operating in more than 55 age, ethnicity and geographic background countries, Scotiabank works to adopt in reviewing director candidates. As part of corporate governance practices that meet the policy, the Bank also signed the Catalyst or exceed local, Canadian and international Accord, and has met its obligations under standards and requirements. In 2013 the the accord. Four of the 14 directors (28.6%) The Board of Directors is responsible for proposed for election at the 2014 annual Board Corporate developing Scotiabank’s approach to meeting of shareholders are women. corporate governance and has delegated Governance this responsibility to its Corporate Governance Committee, which is composed Committee assumed entirely of independent directors. This committee provides advice on enhancing oversight of CSR Scotiabank’s governance by integrating continued on page 6 4 2013 Scotiabank CSR Report CA S E S T U D Y Protecting the Bank’s information through cyber security Managing thousands Adam Evans, Director, Cyber Security (left) and Egor Burnashev, Information Security Analyst Senior, are part of Scotiabank’s award winning global team of information security of devices and hundreds experts who work continuously to protect the Bank’s electronic information platforms and ensure customers’ transactions are always kept secure. of millions of transactions is just a regular day for Every day, across more than 55 countries, financial institutions, work very closely Scotiabank’s global team Scotiabank processes over 660 million together to prevent fraud and to react electronic transactions. When customers quickly and decisively when events of information security pay for groceries, for example, they do occur. The Scotiabank team meets professionals. expect the transaction to be processed regularly with the Canadian Bankers securely, accurately and within seconds. Association’s Computer Incident Response Scotiabank’s business is based upon that Team. The group also meets quarterly trust. Just as if it were cash trading hands, with the Executive Security Action digital information is valuable and must be Forum (Canada’s top 100 companies); protected. the Canadian Association of Chiefs of Police; and IBM’s Security Advisory Forum The Bank’s information is protected by among many others. All are dedicated to a global team of experts, led by Ray proactively preventing compromises to Archer, Senior Vice President and Chief customer data. Information Security Officer (CISO). The team’s mission is to safeguard Scotiabank Award winning global team and its customers’ information, as well Archer is particularly proud of his team’s as assess the confidentiality, integrity and efforts to be innovative, “Our people availability of information. Around the are our strength. Even though we are a globe, the team continuously monitors large, multilingual group spread across the some 170,000 devices, 500 database globe, we meet weekly and collaborate systems and 400 websites. closely.” In November 2013, Scotiabank Every employee is responsible won the Canadian Information Security Project of the Year Award for the Archer’s team is also focused on training implementation of the Bank’s Security and education. The Bank considers Incident and Event Management (SIEM). information security to be a very important Scotiabank also placed second in the part of its strong governance framework. North American awards, competing Explains Archer, “Our security awareness against other large companies. program is mandatory for all employees These awards recognize projects and globally, and is refreshed every two years.” organizations for their innovation, Cyber security is a non-competitive collaboration and thought leadership in discipline. Many Canadian and risk management, data asset protection, international organizations, particularly compliance, privacy and network security. Scotiabank CSR Report 2013 5 Female representation on Governance 28.6 % Board of Directors for 2014 How the Bank governs continued To help ensure a robust renewal process, President and Chief Executive Officer and the Board has approved term limits for other senior officers, and it must help to directors and committee chairs. The Board ensure that the senior management team also limits the number of outside public creates an organization-wide culture of company directorships that directors may integrity. hold. All but one of the directors proposed A solid foundation of good corporate for election at the 2014 annual meeting of governance, integrity, accountability shareholders is independent, including the and a strong risk management culture non-executive chair. has positioned Scotiabank well in the An effective corporate governance challenging economic environment of the structure is important because it past few years. It has helped to build and contributes to a safe and sound banking maintain strong, enduring relationships system. The Board of Directors is with customers and other stakeholders in responsible for setting the ethical tone for the communities around the world where the entire organization. The Board must Scotiabank operates. also be satisfied with the integrity of the BOARD OF DIRECTORS STRUCTURE GLOBAL RISK APPOINT MANAGEMENT SHAREHOLDERS SHAREHOLDERS’ REPORT ELECT AUDITORS REPORT EXECUTIVE & RISK COMMITTEE CORPORATE APPOINT APPOINT AUDIT & CONDUCT BOARD OF GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REVIEW COMMITTEE COMMITTEE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE REPORT APPOINT APPOINT FINANCE GLOBAL INTERNAL INDEPENDENT ADVISOR MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT COMPLIANCE AUDIT 6 2013 Scotiabank CSR Report 83,874 Scotiabankers commit to abiding by the Bank’s Business Conduct guidelines Addressing In Canada, there is a three-step process Scotiabank locations around the world for personal banking and small business follow similar complaint processes, customer concerns customer concerns and complaints: although these processes vary according to local needs or regulations. 1. Contact the local branch or contact centre, and then the manager, if the As part of how Scotiabank does business concern is not resolved; every day, customer service and successful 2. Approach the Scotiabank Office of resolution of complaints are tracked. the President (contact information is Customer satisfaction is critical to the available on Scotiabank’s website); Bank’s success, and customer loyalty and satisfaction are key global performance 3. Contact the Scotiabank Ombudsman, indicators. an office that provides impartial assistance and reports directly to Scotiabank relies on a number of research the CEO. and survey vehicles to gather customers’ views on products and services. This If customers still feel their concerns have feedback helps identify areas for not been addressed appropriately, they improvement that are translated into may contact the Ombudsman for Banking performance targets throughout the Services and Investments, a free service organization. for Canadian customers to help resolve banking and investment disputes. COMPLAINT RESOLUTION PROCESS OMBUDSMAN SCOTIABANK FOR BANKING OMBUDSMAN SERVICES AND LOCAL INVESTMENTS BRANCH SCOTIABANK CUSTOMER OFFICE OF THE CONTACT PRESIDENT CENTRE Scotiabank CSR Report 2013 7 Supplier conduct Governance  principles and training offered to 175 suppliers in Peru Addressing customer concerns continued The Bank’s measurement programs CUSTOMER LOYALTY include: Scotiabank Retail Customer Scotiabank Small Business Scotiabank Retail Customer • Through Your Customers’ Eyes, a Loyalty (Canada) – Top Box* Customer Loyalty (Canada) – Loyalty (International Banking) Top Box* Through Your Customers’ Eyes, survey of randomly selected Canadian International Banking (TYCE IB) retail and small business banking 58% 57% 57% 45% customers who provide information on 56% 56% 55% 43%* 41%* loyalty and satisfaction. The Scotiabank retail and small business customer loyalty indices are based on this survey. • International Banking Customer 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Loyalty Program survey of Scotiabank customers – expanded in 2013 to *Top Box refers to the proportion *Top Box refers to the proportion Customer Loyalty Index (CLI) include customers in Panama and of customers who provided the of customers who provided the is a composite score, which is the highest rating based on a fivehighest rating based on a five-point average of the proportion of Top Colombia and more than 25,000 point rating scale. rating scale. Box responses (highest ranking Scotiabank customers overall. on a five-point scale) across four loyalty questions. *Countries added over the last two years to International Banking Through Your Customers’ Eyes (TYCE) survey have lowered the divisional Customer Loyalty Index measure. Environmental and social risk To safeguard the Bank and the interests Environmental risks associated with the Scotiabank is a member of the Equator of its stakeholders, Scotiabank has an business operations of each borrower Principles (see opposite). In corporate Environmental Policy, which is refreshed and any real estate offered as security lending, Scotiabank also follows a process and approved by the Bank’s Board of are considered in the Bank’s credit of due diligence to better understand Directors every five years. The next evaluation. This includes an environmental clients’ policies and procedures with review will be in 2014. The policy assessment, where applicable, and respect to Aboriginal communities. guides the day-to-day operations, commentary on climate change, where it Managing social and environmental lending practices, supplier agreements, would have a material impact (including risk is an ongoing process. In 2013, management of real estate holdings and regulatory, physical or reputational training sessions were held across the external reporting practices. A dedicated impacts) on the borrower. The Global Risk Bank on environmental and social risk Director of Environmental and Social Risk Management department has primary management for corporate, international Management helps implement responsibility for establishing the related and commercial bankers, as well as for risk the policy. policies, processes and standards to help management and audit professionals. mitigate environmental risk in the Bank’s lending activities. 8 2013 Scotiabank CSR Report CAD$1.39 billion in authorized credits to renewable energy sector in Canada and U.S. Project financing The Equator Principles help financial ensure that they continue to be the that projects are socially responsible institutions determine and assess gold standard for financial institutions in and conform to sound environmental environmental and social risk and focus managing environmental and social risk. management practices. attention on the impact of projects on Scotiabank is among 77 banks that have The Bank has a complete set of tools people and communities. They apply to voluntarily signed on. and guidance documents to help ensure project finance loans where total capital As an Equator Principles member since that banking and credit officers have the costs exceed USD$10 million, and to 2006, Scotiabank agrees to provide loans necessary information to meet Equator certain project-related corporate loans. only to those projects where borrowers can Principles requirements. The principles, which also include the demonstrate their ability and willingness International Finance Corporation’s (IFC) In 2013, Scotiabank screened six projects to comply with comprehensive standards. environmental and social performance meeting Equator Principles requirements. These standards were developed to ensure standards, were recently reviewed to 2013 EQUATOR PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENTS In 2013, Scotiabank financed six projects meeting Equator Principles requirements. United States Canada 17% 50% Project Number of category assessments A 0 33% B 4 C 2 Total 6 Asia Pacific Category A: Projects likely to have significant adverse social or environmental impacts that are diverse, irreversible or unprecedented. Examples of these types of impacts include: loss of a major natural habitat, impacts on vulnerable groups or ethnic minorities, involuntary displacement or resettlement, or impacts on significant cultural heritage sites. Category B: Projects with potential adverse social or environmental impacts on human populations or environmentally important areas which are less adverse than those of Category A projects. These impacts tend to be site-specific; few if any of them are irreversible; and in most cases mitigation measures can be designed more readily than for Category A projects. Category C: Projects with minimal or no adverse social or environmental impacts. Beyond screening, no further Social and Environmental Assessment (SEA) action is required. Scotiabank CSR Report 2013 9 Economic Supporting Principles 7, 8, 9, 10 The Bank makes an economic impact by helping clients become financially better off through relevant products and services, but also with unique tools and solutions such as financial literacy activities and microfinance opportunities. Financial literacy Scotiabank’s core purpose is to be the best good financial decisions. Specialized at helping customers become financially websites like getgrowingforbusiness.com better off. Achieving this requires more for small business, YouTube videos with than simply the right products and services. basic banking tips and event seminars for It also means offering education, resources financial trading also support financial and advice to help people make informed literacy. In 2013, the Bank introduced an financial decisions. online retirement planning resource to provide investment planning support for In late 2012, Scotiabank launched a Canadian customers. global Financial Literacy Strategy, reflecting the belief that financial literacy is a lifelong Financial literacy is critically important for learning process. Literacy resources young people as they begin to establish focus on the financial needs for different themselves. During the 2012-13 school stages of life. year, Scotiabank partnered with Junior Achievement to launch the Economics A new financial planning tool, Navigating for Success program in 12 Caribbean Life, was created to help Scotiabank and Central American countries. To date, advisors in Canada guide customers 124 programs have been delivered to nearly through planning for seven key life events 4,000 youth to teach effective and practical that have financial implications, such as ways to manage money. home ownership, becoming a parent, and retiring. Through sponsorship of the popular Aflatoun program, Scotiabank in Scotiabank has also continued to Mexico and El Salvador continued to develop easy-to-use tools and resources support financial literacy for youth in like account selectors and mortgage 2013 – reaching almost 700 students calculators. All are readily available on and 1,200 parents in Mexico and 3,200 scotiabank.com to help people make students in El Salvador. 10 2013 Scotiabank CSR Report CA S E S T U D Y Ethics in action Winners of the 2013 Scotiabank Ethical Leadership Video Essay Award examined the need to change Ethical business practices, engrained business behaviours that weaken ethical practices. From the John Molson School of Business at Concordia University, the winning team included (L-R): Sarah Benoit, Clémence Jonsson, and Lucas new thinking on corporate Broussoux-Coutard. Absent from the photo is team member, Marc-André Maheu. ethics and developing In 2013, the Rowe School of Business at Winner of the Ethics in Action essay contest, ethical leadership talent Dalhousie University in Halifax, Nova Scotia, Irina Bojinescu, Corporate Residency MBA Canada, hosted a unique public conference, Candidate, Dalhousie University, described were a major focus of the Scotiabank Ethics in Action, dedicated how fundamental ethics are not just in Scotiabank Ethics in Action entirely to ethics in business. Some 96 business. “If we act unethically, in life or in participants engaged in practical discussion business, we’ve truly lost our way. We must conference. and education about ethical leadership. strive to act ethically.” Islay McGlynn, Senior Vice President, The team from the John Molson School Atlantic Region, Scotiabank, explained the of Business at Concordia University in Bank’s involvement: “Ethics are embedded Montreal, Quebec, made up of students in Scotiabank’s culture and instrumental Marc-André Maheu, Clémence Jonsson, to what we do every day. By celebrating Sarah Benoit and Lucas Broussoux-Coutard, ethical leadership through this forum and won the video award for their work on awards program, we hope to encourage and current business practices in Quebec. They strengthen ethics in business.” said, “(The work) gave us the opportunity to identify the organizational barriers which Student-run conference prevent strong ethical leadership.” gives hands-on experience Parker Baglole, Bachelor of Business The annual conference, and Scotiabank’s Administration student from the support, is designed to foster a generation University of Prince Edward Island and of business leaders for whom ethics a member of the winning team for the is woven into the fabric of enterprise. case competition, summed up the impact Scotiabank’s support of Ethics in Action has of the competition: “I truly believe I am four components: a case competition for prepared to be a more ethical individual business students; a video/essay contest on as a result of this competition.” ethical leadership; the presentation of the Scotiabank Ethical Leadership Award to a The co-recipients of the first annual Ethical Canadian business leader; and the annual Leadership Award were Chief Phil Fontaine, one-day conference. an Aboriginal leader, and Sir Graham Day, an experienced Canadian businessman. In addition to competing for the awards, Both were nominated for demonstrating students ran the conference. Peggy clear and decisive ethical leadership Cunningham, Dean of Dalhousie University’s throughout their careers. Faculty of Management, explains, “Rather than learning from lectures or textbooks, Nominations for the 2014 Scotiabank this initiative gives the students from all four Ethical Leadership Award can be made at of our schools a hands-on opportunity to be www.ethicsinaction.ca. ethical leaders.” Scotiabank CSR Report 2013 11 CAD$446 million in microfinance Economic services offered in Peru, Chile, Dominican Republic and Jamaica Microfinance In Latin America and the Caribbean, smallcustomers. This service has grown and scale entrepreneurs and microbusiness owners customer relationships have deepened. account for over 75% of all businesses. Today, more than 16,000 microfinance clients The health of these businesses is crucial for account for 50% of Soluciones’ activity. long-term economic and social development. Two years ago, CrediScotia in Jamaica Through acquisitions in Latin America, opened its doors to an underserviced market. Scotiabank has gained expertise in providing By providing loans in the CAD$500 to innovative and sustainable microfinance $800 range, CrediScotia is helping microservices that support these small enterprises. entrepreneurs get their businesses off the Scotiabank offers financial services to ground and now serves over 1,200 customers. small-scale entrepreneurs and microbusiness Scotiabank’s microfinance operations also owners, with annual gross revenues below provide free financial literacy programs to CAD$150,000, in Peru, Chile, Dominican clients and non-clients to strengthen basic Republic and Jamaica. In 2014, the Bank will business and finance management skills. In expand these services to Mexico and Colombia, 2013, Scotiabank provided financial literacy and launch a pilot program in Uruguay. education to more than 3,000 clients in Soluciones, the subsidiary of Scotiabank in Peru, Dominican Republic and Chile. In Dominican Republic, focuses on providing 2014, the plan is to expand the program to products and services to lower-income Jamaica and Mexico. Aboriginal banking As part of its efforts to help Aboriginal Membership continues to grow in the customers become financially better off, Scotiabank Aboriginal Network (SAN), an Scotiabank operates a network of 27 employee network established to support Aboriginal banking centres, including four the Bank’s overall commitment to create on-reserve branches, which offer financial an inclusive and accessible workplace. This services while respecting Aboriginal network provides a forum for employees traditions. interested in Aboriginal people’s employment issues within the Bank and its respective Branches serving First Nation communities communities. are encouraged to purchase products and services from Aboriginal-owned businesses. In 2013, the first group of students The branches also offer employment and graduated from a unique on-reserve youth training opportunities to local Aboriginal entrepreneurship program at Oscar Lathlin community members. Collegiate at Opaskwayak Cree Nation near The Pas, Manitoba. Provided by the Martin Scotiabank is proud to have achieved Gold Aboriginal Education Initiative (MAEI) and Level certification for Progressive Aboriginal sponsored by Scotiabank, the program Relations (PAR) from the Canadian Council helps students develop the necessary skills for Aboriginal Business (CCAB). PAR Gold is to achieve success in education, in the Canada’s only recognition of performance workplace and in daily life. Students receive and success in building positive relations entrepreneurial experience as well as the with Aboriginal businesses, people and opportunity for business ownership, while communities. local Scotiabankers provide mentoring. Scotiabank and MAEI will expand this program in 2014. 12 2013 Scotiabank CSR Report More than 20,000 students and customers in 28 countries received financial literacy training or resources Multicultural banking As Canada’s most international bank, languages. Services at Scotiabank ABMs Scotiabank has a unique perspective on are available in English, French, Spanish, the needs of newcomers to Canada. and Traditional and Simplified Chinese. Scotiabankers also reflect the diversity of Scotiabank supports the Canadian the communities where the Bank operates Foundation for Economic Education in and are able to understand and embrace the production of the Newcomers to its broad customer base. Canada Day Planner – a free settlement As an introduction to Canadian banking, tool for newcomers. A companion newcomers can establish banking website was launched in 2013, with relationships before they arrive in Canada financial literacy information and through Scotiabank branches in India Canadian settlement resources. and Mexico, and through Scotiabank’s Scotiabank also sponsors the CHIN partnerships with Kotak Mahindra Bank International Picnic in Toronto, (India), as well as with China Everbright Bank, Ontario, Canada, the world’s largest Bank of Beijing and Bank of Xi’an (China). free multicultural picnic. In 2013, the Once in Canada, newcomers can access Scotiabank Rising Star contest was refinancial services information through the launched at the picnic, shining a spotlight Bank’s StartRight program and website on amateur musicians from diverse scotiabank.com/startright in eight backgrounds. Scotiabank’s StartRight program makes it easier for newcomers to settle in Canada with day-to-day banking solutions customized to their unique needs and available in eight languages. Scotiabank CSR Report 2013 13 New environmentally friendly ABMs Economic in the Caribbean mean 15% GHG reduction in the next five years Reducing With a team of over 83,000 employees printers and double-sided standards, in more than 55 countries, Scotiabank have been introduced across the Bank’s environmental impact has a social and economic responsibility international operations to help reduce to reduce its impact on the environment. paper consumption. The Bank is also in a unique position to Scotiabank reduces, reuses and recycles introduce environmental policies and around the globe. In Mexico, for example, guidelines throughout its operations, the Bank has a highly successful recycling including in countries where they are not program to properly handle and recycle legally mandated. light bulbs and various types of batteries. Scotiabank’s Environmental Policy helps In 2013, over 721 kg of batteries were to guide environmental activities across recovered and deposited properly to avoid the organization. The policy, regularly soil contamination. updated, includes the active reduction The Bank has reported its energy usage of paper and energy consumption, as in Canadian operations since 2007. The well as purchasing principles and the 2013 data now includes Chile, Mexico, incorporation of environmental risk Peru, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Jamaica, assessment in lending practices. As well, Trinidad and Tobago, Dominican Republic Scotiabank’s standard request for proposal and, for the first time, Puerto Rico. (RFP) documents ask potential suppliers Scotiabank’s reporting currently covers to describe their environmental policies more than 86% of global operations. and practices. The use of information technology (IT) Scotiabank has reported paper usage resources can have a marked impact on within its Canadian operations since 2006. power consumption. In 2013, the Bank Today, more than 89% of Scotiabank’s increased the number of virtual servers by global operations are reflected in the Bank’s almost 2,000 – a 40% improvement over annual reporting of paper. The Bank’s goal 2012. Through another initiative, many is to improve data collection methods to Canadian retail branch workstations were ensure consistent and comparable data placed into an energy conservation mode across geographic regions. overnight resulting in a total estimated Digital banking services have a profound savings in 2013 of over CAD$62,000. impact on the reduction of paper In the Caribbean, the Bank recently consumption. Across the Caribbean, replaced most of its ABMs with more Scotia OnLine had approximately 500,000 efficient and environmentally friendly registered users in 2013 and Scotiabank models that use less energy and will Mobile Banking had 130,000 users. reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at At the same time, numbers of print least 15% over a five-year period. reduction initiatives, including shared Scotiabank’s EcoLiving program helps Canadians save energy, save money and minimize their impact on climate change. 14 2013 Scotiabank CSR Report No fee / low fee banking supports sugar cane farmers in Belize The Bank continues to construct green In 2013, Scotiabank in Peru introduced branches that incorporate current energy supplier conduct principles. Based on and environmental design best practices. the UN Global Compact, the principles There are now 27 within the Canadian incorporate sustainability considerations branch network – the majority certified into sourcing and outsourcing policies under Green Globes (greenglobes. and help Scotiabank share its values and com), an internationally recognized commitment to sustainability outside the environmental benchmarking program. Bank. Scotiabank also provides training Scotiabank is also installing bicycle racks on the supplier conduct principles for at new and newly renovated Canadian companies that may need additional branches, where possible. support on sustainability issues. As part of the larger Let’s clean El Salvador program, Scotiabank volunteers collected trash and recyclables near Lake Ilopango in the Joya Grande district of El Salvador. Scotiabank CSR Report 2013 15 Social Supporting Principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8 Scotiabank makes a social impact through its hiring practices and commitment to human rights, as well as philanthropic giving and social investments in communities. Diversity and inclusion By valuing a culture of diversity, Scotiabank Two new Employee Resource Groups is better able to provide meaningful and were created: the Scotiabank South Asian helpful services to a customer population Alliance and the Scotiabank Alliance for of some 21 million people in more than Mental Health. 55 countries. Customers prefer to be served Scotiabank believes that a positive work in the context of their own culture and, culture and a great workplace can be often, in their own language. As such, the cultivated regardless of geography, and diversity of Scotiabank employees is a critical is focused on providing a consistent element of the Bank’s attention to customer experience for employees across more service. There has been considerable than 55 countries. Measuring employee research into the business advantages of satisfaction and engagement across the a diverse employee base – a culture of globe is a complex task, so in 2010, inclusiveness and willingness to listen to Scotiabank began participating in the differing perspectives helps to drive superior Great Place to Work (GPTW) program to business results. complement the Bank’s internal employment Championed by the President and survey, ViewPoint. Like Scotiabank, GPTW is CEO, Scotiabank has a Global Diversity also international in scope, and evaluates the and Inclusion Strategy that spans the experience of some 10 million employees organization. One way employees get in organizations located in more than involved is through Employee Resource 50 countries. Two-thirds of GPTW’s scores Groups, forums where employees with are based on an independent third-party common interests or backgrounds can employee survey. network and communicate. Among the Since then, Scotiabank has regularly placed nine current Employee Resource Groups on Best Workplace lists in Canada, Mexico, are the Scotiabank Aboriginal Network, Peru, El Salvador, Costa Rica, Puerto Rico, Scotiabankers for Universal Access, Dominican Republic, Panama and Latin Scotiabank Pride and HOLA Scotiabank. America. In 2013, Scotiabank in Chile placed on the list for the first time. 16 2013 Scotiabank CSR Report CA S E S T U D Y Awarding youth volunteerism © Tyrone Simms Photography Continuing Scotiabank’s Jerome Cowans is a familiar and welcome face at many charitable organizations in Jamaica. In addition to his work with RISE Life Management Services, Jerome gives of his tradition of volunteerism, time generously to support youth through organizations such as the L.E.A.D. Youth Club and Junior Achievement Jamaica, to name but a few. the Bright Future Awards highlight the big impact Two years ago, Scotiabank enhanced the 12 winners selected annually that young people make Bright Future Awards program by launching Jerome Cowans, 22, of Kingston, Jamaica, an award for young people who make a was one of the winners. At the age of 17, in communities around difference. The program encourages youth Jerome became a volunteer at RISE Life the world. to log at least 100 hours of volunteerism Management Services in the inner-city in their communities. Applicants must community of Tela-Viv, Central Kingston. volunteer in three of the six Bright Future RISE provides addiction services, health pillars – education, arts and culture, health, and education interventions, life skills and social services, sports and the environment. vocational training with a particular focus They must also submit an essay describing on at-risk youth. For five years, Jerome the impact their service has had on their has dedicated his time and resources to community, charitable organizations and this organization while going to college. themselves. Winners receive a trophy, a As Jerome said in his winning application, CAD$2,500 donation to one of their charities “For me it has been nothing short of and a computer tablet to keep for themselves. amazing lending my time to help others.” Awards program encourages An independent panel of jurors reviews the youth volunteerism finalists and selects 12 winners – six from The award is an important one for Canada and six international. The jurors Scotiabank. Not only does it continue the themselves are volunteer and community Bank’s 181-year tradition of volunteerism, leaders. For the 2014 awards, the jurors it helps build the next generation of are: Cassie Campbell-Pascall, captain of two community leaders. President and CEO Gold Medal winning Olympic hockey teams Brian Porter notes, “Volunteering when and Scotiabank ambassador; Veronica Lacey, you are young is an incredible opportunity former President & CEO of The Learning to shape your future. It helps you connect Partnership (Canada); Allyson Leacock, in a profound way to the people and the Executive Director at Caribbean Broadcast community around you – and can give you Media Partnership on HIV-AIDS; and Jatnna great inspiration for your future career.” Tavarez, Dominican Republic television personality and National Ambassador for The first group of winners, announced UNICEF. The 12 winners will be announced in February 2013, included 12 incredible in April 2014. young people from Canada, Jamaica, Guyana and Chile. Some 165 young Learn more about the awards at volunteer leaders from 27 countries scotiabankbrightfutureawards.com. participated in the competition for the award. Scotiabank CSR Report 2013 17 With Scotiabank support for Regional Testing Social Day 12,000 people were tested for HIV-AIDS at 183 sites in 21 Caribbean countries Human rights It is important to both customers and Scotiabank supports the exclusion of child Human rights concerns at the Bank are employees that Scotiabank demonstrates labour in its operations, consistent with monitored by a centralized system that, in its commitment to human rights in every the International Labour Organization turn, generates regular trend reports. In community and in every place where it (ILO) Convention No. 138, as well as the 2013, Shared Services Employee Relations does business. Since the workplace is prevention of forced and compulsory dealt with 29 human rights concerns where demonstration of human rights labour, consistent with the principles through internal escalation processes, becomes most tangible, Scotiabank stated in the ILO Convention No. 29, and 12 formal human rights complaints is committed across the globe to Article 2. through the Canadian Human Rights ensuring that employees are free from Commission (CHRC). Since 2012, Scotiabankers have used the discrimination. Global Principles on Non-Discrimination Scotiabank works closely with the Scotiabank respects all applicable human in the Workplace to help guide behaviour. Canadian Human Rights Commission to rights and non-discrimination laws in The Global Principles include human address concerns that arise in Canadian the jurisdictions in which it operates – rights and labour standards and are workplaces. Globally, the Bank’s Employee with due regard to the spirit and intent paired with an Inclusive Workplace Relations managers and local Human of international human rights treaties Guide on Non-Discrimination in the Resources representatives provide advice and agreements, such as the Canadian Workplace, which provides practical tips and counsel to employees and managers Human Rights Acts (CHRA), the Universal and recommendations for creating an to address human rights and labour Declaration of Human Rights, the inclusive culture free of discrimination. rights issues. The Bank also provides International Covenant on Economic, human rights training and education Social and Cultural Rights, and on Civil opportunities to business areas that want and Political Rights, and the Declaration to improve employee awareness. on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Leadership Employees are the cornerstone of Scotiabank is uniquely positioned to that are beneficial to advance to more Scotiabank’s success – each and every identify and develop talent from a senior roles. The Talent Profile is a global one of them, regardless of their role, is tremendous pool of leaders across the tool that helps identify and develop in the business of serving customers. In a Bank and around the globe. The Bank talent. Employees assess their leadership multinational organization with more than uses two programs to identify and capabilities by tracking their skill levels 83,000 employees, building leadership encourage leaders: the Leader Profile and experiences against the Leader Profile. capability is a key business strategy. It is and the Talent Profile. The Talent Profile is also a helpful starting also an important competitive advantage point for development and career planning Scotiabank’s Leader Profile defines what for the Bank. The Human Investment discussions. it means to be a leader at the Bank and Committee, composed of senior outlines the behaviours all leaders must executives, provides guidance to ensure demonstrate; the values all employees Scotiabank has highly capable leaders should model, and the experiences who are focused on the customer. 18 2013 Scotiabank CSR Report 23,000 meals for 1,200 Canadian school children through Scotiabank support of Breakfast for Learning Leadership continued Scotiabank enhanced the Talent EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT INDEX (%)* Profile system to support a deeper and broader talent identification process. As at October 31, 2013 2012 2013 Technology updates and automated reporting improvements have increased Scotiabank 84% 84% accountability for talent identification and Average norm among global financial services organizations 72%** 72% improved the quality of talent reviews. Overall, Scotiabank employees are highly engaged. Results show that Scotiabank continues to be at the forefront of employee engagement from a global benchmark perspective. At 84% engagement, the Bank is in the top 10% of benchmarked financial Scotiabank’s global learning program, iLEAD, services organizations globally and considered a leader in the field of employee engagement. has been available to all employees since * This index measures the passion and commitment employees have for their job, coworkers and organization that influences 2012. It consists of four programs to provide them to go the “extra mile.” support for employees at all stages of their ** Restated number. career: New Manager Foundations, Core Management Skills, Leadership Foundations, and Senior Leadership Development. In 2013, Scotiabank expanded iLEAD EMPLOYEE POPULATION: GEOGRAPHIC BREAKDOWN BY REGION by introducing the Personal Leadership Development curriculum globally. Through Canada self-assessment, employees can measure their proficiency in leadership competencies and use recommended resources, such as online 42.7% courses, books and articles to help develop Other Latin America new abilities at their own pace. 1.2% Scotiabank expanded access to My 15.1% 40.1% 4.6% Chile 13.4% Mexico Learning Centre (MLC), the Bank’s online Caribbean/ Central America 1.9% Other platform for employee learning. Previously 13.4% Peru available to employees in Canada, Asia/Pacific 6.8% Colombia Mexico and several other countries, MLC access expanded in 2013 and is now 0.9% available in 36 of the Bank’s 55 countries. Opportunities will be explored to further expand MLC access in 2014. Scotiabank CSR Report 2013 19 Social 400 scholarships totaling CAD$1.2 million awarded globally Bright Future Philanthropy is one of the best ways The goal of Scotiabank Bright Future is to the Scotiabank International Student for Scotiabank to demonstrate its make a positive difference: In fiscal 2013, Scholarship and Prize Fund at Trent values around the world, as well as its the Bank contributed over CAD$60 million University in Peterborough, Ontario, commitment to the communities where in donations, sponsorships and other Canada. The fund will provide scholarship it does business. Furthermore, giving forms of assistance. Scotiabank employees support to qualifying students attending back matters to Scotiabank employees. also contributed more than 420,000 hours Trent from countries where Scotiabank In a survey of Scotiabank employees, of volunteering and fundraising time to operates internationally. It will also some 88% indicated that they would local causes. offer support to students on exchange rather work for a company that supports programs at Trent partner universities in Scotiabank’s contributions meet the charitable and not-for-profit community countries where Scotiabank operates. Canadian Centre for Philanthropy/ organizations. Imagine’s guidelines to donate at least Environment: Scotiabank in Peru supports To provide optimal impact, the Bank 1% of domestic pre-tax profits. Calor Patrio, which helps communities focuses on partnering with non-profit most affected by climate change by Corporate donations and charitable organizations that improving their homes with solar heating empower people with the skills to help The following section outlines just a few of systems. The program also includes them become better off. In addition the thousands of Bright Future donations the installation of better stoves which to the Bank’s corporate philanthropy, provided globally in 2013. retain heat and expel smoke, resulting Scotiabankers volunteer their time and Arts and Culture: Since 2008, Scotiabank in improved living conditions. Training is contribute to organizations that are in El Salvador has supported the Museum provided to ensure that the technology meaningful to them. of Art of El Salvador, a not-for-profit can be maintained and the program can organization that provides a cultural space be duplicated in other communities. The program for Salvadorian artists. The museum has Health: Scotiabank partnered with Scotiabank Bright Future is the Bank’s a permanent exhibit of Salvadorian art. Holland Bloorview Kids Rehabilitation global philanthropic program, designed to It has also established an educational Hospital in Toronto, Ontario, Canada be relevant and responsive to the needs of program that includes guided visits for to sell coin cards (the Change for Kids local communities across six areas: arts and students and a training program program) to support Canada’s largest culture, education, environment, health, for teachers. children’s rehabilitation teaching hospital. social services and sports. In the Caribbean and Latin America, Bright Future focuses Education: In 2013, Scotiabank awarded Holland Bloorview is a global leader in primarily on children and children’s causes. more than 400 scholarships and bursaries care, research and education for children globally, totalling CAD$1.2 million. with disabilities and their families. The One of these scholarship programs is program supports the hospital’s highest priority needs. EMPLOYEE PERCEPTION OF CSR CORPORATE DONATIONS IN 2013 2013 Global SCOTIABANK IS 1% 5% Health favourable score Benchmark A MEMBER OF: 11% Social services Scotiabank is socially 27% Education and environmentally responsible 91% 91% 11% Arts & culture Through Scotiabank’s employee engagement index, employee perception of Scotiabank Sports being a socially and environmentally responsible organization is measured. Environment 15% Other 30% 20 2013 Scotiabank CSR Report 18,000 trees planted by more than 2,000 Scotiabankers in Mexico Social Services: Scotiabank in Jamaica provided support to YUTE (Youth Upliftment Through Employment), a program designed to empower and help find meaningful work for at-risk youth. The program offers workshops that upgrade skills and provides one-to-one mentorship and opportunities for gainful employment. Sports: Scotiabank supports Camp Maple Leaf, founded in 1955 by the Canadian Council of War Veterans. The camp was established so that any interested Canadian child, whether a parent was deployed or had limited financial means, would be able to enjoy the outdoor summer camp experience. Employee involvement Through the Scotiabank Bright Future Program, Scotiabank employees give extraordinary support to local causes. Winners of the 2013 Kiddy Cricket Festival from Crochu R.C. Primary School in Grenada celebrate with ‘Chirpy’ The Bank supports their efforts through the mascot. Scotiabank’s Kiddy Cricket sponsorship program makes it possible for more than 50,000 children in 13 Caribbean countries to participate in the sport. two formal, global employee community programs: Scotiabank Bright Future Awards in the event and raised more than • Scotiabank Team Community Program The Scotiabank Bright Future Community CAD$52,000 for Type 1 diabetes research (STCP) matches funds raised for local Leadership Awards help to recognize the including CAD$15,000 in matching funds causes by employee teams. The Bank exceptional efforts of Scotiabankers in through STCP. matches up to CAD$5,000 raised by their communities. The awards recognize teams of five or more employees, or Scouts are a worldwide organization one employee and one team from both CAD$15,000 raised by teams of 30 or aimed at developing children and Canada and an international location. The more employees. instilling civic values through informal individual awards provide CAD$2,500 in education, outdoor activities, camps, • Scotiabank Employee Volunteer donations and the team awards provide hikes and community service. Through Program (SEVP) provides donations CAD$5,000 in donations to the registered SEVP, Lucia Concepcion Larin Lopez in El to community organizations where charity of the winner’s choice. Salvador earned a CAD$1,000 donation in individual employees have been active As one example of STCP, Ottawa-area recognition of her 500 volunteer hours as volunteers. Individual employees or employees teamed up for the Juvenile a Scout youth guide and coordinator for retirees who have actively volunteered Diabetes Research Foundation stationary 40 children, aged 11 to 15. for at least 50 hours a year with bike ride this year, with more than 200 a qualifying community-based employees taking part across 33 teams. organization can apply for a donation Scotiabank had the most participants of up to CAD$1,000 from the Bank. Scotiabank CSR Report 2013 21 Appendix Scope of reporting This annual report includes information from November 1, 2012, to October 31, 2013, for the following affiliates of Scotiabank in Canada: Scotia Capital Inc., ING Bank of Canada, The Mortgage Insurance Company of Canada, National Trust Company, Scotia Mortgage Corporation, Scotia General Insurance Company, Dundee Bank of Canada*, Montreal Trust Company of Canada, Scotia Life Insurance Company, The Bank of Nova Scotia Trust Company, RoyNat Inc., and Scotia Merchant Capital Corporation. *Effective November 1, 2013, the name of Dundee Bank of Canada has been changed to Hollis Canadian Bank. Number of employees in Canada* 2013 taxes Full-time Part-time Total Scotiabank incurs a number of taxes, including direct taxes on income by Canadian federal and provincial governments and the governments of foreign jurisdictions in which the Bank operates, as well as several indirect taxes. In 2013, this Alberta 2,629 1,221 3,850 totaled CAD$2.9 billion (taxable equivalent basis), representing 30% of the Bank’s net income before income, capital British Columbia 2,322 1,210 3,532 and other taxes for the year (taxable equivalent basis). Manitoba 505 217 722 Total expenses to all levels of government in Canada are shown in the chart. For additional information on the Bank’s tax New Brunswick 526 303 829 expenses in 2013, please refer to Table 76 in Scotiabank’s 2013 Annual Report, available online at scotiabank.com. Newfoundland & Labrador 515 275 790 Taxes in Canada (For the year ended Taxes in foreign regions Nova Scotia 1,441 572 2,013 (For the year ended October 31, 2013) Income Capital Other Northwest Territories 9 4 13 (CAD$ thousands) taxes taxes taxes(1) October 31, 2013) Income (CAD$ thousands) taxes Ontario 22,513 4,802 27,315 Federal 507,054 0 217,057 Prince Edward Island 105 58 163 Asia Pacific 99,010 Provincial Newfoundland 5,494 6,048 2,886 Caribbean & Latin America 555,337 Quebec 1,958 563 2,521 Prince Edward Island 1,426 1,411 262 Europe & Middle East 72,433 Saskatchewan 470 349 819 Nova Scotia 12,852 10,398 3,896 United States 121,220 Yukon Territories 14 10 24 New Brunswick 4,305 6,426 1,467 Total 848,000 Total Canada Quebec 25,020 0 11,725 (Headcount) 33,007 9,584 42,591 Ontario 264,083 0 218,862 Total Canada (Full-Time Equivalent)* 35,837 Manitoba 5,132 9,464 1,773 Saskatchewan 5,148 5,852 813 * Geographic breakdown is represented by headcount figures (actual Alberta 45,170 0 5,825 number of individual employees), whereas Full-Time Equivalent (FTE) British Columbia 38,748 0 5,923 statistics represent units of work reflecting a standard 37.5 hour work Northwest Territories 568 0 41 week. Note that one FTE might reflect work from more than one Total Provinces 407,946 39,599 253,473 actual employee. Consequently, the aggregate FTE figure may not necessarily match the aggregate headcount figure. Total(2) 915,000 39,599 470,530 (1) Includes payroll taxes, GST, HST, municipal taxes and deposit insurance premiums. (2) The amounts included in the chart include the taxes incurred by ING Direct for the period November 15, 2012 to October 31, 2013. For the ING Direct tax amounts for the period November 1, 2012 to October 31, 2013, refer to the ING Direct Public Accountability Statement on page 29. Debt financing Scotiabank is committed to meeting the needs of Canadian businesses, including small and medium enterprises. The following charts indicate – by province and for Canada as a whole – the amount of business credit authorized and outstanding in Canadian dollars, as of Oct. 31, 2013, and the number of customers to whom it was authorized. Authorization $0 $24,999 $25,000 $99,999 $100,000 $249,999 $250,000 $499,999 levels of: Authorized Outstanding Customers Authorized Outstanding Customers Authorized Outstanding Customers Authorized Outstanding Customers $ thousands $ thousands $ thousands $ thousands $ thousands $ thousands $ thousands $ thousands British Columbia & Yukon* 97,791 49,839 15,098 284,555 139,688 6,331 287,785 162,957 1,929 301,579 195,988 890 Alberta & NWT** 435,772 94,047 77,786 463,198 195,264 10,589 368,660 196,792 2,476 378,158 228,623 1,129 Saskatchewan 30,432 14,238 3,784 124,295 64,096 2,649 129,138 77,046 854 123,059 86,372 362 Manitoba 107,985 21,205 9,472 801,879 222,901 15,381 877,467 404,293 6,666 253,527 164,661 757 Ontario 316,944 120,493 50,582 1,009,361 495,848 21,824 1,111,849 637,466 7,354 1,161,335 783,646 3,440 Quebec 80,626 56,583 10,388 257,663 177,804 5,655 210,206 136,835 1,377 210,224 144,846 617 New Brunswick 20,140 7,916 2,787 72,056 33,300 1,541 68,318 41,120 456 41,181 27,832 128 Nova Scotia 33,059 12,426 4,575 121,927 63,775 2,586 134,532 79,306 884 143,797 91,122 422 Prince Edward Island 5,257 1,989 668 22,698 11,440 469 22,630 14,134 153 18,753 12,916 58 Newfoundland 21,639 7,552 3,045 83,385 35,444 1,876 67,116 35,652 449 42,004 25,781 130 Canada 1,149,645 386,288 178,185 3,241,017 1,439,560 68,901 3,277,701 1,785,601 22,598 2,673,617 1,761,787 7,933 Authorization $500,000 $999,999 $1,000,000 $4,999,999 over $5,000,000 levels of: Authorized Outstanding Customers Authorized Outstanding Customers Authorized Outstanding Customers $ thousands $ thousands $ thousands $ thousands $ thousands $ thousands British Columbia & Yukon* 250,556 168,935 371 683,547 458,968 337 3,516,550 2,117,348 142 Alberta, Saskatchewan & NWT*** 343,711 207,079 525 952,844 519,184 457 14,776,886 6,370,491 342 Manitoba 172,108 90,337 276 253,546 147,021 135 806,147 220,444 28 Ontario 1,150,491 817,101 1,688 4,257,919 3,126,629 1,932 57,724,655 24,188,782 1,297 Quebec 263,532 184,592 386 893,502 614,902 386 7,022,096 4,134,767 247 NB, PEI, NFLD, NS**** 232,005 149,337 349 916,252 587,511 430 2,689,747 1,588,295 132 Canada 2,412,403 1,617,381 3,595 7,957,610 5,454,215 3,677 86,536,081 38,620,127 2,188 Note: for reasons of client confidentiality, we have combined the following: * Yukon Territory with British Columbia. ** Northwest Territories (NWT) with Alberta. *** Northwest Territories, Saskatchewan and Alberta. **** New Brunswick (NB), Prince Edward Island (PEI), Newfoundland (NFLD) and Nova Scotia (NS). 22 2013 Scotiabank CSR Report Branches/Offices/ABMs Scotiabank’s strong customer focus and commitment to improving sales and service includes maintaining a strong branch network as part of its overall delivery strategy. The Bank currently has 1,038 branches and 3,828 ABMs in Canada. In 2013, as part of our expansion plans, we opened five new branches. We also relocated branches in three different communities during the past year and in each case, worked closely with our customers and the community in order to ensure a smooth transition. All branches closed or consolidated this year were relocated within the community. Newly Opened Branch Locations in Canada in 2013 Branch Locations Closed, Relocated or Consolidated in 2013 Ontario 1150 Oxford St., W., London Manitoba 1169 Rothesay St., Winnipeg* 135 Fennell Ave., W., Hamilton 9483 Mississauga Rd., Brampton Ontario 1670 Heron Rd., Ottawa* 40 King St., W., 1st Mezzanine N., Toronto 443 The Queensway S., Keswick* 1650 Heron Rd., Ottawa* 38 East Main St., Welland** 23556 Woodbine Ave., Keswick* 661 Danforth Ave., Toronto** Alberta 16716-127th St., Edmonton Quebec 5801 Avenue Du Parc, Montreal** Manitoba 1155 Rothesay St., Winnipeg* 852 Rue Jean-Talon O., Montreal** * Closure as a result of relocation * New branch as a result of relocation. ** Closure as a result of consolidation ABM installations and de-installations* ABMs de-installed ABMs installed British Columbia Québec** 4025 208th St., Langley 2305 boul Industriel, Laval 375 av Dorval, Dorval 1220 boul de Montarville, Longueuil 1 32770 Dahlstrom Ave., Abbotsford 7255 boul des Laurentides, Laval 2375 rue Notre-Dame O., Montréal 5830 ch Chambly, Longueuil 32588 Logan Ave., Mission 125 boul Archambault, Terrebonne 5673 rue de Verdun, Verdun 16660 av Saint-Louis, Saint-Hyacinthe 290 boul Marc-Aurèle-Fortin, Laval 4700 boul des Sources, Dollard-des-Ormeaux 1135 boul MonseigneurSalaberry-deQuébec 2337 ch Gascon, Lachenaie 1375 ch Canora, Mont-Royal Langlois, Valleyfield 5801 av du Parc, Montréal 119 ch Grande Côte, Boisbriand 109 boul Cardinal-Léger, Pincourt 872 boul Curé-Poirier O., Longueuil 852 rue Jean-Talon O., Montréal 505 ch de la Grande-Côte, Saint-Eustache 5195 rue de Salaberry, Montréal 53 rue Ellice, Beauharnois Newfoundland Bayview St., Fortune 259 boul Brien, Repentigny 2525 rue Allard, Montréal 3767 Grande Allée, Saint-Hubert 1020 rue Principale, Canton-de-Granby 5405 ch de la Côte-des-Neiges, Montréal 125 boul Maple, Châteauguay Alberta 601 17th Ave. S.W., Calgary 1119 boul Lesage, Laval 459 boul Beaconsfield, Beaconsfield 3990 ch Chambly, Longueuil 45 boul Saint-Elzéar O., Laval 11650 boul de Pierrefonds, Pierrefonds 511 ch Ozias-Leduc, Otterburn Park Ontario 150 Richmond St., Chatham 550 boul Curé-Labelle, Laval 175 av Stillview, Montréal 930 boul de Perigny, Chambly 1174 Lansdown St. W., Peterborough 258 boul Sainte-Rose, Laval 270 rue Elgar, Verdun 20 boul Marie-Victorin, Delson 3210 Weston Rd., North York 324 rue Renaud O., Laval 5755 rue Sherbrooke E., Montréal 187 boul Sir-Wilfrid-Laurier, Saint-Basile-le-Grand 38 East Main St., Welland 1495 Grande Allée, Lachenaie 8550 rue Hochelaga, Montréal 53 boul d’Anjou, Châteauguay 1650 Heron Rd., Ottawa 4001 boul Dagenais O., Laval 11800 boul Langelier, Montréal-Nord 52 rue Clairevue O., Longueuil 2725 boul des Oiseaux, Laval 3985 Beaubien E., Montréal 4900 Grande Allée, Greenfield Park 990 Montée Masson, Lachenaie 1420 rue Legendre E., suite 5, Montréal 2292 rte Marie-Victorin, Varennes 1323 boul des Seigneurs, Terrebonne 7778 rue Sherbrooke E., Montréal 200 boul Fiset, Sorel-Tracy 1282 boul des Seigneurs, Terrebonne 2010 rue Beaubien E., Montréal 105 boul Montchamp, Saint-Constant 285 côte de Terrebonne, Terrebonne 1520 boul Henri-Bourassa O., Montréal 535 rue Pierre-Caisse, Saint-Jean-surRichelieu 350 Montée Lesage, Rosemère 13600 rue Sherbrooke E., Pointe-aux-Trembles 4700 boul Laurier O., Saint-Hyacinthe 2 boul des Entreprises, Boisbriand 2015 rue Rachel E., Montréal 1049 rue Saint-Jean-Baptiste, Beloeil 1059 boul du Curé-Labelle, Blainville 8155 rue Notre-Dame E., Montréal 32 rue Châteauguay, Huntingdon 6 av Napoléon, Mascouche 8200 boul Métropolitain E., Anjou 530 boul Casavant O., Saint-Hyacinthe 711 rue Saint-Etienne, L’Assomption 12310 rue Sherbrooke E., Pointe-aux-Trembles 1230 boul Curé-Poirier O., Longueuil 5 ch de la Grande-Côte, Rosemère 2605 rue Masson, Montréal 210 boul Taschereau, La Prairie 1050 boul des Seigneurs, Terrebonne 291 ch Freeman, Gatineau 182 boul Saint-Joseph, Châteauguay 4980 boul Bourque, Rock Forest 1050 av du Mont-Royal E., Montréal 6060 ch Chambly, Longueuil 2615 boul du Royaume, Jonquière 6760 boul Joseph-Renaud, Anjou 2780 boul Roland-Therrien, Longueuil 4207 rue Bernard-Pilon, Beloeil 10450 boul Perras, Montréal 710 boul Marie-Victorin, Boucherville 1031 rue Gilles-Vigneault, Blainville 700 rue Galt E., Sherbrooke 2675 av Ste-Anne, Saint-Hyacinthe 3093 ch Ste-Marie, Mascouche 8661 av Chaumont, Anjou 2490 boul St-Louis, Tracy 380 Montée Dumais, Lachenaie 5395 boul Henri-Bourassa, Montréal 290 ch Grand-Bernier N., Saint-Jean-sur1409 av Van Horne, Outremont 3246 rue Bélanger E., Montréal Richelieu 1110 boul Marcel-Laurin, Saint-Laurent 165 boul Omer-Marcil, Saint-Jean10 boul des Champs-Fleuris, La Prairie 350 rue Notre-Dame O., Montréal sur-Richelieu 6480 boul de L’Ormière, Québec 179 boul Hymus, Pointe-Claire 545 76e Rue O., Charlesbourg 4694 rte de Fossambault, Sainte-Catherine-de5107 ch Queen-Mary, Montréal 1100 av Docteur-Penfield, Montréal la-Jacques-Cartier 109 boul Cardinal-Léger, Pincourt 6181 boul Léger, Montréal-Nord 2845 boul Père-Lelièvre, Québec 450 Lakeshore, Dorval 4910 boul St-Laurent, Montréal 80 rue Racine, Québec 409 boul Grand, Île-Perrot 333 av Président Kennedy, Montréal 960 rte 185, Saint-Antonin 4930 rue Saint-Charles, Montréal 1221 ch Chambly, Longueuil Scotiabank CSR Report 2013 23 ABM installations (cont’d) 158 route du Pont, Saint-Nicolas 1225 rue de Neuville, Gatineau 2929 boul Laflèche, Baie-Comeau Ontario 160 boul Valcartier, Québec 2707 rue de Salaberry, Montréal 40 rue de Quen, Dolbeau-Mistassini 9483 Mississauga Rd., Brampton 1805 1re Avenue, Québec 2260 rue Schulz, Saint-Jérôme 196 rue Hôtel-de-Ville, Rivière-du-Loup 9484 Mississauga Rd., Brampton 3505 chemin des 784 rue de la Station, Prévost 344 boul Lasalle, Baie-Comeau 9485 Mississauga Rd., Brampton Quatre-Bourgeois, Québec 2400 boul Sainte-Sophie, Sainte-Sophie 1200 boul René-Bélanger, Baie-Comeau 3169 Yonge St., Toronto 1435 rue de la Faune, Québec 145 rue Principale E., Sainte-Agathe646 boul Laure, Sept-Îles 1650 Heron Rd., Ottawa 899 boul Lebourgneuf, Québec des-Monts 1114 boul Laure, Sept-Îles 347 Bathurst St., Toronto 3657 rue de l’Hêtrière, Saint-Augustin760 Bélanger, Saint-Jérôme 2499 ch Sainte-Foy, Québec 23556 Woodbine Ave., Keswick de-Desmaures 520 36e Avenue, Saint-Jérôme 720 King St. W., Toronto 1661 route de l’Aéroport, Québec 470 av Saint-Sacrement, Québec 251 rue Montigny, Saint-Jérôme 292 Spadina Ave., Toronto 605 boul Thibeau, Trois-Rivières 1790 6e Avenue, St-Georges419 rue Principale, Lachute 332 Bloor St. W., Toronto 20 rue de Toulon, St-Augustin de-Beauce 1365 route 125, Sainte-Julienne 960 rue de Corbusier, Granby 19 Bloor St. W., Toronto 505 boul Frontenac O., Thetford Mines 2903 Curé-Labelle, Prévost 1455 boul Talbot, Chicoutimi 1150 Oxford St. W., London 8025 av des Églises, Charny 501 rue de Lanaudière, Joliette 28 rue Principale S., Sutton 1151 Oxford St. W., London 2900 boul Lebourgneuf, Québec 3232 rue Richard, Sherbrooke 7721 boul Taschereau, Brossard 1152 Oxford St. W., London 1011 av de Bourlamaque, Québec 1575 12e Avenue N., Fleurimont 2079 boul des Seigneurs, Terrebonne 328 Yonge St., Toronto 900 rue de L’Entraide, Québec 351 rue Saint-Charles S., Granby 609 boul Vachon S., Sainte-Marie 3455 Fairview St., 41 rue Valvue, Québec Unit 25/26, Burlington 250 rue Saint-Jude N., Granby 476 rue Graveline, Gatineau 2567 av Royale, Québec 157 Holland St. E., Suite B, Bradford 4475 rue Bourque, Sherbrooke 2520 rue Marie-Anne, Montréal 3945 boul Wilfrid-Hamel, Québec 647 Wellington Rd., London 851 rue Terrill, Sherbrooke 334 rue Champlain, Saint-Jean-sur3210 ch des Quatre-Bourgeois, Québec 1033 Bay St., Toronto 223 rue Saint-Hubert, Granby Richelieu 3056 ch Sainte-Foy, Québec 5846 Drummond Rd., Niagara Falls 2525 rue King O., Sherbrooke 100 boul Wilfrid-Hamel, Québec 4409 boul Chauveau O., Québec 1 Carlton Ave., Toronto 87 rue Maine E., Coaticook 545 rue Lucien-Paiement, Laval 2155 ch Sainte-Foy, Québec 108 York Blvd , Hamilton 111 rue Saint-Charles S., Granby 40 boul des Laurentides, Laval 333 rue Saint-Amable, Québec 520 King St. W., Oshawa 1780 rue King E., Fleurimont 1000 boul du Curé-Labelle, Blainville 515 boul Alphonse-Desjardins, Lévis 725 Walkers Line, Burlington 825 rue des Quatre-Saisons, Sherbrooke 101 rue Georges, Buckingham 70 rte du Président-Kennedy, Lévis 3000 Major Mackenzie Dr., Vaughan 3935 rue King O., Sherbrooke 511 rue A-Gibeault, Gatineau 527 boul Louis-XIV., Québec 1385 Woodroffe Ave., 3973 rue Garnier, Shawinigan 554 ch Denison E, Granby 610 boul Pierre-Bertrand, Québec Building E Ottawa 5850 boul Jean-XXIII, Trois-Rivières 1545 boul. Maloney E, Gatineau 952 rue Commerciale, Saint-Jean140-150 University Ave., Waterloo 1000 boul Jean-de-Brébeuf, Drummondville 699 rue de Roxton, Acton Vale Chrysostome 135 Fennell Ave. W., Hamilton 2835 Lemire, Drummondville 495 rue Laurier, sortie 291, St-Apollinaire 7500 boul de la Rive-Sud., Lévis Alberta 252 ch des Patriotes, Sorel-Tracy 2115 rue Canadien, Drummondville 3190 rue Alexandra, Québec 1007 20 St. S.E., High River 550 rue Laviolette, Trois-Rivières 700 boul de Montbrun, Boucherville 2035 boul de la Rive-Sud., Saint-Romuald 16716 – 127th St., Edmonton 555 Côte Richelieu, Trois-Rivières 3 chemin de Fairfax, Stanstead 4000 av des Chutes, Charny 16717 – 127th St., Edmonton 3575 rue Papineau, Trois-Rivières 2010 rue St-Pierre, Drummondville 1034 boul Pie-XI N., Québec 16718 – 127th St., Edmonton 690 boul St-Joseph, Drummondville 25 rue des Pins, Deschambault 2800 rue Champfleury, Québec 4105 4th St. N.W., Unit 7&8, Calgary 530 rue Barkoff, Cap-de-la-Madeleine 10001 boul L-H Lafontaine, Anjou 11005 boul Ste-Anne, Beaupré 5000-8650 112th Ave., N.W., Calgary 365 boul Saint-Maurice, Trois-Rivières 2017 route 112, St-Césaire 9968 boul de L’Ormière, Québec 101 Palisades Way, Sherwood Park 2484 rue Saint-Hubert, Jonquière 1402, ch des Patriotes, Richelieu 47850 3e Avenue O., Québec Saskatchewan 490 boul Saint-Jude S., Alma 123 boul Laurier, Laurier Station 3240 1re Avenue, Québec 3737 Wascana Pkwy., Regina 404 rue du Pont N., Alma 3475 boul Ste-Anne, Beauport 4660 av de Gaulle, Québec Nova Scotia 1335 boul du Sacré-Coeur, St-Félicien 800 rue Commerciale, Saint-Jean475 rue St-Joseph, Saint-Nicolas 1290 Kings Rd., Suite A1, Sydney 170 rue des Champs-Élysées, Chicoutimi Chrysostome 260 rue Notre-Dame O., Victoriaville Manitoba 4024 boul du Royaume, Jonquière 3865 boul des Sources, Dollard-des-Ormeaux 775 rue Notre-Dame O., Victoriaville 628 St. Anne’s Rd. 1495 boul Saint-Paul, Chicoutimi 2991 Brodeur O., Saint-Alphonse750 boul Charest O., Québec Units I & H, Winnipeg de-Granby 1778 rue Principale, Chambord 1655 av d’Estimauville, Québec 990 Montée Ste-Julie, Sainte-Julie 912 boul Marcotte, Roberval 3652 rue de L‘Hêtrière, Saint-Augustin1340 route 117, Val-David de-Desmaures 521 rue du Phare E., Matane 5715 route 335, St-Calixte 9687 boul Sainte-Anne, Saint-Anne5 boul Sainte-Anne O., Sainte-Annedes-Monts 1045 rue Hains, Drummondville deBeaupré 1066 boul Mgr-de-Laval, Baie-Saint-Paul 5185 av du Parc, Montréal 5550 boul Sainte-Anne, Boischatel 330 boul de la Comporte, La Malbaie 5186 av du Parc, Montréal 665 rue Commerciale, Saint-JeanChrysostome 83 boul Notre-Dame, Clermont British Columbia 580 route Kennedy, Lévis 31 boul York E., Gaspé 800 Griffiths Way, Vancouver 20 boul Taché E., Montmagny 6 rue Interprovincial, Pointe-à-la-Croix 3521 Blanshard St., Victoria 470 route 273, Saint-Apollinaire 3754 boul du Royaume, Jonquière 3522 Blanshard St., Victoria 585 boul des Grives, Gatineau 1044 boul Ducharme, La Tuque 3380 David Ave. #105, Coquitlam 4 rue D’Orléans, Gatineau 3635 boul du Royaume, Jonquière 9583 132nd St., Surrey 35 rue du Barry, Gatineau 4505 de la Sortie 185, Saint-Cyrille525 Hwy 97 S., Unit 400A, Kelowna 51 boul Fournier, Gatineau de-Wendover 23320 Mavis Ave., Fort Langley * The above information only captures net installations, thus, if an ABM was installed and de-installed or vice versa in the same location during the fiscal year, that information is not included in the above reporting. Similarly if a location had three new ABMs installed and two old ABMs de-installed, the above report will only indicate one ABM as having been installed. ** The increase in the number of ABMs in 2013 is due to the installation of 285 units at the Couche-Tard ABM network across Québec. 24 2013 Scotiabank CSR Report CUSTOMERS Customer complaint resolution A clear and effective complaint resolution process is essential to our financial success and to being a responsible organization. Our statistical data and complaint resolution process are outlined below. Internationally, Scotiabank follows a similar process, which may vary according to country regulatory requirements or local needs. 2011 2012 2013 Number of customer complaints received by Office of the President 10,445 10,597 11,633* Percentage of customers surveyed who were fully satisfied with the handling of their complaint 82% 84% 83%** * Represents total number of Office of the President complaints out of more than 21 million customers. Complaints are categorized by service, credit, policy, pricing, compliance, documentation and other to review for trends and recommend changes. ** Based on survey of 339 customers. Overview of Scotiabank’s microfinance services (As at October 31, 2013) Total loans (CAD)$ Average loan size (CAD)$ # of customers Peru (CrediScotia) $350 million $3,000 115,000 Chile (Banco Desarrollo) $60 million $3,000 20,000 Dominican Republic (Soluciones) $35 million $2,500 14,000 Jamaica (CrediScotia) $1 million $800 1,200 Total $446 million 150,200 Voluntary codes of conduct and public commitments* Scotiabank is committed to a number of voluntary codes of conduct and public commitments designed to protect consumer interests. These include: • Canadian Code of Practice for Consumer Debit Card Services • Plain Language Mortgage DocumentsCBA Commitment • Code of Conduct for the Credit and Debit Card Industry in Canada • Commitment on Modification or Replacement of Existing Products or Services • Guidelines for Transfers of Registered Plans • Low-Fee Retail Deposit Account, Memorandum of Understanding • CBA Code of Conduct for Authorized Insurance Activities • VISA Zero Liability Policy and VISA E-Promise • Principles of Consumer Protection for Electronic Commerce: • Undertaking: Principal Protected Notes Regulations A Canadian Framework • Online Payments • Model Code of Conduct for Bank Relations with Small and Medium-sized Businesses • Code of Conduct for Federally Regulated Financial Institutions-Mortgage Prepayment Information * For a copy of the full text of the codes and commitments, refer to www.scotiabank.com, Customer Care page. Visit the websites of the Financial Consumer Agency of Canada (www.fcac-acfc.gc.ca) and the Canadian Bankers Association (www.cba.ca) for more detailed information on consumer protection. Scotiabank CSR Report 2013 25 Customers Access to financial services Financial institutions play a critical role in creating access to financial services, especially for groups with special needs, including youth, seniors, the economically disadvantaged and new Canadians. Scotiabank has developed customized products, services and financial education programs in a number of markets to help improve access to these services. Customer Segment Basic Banking Savings, Investment and Credit Products Financial Literacy • Scotiabank Basic Banking Account (Canada) • Bank the Rest Savings Program (Canada) • Calculators and Planning tools on the helps customers improve their savings Scotiabank website and videos on the Bank’s All habits while making every day debit YouTube page explain and simplify a variety of purchases. banking concepts, such as financial planning, • Scotia Power Savings Account provides an mortgage planning and tax-free savings online, high-interest savings option. accounts (TFSAs). • iTRADE webinars and seminars help investors build knowledge to make the most of investments. • The Student Banking Advantage plan • L’earn Visa card for students provides • In 2013 Scotiabank supported the Aflatoun (Canada) provides no-fee banking plan with benefits including no annual fee, accelerated program in Mexico and El Salvador and Youth unlimited debit transactions for full-time Moneyback rewards program and up to a almost 4,000 students received training on university or college students. 21-day interest-free grace period on purchases. how to manage money. • Getting There Savings Program for Youth • The Student Scene Visa card provides benefits • Scotiabank maintains the www. (Canada) is a no-fee plan with unlimited including no annual fee, Scene rewards points, fundyourfuture.ca website dedicated debit transactions for children under 19 which can be redeemed for free movies and to students in partnership with Student years of age. other entertainment rewards, and at least a Awards Inc. The site includes tools and • The Scotia Plus Achiever Account 21-day interest-free grace period on purchases. resources to help students and parents (International locations) provides a no-fee, • Scotiabank Educational Savings Plan is manage money, establish good credit and higher-interest account for young savers. available in 17 Caribbean and Central create budgets. American countries. • Scotiabank Be Money Plan (many international locations) offers a high-interest savings account with no banking fees for full-time students. • In Canada, customers aged 60 or over • Helpful online RRIF/LIF/LRIF illustrator tool, • In Canada, Scotiabank provides in-depth Tax Seniors automatically receive a discount off the literature and advice available for seniors. Free Savings Account Information Centre, applicable monthly account fee. with tailored content for retirees, at www.scotiabank.com • Scotiabank StartRight Program (Canada) provides easier access to credit for newcomers with day-to-day banking solutions, free safety deposit box New rental for one year and a multilingual website that provides links to settlement assistance and newcomer financial resources. Canadians • Scotiabank StartRight Auto Finance Program provides newcomers with simple financing options for a new or used vehicle purchase at participating dealerships. • Scotiabank StartRight Mortgage Program allows temporary and permanent residents to own their first home with a hassle-free mortgage tailored to their needs. • Scotiabank StartRight Program partners with Languages Canada to offer financial literacy advice and services to international students studying in Canada. • Scotiabank StartRight Program partners with Canadian Foundation for Economic Education to provide the Canada Day Planner and companion website – a free settlement tool for newcomers to access information regarding financial literacy and Canadian settlement resources. • The Bank operates four on-reserve branches • The Bank provides niche on-reserve • Through the Bank’s sponsorship of the Martin Aboriginals and a network of 27 Aboriginal banking lending programs to individuals and band Aboriginal Education Initiative, Aboriginal high centers (Canada). councils across Canada. school students learn the fundamentals of entrepreneurship and business via a customized school curriculum program supported by Scotiabank employee volunteers. • Over 1,700 branch based Small Business • Running Start for Business offers the • Scotiabank’s Get Growing for Business Small advisors proactively deliver practical tools, Business Plan Writer and complementary offers unique access to information from a Business resources and banking services that help accounting software to help a business get wide range of sources including business small businesses grow and succeed. off to a strong start. experts such as Arlene Dickinson, Scotiabank • Scotiabank provides small business banking • Scotia Flex and Scotia One Account Plan for Business Champion, as well as other small services in 20 countries across the Caribbean agricultural clients. business owners through the Bank’s LinkedIn and Latin America. • Scotia Power Savings for Business provides a community, videos, articles and tools on a higher interest savings option for businesses. wide range of business topics. • Scotia Momentum for Business VISA card provides businesses a cash-back option to strengthen cash flow. Microfinance operations in Chile, Peru, Jamaica and Dominican Republic manage microfinance subsidiaries with total loans in 2013 of Micro Business CAD$446 million and financial literacy and business planning resources in select countries. 26 2013 Scotiabank CSR Report EMPLOYEES Diversity highlights at Scotiabank Scotiabank’s global salaries and benefits Scotiabank has been tracking female representation at the VP+ level globally since 2007 and is currently (CAD$ millions) 2013 exploring tracking other diversity groups from a global perspective. Salaries $3,552 Government Performance-based compensation $1,558 2011 2012 2013 benchmark* Stock-based compensation $222 Visible minorities (Canada)* 24.6% 25.1% 26.7% 23.5%** Pensions and other benefits $981 Visible minorities in senior management (Canada)* 9.5% 13.9% 13.6% 8.7% Total $6,313 Women (Canada)* 68.4% 67.0% 66.2% 62.6%** Women in senior management (Canada)* 33.6% 33.8% 33.3% 24.2% Women in VP+ positions (Global) 23.5% 24.0% 25.0% NA Total voluntary* employee turnover (Canada) Persons with disabilities (Canada)* 3.8% 3.3% 3.2% 4.6%** 2011 2012 2013 Aboriginals (Canada)* 1.1% 1.2% 1.2% 2.3%** 8.9% 9.4% 10.2% Data is as at October 31, 2013. * Data excludes provincially regulated ScotiaMcLeod and Roynat Capital employees. * Voluntary denotes those who have left due to resignation, voluntary settlement, retirement or contract expiration. ** This is the availability rate tailored for Scotiabank and derived from the 2012 Canadian Human Rights Commission, Employment Equity Status Report. ENVIRONMENT Scotiabank bond copy paper consumption in international locations in 2013 Scotiabank paper consumption – Canada (tonnes) Paper % change 2012/13 Country* Weight (tonnes) classification 2011 2012 2013 (decrease) FSC* Anguilla 4.0 2/5 of highest Barbados 7.1 Business forms** 3,186 2,867 2,749 (4.12) volume items Belize 5.7 Business card 9 7 12 71.43 100% BVI 5.0 Letterhead 13 7 5 (28.57) 100% Cayman Islands 8.8 Bond copy paper 1,516 1,464 1,441 (1.57) 100% Chile 242.0 Annual reports 83 71 70 (1.41) 100% Colombia 16.8 Marketing direct mail 92 87 239*** 174.71 100% Costa Rica 119.0 Total weight (tonnes) 4,899 4,503 4,516 0.29 Dominica 0. 8 Dominican Republic 44.6 Consumption per employee 0.14 0.13 0.13 El Salvador 50.0 * Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) is a stringent certification system for guiding responsible forest management and Jamaica 14.6 guaranteeing that paper is produced in a way that conserves biological diversity and fragile ecosystems, ensures social responsibility and respects the rights of First Nations peoples and local communities. Mexico 386.1 ** Scotiabank uses more than 4,500 different kinds of forms, with the majority falling into five categories: regular format, Panama 6.0 high speed printer ABM rolls, snap sets (carbonless), envelopes and account companion booklets. Currently, two of these Peru 218.0 categories envelopes and companion booklets use FSC certified paper. St. Kitts 2.0 *** Increase due to several new initiatives including communication to new customers and introduction of new products. St. Vincent 0. 7 Total 1,131.1 * In fiscal 2013, Scotiabank reported on only 10 countries. This year, through the expansion of our reporting process we were able to add: Anguilla, Barbados, Cayman Islands, Colombia, El Salvador, Panama, and St. Kitts to our totals. Scotiabank maintains an ongoing commitment to operating in an energy-efficient manner to minimize our carbon footprint. Scotiabank has been reporting energy consumption in its Canadian operations since 2007 and on its international operations since 2009. The 2013 report includes data for 86% of its operations. The completeness and accuracy of the Bank’s total GHG emissions has been annually verified by an independent third party since 2011. Measuring energy consumption 2013 greenhouse gas emissions 2013 energy consumption (Canada) (Canada and International) Total Total GHG GHG Intensity GHG Intensity Source GHG emissions* (metric tonnes) Type of energy energy use emissions per employee per m2 Scope 1 Electricity (MWHs) Scope 2 254,515 49,570 Direct CO2e emissions produced Fuel Purchases (GJs) Scope 1 369,903 17,377 from combustion of fuels 17,426 Total Electricity and Fuel (GJs) 1,286,156 66,947 1.87 0.0675 Scope 2 Indirect CO2e emissions produced 2013 energy consumption (International) from electricity and steam purchases 105,261 Total Total GHG GHG Intensity GHG Intensity Scope 3 Type of energy energy use emissions per employee per m2 Indirect CO2e emissions produced Electricity (MWHs) Scope 2 137,051 55,691 from employee travel 9,781 Fuel Purchases (GJs) Scope 1 945 49 Total CO2e footprint 132,468** Total Electricity and Fuel (GJs) 494,329 55,740 1.54 0.0700 * Calculated in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Notes: of the World Resources Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (www.ghgprotocol. • The above information was collected from the best available data and methodologies, which includes information directly org), including emission factors for electricity purchases, captured from invoices processed for payment from various utility vendors. We continue to expand the geographic scope of natural gas and fuel. our reporting boundary with the objective of reporting total emissions. When necessary, some buildings were estimated using consumption data found in similar regions and building types. ** The completeness and accuracy of our total GHG emissions • Our Canadian report is based on 1,046 owned and leased retail locations and the space occupied by the Bank in 167 office has been verified by an independent third party. buildings across Canada, representing approximately 990,000 square meters. • Our International report is based on 1,299 owned and leased retail locations and the space occupied by the Bank in 55 office buildings in Chile, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Jamaica, Mexico, Peru, Puerto Rico and Trinidad & Tobago, representing approximately 795,000 square meters. Scotiabank CSR Report 2013 27 ING DIRECT On November 15, 2012, ING DIRECT Canada and its subsidiaries were acquired by The Bank of Nova Scotia. Public Accountability reporting for ING DIRECT is Public Accountability being treated distinctly to reflect that it is operated independently and separately Statement from The Bank of Nova Scotia. The information presented here is specific to ING DIRECT Canada and its affiliates and reflects the reporting period of November 1, 2012 to October 31, 2013. Marketing Newly Closed and Opened ABM Locations in 2013* Access to Financial Services Our services transcend both social and physical boundaries. At ING DIRECT, there ING DIRECT ABMs De–installed in 2013 are no barriers to entry for people with the desire to improve their financial future. We Alberta 311–321 6th Avenue SW, Calgary believe that saving money should be accessible to low–income individuals, senior citizens and disabled persons – all Canadians. ING DIRECT ABMs Installed in 2013 Our competitive interest rates apply for all of our Clients: no minimum balances Ontario 4476 16th Avenue, Markham required. Our Clients can bank with us anytime, and thanks to Mobile Banking, they 10080 Kennedy Road, Markham can also do their banking anywhere. We provide direct, 24–hour access to our 3389 Steeles Avenue East, Toronto (3rd machine installed) financial services through our website and call centres, in both English and French. 111 Gordon Baker Road, Toronto (3rd machine installed) ING DIRECT Clients can also deposit and withdraw from THE EXCHANGE® Network, a nationwide network of over 2,000 ABMs, making banking services even more ING DIRECT Café and ABM Locations* accessible. We also ensure that our Café locations are easily accessible to all, including Clients ING DIRECT Café Locations As at October 31, 2013 with limited mobility. Québec 1141, boul. de Maisonneuve Ouest, Montréal Ontario 111 Gordon Baker Road, Toronto Community Development, Charitable Donations & Sponsorships 221 Yonge Street, Toronto From November 1, 2012 to October 31, 2013 (rounded) British Columbia 466 Howe Street, Vancouver Total Charitable Donations CAD $395,000 Alberta 600–6th Avenue SW, Calgary Total Philanthropic Sponsorships CAD $453,000 ING DIRECT ABM Locations As at October 31, 2013 Total Employee Work–Time Volunteer Hours 8,800 Québec 1141, boul. de Maisonneuve Ouest, Montréal Charitable giving means far more to us than just donating money. We believe it’s also 1118, rue Ste–Catherine Ouest, Montréal important to give our time and energy. In everything we do, accountability is key, and Ontario 111 Gordon Baker Road, Toronto our charitable projects are geared to put accountability first, to ensure we are making 221 Yonge Street, Toronto a real difference. We roll up our sleeves and pitch in. This allows us to personally meet 181 University Avenue, Toronto the people who are at the receiving end of our efforts; to speak to them, learn about 1400 St. Laurent Blvd., Ottawa their needs, and get involved first–hand. 361A Old Finch Avenue, Toronto We believe in taking care of what matters, while sustaining long–term business growth. 3389 Steeles Avenue East, Toronto This means our corporate support extends to social, economic and environmental 720 Bathurst Street, Toronto programs across our organization and our communities. 551 Windermere Road, London Each year, our employees actively volunteer with many of the charities we support 40 St. Clair Avenue W., Toronto corporately. We call it “Orange in the Community,” and it’s our way of making 2345 Yonge Street, Toronto things a little brighter, or in our language, a little more Orange, for those around us. 4476 16th Avenue, Markham The following examples illustrate what we accomplish through our Orange in the 10080 Kennedy Road, Markham Community activities: British Columbia 466 Howe Street, Vancouver YMCA Camp Cedar Glen Alberta 600 – 6th Avenue SW, Calgary On May 8, 2013, nearly 150 ING DIRECT employees headed 45 minutes north of ING DIRECT Clients can also deposit and withdraw through THE EXCHANGE® Toronto to YMCA’s Camp Cedar Glen to help get the camp ready for their summer Network, a nationwide network of over 2,000 ABMs. Please visit ingdirect.ca season. Teams took to various activities across the 263 acres in desperate need of or m.ingdirect.ca (our Mobile Banking site) for our ABM Locator to look up THE maintenance. Our crews removed invasive species, built staircases, planted flowers, EXCHANGE Network ABM locations. split and chipped wood and helped get the farm ready for their first season. * As at October 31, 2013. Earth Rangers Debt Financing & Microfinance Services Earth Rangers is a non–profit organization providing children with the opportunity to protect animals, to improve the environment and to make a difference. The Earth In keeping with the philosophy of being a savings company, ING DIRECT offers a Rangers Centre, located on land owned by the Toronto and Region Conservation business investment savings vehicle for our small business Clients to grow their Authority at the Kortright Centre for Conservation, is one of the most efficient buildings businesses. Our business model does not include debt financing directly to small in the world, using 90% less energy than other buildings of its size. businesses. In addition, ING DIRECT does not provide debt financing to firms in Canada and is not involved in new initiatives or technical assistance programs for On October 8, 10, 16 and 17, 2013, ING DIRECT teams volunteered at the Earth financing for small business, nor are we involved in investments or partnerships in Rangers Centre doing work including invasive species removal, seed sorting, school micro–credit programs. kit preparation, grass cutting and general garbage clean up, as part of the Earth Rangers iRestore project. 28 2013 Scotiabank CSR Report Human Resources Number of Employees in Canada ING DIRECT Salaries and Benefits Province of Contract Contract (In CAD, as at October 31, 2013) Employment Full Time Part Time Full Time Part Time Coop Total Salaries $55,429,457 Alberta 2 3 5 Performance-Based Compensation – Bonus $8,266,378 British Columbia 3 4 7 Stock Base Compensation $2,392,340 New Brunswick 94 4 98 Benefits $25,961,364 Ontario 798 43 16 7 6 870 Québec 4 5 9 Grand Total 901 59 16 7 6 989 ING DIRECT Diversity Highlights Total Full-Time Equivalent 951.5 Number of Employees Visible Minorities 535 Note : The above numbers only include employees on ING DIRECT’s Payroll, as at October 31, 2013. Visible Minorities in Senior Management 8 Women 511 Total Voluntary Turnover Women in Senior Management 6 As at October 31, 2013 (%) Women in VP+ Positions 4 Voluntary Termination 11.7% Persons with Disabilities 38 Aboriginals 12 Note: The above number inculdes all RFT / RPT as at October 31, 2013. The above numbers exclude Organizational Changes and Restructures. Legal & Compliance Voluntary Codes of Conduct & Public Commitments To help ensure that your consumer rights are protected as an ING DIRECT Client, – ING DIRECT Funds Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of ING Bank we have adopted several Voluntary Codes of Conduct and Public Commitments. of Canada, serving the Canadian investing public since November 26, 1999. The following guidelines outline the high standards and level of service you can ING DIRECT Funds Limited is the principal distributor of the ING DIRECT expect when you bank with us. Streetwise Portfolios and offers mutual funds in all provinces. – Code of Conduct for the Debit and Credit Card Industry – ING DIRECT Asset Management Limited – Canadian Code of Practice for Consumer Debit Card Services As of May 9, 2014 ING DIRECT will be operating as Tangerine, the operating name of Tangerine Bank, a wholly-owned subsidiary of The Bank of Nova Scotia. – Guidelines for Transfers of Registered Plans – Code of Conduct for Authorized Insurance Activities Finance – Principles of Consumer Protection for Electronic Commerce: A Canadian Framework 2013 Taxes (CAD $ thousands, as at October 31, 2013) – Plain Language Mortgage Documents Income Taxes Capital Taxes Other Taxes* – Commitment on Modification or Replacement of Existing Products or Services Federal 19,374 17,336 – Code of Conduct for Mortgage Prepayment Information Provincial Newfoundland 1 The Financial Consumer Agency of Canada (“FCAC”) oversees adherence to these Prince Edward Island Voluntary Codes and Public Commitments. Nova Scotia 3 You may contact the FCAC in writing at: Financial Consumer Agency of Canada, New Brunswick 229 1,243 58 427 Laurier Ave. West, 6th Floor, Ottawa, Ontario, K1R 1B9. Quebec 40 55 141 Information about the FCAC and its role, and about consumer protection laws and Ontario 14,530 13,516 regulations, is available at fcac-acfc.gc.ca. FCAC services in English: 1-866-461Manitoba FCAC (3222). FCAC services in French: 1-866-461-ACFC (2232). For calls from the Saskatchewan Ottawa area or from outside Canada: 613-996-5454. Alberta 12 9 ING Bank of Canada and its subsidiaries were acquired by The Bank of Nova British Columbia 22 45 Scotia on November 15, 2012 and are no longer affiliated with ING Groep N.V. Territories The trademarks ING, ING DIRECT, ING Lion, the ING Lion logo and any derivation, Total Provinces 14,833 1,298 13,773 variation, translation or adaptation thereof are trademarks of ING Groep N.V. and Total 34,207 1,298 31,109 are used under license. * Other Taxes includes payroll taxes, GST, HST, municipal taxes and deposit insurance. During the reporting period of this document (i.e., November 1, 2012 to October 31, 2013), we operated as ING DIRECT, the operating name of ING Bank of Canada. ING DIRECT affiliates include: TM forward banking is a trademark of ING Bank of Canada Worldwide recognition for Canada’s most international bank ‡ Bank of the Year… Excellence in Social Responsibility… Best Workplace… Best Consumer Internet Bank… Just a few of the ways Scotiabank was honoured in 2013 for excellence in employment, business and social responsibility practices. Congratulations to the 83,000 Scotiabankers worldwide who earned these awards and many others. ■ Areas in red indicate a full range of Scotiabank or affiliate bank corporate, commercial, trade finance and retail services. ● Areas with a red dot indicate, Scotiabank or affiliate bank representative offices that offer select services within the country or specific city and surrounding area, including global corporate and investment banking or capital markets businesses; or investment management or retail operations with less than 10 branches. North America Caribbean Europe & Middle East Canada, Mexico, United States Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Aruba, Bahamas, Egypt, France, Ireland, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Barbados, Bonaire, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Russia, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom Central & South America Islands, Cuba, Curaçao, Dominica, Dominican Belize, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Asia/Pacific Republic, Grenada, Haiti, Jamaica, Puerto Rico, Guatemala, Guyana, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru, St. Eustatius, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Maarten, Australia, China, Hong Kong SAR – People’s Republic Uruguay, Venezuela St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Trinidad and Tobago, of China, India, Korea (Republic of), Malaysia, Turks and Caicos, U.S. Virgin Islands Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand, Vietnam ‡ Includes affiliates Corporate Headquarters Scotiabank, Scotia Plaza, 44 King St. W., Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5H 1H1 Tel: (416) 866-6161 Fax: (416) 866-3750 Email: email@scotiabank.com For further information contact: Public, Corporate and Government Affairs, Scotiabank, 44 King St. W., Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5H 1H1 Email: corporate.communications@scotiabank.com 9478013 ® Registered trademark of The Bank of Nova Scotia.
