Investment AB Kinnevik: Communication on Progress Stockholm 2014-03-27 Statement by the CEO I am pleased to present Investment AB Kinnevik’s Communication on Progress for 2013. Kinnevik is committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. In our Communication on Progress report Kinnevik documents the progress within Kinnevik as well as our major holdings. I think that the Kinnevik group are making progress in implementing the Global Compact principles as this report will demonstrate. Mia Brunell Livfors President and Chief Executive Officer Investment AB Kinnevik Corporate Responsibility and Communication most important stakeholder groups identified by Kinnevik on Progress for Investment AB Kinnevik are the following. Strategy and purpose Shareholders The primary purpose of Kinnevik’s operations is to increase Investors today increasingly integrate sustainability issues shareholder value, primarily through net asset value growth. into their investment decisions. Kinnevik has an ongoing As owner and investor, Kinnevik also bears great respondialogue with owners and potential investors on sustainable sibility to stakeholders for its holdings (subsidiaries and development. As an example of this, Kinnevik participated associated companies). For Kinnevik, showing consideration in the Sustainable Value Creation project in 2012 in which 14 for stakeholders by working actively with CR-related issues of Sweden’s largest institutional investors have joined forces is a prerequisite for high and sustained profitability. Through to highlight the importance of working in a structured mansound investments and active ownership Kinnevik will have ner with sustainability issues. a positive impact on society and on Kinnevik’s net asset Employees value growth. In order for both Kinnevik and its holdings to be able to For Kinnevik, Corporate Responsibility (“CR”) involves attract top performing executives, entrepreneurs and talanted issues that relate to social responsibility, environmental employees it is important to act as a good corporate citizen responsibility and ethics. During 2011, Kinnevik formally and be known for applying the highest ethical and business adopted the UN Global Compact ten principles in the areas standards. In annual development and planning dialogues of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corrupwith management and employees CR-related issues are discussed. tion. This third annual communication on progress describes These issues are also discussed regularly in staff meetings. the actions taken to integrate the Global Compact and its Portfolio companies principles into the business strategy, culture and daily operaKinnevik is for most of the portfolio companies the largest or tions of Kinnevik. among the largest shareholders. Kinnevik is an active owner Stakeholders that through board members influence strategic decisions Expectations on Kinnevik varies between different stakeand priorities in the portfolio companies. As an active owner holder groups. For Kinnevik it is important to understand Kinnevik influences to a large extent “the tone from the top” stakeholders’ different expectations and Kinnevik strives to which is important for attraction of both employees and have an open and straight dialogue with these groups. The customers. Kinnevik has a comprehensive dialogue with Investment AB Kinnevik: Communication on Progress the portfolio companies related to relevant CR-topics. In In addition to the established policies Kinnevik actively addition, Kinnevik heads the CR group among the holdings promotes compliance with all laws, rules and regulations in comprising heads of CR of the major portfolio companies. each jurisdiction in which the company conducts business, Authorities and every employee, and other representative, of the comFor Kinnevik’s and the portfolio companies’ long term sucpany is expected to comply with the laws of the country in cessful development it is important to comply with applicawhich they operate. ble laws, rules and standards in different countries. Kinnevik The majority of the CR matters and challenges are has an ongoing dialogue with relevant authorities to monitor derived from the operations of the respective holding, and regulatory development in important fields. several of Kinnevik’s holdings are operating in emerging markets with elevated risks related to e.g. corruption and Risks and focus areas human rights violations. In light of this, it is very important For a company like Kinnevik with limited operations, the that Kinnevik has firm guidelines and clear expectation on majority of the potential CR issues and challenges are the holdings, related to how such risks should be mitigated. derived from the operations of the respective holdings. The Through the CR policy Kinnevik sets out requirements risks identified by the holdings comprise a wide range of for the portfolio companies with respect to the key CR risk areas which may all, to some extent, affect Kinnevik topics identified. According to the CR policy each portfoand the company’s stakeholders. Kinnevik takes inspiration lio company must develop clear guidance on how matters from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the world’s most concerning business ethics, including corruption, are to be widely used sustainability reporting framework, criteria for managed. Portfolio companies must continuously document materiality to ensure that the Company addresses CR issues and evaluate compliance with relevant laws, regulations and risks that impact, or are influenced by, the company and and international conventions, including respect for human its holdings. Based on the current portfolio Kinnevik has rights, safe and healthy working conditions, freedom of asduring 2013 identified some CR topics to be pervasive and in sembly, promotion of diversity, and rejection of any form of scope of enhanced monitoring efforts going forward. Drivers forced labour or child labour. In addition the portfolio comof such aspects include developments and trends within panies must develop a Supplier Code of Conduct in which key industries, existence of operations in emerging markets, the company’s suppliers pledge to act in accordance with the emerging supply chain risks and rapid growth. The CR topics recommendations of the UN Global Compact, with special that are assessed to be most important and have the greatest attention given to companies in growth countries. relevance both to Kinnevik and the company’s stakeholders are the following: Implementation and follow-up • Prevention of corruption In the listed holdings, Kinnevik may through board represen• Maintaining ethical supply chains, including consideration tation oversee that the companies’ operations are conducted of human rights and labour standard in a responsible and ethical manner. Kinnevik works actively, • Prevention of anticompetitive behaviour through board representation, to assist portfolio companies • Compliance with laws and regulations in formulating their own CR policies. The CR policies should There are also other aspects such as limiting environmenaddress the relevant CR topics taking into account areas such tal footprint of the company’s and its holdings that obviously as social responsibility, ethics and the environment. The Kinare important but not as pervasive as these four given the nevik Board of Directors regularly reviews progress within CR existing portfolio. in Kinnevik and its holdings Which CR topics and risks that are most important varies Guidelines and policies between different holdings, industries and countries. KinKinnevik’s senior management, in cooperation with the nevik recognizes the importance that all portfolio companies Board of Directors, have formulated and established policies defines the most significant risks given their particular opeto address relevant matters related to CR, primarily through rations. The management of each portfolio company must the Code of Ethical Business Conduct (Code of Conduct), the ensure that appropriate processes are in place to identify and Whistleblower policy and the Corporate Responsibility Policy manage significant CR risks, and report such risks, including (CR Policy). In formulating these policies, Kinnevik has used actions taken, to the respective company’s Board of Directors. the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and the OECD’s In the larger listed holdings, the Board of Directors guidelines for multinational enterprises as its starting point. have elected one board member with specific responsibility All employees are expected to read and comply with the for overseeing CR activities. In addition, the holdings are company policies. required to appoint an employee who is responsible for the Investment AB Kinnevik: Communication on Progress company’s ongoing CR efforts, including integration of CR nevik portfolio companies support and respect internatioactivities into the daily operations. The appointed employee nally proclaimed human rights and this is expressed in their regularly reports progress and effects of the work underrespective Code of Conduct. The objective of Kinnevik is for taken to the responsible board member. Furthermore, CR all portfolio companies to have such policies in place. Kinactivities is to be an agenda item at every board meeting, nevik is actively promoting the establishment and impleand each portfolio company is required to follow-up its CR mentation of CR policies and Codes of Conducts within the policy annually. holdings that have not yet such guidelines in place, primarily Any potential new investment, is evaluated in terms of through board representation. compliance to local laws and regulations, and assessed in Actions taken in 2013 – examples from Kinnevik portfoterms of risks related to human rights, corruption and envilio companies: ronmental aspects. In instances when potential investments • For Kinnevik’s mobile companies, questions relating to do not adhere to relevant standards, or are not considered freedom of expression and privacy are important to address. to be susceptible to the required improvements, Kinnevik • Millicom signed up to the Telecommunications Industry refrains from the investment. New investments generally Dialogue on Freedom of Expression and Privacy guiding concerns small, start-up, companies which may not yet have principles in March 2013 that aim to reduce the risk of formal CR policies and procedures in place. Kinnevik consicomplicity in human rights abuses relating to freedom of ders the development of CR policies, and related procedures, expression and privacy. to be part of the development of the investment. Over time • Tele2 has formulated its position on Privacy and Integrity Kinnevik requires, all portfolio companies to establish a (P&I) and Freedom of Expression in a position paper Code of Conduct that contains clear guidelines for how emavailable at www.Tele2.com. ployees should act to ensure respect for human rights, legal • Furthermore, Tele2’s Code of Conduct states that the compliance and ethical business practices. company is particularly careful in protecting the safety of In 2013, Kinnevik performed an evaluation to idenchildren and young adults in the regard of child sexual tify how existing processes and efforts for monitoring CR abuse images (CSAI) content. Tele2 is closely cooperating performance within the company’s portfolio may be further with Interpol and in some instances national police in enhanced. Based on the evaluation, activities to further deveorder to prevent access to CSAI content. Interpol and local lop and formalize existing processes have been initiated, injudicial authorities identify the material containing CSAI cluding processes to identify key CR topics from a Kinnevik and provide Tele2 with blocking lists. perspective and procedures to monitor that significant matLabour ters are given adequate attention by the respective portfolio Kinnevik and the Group companies shall ensure compliance companies. The aim is to have a more formalized structure with labour and employment laws, including wages and in place during 2014. working hours. Furthermore, the right to collective bargainThe holdings are encouraged to publicly communicate ing is recognized throughout the Group – In Kinnevik’s case the impact of their CR efforts. In order to find a common through the Kinnevik Code of Conduct. In the code, it is also tool in terms of reporting the progress in the CR field, many stated that no colleagues should be discriminated against of Kinnevik’s companies have chosen to report according to because of age, ethnicity, gender, religion, sexual orientaGRI. GRI’s core goals include the aligning of disclosure on tion, marital or maternity status, political opinion or ethnic environmental, social and governance performance. Millibackground. com, Tele2 and MTG produce GRI reports that can be found Kinnevik’s policies on corporate responsibility outlines on the respective company’s websites. requirements for the holdings related to labour practices, Communication on progress safe and healthy working conditions, freedom of assembly, As described above, Kinnevik has formally adopted the UN promotion of diversity, and rejection of any form of forced Global Compact ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour or child labour. Any grievances, including instanlabour, the environment and anti-corruption. Below is a ces of perceived discrimination, must be reported to the description of progress in these specific areas. Chairman of the Board, HR, closest manager, or through the whistle blowing system. Human rights Actions taken in 2013 – examples from Kinnevik portfoKinnevik’s policies on corporate responsibility are based lio companies: on the UN Global Compact’s ten principles as well as the • Millicom DRC signed a collective bargaining agreement OECD’s guidelines on multinational enterprises. The Kincovering all employees in June 2013. Such agreement is Investment AB Kinnevik: Communication on Progress already in place in Chad and under negotiation in Senegal. behave in society – always with highest possible ethics. Millicom applies the conventions of ILO to ensure that Through the Code of Conduct, Kinnevik sets out the ethical labour rights are respected throughout the business, and standards, including standards on matters related to antiapply an even higher minimum age for work in e.g. DRC corruption and fair competition. Through the Whistle-blower (18 years old). policy, which is publicly available, the company outlines • Zalando has implemented Social standards including how potential grievances may be reported and acted upon. Working conditions, no discrimination and equal pay for Portfolio companies are required to develop clear guidelines temporary workers and training opportunities and health for how issues relating to business ethics, including corrupmanagement. The standards are monitored through audit tion, are to be handled. Such guidelines are particularly for by an external auditor. companies active in countries where corruption is prevalent. The guidelines must be known to all employees, and emEnvironment ployees must be continuously trained and informed of the As a company without proprietary manufacturing and with consequences of the guidelines. limited operations conducted at the head office, Kinnevik Actions taken in 2013 – examples from Kinnevik portfohas little direct impact on the environment. lio companies: Kinnevik’s policies on corporate responsibility outlines The Kinnevik Group companies increasingly have requirements for the holdings concerning environment specific guidelines on conflict of interests, fair competition, aspects. According to the policy, each portfolio company third party due diligence, and gifts and entertainment as first should establish an environment policy and continuously steps to address high risk areas relating to compliance and analyse the impact of their operations on the environment, corruption. Group companies provide anti-corruption trainand ensure actions are taken to continuously improve ing to our employees. Anti-corruption training is focused on performance. Furthermore, the companies should assess the high risk functions, such as procurement. environmental impact of their suppliers and encourage them to achieve continuous improvements. Portfolio companies CR related issues with significant negative are encouraged to develop an environmental management impact on Kinnevik system that is certifiable and to provide training to emIn 2013, no significant CR related issues that have had a ployees in issues relating to respect for the environment. negative impact on Kinnevik and its stakeholders have come Environmental initiatives are followed up continuously and to the attention of Kinnevik’s management and Board of reported to the board of directors. Directors. Actions taken in 2013 – examples from Kinnevik portfolio companies: • At the end of 2013, Millicom had over 100 sites running with solar power. Approximately 1,150 sites had hybrid power systems utilizing Deep Cycle battery technology, which has the potential of reducing diesel use up to 75%. • MTG’s pay-TV operations have been signatories of the Voluntary industry Agreement on complex set-top-box energy efficiency since 2010, where the company, together with their STB suppliers, work to ensure their Viasat STBs are energy efficient and that they are well positioned ahead of any future regulations on the matter. • Zalando use 95% recycled paper in their packages and bags are made of recycled LDPE (Low Density Polypropylen) paper. The company had a holistic approach from production to recycling in the logistic center in Erfurt, Osram intelligent lighting management system saves around 60% of electricity costs compared to traditional system. Anti-corruption It is of highest importance that all Kinnevik companies adhere to and comply with all given legislations and regulations as well as setting their own bar for how to act and
