Global Compact Annual Communication on Progress Company name Aberdeen Fluid System Date May 10 2013 Technologies Limited Unit Unit 1 Stoneywood Park Address Stoneywood Road Dyce Membership date August 22 2008 Aberdeen Country United Kingdom Number of 39 employees Contact name Gerry Farrell Contact position Managing Director Sector Oil & Gas Services Contact telephone +44(0)1224 722468 no. Brief description of nature of business We are an SME located in Aberdeen Scotland. We employ just under 40 people within the Oil & Gas Sector of the UKCS. Our business provides a range of integrated services to our client base that in the main consists of Oil & Gas Operating companies and major Engineering Contractors. We are registered to the international standards BS EN ISO 9001:2008 and BS EN ISO 14001:2004 Statement of support to the UN Global Compact We will operate our business with high levels of business integrity that will be in alignment with, and complimentary to our business vision, mission and our strategic and business operating plans. We are all committed to operating, further developing and growing our business in a manner that will be sympathetic to and in alignment with the ten key principles of the UN Global Compact. Signature Position Managing Director People, Human Rights, Labour Standards & Anti-corruption Our commitment to policy Our people will always be treated as our most valuable asset. Measurement of our people focus will be through maintaining full registration to the Investor in People Standard and through our formal commitment to the Ten Principles as detailed within the United Nations Global Compact. The contribution of our people will be recognised and their remuneration will be linked to the overall performance of the business. Our organisational resource levels and personnel competencies will at all times meet the business-committed workload and will be at a level that will minimise work related stress. We will ensure direct and effective involvement across our team in our drive for quality, business excellence and continuous improvement. We will, through visible leadership, at all times practice and be able to demonstrate our business integrity both internally and externally. We will strive for fairness in our relationships and will provide, maintain and improve a consistent Employment Control System that aligns fully with current United Kingdom employment law and where required, with International employment law. We will provide educational, product and business training at a level appropriate to the individual’s organisational role. We each commit to respecting and to protecting internationally recognised human rights and will ensure that we are never complicit in human rights abuses. We will at all times maintain the right to freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. We will work with our business partners to help eliminate all forms of forced, compulsory and child labour. We will not pursue or practice any form of discrimination with regard to employment and occupation. We will not enter into any form of corruption, extortion or acts of bribery. Wherever it is possible as a business we will support our local community. Practical actions implemented in the last year During the last year we have completed an internal and external survey on how our people view: Access to policy and information, Visibility of the business leadership team and are they leading by example and we have completed a series of communication workshops on the company approach to People, Human Rights, Labour Standards & Anti-corruption. Plans for next year In the coming year we will be implementing a number of initiatives based on the survey findings and team feedback Clients & Suppliers Our commitment to policy We will not damage the business reputation of any of our customers through the manner in which we conduct our business. We will not enter into any unlawful commercial practices. We will not damage the business reputation of any of our suppliers through the manner in which we conduct our business. By copy of this document we will make all of our suppliers aware of our Corporate Responsibilities and Principles of Operation Practical actions implemented in the last year Clients We made a Client wide communication that detailed our commitment to the Global Compact and as part of this communication we included The Ten Principles document and web contact details for the UN Compact Suppliers We have now included statements on our policies related to our Corporate Responsibilities and our business Principles of Operation within our Supplier Evaluation process Plans for next year Clients Complete a follow up with a range of Clients to enquire if any have joined the Global Compact following our communication Suppliers We will choose three strategic suppliers and pass on the message that our business prefers to engage with Suppliers that can demonstrate excellent performance in the area of Corporate Social Responsibility. We will request from them a sample range of their CSR documentation Environment Our commitment to policy Through maintaining full registration to the Environmental Standard BS EN ISO 14001:2004 we will participate in meeting our environmental obligations and challenges. We will actively promote greater environmental responsibility and awareness across our team, within our business operations, clients, suppliers and our local community. We will deploy wherever possible environmentally friendly work practices and apply environmentally friendly technologies. We will maintain and publicly display an Environmental Management Policy Practical actions implemented in the last year Environmental calendar competition for the kids of our team. Re-registration to BS EN ISO 14001:2004 with a further 12 monthly, management led internal audits. We have implemented a Switch Off programme Plans for next year Continue our registration to BS EN ISO 14001:2004. Implement a more effective waste management process across the whole sphere of our business operations. Continue with the management led internal audit programme. Communicate the positive impact the Switch Off programme is having on the business overall Health, Safety & Welfare Our commitment & policy Through active deployment of our Health, Safety & Welfare management system we will at all times provide a safe and secure environment for our employees and visitors to our business facilities. Our management system will be subject to formal monthly audits and this audit will include an inspection of our facility. We will employ a formal system of hazard identification and will always take appropriate action to remove and or control any identified hazards. We will maintain full compliance with the Health & Safety at Work act. We will maintain and publicly display a Health, Safety & Welfare Management Policy Practical actions implemented in the last year We have this completed an upgrade to our business office and recreational facilities with the focus being on creating a better working environment for our team and visitors. We achieved our 34th year Lost Time Accident Free Plans for next year Upgrade our client training classrooms and rest room facilities. Move progress with our re-location plans. Achieve our 35th year Lost Time Accident Free How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? We will publish our Communication of Progress to all of our stakeholders via our website at the end of our financial year which is June 30 2013 We are only a small business but in taking our CSR seriously we believe that it will help improve the wellbeing of everyone in our team, make them feel good about working at AFST and ultimately will deliver better business results
