Global Compact Annual Communication on Progress Implementing the UN Global Principles Prepared for: UN Global Compact Office November 2014 Company At A Glance Company Name Revenue Storm Date November 2014 Corporation Address 425 N. Martingale Membership Date 22nd November Road Suite 1680 2011 Schaumburg, IL 60173 Country US Number of 60 Employees Contact Name Dipa Thakar Sector Software & Computer Services Contact Position Executive Contact +1 (224) 659Assistant Telephone 7710 Number Company Overview Revenue Storm is a sales consulting firm that assists clients with implementing processes and disciplines to drive sustainable revenue acceleration. We provide consulting, training, testing, coaching, and software reinforcement to positively impact individuals and organizations at large. There are 4 corporate values we observe as part of our operating culture. They are: to demonstrate high integrity, maintain a coachable attitude, be responsive and on time, and to take personal responsibility and ownership for our contribution to clients and our company. Operating in an international forum, with accelerating demands we are challenged to exceed both our customers’ and employees’ needs. We ask each employee to represent our core values in each interaction, including how these values apply to our support of the UN Global Compact and its 10 principles of responsibility. In our inaugural publication of Revenue Storm’s Communication on Progress, we affirm our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. I highly encourage you to become aware of these principles and actively incorporate them into your personal governance. They apply to every one of us. Copyright © 2014 Revenue Storm Corporation. All rights reserved. Duplication in part or in whole prohibited. 1 Declaration of Support To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Revenue Storm reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Debby Rizzo CEO and Co-Founder Revenue Storm’s adherence to the UN’s ten principles of the Global Compact has been detailed as follows: PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS; AND PRINCIPLE 2 MAKE SURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES Revenue Storm’s Commitment These two principles are core to our company’s culture. We are in the business of helping individuals, teams, and organizations change how they sell, raising their degree of success and professionalism in the process. We strive to raise the honor of being a good and fair salesperson. The following is from our Employee Handbook; as represents our position on protecting human rights. Equal Employment Opportunity The Company is an equal employment opportunity employer and strives to comply with all applicable civil rights statutes. The Company recruits, hires, trains, Copyright © 2014 Revenue Storm Corporation. All rights reserved. Duplication in part or in whole prohibited. 2 promotes, discharges, provides benefits, and undertakes other personnel actions without regard to race, ancestry, age, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, religion, disability, or other characteristics protected by applicable statutes. We insist that each employee refrain from any discriminatory comments, behaviors, or interactions, especially based on any of the foregoing. If you believe you have been the victim of any illegal discrimination, you should immediately report your concerns to your Manager, Human Resources, or the CFO. The Company takes all complaints of illegal discrimination seriously and will investigate any such complaint. Should you so desire, you may report incidents of discrimination to the state department of human rights or the United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. The Company will not tolerate any retaliation against any person who registers a complaint of illegal discrimination or supports a co-worker’s complaint of discrimination. Any violation of our anti-discrimination rules will result in disciplinary action, up to and possibly including termination of employment. Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) The Company complies with federal and state laws, including the Americans with Disabilities Act, concerning the employment of a person with a disability. The ADA does not alter the Companies right to hire the best –qualified applicant, but it does prohibit discrimination against a qualified applicant or employee because of his or her disability, or perceived disability. We will make reasonable accommodations for qualified individuals with known disabilities unless doing so would result in undue hardship. Discourage Harassment, Discrimination and Offensive Behavior The Company is committed to provide a work environment free from illegal harassment, discrimination, and/or offensive behavior. In keeping with this commitment, the Company has adopted a policy of “zero tolerance” with regard to employee harassment. The conduct prohibited by this policy includes sexual harassment as well as other types of harassment, discrimination, and/or offensive behavior on the basis of race, ancestry, age, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, religion, disability, or any other characteristics protected by law. Harassment will not be tolerated from or against employees, customers, vendors, independent contractors, or other individuals working with the Company and is grounds for immediate termination. The harassment precluded by this policy also includes harassment against an individual perceived to have any of the characteristics mentioned above, or is associated with a person who has or is perceived to have any such characteristic. Each complaint received will be investigated and resolved appropriately. Copyright © 2014 Revenue Storm Corporation. All rights reserved. Duplication in part or in whole prohibited. 3 Sexual Harassment Sexual harassment is prohibited by federal, state and local laws, and applies equally to men and women. It is defined as any unwelcome sexual advance, request for sexual favor(s), or other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature when (1) submission to the conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a term or condition of an employee’s employment; (2) submission to or rejection of such conduct by an employee is used as the basis for employment decisions affecting the employee; or (3) such conduct has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an employee’s work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or offensive working environment. These behaviors may include, for example: subtle or overt pressure for sexual favors; inappropriate touching; lewd, sexually oriented comments or jokes; foul or obscene language; posting of suggestive or sexually explicit posters, calendars, photographs, graffiti, or cartoons; and repeated requests for dates. The Company encourages reporting of all perceived incidents of sexual harassment, regardless of who the offender may be. Every employee is encouraged to raise any questions or concerns with Human Resources. If you believe that you have been subjected to harassment or if you believe you have witnessed any form of harassment, you should immediately contact an appropriate manager, supervisor or Human Resources staff member. An allegation against your own supervisor should be filed with the CFO, HR Coordinator and/or CFO/COO. Your complaint will be immediately and thoroughly investigated in a professional manner. There will be no retaliation against any employee who files a complaint in good faith or who assists in providing information relevant to a claim of harassment, even if the investigation produces insufficient evidence to support the complaint. If it is determined that inappropriate conduct has occurred, we will act promptly to eliminate the offending conduct, and we will take such action as is appropriate under the circumstances. Such action may range from counseling to termination of employment, and may include other forms of disciplinary action, as we deem appropriate under the circumstances and in accordance with applicable law. To protect the privacy of persons involved, confidentiality will be maintained throughout the investigatory process to the extent practicable and appropriate under the circumstances. Investigations may include interviews with the parties involved, and where necessary, individuals who may have observed the alleged conduct or who may have relevant knowledge. Revenue Storm’s Initiatives Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights related concerns Beyond the Employee Handbook policies noted above, we work with our clients to share best practices on employee education of Human Rights issues and risks. Also, a Copyright © 2014 Revenue Storm Corporation. All rights reserved. Duplication in part or in whole prohibited. 4 condition of employment, each Employee is required to read and understand the handbook, then sign the “Acknowledgement of Receipt of Employee Handbook”. Employee Responsibility Every employee is responsible for helping to enforce this policy and promote working conditions free of harassment, discrimination, and/or offensive behavior. Specifically, you must: Be knowledgeable about this policy prohibiting harassment, discrimination, and/or offensive behavior. Refrain from harassing, discriminatory, or offensive behavior. Discourage behavior which may be perceived as harassing or offensive. Be cooperative with management or other company appointed delegates seeking information about a complaint. Understand that you can face individual liability if you engage in unlawful harassment. Management personnel are responsible for immediately notifying the COO or CFO when misconduct is alleged to have occurred. Supervisors’ Responsibilities All Managers are expected to ensure a work environment free from sexual and other harassment. They are responsible for the application and communication of this policy within their work area. Managers should: Encourage employees to report any violations of this policy. Make sure the Human Resources Department is made aware of any inappropriate behavior in the workplace. Create a work environment where sexual harassment is not permitted. Revenue Storm’s Impact Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance As outlined in our Employee Handbook: Harassment/Discrimination: Complaint Procedure Be sure to tell the offender of the unwelcome act, as he or she may not realize the behavior is offensive. If you are uncomfortable for any reason talking to the offender about what you believe is/was offensive to you, or if the behavior continues after you have advised them of it, you should immediately report the conduct to your Manager Copyright © 2014 Revenue Storm Corporation. All rights reserved. Duplication in part or in whole prohibited. 5 or the Human Resources Department. If the employee’s immediate supervisor is involved in the incident, the employee should report the incident to the Human Resources Department or CFO. Investigation Complaints of harassment, discrimination, and/or offensive behavior will be treated seriously. All complaints of sexual harassment or other inappropriate sexual conduct will be promptly and thoroughly investigated by the Company. The nature of the investigation will vary based upon the facts and circumstances of the complaint. If someone is found to have violated this policy, they will be subject to disciplinary action in order to deter future incidents and to provide a safe environment for the team. The appropriate disciplinary action may include termination of employment. If you believe you have been the victim of any retaliation, immediately report your concerns to your Manager or the Human Resources Department. Those that are found to have engaged in retaliation will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment. Employees who believe they have been unjustly charged with sexual harassment can defend themselves verbally or in writing at any stage of the investigation. All employees are expected to cooperate fully with any ongoing investigation regarding a sexual harassment incident. Annual Review: On an annual basis, the employees have a performance review with their respective managers whereas their values and attributes are measured based on a 0-5 scale (see below) Scoring Legend: Consistently exceed expectations: Not only do to they meet expectations consistently, they 5 exceed expectations consistently. Exceeds expectations often: They not only consistently meet expectations but often exceeds 4 it. Consistently meets expectations: This is the score that suggests you are meeting expectations 3 much of the time based upon your tenure in the role/company. Frequently but not consistently meets expectations, needs improvement: Note examples of 2 improvements needed. Occasionally meets expectations, needs significant improvement quickly: A substantial part 1 of the employees performance needs improvement to meet the expectations of this position. Inadequate performance: The performance doesn’t meet expectations often enough to 0 provide any confidence there is a match between the employee and Revenue Storm. The job function is not being performed at this time. Provide explanation as to why and when N/A will it begin. The 5 values and attributes are defined as follows: Copyright © 2014 Revenue Storm Corporation. All rights reserved. Duplication in part or in whole prohibited. 6 Five Key Values: 1) Demonstrate High Integrity: Be trustworthy and honest in each communication and action, take responsibility to ensure your words and activities are known and understood at the appropriate level, use respectful and complete communications and not half-truths or omissions. 2) Maintain a Coachable Attitude: Be open and accepting of feedback, input, ideas and recommendations for improvement rather than maintaining a perfectionist spirit where errors are hard to accept. Strive to improve and develop yourself each day. We can bring more value by integrating a couple people’s ideas than by developing things ourselves. 3) Be Responsive and On-time: When possible, act promptly (ideally within 1 to 3 business days) to requests being sure to set expectations appropriately as to action items and next steps. If you are going to be late, notify the others as soon as you know the deadline is in jeopardy. Being responsive is more than just launching items through email, ensure your suggestions and ideas are understood through organized discussions. 4) Accountability: Take role and project responsibilities from beginning to end, including taking management or leadership roles when you delegated items to others. Don’t point blame or make excuses; deliver results. Follow up to ensure things were received and understood. 5) Improve the Organization: Keeps an eye out for ways the organization could improve its effectiveness and efficiency and communicates those ideas to team members involved. Keep processes that are within the scope of your role, up-to-date with monthly self-reviews. Five Key Attributes: 1) High Energy and Drive: A bias for action – drives to get things done. Enjoys a fastpaced environment. Strives to do good work and not let “to do” lists stagnate. 2) Highly Self Motivated: Strives to do the best work possible. Consistently makes something happen quickly without waiting to be asked. Comes up with new ways to do things better. Low need for others to motivate their good work. 3) Tenacious: Consistently follows up to ensure things are moving forward, and if not, strives to unblock them quickly. Carries it through to completion. Doesn’t quit if it is the right thing to do regardless of how hard it may be. 4) Strong Detail Management: A pro-active nature to manage the important details affecting personal and/or company success. Does not assume others have it covered or that it doesn’t need to be checked just because someone else is responsible for it. Follows up to ensure it is not missed. 5) Teaming: Includes others to get the best results for each project. Copyright © 2014 Revenue Storm Corporation. All rights reserved. Duplication in part or in whole prohibited. 7 PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESSES SHOULD UP HOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING; PRINCIPLE 4 THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR; PRINCIPLE 5 THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR; AND PRINCIPLE 6 THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION. Revenue Storm’s Commitment PRINCIPLE 3 As required by US Federal Law, Revenue Storm displays a poster from the US Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), which states: Prohibits employers from interfering with, restraining, or coercing employees in the exercise of rights relating to National Labor organizing, forming, joining or assisting a labor organization Relations Act (NLRA) for collective-bargaining purposes, or engaging in (Wagner Act) (1935) protected concerted activities, or refraining from any such activity. PRINCIPLE 4 The following is documented in our Employee Handbook: Employment At-Will Your employment relationship with the Company is at-will. At-will employment means that as an employee, you are not hired for any specified period of time. As such, you are free to resign from your position at any time, with or without cause or notice, just as the Company is free to change your status (i.e., impose discipline, modify a position, make a demotion, adjust compensation, etc.) or end its relationship with you at any time, with or without cause or notice. We ask that employees provide the Company with 10 business days’ notice prior to their desired last day when resigning to enable an appropriate transition of responsibilities to someone else. The Copyright © 2014 Revenue Storm Corporation. All rights reserved. Duplication in part or in whole prohibited. 8 policies described in the Handbook are not intended to and therefore do not modify the at-will relationship between the Company and employees. No one other than the CEO or COO may modify this understanding, which also requires their signature on the document specifying this modification. PRINCIPLE 5 As required by US Federal Law, Revenue Storm displays a poster from the US Dept. of Labor, Wage and Hour Division, that states: Child Labor: An employee must be at least 16 years old to work in most non-farm jobs and at least 18 to work in non-farm jobs declared hazardous by the Secretary of Labor. Youths 14 and 15 years old may work outside school hours in various nonmanufacturing, non-mining, non-hazardous jobs under the following conditions: No more than 3 hours on a school day or 18 hours in a school week; 8 hours on a nonschool day or 40 hours in a non-school week. Also, work may not begin before 7 a.m. or end after 7 p.m., except from June 1 through Labor Day, when evening hours are extended to 9 p.m. PRINCIPLE 6 Besides our employee policies described in section 1 regarding Principles 1 and 2 above, to: 1) Discourage Harassment, Discrimination and Offensive Behavior 2) Comply and support the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), we also support the following occupational laws: The Company complies with federal and state laws, including the Americans with Disabilities Act, concerning the employment of a person with a disability. The ADA does not alter the Companies right to hire the best –qualified applicant, but it does prohibit discrimination against a qualified applicant or employee because of his or her disability, or perceived disability. We will make reasonable accommodations for qualified individuals with known disabilities unless doing so would result in undue hardship. Prohibits sex-based wage discrimination between men and Equal Pay Act (EPA) women in the same establishment who perform jobs that (1963) require substantially equal skill, effort and responsibility under similar working conditions. Uniformed Services Prohibits employment discrimination against a person on Employment & Rethe basis of past military service, current military employment Rights Act obligations, or intent to serve. Also addresses health and (USERRA) (1994) pension plan coverage for service members. Federal Insurance Imposes payroll taxes to provide benefits for retired Contributions Act (FICA) workers and their dependents as well as for disabled (1935) workers and their dependents. Copyright © 2014 Revenue Storm Corporation. All rights reserved. Duplication in part or in whole prohibited. 9 Created the Occupational Safety and Health Administration Occupational Safety & (OSHA) and assigns OSHA two regulatory functions: setting Health Act (OSH Act) standards and conducting inspections to ensure that (1970) employers are providing safe and healthful workplaces. Health Insurance Provides a number of rights and protections for participants Portability and and beneficiaries in group health plans. Accountability Act (HIPAA) (1996) Protects employees from discharge by their employers Consumer Credit because their wages have been garnished for any one debt, Protection Act (1968) and limits the amount of an employee's earnings that may be garnished in any one week. Jury System Prohibits employers from discharging or taking certain other Improvements Act actions against an employee summoned to serve as a juror (1978) in any court of the United States. Protects the privacy of consumer report information and Fair Credit Reporting guarantees the information supplied by consumer reporting Act (FCRA) (1970) agencies is as accurate as possible. Sets forth legal obligations of employers who use consumer reports. Prohibits employment discrimination based on race, color, Title VII, Civil Rights Act religion, sex and national origin. (Title VII) (1964) (1991) Prohibits employment discrimination against qualified individuals with disabilities. Requires that employers Title I, Americans with reasonably accommodate the known physical or mental Disabilities Act (ADA) limitations of an otherwise qualified individual with a (1990) disability who is an applicant or employee, unless doing so would impose an undue hardship on the operation of the employer's business. Pregnancy Prohibits sex discrimination on the basis of pregnancy, Discrimination Act childbirth, or related medical conditions. (1978) Genetic Information Prohibits discrimination against applicants, employees, and former employees on the basis of genetic information. Nondiscrimination Act (GINA) (2008) Age Discrimination in Prohibits employment discrimination against persons 40 Employment Act (ADEA) years of age or older. (1967) Copyright © 2014 Revenue Storm Corporation. All rights reserved. Duplication in part or in whole prohibited. 10 Provides workers and their families who lose their health benefits the right to choose to continue group health Consolidated Omnibus benefits provided by their group health plan for limited Budget Reconciliation periods of time under certain circumstances such as Act (COBRA) (1985) voluntary or involuntary job loss, reduction in the hours worked, transition between jobs, death, divorce, and other life events. Revenue Storm’s Initiatives Description of concrete actions taken by your company to implement labor policies, reduce labor risks and respond to labor violations Beyond the policies noted in section 1 above for principles in Human Rights and handling labor complaints, Revenue Storm reviews its employee policies and procedures annually for potential improvements and clarifications. Revenue Storm also makes employees aware of the following: Reasonable Accommodation Qualified applicants or employees who are disabled should request reasonable accommodation from the Company in order to allow them to perform a particular job. If you are disabled and you wish such reasonable accommodation, contact the HR Coordinator or the CFO. On receipt of your request we will meet with you to discuss your disability. We may ask for information from your health care provider(s) regarding the nature of your disability and the nature of your limitations or take other steps necessary to help us determine viable options for reasonable accommodation. We will then work with you to determine whether your disability can be reasonably accommodated, and if it can be accommodated, we will explore alternatives with you and endeavor to implement a mutually agreeable accommodation. Reasonable accommodation may take many forms and it will vary from one employee to another. Accommodation that will impose undue hardship on the Company is not considered reasonable. Worker's Compensation The employee is covered under the Worker's Compensation Law for injuries suffered arising out of and in the course of performing official duties at the remote work location during the set work hours, but must immediately inform his or her manager, the Human Resource Coordinator, or the Controller who are required to file the claim and may be required to investigate the incident. Time off Revenue Storm values a good work life balance and provides employees paid for time off including holidays, vacations, and Personal Time Off (PTO). In addition, Revenue Storm provides paid time off between Christmas Eve and New Year’s Day to encourage relaxation and rejuvenation with families and friends. Copyright © 2014 Revenue Storm Corporation. All rights reserved. Duplication in part or in whole prohibited. 11 The Company desires that employees use accrued vacation each year in order to keep a more balanced life. However, if desired, employees can carryover 10 days of vacation each calendar year to the next year with management approval. Revenue Storm’s Impact Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance To ensure our employees maintain a proper work life balance, the HR Coordinator monitors the time off taken by using our Professional Services Administration (PSA) system within Salesforce.com. If an employee is not taking their allotted time off, the employee and their Manager is notified. As appropriate, to ensure they both know the company values their downtime too. The Manager will encourage the employee to arrange for appropriate time off around their personal development goals and work priorities. The following information on new hire reporting is taken from the EEOC website. Revenue Storm employs fewer than 100 employees and therefore is not required to report workforce data. http://www.eeoc.gov/employers/reporting.cfm The EEOC collects workforce data from employers with more than 100 employees (lower thresholds apply to federal contractors). Employers meeting the reporting thresholds have a legal obligation to provide the data; it is not voluntary. The data is collected using the reports below and is used for a variety of purposes including enforcement, self-assessment by employers, and research. Each of the reports collects data about gender and race/ethnicity by some type of job grouping. This information is shared with other authorized federal agencies in order to avoid duplicate collection of data and reduce the burden placed on employers. Although the data is confidential, aggregated data is available to the public. Copyright © 2014 Revenue Storm Corporation. All rights reserved. Duplication in part or in whole prohibited. 12 PRINCIPLE 7 BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES; PRINCIPLE 8 UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY; AND PRINCIPLE 9 ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Revenue Storm’s Commitment Although our impact on the environment is limited, we ensure that we take decisive action to mitigate any impact through our real estate transactions, technology decisions, employee business travel policies and procurement of goods and services. Revenue Storm strives to raise employee awareness of environmental issues and attempts to utilize industry best practices wherever possible, including reducing our global waste and looking for green initiatives we can support. Revenue Storm’s Initiatives Internally: Increasing use of video conferencing and web-conferencing to reduce international and domestic staff travel. Providing flex work schedules and work from home options for applicable staff to reduce long office commutes and traffic emissions. Using of copy paper with 30% recycled content. Using Eco friendly / recycled products as an evaluating guideline for consumable purchases, even in our promotional materials. Exclusively using electronic stationary templates promoting electronic creation and distribution. Only resorting to hardcopy when absolutely required. Supporting tenant improvements to upgrade all offices to motion sensor lighting which automatically turn off the lights if the space is unoccupied and reduction of water usage. Supporting tenant improvements to upgrade all the exit lights to LED and all of the ceiling grid lights to utilized F32T8 25 W SPX41 ECO bulbs and F17T8 XL SPX41 ECO bulbs. Copyright © 2014 Revenue Storm Corporation. All rights reserved. Duplication in part or in whole prohibited. 13 Providing employees with canvas tote bags to use for grocery shopping to avoid use of plastic alternatives. Externally: Through the property management of our leased offices we participate in a recycling program for paper, glass, plastic, light bulbs, and electronics. Through the property management of our leased offices all of the restrooms fixtures were refit with water reduction valves to reduce the waste water consumption. Revenue Storm’s Impact As a result of our green initiatives, we have been able to: Reduce the usage of paper in our day to day operations. Recycling aluminum and plastic as much as possible. This includes providing recycling containers within our leased space and participating in toner return programs. Reduce staff travel, both internationally and locally Spread awareness of the importance and advantages of going green at the office and at home EN 28 – Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonmonetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Revenue Storm has received no fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. EN 28 –significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Revenue Storm’s main environmental impact is our daily commute and air travel required for business. In an effort to minimize our impact we chose a location near a public transportation hub and we offer flex work schedules for applicable staff. To reduce our business travel impact we offer web conferencing options and limit our travelers to commercial airlines. Copyright © 2014 Revenue Storm Corporation. All rights reserved. Duplication in part or in whole prohibited. 14 PRINCIPLE 10 BUSINESSES SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY. Revenue Storm’s Commitment Revenue Storm ensures each employee knows their responsibility. Refrain from acts of corruption. Discourage behavior which may be perceived as corrupt practices. Be cooperative with management or other company appointed delegates seeking information about a complaint. Limiting gifts to clients to avoid any doubt of bribery to nominal promotional tokens or a business lunch. Revenue Storm’s Impact SO 3 – Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. 100% of our employees are informed about our anti-corruption policies with regard to gifts as outlined in our company handbook as part of the new hire onboarding process. SO 4 – Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Revenue Storm has no reported incidents of corruption. SO 6 – Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians or related Institutions. Revenue Storm has made no financial or in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians or related institutions. Copyright © 2014 Revenue Storm Corporation. All rights reserved. Duplication in part or in whole prohibited. 15
