UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2013 Table of Contents From Executive Director 2 Practical actions and measurable outcomes  3 Human Rights 3 Labour 5 Environment 6 Anti-Corruption 7 Summation 8 LCC Community Focus 9 WWW.LCC.ASIA | 25 June 2014 From Executive Director Nicholas Assef Since its initial commitment to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact (‘UNGC’) in 2009, Lincoln Crowne & Company® (‘LCC®’) has continued to advocate, Executive Director integrate, respect and support the importance of the UNGC’s Ten Principles. Over the last 5 years we not only remain consistent in our business protocols with naa@lcc.asia relation to human rights; labour; environment and anti-corruption, we also strive to T: +612 8288 8688 grow and learn from past initiatives so that we are always proactively moving forward M: +61 424 222 444 in our support of the UNGC. WWW.LCC.ASIA Reflection and experience ... Our approach to social responsibility over the last few years was focussed on the rights of children in under developed countries, particularly in the Asia Pacific region where LCC conducts a portion of its work. During 2012 we supported organisations such as Blue Dragon Children’s Fund that were committed to nurturing and educating youth. We have been extremely happy with the progress of Blue Dragon’s initiatives. Blue Dragon hired three qualified tutors to work individually with 3 Vietnamese girls rescued from the sex trade in China. They have all made excellent progress in their mental and emotional health; completing their educations has been a positive boost to their selfconfidence and provided them practical tools to build happy and stable futures. Current initiatives... This year we concentrated our philanthropic attention locally by raising awareness for Alopecia Areata. I personally contracted Alopecia Universalis; a serious and incurable medical condition where sufferers traumatically and without explanation suddenly lose their scalp and body hair, as an adult. I established partnerships with various organisations including Variety, the Children’s Charity, Alopecia Areata Australia Foundation (AAAF) and the 12ft Skiff Association aiming to build awareness and raise money for Alopecia Areata. This partnership saw to LCC’s launch of cureareata.org and commencement of various initiatives over the year. Looking forward... Last year I was proud to have been one of the top 15 fundraisers out of 10,000 in the MS Gong ride. This year LCC will be entering the ride as “The Flying Pigs” and hope to meet and better the amount we raised last year. Lee Power, Senior Manager at LCC will also be embarking on an Everest Base Camp pilgramage, which was funded by LCC in a charity auction for the “Cure for Life Foundation” Nicholas Assef WWW.LCC.ASIA | 25 June 2014 Practical actions and measurable outcomes Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses Principle’s 1 and 2 of the UNGC continue to provide LCC with a clear guide on the importance of supporting and respecting the protection of internationally proclaimed should support and human rights and in ensuring that the firm is not complicit in human rights abuses. LCC’s respect the protection business continues to develop on a cross border basis and we engage with companies and of internationally individuals that have cross-border interests. As such these first two Principles remain of the utmost importance. In our preliminary due diligence, LCC ensures that the company, its proclaimed human subsidiaries and the individuals within it engage in ethical business practices and enforce rights; and human rights protections in their policies and procedures from the top down. LCC works heavily in the resources sector and with mid-cap companies in this space. Given the sector’s Principle 2: Business infamy with human rights lawsuits, LCC is careful to analyse both the management’s should make sure that business practices, as well as operations at ground level such as at mine sites. In a region they are not complicit in where human rights abuses have traditionally been associated with corrupt governments human rights abuses. and businesses, LCC is very careful with whom it conducts business with. The UNGC’s principles are upheld by LCC in our ongoing work with children’s charities in developing nations. Through our interactions with these organisations we continue to learn of unacceptable circumstances where children are forced into human trafficking, in direct conflict with Principle 1– “Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights.” For many years LCC has been working with the Blue Dragon Children’s Foundation in Vietnam. In our last report LCC referenced funding the ongoing educations of three victims of human trafficking supported by Blue Dragon Children’s Foundation in Vietnam. The results of this initiative have been staggering. LCC’s funding provided tuition for three Vietnamese girls rescued from the sex trade in China. Upon their return, all three decided to continue their educations; two are in the process of completing university, and one finished high school in May 2014. The university students are named Phuong* and Thanh*; Phuong is studying social work and hopes to work with other survivors of sex trafficking at Blue Dragon in the future. Thanh will complete university with a degree in maths. The high school student, Linh*, took her entrance exams in spring of 2014 to enter the university of her choice in Hanoi. With generous funding from LCC, Blue Dragon hired three qualified tutors to work individually with Phuong, Thanh and Linh. All three students were also provided with books required for their school year. With extra tutoring and the necessary materials, these young ladies have excelled in their respective courses. All three young women continue to attend regular group and individual therapy sessions with Blue Dragon’s psychologist. They have all made excellent progress in their mental and emotional health; completing their educations with support from LCC has been a positive boost to their self-confidence and provided them practical tools to build happy and stable futures. *names changed for privacy purposes Gobal Compact 2013 | 3 Practical actions and measurable outcomes Human Rights con’t... CEO of Variety NSW, David Small, was thrilled to have this support when it comes to this serious condition, explaining… “Alopecia Areata is a growing problem for children in Australia. Losing their hair not only leads to self-esteem issues but bullying by other children. The Variety Suction Human Hair wigs, funded through the Princess Charlotte Alopecia Foundation, are virtually undetectable and enable these kids to participate in sport and life in general without the worry of a standard wig coming or being pulled from their head.” The UNGC’s human rights realted principles are further upheld in our committment to President of AAAF, Chel raising awareness of Alopecia Areata; a serious and incurable medical condition where sufferers traumatically and without explanation suddenly lose their scalp and body hair. Campbell also shares the same view… Over the 2013-14 period, LCC established partnerships with various organisations including Variety, the Children’s Charity, Alopecia Areata Australia Foundation (AAAF) “With Nicholas’ drive to and the 12ft Skiff Association. This partnership saw to LCC’s launch of cureareata.org promote awareness and and commencement of various initiatives over the year. The first of these initiatives was passion to find a cure into the Ironman 70.3 in October 2013, to raise funds towards Variety’s Princess Charlotte Alopecia Areata, the AAAF Alopecia Program. relationship with cureareata. Sufferers of Alopecia Areata are prone to high levels of anxiety and depression from the org is perfect for bringing pschychological impacts of their condition. For children in particular losing their hair together the entire Alopecia not only leads to self-esteem issues but bullying by other children. Areata Community.” More recently we have joined with AAAF and provided financial support for the production of a new brochure “Coping with Alopecia Areata 2014” whilst also providing information and financing for the writing of a grief paper “Grief & Alopecia Areata”. WWW.LCC.ASIA | 25 June 2014 Practical actions and measurable outcomes Labour Principle 3: Businesses LCC continues to evolve its business practices to ensure that it only deals with organisations that have a demonstrated positive action in relation to Principles 3, 4, 5 should uphold the and 6 of the UNGC or alternatively whose corporate leaders philosophically embrace freedom of association those Principles where immediate evidence of positive action is not readily available. and the effective Additionally LCC has during 2013 / 2014 reviewed its own Employment Contracts for recognition of the right to all staff in order to ensure that the firm’s hiring policy also furthers our commitment to collective bargaining; ensuring fair practice and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation in line with the Anti-Discrimination Act 1977. Additionally, LCC has Principle 4: the continued a ‘no securities trading policy’ to ensure the highest ethical standards are elimination of all forms maintained by all staff who handle sensitive client information. of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Gobal Compact 2013 | 5 Practical actions and measurable outcomes Environment Principle 7: Businesses LCC understands the importance of promoting greater environmental responsibility, and the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principles should support a 8 and 9 of the UNGC provide LCC a good reference to these matters of global precautionary approach sustainability. Internally we continue to operate cloud base file management software to environmental which measurably reduces the amount of paper generation. The firm’s Staff Orientation Guide communicates the importance of “paperless policies”, encouraging staff to utilize challenges; the recyclable bin in-house whereby documents are destroyed of by a third party. Principle 8: undertake Documents are also scanned onto our cloud document management system for future reference and filing, as opposed to hard copy filing. We also, wherever possible, request initiatives to promote from third party providers online invoices. The growing trend of communicating greater environmental through digital channels and of organisation’s opting to charge customers for hardresponsibility; and copy invoices, has made this decision both an effective environmental and economic one. We also use the same approach for our invoicing methods via email. Principle 9: encourage Making sure that our workplace employs current technologies allows a high level of the development energy efficiency. All computers are set to run with “sleep” and nightly “shut down” and diffusion of timers in place. This effectively cuts down on energy consumption. environmentally friendly LCC maintains strict in-house policies on the recycling of e-waste. The firm uses a technologies. high grade printer from Konica, the agreement of which includes the re-cycling of used printer cartridges and printer hardware. We also recycle computer hardware that have reached their end of life wherever possible. LCC has implemented new printing measures where all staff are to print non-client facing documents in “Greyscale/Toner SAVE Mode” as opposed to “Full Print Quality Mode”. These printing measures have seen an 80% decrease in printing costs while also lengthening the life of ink cartridges and toners. At the end of 2013 we moved into a new building that is driven by it’s commitment to sustainability. Primarily building management focuses on improving sustainability performance through management of resource consumption. Their environmental strategy aims to minimise the overall environmental impact of operations, both in the development of new properties and in the management and operation of existing properties. LCC’s office building has achieved a 4.5 star NABERS Energy rating and a 3.5 star average NABERS Water rating following the completion of the three year DEXUS NABERS Energy and NABERS Water Rating Improvement Program in 2012. WWW.LCC.ASIA | 25 June 2014 Practical actions and measurable outcomes Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses During 2013 LCC has continued to evolve a simple but mandatory risk assessment process for each potential client engagement where threshold questions must be should work against answered in order to satisfy LCC that the client both engages in good corporate corruption in all its forms, practice and has a business model that is consistent with UNGC standards. including extortion and We have also strengthened our client engagement contracts to reinforce the bribery. requirements of high standards of corporate governance combined with requirements of transparency and anti-corruption practices in each and every client. In the Firm’s engagement letters we go further to referring to our UNGC involvement and suggesting to clients that they should consider joining the initiative as well. LCC is a licensed financial services provider, holding a Financial Services Licence and is therefore ASIC compliant. The Firm’s Employment Contracts communicates a very strict no share trading policy that all Employees must adhere to. Given the sensitive nature of our work, this is a fundamental requirement. Our core business involves dealing directly with Boards and Senior executives. The UNGC directly addresses the role of corporate Boards in moving their companies towards sustainable practice policies. LCC is then challenged to ensure its ongoing commitment to the UNGC by choosing to work with CEO’s, Boards of Directors and Shareholders that promote a demonstrated respect for environmental, anti-corruption, labour and human rights policies that are in line with the UNGC. Gobal Compact 2013 | 7 Summation In this annual Communication on Progress, LCC has described, explained and discussed the importance of the initiatives, practical actions and steps we have taken to enhance our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact during 2013. This has involved analysis, due diligence, introduction of policies and procedures and philanthropic initiatives within the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We have incorporated the Ten Principles further into our corporate culture and firm identity through the continuation of support for various charitable organisations and initiatives supporting and working for children in our region suffering from incurable medical conditions, the plight of poverty, human rights abuses and lack of education. We continue to uphold ethical business practices and seek to work with individuals and organisations that also maintain and uphold these values. Our work in 2013 has certainly been guided around the fundamental human right to equality and respect. This has been clearly demonstrated in LCC’s Cure Areata Initiatives. These initiatives are expected to grow over coming years – we are pleased with their progress and eagerly await the good results we expect to see in 2014. About Lincoln Crowne & Company® LCC is a trusted, independent securities dealer specialising in the delivery of strategic Mergers & Acquisitions advice. As a boutique corporate finance firm, LCC has expertise in guiding Boards of Directors and Shareholders through complex Mergers & Acquisitions and Corporate Strategy Engagements. LCC’s approach to all engagements is based on both technical and economic fundamentals, and how these fundamentals translate into shareholder value. LCC’s core principles are based on the understanding that its purpose as a Firm is to deliver deal making expertise, innovative thinking, deep commercial and financial judgment, and clear independent advice. WWW.LCC.ASIA | 25 June 2014 LCC Community Focus LCC’S corporate social responsibility strategy has four focus areas; PHILANTHROPY lincolncrownefoundation.org The Lincoln Crowne Foundation is an extension of the Firm’s corporate social responsibility arm that director, Nicholas Assef initiated. The Foundation’s main purpose is to support and extend partnership development to grass roots charities. GOVERNANCE unglobalcompact.org We are governed by our commitment as a signatory to the UN Global Compact. The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies to ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. ACADEMIA bond.edu.au LCC and Bond University has established a relationship around the importance of success, academic integrity and outstanding performance. To this end, LCC has sponsored various faculty awards in both the Business and Law Schools. SPORT lincolncrownesailing.com.au LCC has sponsored 12 and 16ft skiffs in Sydney, over numerous sailing seasons and championships. In partnership with Variety the Children’s Charity, Nicholas Assef proudly supported the Variety Port Jackson 12ft Skiff Championships. This event marked the launch of a series of projects committed to raising support for Alopecia Areata, which is a medical condition of which there is no known cure. Gobal Compact 2013 | 9 Lincoln Crowne & Company AUSTRALIAN OFFICE HONG KONG REP OFFICE Suite 1 Level 30, 20/F One International Finance Centre, Governor Phillip Tower, 1 Farrer Place, 1 Harbour View Street, Sydney NSW 2000 AUSTRALIA Central Hong Kong, HONG KONG T: +612 9262 2121 F: +612 8088 1239 T: +852 3960 6532 F: +852 3669 8008 WWW.LCC.ASIA
