KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 03 Contents About This Report This is the fourth KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report since KDB Daewoo Securities became the first Korean securities firm to publish a sustainability report in 2006. The About This Report 34 02 company published its 2013 sustainability report, with the purpose of disclosing to our stakeholders the company’s sustainability management activities and performance in a CEO Message transparent way. 04 KDB Daewoo Securities Highlight Think Reporting Guidelines 07 Responsibility This report was compiled based on the G3.1 Guidelines of GRI (Global Reporting Initiative), which are global guidelines for sustainability reports, and the Financial 16 Services Sector Supplement Guidelines. It is also based on the ten major principles of the UN Global Compact, which the company has supported since 2006. Reporting Period Think Prosperity All information in this report is based on the three years from 2010 to 2012 inclusive. For financial information, fiscal years were used according to the company’s public Customers Cover Story 36 announcement system. Non-financial information uses calendar years, with footnotes ‘Think’ is the key word for the company’s brand communications strategy. It is also the slogan for Shareholders/Investors added for information that does not satisfy the criteria above. Some qualitative the KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report information deemed important from the first half of 2013 has also been included. 2013, embodying our philosophy of thinking first 46 about our stakeholders at all times. Employees Reporting Scope 58 The scope of this report encompasses the company HQ, the Human Resources Local Communities Company Profile Development Institute, the IT Center, our domestic branch network, and our overseas 74 18 subsidiaries and offices. It is based on where KDB Daewoo Securities performs actual Corporate Governance business activities; however, where data collection was excessively difficult owing to 22 94 restrictions in relation to material management and assessment, the reporting scope was defined as business sites solely in Korea, excluding overseas business sites such Ethical & Transparent Management as overseas subsidiaries, offices, etc. 24 Appendix Third Party Assurance To ensure the complete internal and external credibility of this report, we requested third-party assurance from DNV, a professional assurance organization. DNV’s detailed opinion is on page 96 of this report. The assessment checked how well the report applied GRI criteria, and it confirmed that the report has earned an application rating 26Think of A+. Sustainability Additional Information Major Characteristics of the Report of the Report This report was created with the aim of further strengthening stakeholder UN Global Compact For further information or any suggestions on the report, please contact: communications by advancing the stakeholder management system and identifying 95 Address: KDB Daewoo Securities Bldg., major issues through in-depth interviews to reflect them in the report’s content. In Third Party’s Assurance Statement 56, Gukjegeumyung-ro, Yeongdeungpo-gu, addition, a progressive matrix was created for an easy understanding of the company’s 96 Seoul 150-716, Korea sustainability management performance and execution. Finally, the task force team Tel: +82-2-768-2130 Sustainability Management System GRI Index which created this report voted for the best stakeholder management activities to create Fax: +82-2-768-2119 98 E-mail: irteam@dwsec.com the Special Features. 28 Stakeholder Participation GRI Statement 30 104 Membership 105 04 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 05 CEO Message KDB Daewoo Securities is continuing to grow, thanks to the sincere interest and support of all our stakeholders. We shape a sustainable future by creating the balance between economic, social, and environmental values. Dear KDB Daewoo Securities stakeholders, I would like to begin by thanking you most sincerely for your unwavering trust and interest in KDB Daewoo Securities. More and more emphasis is being placed these days not just on what growth is being achieved, but on how sustainable corporate growth can be realized. Since becoming the first company in the Korean securities industry to issue a sustainability report, KDB Daewoo Securities has continued to strengthen its communications with its stakeholders. We are constantly seeking to be a company that undertakes real sustainability management by engaging in diverse activities, and thinking in-depth about the kind of company we want to build. This KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 will share with all our stakeholders our activities across various fields, including the economy, society, the environment, and the outcomes of those activities. Amidst the ongoing uncertainties in the global economy, we continue to strengthen the company’s fundamentals and diversify the sources of our revenues through innovation and challenge, thus building the foundations of our sustainable growth. We will undertake responsible sustainability management which contributes to the success of customers and shareholders, the happiness of our staff, and the development of local communities. In wealth management, we have boosted the competitiveness of our financial products and We will focus the following four areas in our efforts to create a better society for all stakeholders services, based on detailed analyses of market changes, which has in turn enabled our total client and to ensure sound finances. assets to surpass KRW 110 trillion, building a firm foundation for asset management business. There were major achievements in investment banking, such as becoming the first company in Korea to arrange the issuance of a hybrid bond for a public corporation, and our participation We will focus on customer-centric management and our business integrity to in a biomass power generation project in Britain, the largest project of its kind in the world. Our improve customer satisfaction and protection. sales and trading division improved its capital efficiency by expanding its foreign currency bond We are committed to thinking from a customer perspective. This includes building better customer management business, helping to make this division a key source of profitability. We are committed communication channels, such as Voice of Customers and Viewfinder D, and role-playing trainings to building up our overseas network, so that we can become a truly global financial investment to strengthen our staff’s ability in customer services. In addition, we continually examine our sales company. As part of that commitment, we acquired the management right for e-Trading Securities practices so that every detail is considered and accounted for in protecting financial customers. We in Indonesia, and established subsidiaries in Singapore and Mongolia, despite the challenging global will adopt even the smallest changes if that will benefit our customers, so that the thoughts of our economic environment. customers become those of our company. We could not have achieved these successes on our own. They were supported by the sincere interest and support of all our stakeholders, including customers, shareholders, investors, staff, and our local communities. We strive to share our successes with our stakeholders, and to provide We will establish a foundation for sustainable growth and maximize shareholder better value to the nation and to society as a whole. value through innovation and challenge. As a result of these efforts, in 2012 KDB Daewoo Securities was listed on the Dow Jones Innovation will drive advances in our financial products and management, and we will continue to Sustainability Index (DJSI) World for the first time, after the DJSI evaluation which chooses improve our ability to respond quickly to market changes. We will also diversify the sources of our outstanding companies in sustainability management from across the globe. The company was profitability by making investments and by developing the best in asset and risk management skills, then listed for a second consecutive year in 2013, adding to the worldwide recognition of our to strengthen the underpinnings of the company. Our overseas network and product line-up will sustainability management. expand, so that we can meet the diverse financial needs of our customers in Korea and abroad. KDB Daewoo Securities Highlight 06 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 07 110 KRW trillion Total client assets exceeded 2 Consecutive years Listed on the DJSI World for KRW 110 trillion as of end 2012 two consecutive years in 2012 and 2013 Economic Value Social Value Based on the belief that our staffs are our main asset, we will improve both their skills and job satisfaction. We aim to develop global financial leaders. We will continue to offer the best possible training as befits our reputation as a securities firm which develops highly-qualified financial experts. We Think will also build a flexible, lively corporate culture by strengthening our internal communication channels, and by implementing a wide range of staff welfare programs which will further enhance job satisfaction. Compensation will be assessed through fair performance evaluations, so that our entire staff feel appropriately rewarded for their contributions. As such, we will do our utmost to improve work environment of our staff. We are committed to developing the local communities and to spreading a culture you very much! of sharing through sincere social contribution activities. The focus of our social contribution activities is on “providing help to those who need it most”, “through company and staff together”, and “participation in the local community”. In particular, as part of our efforts to spread a culture of sharing, we implemented the ‘Lovemeter’, a voluntary donation program. We have undertaken various support activities for multi-cultural families and children from low-income backgrounds since 2009, and they have become our main social contribution activities. We are also active in overseas, including the Republic of the Congo, KDB Daewoo Securities thinks. Mongolia, and Indonesia, as part of our commitment to fulfilling social responsibilities as a global financial investment company. KDB Daewoo Securities always strives to think from the customer’s perspective, to do our best for shareholders KDB Daewoo Securities stakeholders, and investors, to be in partnership with our staff, and to be There is a saying in Africa that says, “Go alone if you want to go fast, and go together if you want at the heart of local communities. We always remember to go far”. This difficult business environment is likely to persist in Korea and abroad, but we will that our growth came about through the joint efforts of overcome this crisis in partnership with all of our stakeholders. We are proud of our position as a company that has shaped the history of the Korean financial industry. We are now committed to our stakeholders, and we believe that a sustainable future sharing the fruits of our growth so that we can become a trusted, loved, and sustainable company. will be realized when the growth is shared. I would like to express my deepest gratitude to all of our stakeholders for your continued support and encouragement for every step that KDB Daewoo Securities will take in the future. Thank you. President & CEO KDB Daewoo Securities Kibum Kim Our Success Our Share 08 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 09 people Total client assets exceed KRW 110 trillion Listed on the DJSI World financial services category Despite a difficult market environment, including low interest rates and low growth, we introduced for two consecutive years changes to help us become a major player in asset management. Aiming to become an ‘elite PB KDB Daewoo Securities was listed on the DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Index) Asia Pacific for house with top consulting capabilities’, we engaged in advanced asset management, increased the first time in 2010. Then, in 2012, the company gained its first listing on the DJSI World, and has efficiency in customer services, and quickly responded to market changes. As a result, our total client been listed again in 2013, meaning that KDB Daewoo Securities has received global recognition as assets exceed KRW 110 trillion at the end of 2012. a sustainable company for four consecutive years. It is one of 333 companies on the DJSI World, chosen from among approximately 2,500 companies around the world that were evaluated, and is one of only 12 securities firms that were chosen. This is an excellent new milestone for the company. Our Success Our Share 10 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 11 better Received the Grand Prize for management innovation Received a Presidential Citation at the 2012 Korea Securities Awards for supporting multi-cultural families KDB Daewoo Securities received the Grand Prize for management innovation in the securities At the ‘2012 National Multi-cultural Family Support Network Tournament’, KDB Daewoo Securities category at the 2012 Korea Securities Awards, held in November 2012. The company was recognized received a Presidential Citation in recognition of its multi-cultural family support programs that have for building an innovative corporate culture by creating a dedicated management organization for been in place since 2009. The company was praised for its efforts to raise awareness of cultural innovation to establish five major innovation initiatives, and for implementing innovation projects based diversity in Korea, which is becoming a more multi-cultural nation. This served as an opportunity to on its corporate vision of becoming ‘Asia’s pioneer investment bank’. This proves that our efforts reaffirm the company’s sincere commitment to its programs, and to recognize the accomplishments towards financial have received recognition. achieved by these programs. Our Success Our Share 12 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 13 tomorrow Chosen as the best securities firm by ‘Finance Asia’ No. 1 securities firm for brand value At the 2013 Finance Asia Awards held in July 2013, KDB Daewoo Securities won in two categories – In September 2013, KDB Daewoo Securities was named the No. 1 securities firm in Korea for brand ‘Best Securities’ and ‘Best IB’. This was the result of the efforts made to develop our global position value by Brand Stock, a brand value measurement company. While other securities firms have as a Korea’s No. 1 financial investment company despite difficulties in the market environment. Such suffered a steady drop in their brand value, in contrast, KDB Daewoo Securities has continued to efforts include improving our competitiveness in prime brokerage and developing new profit sources, emphasize systematic brand management, including the change of its company name for external such as the acquisition of e-Trading Securities in Indonesia. communications. These efforts enabled KDB Daewoo Securities to overtake Samsung Securities, the long-time winner, to take first place in 2013. 14 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 15 FY2011 KDB Daewoo Securities adopted as company name for external communications On September 9th, 2011, ‘KDB Daewoo Securities’ was adopted as the company name for external communications, and unified with the visual identity of the KDB Financial Group to create synergy. The company’s brand value was increased by Opened the Global Trading Center adopting the global brand of KDB. Subsidiary in Hong Kong completed a capital increase of USD 200 million and FY2012-2013 opened its Global Trading Center The company’s subsidiary in Hong Kong Open HR in selecting the best talent completed a capital increase of USD 200 KDB Daewoo Securities implemented KDB Daewoo Securities million in February 2012. KDB Daewoo Securities became the first Korean securities firm to open a Global Trading Strengthened global alliances its ‘Open HR’ system to discover outstanding talent and to help staff fulfill their potential. This system enables the is moving toward our Center in Hong Kong, enabling it to build company to select the optimal talent know-how on managing foreign currency for the right positions, and helps staff bonds and developing independent strengthen their work skills. goals with the focus overseas management. Installed a customer communication Strengthened global alliances channel – Viewfinder D on sustainability KDB Daewoo Securities has established Vi e w f i n d e r D w a s i n s t a l l e d o n t h e business agreements and strategic Installed the Viewfinder D electronic bulletin board on the 17th partnerships with various overseas floor of the company’s HQ. It is designed financial companies, including IPM in to share customer opinions, and thus Sweden, Marshall Wace in the UK, and to develop a better understanding of Mercury Capital in the USA. In doing so, customer perspectives and ultimately to Despite unfavorable economic conditions, the company strengthened cooperation in offer higher quality service. the capital markets and laid the foundation KDB Daewoo Securities has maintained for further advances in overseas markets. Jump Up project for young social joint growth in partnership with our entrepreneurs Education to develop the financial local communities. We will always strive experts of the future Supported the Jump Up project for young social In June 2012, KDB Daewoo Securities entrepreneurs implemented the Jump Up project, for sustainable growth. In December 2012, KDB Daewoo which involves choosing an outstanding Securities signed an agreement with business start-up team and then the Ministry of Education and Science sponsoring that team to build a social Technology and the Korea Foundation enterprise. Support is provided to enable for the Advancement of Science and the continued growth of young social Creativity to help to develop the financial entrepreneurs. experts of the future. These agreements include a ‘practical course in becoming Created an animation to improve economic and financial experts’ for understanding of multi-cultural families teachers, and the ‘junior finance program’ for elementary school and junior high Together with KBS (Korean Broadcasting school students. System), KDB Daewoo Securities created Created an animation to improve understanding of a TV animation entitled ‘Red Bicycle’, to multi-cultural families air every Friday starting in August 2013. This animation series is intended to improve understanding of multi-cultural families. 16 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 17 No.1 Competitiveness and reputation as a leading financial investment company in Korea No.1 Established an advanced corporate governance system for ethical and transparent management Prosperity We pursue prosperity and happiness for all of our stakeholders. We are opening the door to a new future by building on economic value that we have generated as a leading financial investment company in Korea over the last 40 years, and by increasing social and environmental value as a model corporate citizen. 18 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 Think Prosperity Think Sustainability Think Responsibility Appendix 19 Company Profile Corporate Governance Ethical & Transparent Management Company Profile KDB Daewoo Securities is the top financial investment company in Korea. We lead the industry in revenues, total shareholders’ equity and market share. Company Overview Size and Status History of KDB Daewoo Securities KDB Daewoo Securities was founded in September 1970, and KDB Daewoo Securities is Korea’s largest comprehensive Established in 1970, KDB Daewoo Securities has led the Korean capital markets for more than 40 years, and is now advancing has grown alongside the development of the Korean capital financial investment company, with 105 domestic branches, towards an even better future. It will develop into a global financial investment company that grows in partnership with all its markets. With its strong reputation, KDB Daewoo Securities seven overseas subsidiaries, three representative offices, and stakeholders. has led the development of the Korean financial industry by one branch overseas. Headquartered in Yeouido, Seoul, KDB taking it in new directions, and pioneering new markets. KDB Daewoo Securities had 3,109 employees all of whom are Daewoo Securities seeks to go beyond national boundaries striving to offer top-quality financial services to customers in 1970-1980s Global Network and become a truly global comprehensive financial investment Korea and abroad. Sep. 23, 1970 Established Dong Yang Securities Co., Ltd. company, based on its market-leading competitiveness and Oct. 20, 1983 Changed company name to reputation. Daewoo Securities Co., Ltd. Dec. 19, 1983 Acquired Sambo Securities Co., Ltd. May 14, 1984 Established the Korea Fund for the first time in Korea Key Information (As of March 31, 2013) London May 19, 1984 Opened the Daewoo Economics Mongolia Research Institute Name KDB Daewoo Securities Co., Ltd. Sep. 28, 1984 Became the first Korean securities company New York Headquarters KDB Daewoo Securities Building, Gukjegeumyung-ro 56, Yeongdeungpo-Gu, Seoul, Korea to open an office in New York Beijing Tokyo Seoul Feb. 13, 1988 Established Daewoo Investment Advisory Establishment September 23, 1970 Shanghai Dec. 28, 1989 Established MHB-Daewoo Bank CEO Kibum Kim HongKong ▶ Ho Chi Minh City Domestic Network 105 Branches 1990s Indonesia Singapore Overseas Network 7 Overseas Subsidiaries, 1 Branch, 3 Representative Offices May 03, 1991 Established a subsidiary in Europe No. of Employees 3,109 Jun. 01, 1992 Became the first Korean securities company Key Business Areas Brokerage, IB, Wealth Management, Sales & Trading to acquire approval to do business in China J ul. 07, 1992 Established a subsidiary in New York Share Ownership KDB Financial Group 43.0%, Individuals 31.6%, Foreigners 13.4%, Institutions 10.6%, Treasury Stock 1.4% Feb. 03, 1993 Established a joint venture bank in Vietnam Oct. 23, 1993 Completed construction of the Information Center Beijing, China Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam • Beijing Representative Office • Ho Chi Minh Representative Office J ul. 27, 1994 Held the Korean securities industry’s Organization Chart first securities forum • KDB Daewoo Investment Advisory (As of August 31, 2013) Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia Sep. 29, 1994 Established a subsidiary in Hong Kong (Beijing) Co., Ltd. • KDB Daewoo Securities (Mongolia) LLC May 13, 1996 Established Seoul Investment Trust BOD General Shanghai, China Management Company Shareholders’ Meeting • Shanghai Representative Office Tokyo, Japan Oct. 01, 1999 Became fully independent • Tokyo Branch Office from Daewoo Group Prime Brokerage Service Unit Hong Kong • KDB Daewoo Securities (Hong Kong) Ltd. New York, USA Audit Committee ▶ Customer Asset Trading Unit 2000s • KDB Daewoo Securities (America) Inc. Singapore Business Growth Strategy Unit • KDB Daewoo Securities (Singapore) Ltd. London, UK May 16, 2000 Korea Development Bank • KDB Daewoo Securities (Europe) Ltd. becomes largest shareholder Jakarta, Indonesia CEO Business Unit Planning & Management Unit Oct. 28, 2009 Established KDB Financial Group • PT. KDB Daewoo Securities (Indonesia) Business Management Unit Oct. 15, 2010 Marked the 40th anniversary Corporate Corporate Social of company founding Social Responsibility Responsibility Corps Risk Management Unit Secretariat Aug. 30, 2011 Opening ceremony for the Tokyo branch Nov. 07, 2011 AA+ rating assigned Research Center by the Korea Investors Service Future Planning Institute May 03, 2012 Capital increase of USD 100 million Information Technology Center for subsidiary in Hong Kong Business Division Apr. 18, 2013 Acquired 80% shareholding and Legal Affairs Unit management control of e-Trading Securities of Indonesia Compliance Unit Jun. 24, 2013 Held the opening ceremony for a subsidiary in Mongolia Wealth Financial Product Investment Banking Sales & Trading Wholesale Global Business Management Marketing Division Business Division Divison Business Division Division Business Division 20 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 Think Prosperity Think Sustainability Think Responsibility Appendix 21 Company Profile Corporate Governance Ethical & Transparent Management Vision and Five Steps to Management Innovation Main Business Areas KDB Daewoo Securities is implementing five steps to management innovation to help it become a global investment bank. These innovations will fulfill the corporate vision of becoming ‘Asia’s pioneer investment bank’ and will be pivotal in KDB Financial Wealth Management Leading Financial Products Group’s progress towards becoming ‘Asia’s pioneer financial group’. KDB Daewoo Securities’ wealth management business Folione Folione is a smart financial product provides advisory services on the purchase and sale of which adjusts the relative proportions of securities-related assets in accordance with financial investments such as stocks, futures, options and asset allocation signals developed by KDB ELW, and charges commissions on those services. The Daewoo Securities, and thus strikes the right company has seen substantial growth since 2007, thanks to balance between higher-risk and safe assets. its abilities in structured financing products and sales. The Folione Global – China was released in 2013 to allow investments in China. company’s wealth management balance is an industry-leading KDB Financial Group’s vision KRW 50 trillion. Asia’s Leading Financial Group ELS·DLS ELS-DLS generates predetermined 준법감시인 심사필 제44-000호(2012. 10. 00 ~ 2013. 00. 00) Sales & Trading profits using securities, bonds, and 수익성과 안정성을 동시에 추구 A financial group that is constantly breaking new ground derivatives, even when the price of the in the Korean financial industry KDB Daewoo Securities generates profits from the sales and underlying assets goes down by a certain trading of stocks, bonds and derivatives, such as ELS and amount. This is a customizable product, so DLS, and from proprietary trading. The company is developing that customers can structure it according to 저금리, 박스권 증시에도 문제없다! this business further to become a driver of growth for the their personal requirements, including full or KDB대우증권 ELS partially guaranteed principal. ■ KDB대우증권은 복잡한 파생상품적 성격을 포함하는 본 상품의 특징, 위험성 등에 관해 충분히 설명할 의무가 있으며, 고객님은 충분한 설명을 듣고 개개인의 투자목적과 투자성향, 상품의 투자위험등급을 필히 확인하 신 후 투자하시기 바랍니다. ■ 상품구조에 따라 원금손실 때로는 원금전부손실이 발생할 수 있으며, 투자자 요청에 의한 중도상환 시 원금손실이 발생할 수 있습니다. ■ 본 파생결합증권(이하 본 증권)은 한국거래소에 상 장되지 않아 장내에서 거래할 수 없으므로 유동성이 극히 제한됩니다. ■ 본 증권에서 발생하는 최초 발행가액 대비 초과소득은 배당소득으로 과세됩니다. ■ 본 증권은 예금자보호법에 따라 예금보험공사가 보호하지 않 company. 습니다. ■ 본 증권에 대한 유의사항 및 각종 용어의 정의와 관련하여 투자설명서, 간이투자설명서를 참고해 주시기 바랍니다. KDB Daewoo Securities’ vision Laying the foundation for becoming a global leading IB Asia’s Leading Investment Bank Five Steps to Investment Banking Golden Age This product provides customers As one of Asia’s premier financial groups, we are leading Management Innovation KDB Daewoo Securities provides comprehensive financial with monthly payments amounting to 0.5% markets in Korea and overseas while also securing core of their investment principal, an annual 6%, solutions, ranging from direct financings through financial competencies based on continuous change and innovation in cash to contribute towards a happy postCustomer-Focused markets, including IPOs, capital increases, corporate bond retirement life. The strength of this product Globally Competitive issuance, and structured financing, to advisory services, lies in its stability, achieved through careful Strategically KDB-tuned including consulting, M&A, project financing, and private asset allocation. equity funds. The company’s industry-leading structuring capabilities and deal sourcing have enabled it to execute many major deals and become Korea’s No. 1 investment bank. Special RP (Repurchase Agreement) This high-interest product provides an interest Profit-driven management to Global rate of an annual 4% for new customers. The RD maximize With its International Business Unit (Global Equity Sales stipulated investment period is 1 year, but the WA shareholder value product can be resold at any time; if it is resold FOR Speed management Department) in Korea and multiple offices overseas (seven before maturity, the interest rate applied is for timely decision tion making subsidiaries, one overseas branch, and three overseas about the same as that of RP products with Innova Global management offices), KDB Daewoo Securities is accumulating expertise on no fixed maturity. to ensure future growth foreign currency bonds and international management, thus Vision-oriented increasing the company’s ability to advance into new business Active management to management to realize Pension Savings Unlike other pension adapt to and lead every employee’s areas. This will enable the company to respond to the global savings products, KDB Daewoo Securities changes in the market potential market, pioneer new markets, and expand its overseas allows the early, tax-free withdrawal of paidnetwork. in principal that is not subject to income tax OW nN deduction, without the customer having to io at close the account. This offers tax benefits of ov Inn up to an annual KRW 4 million, and customers benefit from diversified investments and product replacement. 22 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 Think Prosperity Think Sustainability Think Responsibility Appendix 23 Company Profile Corporate Governance Ethical & Transparent Management Corporate Governance Our advanced corporate governance system guarantees the independence of the BOD and operates independent and professional sub-committees. BOD Policies and Activity Committees under the BOD Composition of BOD BOD Decision Making Process Steering Committee Risk Management Committee KDB Daewoo Securities has a single board system. Its BOD is Unless otherwise specified in relevant laws, resolutions This Committee is in charge of examining and adopting This Committee formulates risk management strategies that comprised of two standing directors, one non-standing director, are passed by the affirmative votes of the majority of the resolutions concerning the company’s organizational strategy are in line with the company’s overall strategy, and supervises and four outside directors. Having four outside directors, a directors in attendance, where the majority of directors are in light of the prevailing business environment. It consists of management activities from a risk perspective. It is comprised majority of the BOD, results in transparency and neutrality. in attendance. Any director who has a special interest in three or more directors, including the CEO, who serves as of three or more directors, and includes two outside directors. KDB Daewoo Securities’ CEO serves as the BOD chairman. the agenda at the meeting is prohibited from exercising his/ the Committee’s chairman. A total of 25 Committee meetings Nine Committee meetings were held from 2011 to 2012. The Audit Committee consists of one internal director and two her voting rights. Outside director candidates are chosen were held from 2011 to 2012. outside directors. through the Outside Director Nomination Committee and then Audit Committee recommended at the General Shareholders’ Meeting, after Outside Director Nomination Committee This Committee handles work related to the auditing of the which final appointments are made. This Committee screens and selects candidates to be outside company’s accounts. It is also responsible for assessing BOD Composition directors on the BOD, and recommends the candidates the company’s internal control systems and management Executive Directors (Standing) BOD Performance Evaluation at the regular General Shareholders’ Meeting. It is also in performance. It consists of three or more directors, of • Currently President & CEO of KDB Daewoo Securities After the end of each business year, a self-evaluation is charge of handling matters related to reviewing the efficiency whom at least two-thirds are outside directors, to ensure the • CEO of Meritz Securities carried out focusing on factors such as the duties performed of each Board sub-committee. All of the four incumbent independence of the Committee. An outside director serves as • Managing Director for International Business at Daewoo Kibum Kim Securities by outside directors, the efficiency of BOD operations, outside directors were recommended by the Outside the Committee chairman. 27 Committee meetings were held (1956.10) Member: Steering Committee, Risk Management Committee, governance structures, and the committees under the BOD. Director Nomination Committee and elected at the General from 2011 to 2012. Compensation Committee, Outside Director This is in accordance with ‘Model standards on operating and Shareholders’ Meeting. One new outside director was elected Nomination Committee managing outside directors and an audit committee of financial in 2013. Two Committee meetings were held from 2011 to Compensation Committee • Currently Statutory Auditor of KDB Daewoo Securities • Head of Tokyo Representative Office at Financial investment companies, etc.’ The outcome of the evaluation 2012. This Committee establishes the remuneration ceiling for SonghanYoon Supervisory Service is announced publicly to the Korea Financial Investment executives to be laid before the General Shareholders’ • Director of Coordination Planning Secretariat at Financial (1957.09) Supervisory Service Association ahead of the regular General Shareholders’ Meeting. It decides on performance remuneration for Member: Audit Committee Meeting. registered executives and executive officers. It consists Executive Directors (Non-Standing) of three or more directors, with outside directors in the • Currently Non-Standing Director of KDB Daewoo Securities BOD Activities majority. It also includes two directors who are members of • Currently President of KDB Financial Group • Director & Division Head of Strategic Management Division The BOD finalizes management goals for each business year. the Risk Management Committee, to ensure a performance Manho Yoon (1955.01) at Korea Development Bank It decides on and supervises major policies and activities remuneration system that is connected to risk. Five Committee Member: Steering Committee, Outside Director Nomination related to corporate management. In 2012 there were 17 BOD meetings were held from 2011 to 2012. Committee meetings and the director attendance rate was 97%. Non-Executive Directors • Currently Senior Non-Executive Director of KDB Daewoo Securities BOD Sub-committees Sangwoo Kim • Statutory Auditor of Cho Heung Bank (1945.08) • Deputy Assistant Governor of Financial Supervisory Service BOD Meetings and Activities from 2010 through 2012 Board of Directors Member: Steering Committee, Compensation Committee • Currently Non-Executive Director of KDB Daewoo Securities 97.14 • Deputy Governor of Political Affairs at Gyeongsang Nam Do 96.64 Jungho Kang Province • Executive Director of Korea Futures Exchange 90.23 (1948.12) Member: Risk Management Committee, Audit Committee, Steering Outside Director Compensation Audit Committee Nomination Risk Management Outside Director Nomination Committee 19 Committee Committee (1 Executive Director Committee Committee 17 (2 Executive (1 Executive Director • Currently Non-Executive Director of KDB Daewoo Securities & 2 Non-Executive (1 Executive Director Directors & 1 Non(2 Executive Directors & 2 Non-Executive • President and CEO of The Kosdaq Stock Market, Inc. 15 Directors) & 2 Non-Executive Executive Director) & 3 Non-Executive Directors) Hojoo Shin • Director-General Directors) Council of Finance and Economy Cooperation Directors) (1949.12) Member: Risk Management Committee, Audit Committee, Outside Director Nomination Committee • Appointment and dismissal of • Establishment of yearly audit plan • Recommendation of • Decisions on remuneration • Setting of ceiling amount for managers • Appointment of outside auditors candidates for outside for registered executives risks (VaR) for each quarter • Currently Non-Executive Director of KDB Daewoo Securities • Branch relocation and shutdown • Appointment of Audit Committee directors and Audit and executive officers • Amendments to risk • Deliberation Committee Member of Credit Counseling & • Reorganization chairperson Committee members who • Amendments to management regulations Keesang Cho Recovery Service are outside directors remuneration regulations • Changes to members of • Director of Financial Affairs at Lotte Capital • Appointment and dismissal of • Examination of agenda items of (1953.07) 2010 2011 2012 executive officers the regular general shareholders’ • Appointment of risk-related council Member: Audit Committee, Outside Director Nomination Compensation Committee meeting and documents Committee No. of BOD Meetings Director Attendance (%) chairperson • Approval of audited reports (As of September 30, 2013) 24 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 Think Prosperity Think Sustainability Think Responsibility Appendix 25 Company Profile Corporate Governance Ethical & Transparent Management Ethical & Transparent Management We share a company-wide understanding of the need for effective corporate governance, to build an ethical and transparent work environment. Ethical & Transparent Management Policies Internal Control Systems KDB Daewoo Securities has set up company-wide internal control systems as part of its efforts to build an ethical and transparent Ethical Management System Implementing Ethical Management business environment. It prohibits staff from engaging in political activities, and monitors exposure to the risk of corruption at all To ensure ethical management and enhance transparency, Compliance Headquarters has been designated to take charge company premises, thus contributing to the sound growth of financial markets. KDB Daewoo Securities has established a ‘Code of Ethics’ of the systematic implementation and supervision of our and a ‘Code of Conduct’, and we are systematically managing ethical management. Preventing the Inflow of Illegal Funds Company Inspections them. KDB Daewoo Securities has an internal system in place that To establish a company-wide internal control system, KDB Compliance Department is designed to root out illegal financial transactions such as Daewoo Securities creates an internal control checklist for The Code of Ethics The Compliance Department is responsible for establishing and money laundering and the financing of terrorism. This system each department and branch, and then conducts inspections The Code of Ethics stipulates ethical principles and behavioral managing the overall ethical management execution system. It also places great emphasis on the relevant staff training. using the checklist. The checklist notes what needs to be guidelines to help staff engage in appropriate behavior and helps staff to gain a good understanding of the Code of Ethics, inspected on a daily, weekly, monthly, and half-yearly basis, make proper value judgments. A ‘ceremony of commitment to and to put it into practice. Establishing the TMS System and reflects the individual characteristics of each department ethics and compliance’ is held every year in connection with and branch. KDB Daewoo Securities has been operating its TMS the annual event celebrating the company’s founding, with Establishing a Company-wide Compliance System (Transaction Monitoring System) to effectively block the inflow every staff member taking part. Continuous efforts are made KDB Daewoo Securities appoints compliance officers for Ethics and Compliance Reporting Systems and outflow of illegal funds since 2009. It is designed to to establish a fully ethical and compliance-focused culture and the independent supervision of ethics and compliance. A ensure the active and effective prevention of financial crime KDB Daewoo Securities receives reports on violations in mindset. compliance manager (usually the deputy branch manager) and by analyzing scenarios and undertaking mandatory customerrelation to ethics and compliance through a variety of means, other compliance personnel are appointed at each branch to checking functions. including the Intranet, telephone, and e-mail. All reports are Day of Ethics and Compliance ensure the implementation of a corporate-wide ethics and received by the Compliance Department and incentives are The first Wednesday of each month is designated the ‘Day of compliance system. Mandatory Training on the Prevention of offered to staffs who submit such reports, to encourage active Ethics and Compliance’. Every staff member is given training Money Laundering participation in the reporting system. on ethics and compliance, and there are internal inspections to To promote the understanding of our money laundering prevent financial irregularities. Financial Irregularities & Corruption Reporting Center Organization for Ethical Management prevention systems, staff receive online mandatory training at least once a year. This training is part of the company’s efforts The Customer Support Center operates the Financial Ethics and Compliance Training BOD to establish a sound financial transaction order. Irregularities & Corruption Reporting Center in connection with The continuous training of our staff strengthens our ethical the VOC (Voice of Customers) system. Through the center, and compliance mindset. The Compliance Department, which customers can quickly report matters related to any financial CEO Audit Committee is in charge of ethical management, provided more than 200 irregularities and corruption committed by staff members. training sessions in 2012. These included online training, Conceptual Table of TMS System Regular Audit seminars, training to prevent improper sales of financial Compliance Officer Committee Member products, training to prevent unfair trading, and internal mystery shopping. Financial Audit Department Obligation to KYC: Customer management obligation, risk evaluation Occurrence of Corruption Cases Compliance confirm customers management, watch list management, CTR report, etc. Consumer Protection Department & Database Department ETL: Organize KYC materials, transaction materials, Subject 2010 2011 2012 Note connection account materials, etc. into a data warehouse KDB Daewoo No. of cases Ethics and Compliance Training Ethical Securities where a measure Data extraction Composition of Compliance Unit management more severe than No. of Trainings Provided Training Hours* Behavior detection engine: Scenario management, behavior violations disciplinary action Money Internal (Unit: Training) (Unit: Hour) detection engine, behavior detection scoring system 7 cases 7 cases 3 cases was taken Compliance Officer and Head of Compliance Unit laundering employees prevention Suspicious transaction investigation: Suspicious transaction 229.5 Financial Consumer management, alert management 205 Compliance Department solution No. of employees Protection Department Measures Dismissal or STR report status management: Organization of reports and dismissed as on corruption disciplinary 1 person None None relevant information, KoFIU (Korea Financial Intelligence Unit) a disciplinary Compliance Compliance Financial Consumer cases action 135 online report interface measure 131 125 Consulting Part Monitoring Part Protection Part 121 • Establish an ethics and • Operate the money • Build and support the Internal and Internal interface: STR (Suspicious Transaction compliance culture laundering prevention consumer protection external system Report) program • Build and support the system system interface External interface: Feedback from KoFIU compliance monitoring system • Engage in monitoring • Handle complaints, etc. 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 • Protect information assets to prevent unfair trade • Monitor other matters • Provide advice on compliance * Total training hours were determined by multiplying training hours by the number of times of training 26 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 27 No.1 Establishing the advanced sustainability management system No.1 First Korean securities company listed on the DJSI World for two consecutive years Sustainability KDB Daewoo Securities regards sustainability management as essential to all of our management activities. By combining quality and continuity in our management, KDB Daewoo Securities shares value with our stakeholders, and maintains the highest standards of transparency in management. 28 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 Think Prosperity Think Sustainability Think Responsibility Appendix 29 Sustainability Management System Stakeholder Participation Sustainability Management System To conduct more systematic and future-oriented sustainability management activities, we set up a sustainability management systems and organization. Sustainability Management Implementation Systems Sustainability Management Performance Strategy for Sustainability Management Sustainability Management Organization Progressive Matrix KDB Daewoo Securities has a strategy for sustainability The CEO is in charge of decision-making for KDB Daewoo To ensure the transparent disclosure of the status of our major initiatives and evaluates progress so far. This enables with focus on six major initiatives based on its six core Securities’ sustainability management activities. These sustainability management performance, KDB Daewoo stakeholders to easily ascertain the performance and status of values of sustainability management – customer value, activities are implemented after review and adjustments by Securities has created a progressive matrix. This discloses the company’s sustainability management. communications, human resource development, shared the Head of the Planning & Management Unit, with execution major execution goals and performance for each of six growth, social contributions, and environmental management. support provided by a taskforce team that consists of Implementation of the relevant initiatives is managed by each members from all relevant departments, including Planning, Achieved In Progress None Applicable relevant department. Information on activities and performance HR, and General Affairs. Initiative Details of Initiative Goals Key Achievement from 2011 to 2013 Status is disclosed in a transparent manner through the company’s sustainability report. Corporate Social Responsibility Corps • Enhance customer satisfaction • Provide CS trainings to employees • Provided CS training to all employees once a year • Strengthen employees’ • Expand customer communication channels • Installed the Viewfinder D at the headquarters Creating In 2013, Corporate Social Responsibility Corps was reorganized sustainable CS competencies • Improve internal customer satisfaction scores • Received 98.8 points in a satisfaction survey conducted on new • Build brand communication and have zero branches receive a score of customers in 2012 (an improvement of 2.1 points from the to strengthen our corporate social responsibilities and to customer value strategies less than 90 points previous year). None received less than 90 points • Increase brand preference and awareness • Launched the brand campaign, ‘Think you very much’ make a stronger connection between the company’s social contribution activities and its sustainability management. This • Stakeholder communication • Build a stakeholder management system • Conducted in-depth stakeholder interviews • Issue a sustainability report • Conduct stakeholder interviews and surveys • Conducted a survey on importance levels and defined has both increased the effectiveness of these activities and Strengthening • Respond to external initiatives • Identify major stakeholder issues major issues stakeholder • Issue the 2013 Sustainability Report • Issued the 2013 Sustainability Report enabled their systematic implementation. communication • Respond to external evaluations such as • Listed on the DJSI World in 2012 and 2013 CDP and DJSI • Strengthen internal • Adopt employee communication programs • Held an X-meeting once a year from 2011 to 2012 communication • Expand employee training programs • The number of employees with CFP, AFPK, and • Promote employee welfare • Increase the number of employees who acquire CPA certificates increased Strategy for Sustainability Management Hiring and • Increase employees’ expertise professional financial certificates • The number of employee training courses in 2012 reached 528 fostering talent in finance • Increase communication among subsidiaries (a year-on-year rise of 16%) • Fully establish and expand career management • Operated the child care center Vision systems Asia’s Pioneer IB • Strengthen investor protection • Strengthen the financial consumer protection • Established the Compliance Unit and the Financial Consumer • Protect customers’ personal organization Protection Department information • Continually improve financial product sales • Received an ‘excellent’ grade for mystery shopping in fund Growing • Comply with fair trade rules practices category from the Financial Supervisory Service from 2011 to 2012 together with • Provide trainings to employees on information • Fund sales of affiliated management companies stood at 16% Strengthening Creating sustainable Hiring and Growing together Fulfilling corporate Leading green partners protection in 2012 Missions stakeholder customer value fostering talent with partners social responsibility finance • Reduce the number of complaints raised • Zero fund-related complaints were raised in 2012 communication by customers • The entire IT staff completed training on information • Diversify fund management companies protection in 2012 Environmental • Spread the culture of sharing • Execute programs to support multi-cultural families • Established the CSR Corps in 2013 Core Values Customer value Communication HRD Shared growth CSR management among employees and to improve the general public’s understanding • Implemented the Jump Up project for young social entrepreneurs • Select and concentrate on key • Increase education for teenagers from low-income • Created an animation for elementary school students to improve Fulfilling contribution programs families understanding of multi-cultural families corporate social • Carry out global social • Support the development of social enterprises • Carried out volunteering in the Democratic Republic of the Congo responsibility contribution activities, together • Continually implement the ‘Lovemeter’ • Employee participation in the ‘Lovemeter’ in 2012 reached 84% with making advancements into • Conduct overseas contribution activities Sustainability Management Organization overseas markets • Develop and manage ESG • Take part in new & renewable energy • Took part in the photovoltaic generation project in Yeongwol and CEO financial products generation projects biomass power generation project in the UK • Counter climate change • Participate in initiatives to counter climate change • Received the 2013 CDP Special Award Leading green • Conduct eco-friendly projects • Reduce amount of energy use • Reduced the amount of paper used by 10% in 2012 from In charge of overall CSR activities finance • Curtail use of paper and expenses the previous year • Manage green finance products • Managed the SRI Funds for a Better World and S&P Clean Energy Fund Head of the Planning & Management Unit Head of a Responsible Division Departments or Parts Company-wide planning and mission, Check, implementation, and review of Implementation of missions coordination, and evaluation missions suggested by departments Listed on 2012/2013 DJSI World The DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Index), jointly implemented on the DJSI Asia Pacific for two consecutive years, in 2010 Auditor/Compliance Officer by Dow Jones of the USA and SAM of Switzerland, involves and 2011, and was then listed on the DJSI World in 2012 and In charge of compliance programs evaluating the quality of sustainability management of around 2013. The company’s high-quality sustainability management 2,500 companies across the globe, and choosing the most has thus gained global recognition. outstanding companies. KDB Daewoo Securities was listed 30 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 Think Prosperity Think Sustainability Think Responsibility Appendix 31 Sustainability Management System Stakeholder Participation Stakeholder Participation Because a sustainable future is shaped through trust and communication, we do our best to communicate actively with as many stakeholders as possible. Stakeholder Management Systems Flow of Value Generation for Stakeholders KDB Daewoo Securities identifies and communicates in depth with all its major stakeholders to systematically manage their A company’s sustained growth is not enabled by the company’s efforts alone it is made possible by the effort and support of interest and expectations. The company attempts to respond quickly and effectively to all major issues raised by stakeholders in all of its stakeholders. KDB Daewoo Securities strives to maximize stakeholder value through the fair distribution of economic relation to the company’s activities. value generated. In fiscal year 2012, the company’s operating revenues reached KRW 3,189.1 billion, which was used for the support and distribution of value amongst major stakeholders, including customers, shareholders/investors, employees, and local Definition of Stakeholder Stakeholder Communication Channels communities. A company’s stakeholders are the individuals and groups that KDB Daewoo Securities has established multiple (Unit: KRW 100 million) have an influence on the company and vice versa. Prudent communication channels to stay up-to-date with stakeholder Category Details FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 management of stakeholders is required for the sustained opinions and expectations. There are regular stakeholder Generated economic value Operating revenue 35,333.0 30,061.9 31,890.9 development of KDB Daewoo Securities. The company has interviews and surveys to ascertain what the major issues are, Employees (Wage + Welfare) 4,036.1 3,305.8 3,582.4 defined four major stakeholders – customers, shareholders/ and information on these is disclosed through the sustainability in vestors, emplo y e e s , a n d lo ca l c o mm u n i t i e s – and report. Customers (Interest) 2,267.1 2,780.8 2,641.9 systematically manages its relationship with them. Distributed economic value Local communities & NGOs (Donations, social contribution activity expenses) 36.6 26.8 27.1 Shareholders/Investors (Dividends) 795.2 536.9 402.9 Corporate tax and other taxes 1,232.5 830.4 541.1 Stakeholder Management Framework Retail Customers, Shareholders, Consumer Organizations Evaluation Organizations Value Creation for Stakeholders s/ S In har Customers purchase KDB Daewoo Securities’ Cu Shareholders/investors own shares of KRW financial products and services by engaging st ve eh KDB Daewoo Securities and take part in the in transactions with the company. KDB Daewoo Securities is striving to protect om er s st o or ld s er company’s decision-making process. KDB Daewoo Securities is striving to maximize 3,189.1 billion customers, who are financial consumers, shareholder and investor value by continually and to deliver top value. generating economic performance. Local Community Business Value Generated by KDB Daewoo Securities in FY 2012 • Customer Service Improvement Council • General shareholders’ meeting KRW 2.7 billion • Voice Of Customers (VOC) • Disclosure Shareholder • Website • Company briefings • Investment briefings un Loc • Investor relations KRW 40.3 billion iti al Em Tax es oy e pl m m es KRW 54.1 billion Co Agencies, Beneficiaries Staff, Executives To fulfill corporate social responsibilities, Customer Great employees are the best assets for a KDB Daewoo Securities is carrying out various financial institute. KDB Daewoo Securities social contribution activities in connection with is doing its best to increase employees KRW 264.2 billion local communities and NGOs. satisfaction towards their work and to enhance their expertise. • CSR Corps KRW • Organizations delegated with social contribution activities Company newsletter • ‘KDB Daewoo Securities People’ Employee 719.6 billion • Website • Labor-Management Council Distributed • X-meeting, Talk. Talk. Talk KRW 358.2 billion Economic Value 32 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 Think Prosperity Think Sustainability Think Responsibility Appendix 33 Sustainability Management System Stakeholder Participation Stakeholder Communications Materiality Test By engaging in close communication with stakeholders, KDB Daewoo Securities identifies issues of importance and is then able to KDB Daewoo Securities conducted a materiality test to define which sustainability management issues are most important to act on them in its corporate activities, thus effectively responding to stakeholder requirements. our stakeholders. Initially, 16 issues were selected by referencing external sustainability management indices, such as GRI and DJSI, and further evaluation led to the identification of nine key issues that are most important to our own internal and external Outline of Stakeholder Interviews Major Issues Identified through Stakeholder Interviews stakeholders. Information on these nine issues have been found to be key to KDB Daewoo Securities’ sustainability management, KDB Daewoo Securities conducted interviews with major To ensure diversity of stakeholder response, at least two inand a mark on the relevant pages will enable readers to find this information easily. stakeholders (customers, shareholders/investors, employees, depth interviews were held within each stakeholder group, and local communities) to ascertain their major subjects of with each interviewee representing different aspects and Materiality Test Process Materiality Test Results interest and expectation, as well as to examine the company’s levels of seniority within that stakeholder group. The following sustainability management activities. For around two weeks details the major issues uncovered as a result of these Step 1. Development of materiality test indices Major issues of stakeholders from July 11th through July 26th 2013, representative figures interviews. By focusing on disclosing information on KDB •Create a pool of issues based on global sustainability management indices, such as GRI and DJSI •To strengthen transparency and from each stakeholder group were invited for in-depth, faceDaewoo Securities’ activities and performance for each issue, Materiality of External Stakeholders •Develop 16 materiality test indices in consideration of expertise of corporate governance to-face interviews. Details on these stakeholder interviews are we strive to effectively respond to stakeholder’s opinions. similarity and relevance •Determination of top management to practice sustainability management provided in the body of this report. Key indices •To establish ethical and transparent Step 2. Survey on materiality corporate culture •Target: 34 internal stakeholders and 46 external stakeholders •Active stakeholder communication Management Relevant indices •To enhance customer satisfaction Stakeholder Interviewees Major Issues Content •Period: Jul. 08 – Jul. 26, 2013 •Method: Online and offline questionnaires through customer-oriented Establishment of an employee culture where autonomy and responsibility coexist 61 management Staff, Joohyeon Kim •To earn more customer trust through New Employees Staff, Juna Lee Full training support and investments in employees for development of global Step 3. Identification of major issues of business integrity 65~68 financial experts KDB Daewoo Securities •To generate sustainable economic Employees •Examination of results from the stakeholder survey on materiality Materiality of Internal Stakeholders performance Support and efforts to increase employee satisfaction towards work 63 •Identification of common major issues from the perspective of •To secure business continuity Executive Director, through risk management Executive Director Establishment of a horizontal and flexible organizational culture 61 internal and external stakeholders Yeongchang Min •Social contribution to grow with local •Selection of nine major issues for KDB Daewoo Securities Provision of top financial services based on expertise 68 communities Sharing of value with customers by providing sincere financial services 40 Retail Customer Mr. Yeongcheol Choi Active communication on KDB Daewoo Securities’ financial products and services 37~39 KDB Daewoo Securities’ Position on Major Issues Customers Relevant Year-round operation of corporate-wide investor protection system 41 Major Stakeholder Issue KDB Daewoo Securities’ Key Performance Content Mystery Shopping Deputy Department Head, Agency (KG Zeroin) Seungyong Woo Strengthening of employee mindset and competencies on investor protection To strengthen transparency and Of the total seven directors at KDB Daewoo Securities, four are outside directors, resulting in increased transparency 38 22~23 through training expertise of corporate governance in BOD operations. Also, there are various BOD sub-committee activities to enhance expertise in decision making. Efforts to maximize shareholder and investor value 47~48 Determination of top management The CSR Volunteer Corps was established to strengthen corporate social responsibilities. The company is engaging Executive to practice sustainability in social contribution in connection with sustainability management. KDB Daewoo Securities was listed on the DJSI 04~06 KDB Financial Group Managing Director, Development of growth drivers for continued generation of economic performance 49~50 management World for two consecutive years in 2012 and 2013, thus gaining external recognition for its outstanding performance. Samgi Jeong Development of the industry’s top risk management capabilities 51~54 Shareholders/ The Code of Ethics was enacted to encourage all employees to practice ethical management. Efforts are being made Investors To establish ethical and to establish a clean corporate culture by continually training employees and by implementing a corruption reporting Active efforts to respond to sensitive issues related to financial institutes 25 24~25 ESG Evaluation transparent corporate culture system. Based on the money laundering monitoring system, the company is contributing to the establishment of a Researcher, Organization (Corporate Disclosure of transparent information on governance operations 22~23 transparent financial environment that is free from illegal funds. Myeongseo Kim Governance Service) Efforts to protect investors through systematic risk management 51~54 Active stakeholder KDB Daewoo Securities operates communication channels all year round in order to receive the opinions of its 30~33 communication stakeholders. It conducts in-depth interviews and surveys to identify and respond to major issues. Efforts to maintain and strengthen employees’ voluntary donation culture 79 Agency (Community Director, To enhance customer satisfaction The company established a new brand slogan, ‘Think you very much’, with the aim of achieving distinctive customer Implementation of KDB Daewoo Securities’ leading social contribution activities 76~77 37~40 Chest of Korea) Jinok Jeong through customer-oriented satisfaction. Efforts are being made to ensure strict and thorough customer management through various customer 43 management communication channels, including VOC and Viewfinder D. Efforts to increase the sincerity and continuity of social contribution 78 Local KDB Daewoo Securities is pursuing honest business through strict internal inspections and employee training, thereby Communities Execution of sincere social contribution that reflects the needs of the people 78 To earn more customer trust doing its best to protect investors. As a result of these efforts, the company achieved positive feedback from mystery 41~42 through business integrity NGO Reverend, Achievement of distinctiveness in KDB Daewoo Securities’ social contribution by shopping evaluations. 76~77 (Global Village of Love) Hyeseong Kim supporting those who are excluded from welfare programs KDB Daewoo Securities is striving to maximize shareholder value by maintaining top-level financial performance and To generate sustainable Global sharing through overseas contribution activities 85 stability as Korea’s leading financial investment institute. The company will build a foundation for the generation of 47~50 economic performance sustainable economic performance by developing new growth drivers. KDB Daewoo Securities is operating a systematic risk management system to protect the assets of shareholders, To secure business continuity customers, and the company. It quickly analyzes and responds to risks through efficient operation of the risk 51~53 through risk management management organization. KDB Daewoo Securities is continually supporting multi-cultural families and providing educational support to teenagers Social contribution to grow with from low-income families, which have become the company’s leading social contribution activities. It is contributing to 75~79 local communities the establishment of a sound social, economic ecosystem by supporting social enterprises. 34 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 35 No.1 The highest credit rating (AA+) of all Korean securities companies No.1 First Korean securities company to receive a Presidential Citation for supporting multi-cultural families Responsibility KDB Daewoo Securities fulfills our responsibilities toward all our stakeholders, including customers, shareholders and investors, staff, and local communities. We will continue to implement responsible management in partnership with our stakeholders so that we can generate value for the future. st s epo 36 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 Think Prosperity Think Sustainability Think Responsibility Appendix 37 Customers Shareholders/Investors Employees Local Communities R n bl y Customers We put customers at the center of everything we do, so that we can be a success partner that our customers can really trust. Customers Enhancing Customer Satisfaction through Customer-Focused Management All staff at KDB Daewoo Securities places the highest priority on customer satisfaction, and do their best to offer top-quality customer services. Customer communication channels, including the Voice of Customers (VOC) and Viewfinder D, strengthen customer contact. Customers are surveyed regularly on their satisfaction as part of efforts to give full attention to customer management. VOC (Voice of Customers) Customer Service Improvement Council By operating our VOC system, KDB Daewoo Securities is The Customer Service Improvement Council is an internal striving to pay close attention to customers opinions, and consultative body which ensures the rapid response to Viewfinder D thus to provide top-quality services. Customers can deliver customer requirements. It consists of staff from major their opinions through branches, the company website, and departments, including the Customer Center and the Smart Customer Centers. These opinions are then actively used to Financial Department. Weekly meetings are held to ensure improve services and policies. In addition, we provide quick that customer opinions on service improvements are reflected feedback to customers by engaging in real-time sharing of as quickly as possible. Customers who make especially useful information on the entire process of receiving, reviewing, and suggestions may receive a gift as a token of our gratitude. handling customer opinions as well as the outcome. Think you very much VOC Receipt and Handling Process Channel through which Sharing among Classification Review, Handle, Improve opinions are received all employees ① The relevant department reviews whether Main to reflect the opinion (on the same day) Customer ② The Customer Service Improvement Council Phone re-examines the matter Within Viewfinder D Center number Customer →M  ainly opinions subject to rejection a week Service and re-examination (Weekly) Suggestion Improvement ③ Customer feedback on the company’s plan Council on reflecting the suggestion Feedback Each program Postcard ④ IT development and business improvements branch of (outstanding on ⑤C  ustomer KDB feedback on the company’s plan suggestion, Dreami VOC customer Daewoo on reflecting the suggestion complimented opinion Securities employee, ① Deliver details to the department and branch to which the complaint) complimented employee belongs ImmeCompliment → Provide gift certificate and CS Gold Emblem diately ② Thank the customer for making the compliment Posted on Intranet Website on a weekly and Online Qway NEO monthly basis ① First response given by VOC personnel (Customer Center) Smart Neo Imme(TOSS, WM Complaint ② Second response given by relevant department after Community, etc.) diately confirming and reviewing the matter Service Quickly handle the matter and review whether the customer’s opinion should Channel diversification improvements be reflected from the customer perspective Enhanced accessibility Customer (Deliver customer feedback immediately or within a week depending on the matter) satisfaction ‘Excellent’ grade at the mystery shopping survey by the Financial Supervisory Service Smart Neo, Smart Compass 38 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 Think Prosperity Think Sustainability Think Responsibility Appendix 39 Customers Shareholders/Investors Employees Local Communities Dreami VOC Staff Training to Strengthen Customer Service Convenient and Smart Customer Information Customer Satisfaction Surveys for New Customers Dreami VOC has been in place since February 2009, to To strengthen customer service and boost customer KDB Daewoo Securities’ unique, advanced MTS (Mobile KDB Daewoo Securities has conducted surveys of new systematically manage customer opinions and to share them at satisfaction, KDB Daewoo Securities provides trainings to Trading System) strengthens communications with customers customers every year since 2008, to examine the quality of a company-wide level. All customer opinions received via VOC its staff. The ‘Self Motivation Course’ is a self-development concerning financial products and services. our customer service. The surveys give us important data on are entered into a database by type (compliment, suggestion, training program that has been offered once a year since 2011 issues related to customer satisfaction and requirements, complaint), theme (CS, HTS, policy), and department. This to staff both at headquarters and in our branches. Smart Neo so that we can provide better products and services. The data can then be used to formulate strategies for customer ‘Smart Neo’ features advanced order functions, such as stock satisfaction score for new customers in 2012 was 98.8 points, relations. Systematic management of customer opinion and Training through Role Playing trading, reserved orders, and automatic trading, convenient up 2.1 points over the previous year, and no branch scored less the feedback process allows for more detailed and effective By offering practical role playing training, KDB Daewoo stock searches, and extensive investment information, than 90 points. customer responses. Securities is engaged in the continual examination of its sales including on overseas indices and foreign exchange rates. processes, and at the same time, enhancing customer service Smart Neo was substantially improved by the addition Viewfinder D – Establishing Customer Perspectives capabilities and awareness of investor protection. The third of functions such as stock alerts, which provide detailed To identify and share information on customer requirements, Wednesday of each month is a training day, when staff who information on stocks that customers are interested in, and KDB Daewoo Securities set up Viewfinder D at its corporate will be undertaking customer and PB roles are chosen from investment counseling services, which assess stocks and HQ, an internal communication channel through which each department and branch. After the role playing training, financial products owned by customers. customer opinions, including compliments, suggestions, and a report on the training outcome is made to the Financial complaints, are collected and posted on a weekly basis. This Consumer Protection Department. Smart Compass enables all staff to understand customer perspectives and Smart Compass’ application uses familiar terminology to share their ideas. provide simple summaries of long, complex investment reports. It is designed to allow the easy understanding of important investment information while commuting or taking a break from work. In addition, when urgent issues arise, the relevant information is analyzed in real time so that it can be delivered quickly to customers. Smart Neo Smart Compass Results of Customer Satisfaction Surveys of New Customers 98.8 96.7 98.1 Viewfinder D ‘Viewfinder D’ takes its name from the viewfinder of a camera that Role Playing Checklist allows a user to check the subject’s shooting range. It embodies the commitment of 1 KDB Daewoo Securities to focusing in on customer perspectives, requirements, and expectations. 0 0 2010 2011 2012 Satisfaction score (Unit: Point) Branch with less than 90 points (Unit: Branch) 40 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 Think Prosperity Think Sustainability Think Responsibility Appendix 41 Customers Shareholders/Investors Employees Local Communities Promotional Activities and Events Earning Customer Trust through Transparent Sales Practices Performances to Celebrate the Founding of Investment Strategy Seminar for VIP Customers To protect financial consumers, KDB Daewoo Securities practices the principle of transparency in selling its financial products and KDB Daewoo Securities in other transactions. We continually examine our sales practices, and strive to protect personal information. There are also strict VIP investment strategy seminars were held at all eight of evaluations for suppliers, to enhance transparency in our supply chain. Since 2006, on the anniversary of the company’s founding, KDB Daewoo Securities’ regional headquarters, from January KDB Daewoo Securities has held cultural performances for 24th to February 4th, 2013. 515 outstanding customers and customers featuring some of the world’s top artists. By doing prospective customers were invited to the seminars, which System for Perfect Sales of Financial Products Consumer Protection Performance so, we provide our outstanding customers with high-quality were focused on major recent financial issues. The seminars KDB Daewoo Securities has an internal system to prevent misThe efforts that KDB Daewoo Securities has made to ensure performances that satisfy their cultural needs. were a great success, with a participation rate of 87% and a selling. This helps in the protection of financial consumers and the perfect sales of financial products have led to outstanding satisfaction level of 94%. in establishing a sound investment culture. results in mystery shopping assessments in and outside of the Product Promotions for Customers company. KDB Daewoo Securities provides customers with investment ‘Cool Water’ Promotion Fund Care Service guides that reflect the market environment, customer Around 20,000 ‘KDB Daewoo Securities Cool Water’ bottles The ‘Fund Care Service’ is a standardized wealth management Outcome of Internal Mystery Shopping requirements, and any institutional changes. Promotions target were given to customers who received wealth management service that is provided through diverse channels, starting KDB Daewoo Securities has conducted internal mystery the latest financial products, such as property accumulation services at 107 branches across Korea in July 2012. This topfrom when the customer purchases a fund to when the shopping since 2009, to protect investors. The results are savings, coupon-type CMA, and Brazilian bonds. These quality mineral water was also handed out at the G20 Summit fund matures. The service ensures that all the company’s assessed by all compliance officers in ethics and compliance promotions inform customers about the need for financial in Seoul. It was given out to show the company’s commitment customers regularly receive important investment information evaluations, and additional training to prevent mis-selling is products, and provide help in managing assets wisely. to even the smallest detail on behalf of its customers, bringing via text messages and e-mail. The investment information given where necessary. As a result, improvements are made them some comfort in the severe heat of a Korean summer. includes information on purchasing a product, the earnings every year, and the company received an excellent grade in Marketing at Branches rate, investment status, and maturity. In addition, the 2012. KDB Daewoo Securities undertakes a wide array of marketing Finance Camp for Juniors ‘Comprehensive X-Ray Fund Assessment Service’ provides activities at the branch level. These have included a crafts The ‘Finance Camp for Juniors’ is offered to parents and their comprehensive assessments of successful fund investments Outcome of Mystery Shopping by External Organizations event, an art seminar, a jewel & beauty seminar, a child elementary school children to help the children develop good by customers. KDB Daewoo Securities was the only securities firm to education seminar, and the musical actress Soogyeong Jeon financial sense. This financial education program consists of receive an ‘excellent’ grade, the highest grade available, in telling her “Story about Musicals and Me”. These activities games which allow children both to have fun and to easily learn Financial Product Quality Assurance System the fund category of the 2012 Mystery Shopping carried have helped the general public break away from the perception finance-related information. A special lecture is also provided KDB Daewoo Securities has in place a financial product quality out by the Financial Supervisory Service. In an evaluation that stock trading is difficult. to the parents on wealth management and child education, assurance system which ensures the appropriate selling carried out by the Korea Investors Protection Foundation in resulting in a greater level of satisfaction. of financial products to, and protection for, investors. If a 2012, KDB Daewoo Securities saw major improvements in customer is sold an inappropriate product, or did not receive its evaluation results, and received the ‘best’ rating. Sharp sufficient explanation about the product, they can apply for a improvements in the company’s ranking led to KDB Daewoo product recall within 15 days of the purchase date. The product Securities’ designation as a ‘company to pay attention to’ by is resold and the customer is compensated for the difference. the evaluation organization. Mystery Shopping Survey by Mystery Shopping Survey by Internal Mystery Shopping Survey the Financial Supervisory Service the Korea Investors Protection (Unit: Score) (Unit: Score) Foundation Best 90+ 93.9 Performance to celebrate the 42nd Marketing at Branches Investment Seminars for VIPs ‘Cool Water’ Promotion (Excellent) 87.6 (Excellent) anniversary of KDB Daewoo Securities Good Good (Good) 60~79 60~79 (Average) (Average) 56.4 (Low) Fund Fund Fund Financial Product Promotions Finance Camp for Juniors 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 42 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 43 1 tu Fe a re New Brand ec Sp ia l Strategy Protecting Customers’ Personal Information Transparent and Thorough Supply Chain Management We will think of you more, Our Compliance Department is responsible for the systematic To enhance transparency in the selection of partner companies so that we hear “Thank you”. protection of customers’ personal information, including and in purchasing, KDB Daewoo Securities has established customer information protection and management regulations. ‘regulations on the purchase of items and services’. There are These regulations apply to all employees of KDB Daewoo Securities, as well as to partner company employees engaged thorough reviews of a potential partner company’s financial state and performance, and of other factors, depending on “ Think you very much ” in work related to KDB Daewoo Securities, with the aim to the item being purchased, to ensure reasonable decisions keep all of our customer information safe. on making purchases. There were no cases of violations of We will achieve a sense of unity with customers by being committed fair trade during the latest reporting period, including unfair to ensuring that “customers’ thoughts are KDB Daewoo Securities’ Staff Training on Information Protection competition and anti-trust. thoughts”. KDB Daewoo Securities will think of customers first at all times, focusing on the new brand slogan, KDB Daewoo Securities provides all employees with training ‘Think you very much’. And our customers will say ‘Thank you.’ on customer information protection at least twice a year. Procurement Audit Committee Training usually takes place by making an online application When a purchase is over a certain amount, a Procurement at the DWS Learning Center, and staffs who are in charge Audit Committee meeting is held to evaluate that purchase. of information protection receive additional in-depth training, A meeting is convened whenever there is a need to ensure including ethics training on information protection, IT, and appropriate deliberations. The General Affairs Department practical work courses. is in charge of convening meetings, and submissions on the Changing Leadership for Customers purchase ahead of the committee meeting are handled by the department that wishes to make the purchase, or jointly by In the second half of 2012, KDB Daewoo Securities undertook a customer and staff survey of the company’s brand for the purposes of good brand management and that department and the Procurement Department. establishing advertising strategies. The company assessed the brand and formulated a new brand strategy that is aimed at enhancing customer perception, with a focus on ‘changing leadership’. Activities to Protect Customers’ Personal Information Composition of Procurement Audit Committee “Think you” rather than “Thank you” very much’. This has included collaboration User Terminal Category Procurement of items other Procurement of In 2013, KDB Daewoo Securities with the artist Alexa Meade to recreate than computer equipment computer equipment announced its new brand slogan: ‘Think Rodin’s ‘The Thinker’, which has been Information leakage Detect and block external leakage of Chairperson Head of Procurement Audit Head of Procurement Audit you very much’. This fresh beginning in the gaining great affection since 1880, for prevention system customer and personal information Committee Committee company’s brand communication activities, an artwork in a TV advertisement. The Encryption of Committee Four department Four department which is quite like ‘Thank you very much’, advertisement garnered attention because Encrypt important files and documents (DRM) important documents members manager-level personnel manager-level personnel embodies KDB Daewoo Securities’ the artist also appeared in KDB Daewoo determination to achieve customer Securities’ advertisement. Encrypt personal information files that are Document security satisfaction by placing the highest priority stored in user PCs In addition, 8,000 ‘Think you boxes’ Outcome of Information Protection Training in 2012 on thinking from a customer perspective. containing small gifts, such as blankets, Secure USB and Block external media, and check if files were Rather than unilaterally introducing Training Completion tumblers, seeds and flowerpots, blocking of media moved to secure USB Target Month Note massive changes, we will move forward Hours Rate were given to customers and staff. with small but essential changes that are May, July, The boxes were also given out to the Vaccine Detect and remove viruses and malicious code supported by our customers, who will truly Executive September, 4 hours 98% general public without any prior notice November feel the benefits of those changes. in Yeouido, Gwanghwamun, MyeongServer and database Prevent server and database access by dong, Gangnam, and Hongik University access control unapproved users A company that thinks more from areas. In particular, there was a connection General staff 7 hours 100% the customer perspective between this promotional event and our KDB Daewoo Securities has been engaged social contributions – 3,600 items were March, Two seminars in a wide array of activities to create a Electronic Finance Security 9 hours or donated by staff and customers who IT staff May,July, 100% additionally held for sense of consensus among customers and September, more IT Center employees received the boxes and the proceeds from Encryption of Mobile Device employees regarding the company’s new PC firewall November selling these items were used to help the communication area Management (MDM) brand communication strategy, ‘Think you Employees The number of hours underprivileged. in charge of 12 hours or of practical training 100% Keyboard security and Prevention of forging and information more completed is different virtual keypad falsification of applications protection among employees 44 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 Think Prosperity Think Sustainability Think Responsibility Appendix 45 Customers Shareholders/Investors Employees Local Communities Customer Interviews Increase Awareness of Sustainability Establishing Year-round Corporate-wide Management Activities and Performance Customer Protection It is not easy for a financial institution to effectively fulfill The Financial Supervisory Service undertakes mystery shopping its social responsibilities, and there have been times when on fund and ELS sales, targeting major financial institutions, securities firms have neglected their social responsibilities including banks, securities firms, and insurance companies, because they have only looked at the cost aspect of those with the goal to protect customer. In an evaluation carried out activities. KDB Daewoo Securities, by contrast, has been in 2012, KDB Daewoo Securities was the only securities firm engaging in a wide variety of activities to fulfill its social to receive an excellent grade, the top grade. The company’s responsibilities, such as sustainability reports, support for efforts to protect customers received external recognition, and multi-cultural families and its ‘fund to create a better world’. the achievement is worth commending. In the future, mystery However, these activities are not well known because of a shopping will be conducted without any prior notices and will lack of PR efforts. More effective communication will help be steadily expand to cover ELS products in addition to funds. sustainability management to have a greater influence, both This calls for financial institutions to engage in more systematic socially and environmentally. One way of increasing access to management operations, so I would like to see KDB Daewoo information is through online media, such as the company’s Securities set up a corporate-wide management system to website, mobile applications, and SNS. Adopting widely-used strengthen year-round customer protection. online platforms to disclose information on the sustainability management activities and performance of KDB Daewoo Securities will enable more effective communications with a greater number of people. Staff training on investor protection will be needed to strengthen the customer protection mindset and capabilities. These efforts will result in a more substantive customer protection Yeongcheol Choi system that has real substance. KDB Daewoo Securities Customer New financial products and services come and go, but the link with customers and their Mr. Choi has been a customer of KDB Daewoo Securities for more than 30 years. values does not fade so easily once it is established. Training to Strengthen the Customer Protection Mindset Mystery shopping at financial institutions will go beyond Active Communication about Financial Sharing Value with Customers through routine evaluations, which are carried out based on manuals, and will focus more on qualitative aspects of the sales Products and Services Financial Services process. This will demand additional staff training on customer I hope to see KDB Daewoo Securities more actively publicize I have been a customer of KDB Daewoo Securities for more protection, to strengthen the investor protection mindset and the activities it undertakes for its customers, and the outcome than 30 years mainly due to a strong sense of comfort, capabilities. These efforts will result in a more substantive of those activities. It is a great help to customers in conducting familiarity, and trust between KDB Daewoo Securities and customer protection system that has real substance. their financial activities if KDB Daewoo Securities delivers me. This can be seen as the sharing of customer values. New Seungyong Woo Communications between the company’s headquarters and its the information that customers need before they actually financial products and services come and go, but the link with Deputy Department Head, KG Zeroin branches should be emphasized, to maintain the consistency ask for it. One example might be to communicate actively customers and their values does not fade so easily once it is KG Zeroin is an organization that handles of the management. with customers about newly-released financial products established. I believe this is what has enabled me to be with mystery shopping at financial institutions on behalf of the Financial Supervisory Service. and services through various channels. This would help the KDB Daewoo Securities for so long. I hope to see a system in It carries out customer protection-related company both to attract new customers and to strengthen ties place which focuses constantly on customer satisfaction, to evaluations of major securities firms, including KDB Daewoo Securities. with existing customers. guarantee a relationship of trust and satisfaction. I also hope that all staff at KDB Daewoo Securities will be encouraged to have a customer-focused mindset, so that the company can always stand by the side of its customers. 46 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 Think Prosperity Think Sustainability Think Responsibility Appendix 47 Customers Shareholders/Investors Employees Local Communities Shareholders/Investors We aim to achieve continued growth regardless of the ups and downs of the markets, thanks to the trust and support of our investors and all our stakeholders. Generating a Sustainable Economic Performance KDB Daewoo Securities strives to maximize value for shareholders and investors. The company has created new opportunities and led the market despite difficult economic conditions in Korea and abroad, and has thus strengthened its reputation as an industryleading financial investment company. Major Economic Statistics In fiscal year 2012, KDB Daewoo Securities recorded net equity. Brokerage commissions were KRW 241.5 billion, operating revenue of KRW 711 billion, net income before down substantially over the previous year as a result of a tax of KRW 157.1 billion, and net income of KRW 126.7 sharp downturn in commissions as the business environment Total client billion. As of the end of fiscal year 2012, the company had deteriorated. However, the wealth management business saw assets exceed KRW 25,437.4 billion in total assets, KRW 21,385.7 billion in continued growth, and the sales & trading performed very KRW 110 trillion Listed on the DJSI total liabilities, and KRW 4,051.7 billion in total shareholders’ well, and has become a key source of revenue. World for tw o consecutive years in 2012 and 20 13 Financial Highlights (Unit: KRW billion) FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Net Operating Revenue 963.4 774.3 711.0 SG&A Expenses 664.0 562.9 570.1 Brokerage Commissions 432.4 384.5 241.5 Operating Income 299.4 211.4 141.0 WM Commissions 99.5 100.8 101.9 Non-operating Income 16.5 10.9 16.1 t IB Commissions 54.6 43.6 36.5 Net Income before Tax 315.9 222.4 157.1 Sales & Trading 293.0 231.6 365.5 Income Tax 89.9 55.4 30.4 s Interest Income 122.4 50.3 7.0 Net Income 225.9 166.9 126.7 New risk Others △ 1.8 △0.2 △ 22.1 * Consolidated financial statements basis management system epo KRW 79.5 BILLIONS Commission Expenses △ 36.7 △36.2 △ 19.3 Received In dividendsan toAA+ ensure credit the fair rating, profit generated the for our stakeholders highest in the industry Stability (Unit: KRW billion) Total Assets Total Liabilities Total Shareholders’ Equity R n bl 25,437.4 3,972.9 4,051.7 21,385.7 22,463.4 y 18,490.5 19,411.9 16,680.4 2,731.5 5% FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Shareholders Revenue by Business (Unit: %) 12 6 1 32 INVESTORS Brokerage Wealth Management 29 FY 2010 43 29 FY 2011 47 48 FY 2012 Investment Banking Sales & Trading 5 14 Interest Income 5 12 5 10 48 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 Think Prosperity Think Sustainability Think Responsibility Appendix 49 Customers Shareholders/Investors Employees Local Communities Operational Size Credit Ratings Wealth Management Investment Banking (IB) KDB Daewoo Securities’ total client assets were over KRW In November 2011, KDB Daewoo Securities received an AA+ 110 trillion again in March 2013, a year-on-year rise of KRW 3.8 grade from the Korea Ratings and the Korea Investors Service Major Performance Major Performance trillion, thanks to the company’s strong wealth management for its non-guaranteed corporate bonds, the best credit rating Brokerage revenues, the key revenue source for the wealth KDB Daewoo Securities’ IB revenues in fiscal 2012 were KRW capabilities and sales strategies, despite the unfavorable given to a financial investment company since the Asian management business, were KRW 241.5 billion in fiscal 2012, 36.5 billion. In the face of sluggish conventional IB markets, market environment. Wealth management balances reached financial crisis of 1998. As of July 2013, we have maintained down from the previous year. This was the result of a sharp including in debt and equity issuance, the company diversified KRW 50 trillion in fiscal year 2012, a year-on-year rise of 6.3%, an outstanding credit rating of AA+ from many credit rating reduction in commissions, triggered by deterioration in the its revenue sources to include structured financing, power indicating continued stable growth. The number of customers agencies in Korea, thanks to continued efforts to increase our business environment, including plummeting trading volumes, plant project financing, private equity and M&A advisory. The has risen continually since 2009, and reached 2.15 million. capital and market-leading competitiveness. reduced individual investor participation in the market, and company made important strides in its new businesses by increased competition. In contrast, our retail market share arranging the first hybrid bonds offered by a Korean public and the domestic subsidiaries’ brokerage market share were corporation, advancing into power plant project financing, and up over the previous year. The company also saw KRW 101.9 becoming a financial investor in the world’s largest biomass Customer Base* Credit Ratings billion in revenues from financial product sales, indicating power plant construction project. (Unit: 10 thousand person) Korea 215 Investors Service continuing growth. Total wealth management balances were 212 up 6.3% year-on-year, to stand at KRW 50 trillion, the highest Business Execution Strategy AA+ 208 As of July 2013 in the industry in Korea. The company balanced its revenues KDB Daewoo Securities will improve its business by offering across various financial products, including derivative-linked tailored solutions to reflect the specific characteristics of securities and Wrap products. each customer’s industry. The company will also further strengthen its position in the conventional IB market, where it Business Execution Strategy has remained strong. There will be active measures taken to Korea Ratings In addition to providing high-quality investment information adapt to changes in the business environment triggered by the As of July 2013 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 through its dedicated retail research organization, KDB amendment to the Capital Market Integration Act. The overall * Total number of customers including accounts closed within a year AA+ Daewoo Securities seeks to offer a full range of support to retail customers. The company will expand and restructure the business focus will thus be on developing new customers and new sources of revenue. Prime Brokerage Service Unit so that it can improve its hedge WM Balance fund-related business, which has the potential to grow sharply. (Unit: KRW trillion) KDB Daewoo Securities will continue to strive to increase its 50.0 47.0 NICE customers’ wealth by offering competitive products that satisfy 45.1 Investors Service customer requirements in the prevailing business environment AA+ As of July 2013 of low growth and low interest rates. WM Balance and Commissions FY2012 League Table (Unit: KRW billion) 101.9 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Moody’s Lead Manager M/S Rank As of July 2013 100.8 IPO* 97.7 11.3% 3 Baa2 Asset Under Management (Unit: KRW trillion) 114.2 99.5 Rights offering* 89.5 6.9% 5 108.9 112.7 50.0 47.0 ABS* 4,589.3 25.7% 1 45.1 Corporate bonds* 2,625.6 5.3% 6 M&A** 1,829.3 12.9% 2 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 * Source: thebell league Table FY2012 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 ** Source: Korean IB ranking by Mergermarket FY2012 WM Balance (Unit: KRW trillion) WM Revenues (Unit: KRW billion) 50 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 Think Prosperity Think Sustainability Think Responsibility Appendix 51 Customers Shareholders/Investors Employees Local Communities Sales & Trading Global Business Enhancing Business Continuity through Systematic Risk Management Major Performance Major Performance Risk Management Systems Risk Management Organization Sales and trading revenues reached KRW 365.5 billion in KDB Daewoo Securities is aggressively expanding its overseas KDB Daewoo Securities has in place detailed risk management KDB Daewoo Securities has established in full a companyfiscal year 2012 thanks to a diversification of assets under sales platform, including its global network, workforce, and regulations and guidelines that have helped to establish a wide risk management organization, so as to enable quick and management, including the successful establishment of a capital structure, so as to develop the future competitiveness. comprehensive, corporate-wide risk management system. precise risk control. foreign currency bond management business. Also thanks to For example, our Hong Kong subsidiary’s capital was only USD preemptive responses to market changes. Over the past three 10 million in 1998, but as of 2012, it is now USD 340 million Risk Management Regulations Risk Management Committee years, sales & trading have comprised 30 to 40 percent of the thanks to continuous capital increases, especially since 2010. The Risk Management Committee regulations stipulate The Risk Management Committee is the company’s top company’s overall revenues, helping KDB Daewoo Securities Based on this growth, the Hong Kong subsidiary will serve as matters related to the composition of the Risk Management risk management decision-making body. It formulates risk to create the profit model of an advanced investment bank, the center for offshore investments and for the development Committee, which is the company’s top risk management management strategies that are in line with the company’s and breaking away from other domestic securities companies’ and sale of offshore products for all of the company’s overseas decision-making body, and also matters related to its meetings management strategies, and undertakes supervision to ensure reliance on brokerage commission income. offices. and resolutions. The regulations also specify matters on the that risk management is carried out appropriately. composition of the Proprietary Asset Risk Management Council Business Execution Strategy Business Execution Strategy and Trust Asset Risk Management Council, which handle Proprietary Asset Risk Management Council & The business environment is not expected to be improved KDB Daewoo Securities will implement distinctive strategies Trust Asset Risk Management Council resolutions made by the Risk Management Committee, as any time soon. The company will therefore focus on for each region, with Hong Kong at the center of activities. In The Proprietary Asset Risk Management Council and the well as their meetings and resolutions. The Risk Management maximizing its revenues through accurate market analysis and the US market, the focus will on real estate, NPL investments Trust Asset Risk Management Council (hereinafter referred Regulations were enacted to ensure the effective management preemptive risk management. In line with this, the company and private equity. In Europe, the company will look to crossto together as the ‘Councils’) manage all details and issues of risks that are borne by the company, and to promote asset will strive to generate new revenue sources, such as private border M&A for LBO-related companies. In Asia, KDB Daewoo that have been delegated to them by the Risk Management soundness and management stability. equity mezzanine funds, commodities, foreign exchange, Securities will expand using its traditional financial businesses, Committee, and report their results to that Committee. and alternative investments, in addition to our traditional including retail and investment banking. The company will Risk Management Guidelines businesses in securities, bonds and real estate project finance therefore expand its business in various ways, depending on Guidelines for the management of market risk, credit risk, Investment Review Committee investment. the region; these will include independent expansion, M&A, liquidity risk, operational risk, overseas network risk, and This Committee carries out reviews of the company’s joint corporations, and strategic alliances. trust asset risk were enacted for the practical application of investment transactions. Composed of executive officers, matters stipulated in risk management-related regulations. it can convene at any time to facilitate smooth investment These guidelines detail risk management measures by type decision making. of asset management and risk, thereby enabling the smooth implementation of risk management policies. They set forth Risk Management Department detailed evaluations and follow-up management measures that This department is independent from all business departments will allow the stable management of the company’s investment and back offices. It is in charge of the comprehensive positions. management of overall risk management affairs, including Trading Assets Under Management/Sales & Trading Revenue ELS/DLS Issuance (Unit: KRW billion) matters related to the execution of risk management systems, FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 and Committee or Council operations. 366 M/S M/S M/S Value Rank Value Rank Value Rank (%) (%) (%) 293 Risk Management Organization 232 17.9 ELS 4,021 13.7 1 5,446 13.9 1 6,462 13.7 1 Board of Directors Risk Management Council 12.8 DLS 1,810 18.9 1 2,578 16.5 2 5,366 20.9 1 CEO 12.5 Investment Review Committee (IRC) Proprietary Asset Risk Trust Asset Risk Management Council Management Council Chief Risk Officer (CRO) Total 5,831 15.0 1 8,024 14.7 1 11,828 16.2 1 Risk Management Investment & Credit Department Assessment Department FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Risk Managers Trading Assets Under Management (Unit: KRW trillion) Operational Risk Sales & Trading Revenue (Unit: KRW billion) Manager Risk Reporters 52 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 Think Prosperity Think Sustainability Think Responsibility Appendix 53 Customers Shareholders/Investors Employees Local Communities Risk Management Systems Market Risk Management Credit Risk Management The business scope of financial investment companies is expanding; financial investment companies, for example, can now Market risk refers to the potential loss the company may incur Credit risk refers to losses that KDB Daewoo Securities would independently develop various financial investment products. As a result, there is increased need for risk management and internal in the course of conducting its asset management business incur in the course of conducting its asset management control systems. As an industry-leading financial investment company, KDB Daewoo Securities has established a stable and due to changes in equity prices, interest rates, and/or exchange business if a counterparty failed to fulfill its obligations to make company-wide risk management system which contributes to its advanced financial capabilities. rates. a payment or to repay principal and interest. KDB Daewoo Securities uses a standard method for measuring To measure credit risks, KDB Daewoo Securities is using a Total Risk Management System Comprehensive Risk Management System market risks that is stipulated in the Financial Investment standard method set forth in Financial Investment Business KDB Daewoo Securities established a total risk management KDB Daewoo Securities has a comprehensive risk Business Regulations. It has adopted SunGard’s market risk Regulations. The company has also adopted SunGard’s system in February 2011 to meet the ‘Minimal Requirements management system which is designed to take pre-emptive measuring system that can determine the internal model credit risk measuring system. To manage credit risks at an for Risk Management at Securities Firms’ recommended by actions when crisis situations arise, including substantial market VaR (Value at Risk: VaR calculates the maximum loss to appropriate level, KDB Daewoo Securities sets and manages a the financial authorities, and to support the strengthening increases in risk and major market shocks. The company be expected on an investment over a given period of time and ceiling amount for credit risks on an annual and quarterly basis. of KDB Financial Group’s total risk management system. It defines three categories of crisis situation, and has established given a specified degree of confidence when market prices The ceiling amount is set through a Committee resolution. therefore now has systems for calculating integrated risk counter-measures for each and updated the counter-measures. move in an adverse direction under normal market conditions). KDB Daewoo Securities’ credit risk status is ascertained and capital and managing risk, and for risk-adjusted performance To manage market risks at an appropriate level, KDB Daewoo analyzed by the Risk Management Department on a daily measurement (RAPM). Securities sets and manages a ceiling amount for market risks basis and the results are reported to senior management. On on an annual and a quarterly basis. The ceiling amount is set a weekly, monthly, and quarterly basis, the company’s credit New Risk Management System through a Committee resolution. risk status is analyzed and reported to senior management. In KDB Daewoo Securities developed its New Risk Management KDB Daewoo Securities’ market risk status is ascertained addition, stress testing is conducted regularly based on various System in May 2008 in response to the increased need for risk and analyzed by the Risk Management Department on a daily financial market scenarios. Strengthened monitoring is carried management in new business areas and new products, ahead basis and the results are reported to senior management. On out for counterparties with a high level of concentration. of the enforcement of the Capital Market Act. Through this a weekly, monthly, and quarterly basis, the company’s market system, the company established a real-time risk management Operational Risk Management risk status is analyzed and reported to senior management. In process for OTC derivatives. addition, stress testing is conducted regularly based on various Operational risk is the risk of losses that KDB Daewoo financial market scenarios. Securities would incur because of shortcomings or failures in internal processes, people, or systems, or from external Risk Management System Liquidity Risk Management events. Liquidity risk refers to the potential loss the company may incur Total Risk New Risk Operational Risk Liquidity Risk KDB Daewoo Securities manages and controls operational Management System Management System Management System Management System in the course of conducting its asset management business risks based on Risk & Control Self Assessment (RCSA), Key because the company is unable to acquire assets or dispose Risk type Total risk Market/Credit risk Operational risk Liquidity risk Risk Indicator (KRI) management, loss data management, of them at normal market prices due to a lack of liquidity in the establishment of countermeasures, and calculation of Consolidation of Market/Credit VaR, sensitivity, market or assets under management. Assessment results individual risks etc. Operational VaR Liquidity gap, liquidity ratio operational VaR through an internal model. Regular RCSAs KDB Daewoo Securities measures this type of risk by means are carried out to examine the level of risks that are subject to • Capital adequacy • Integrated risk database • Risk & Control Self• Calculation on liquidity by management • Market/credit Assessment (RCSA) account and maturity of a liquidity risk management system, using liquidity gaps management for each department. If a risk that is subject to risk • Risk-adjusted performance measurement system • Key Risk Indicators (KRI) • Liquidity gap and calculating and ratios as key indicators. It monitors its liquidity risk status focused management is found as an outcome of an evaluation, measurement • Risk analysis by department, • Loss data management liquidity ratio Functions on a weekly basis and makes a report to senior management. countermeasures are established for prior control of risk. • Analysis of crisis situations product, and type • Risk • Risk assessment and measurement and • Integrated risk data and • Review and report results reporting reporting The department in charge of finance regularly reports to senior In addition, data on all of the company’s financial losses is reports management the company’s liquidity status. collected. KDB Daewoo Securities established an operational risk management system to calculate operational VaR based In addition to normal liquidity risk management, KDB Daewoo on an internal model. Securities has established a comprehensive risk management scheme for liquidity crisis situations. Crisis situations are For company-wide operational risk measurement and classified into three level – caution, alert, and risk – depending management, KDB Daewoo Securities plans to expand on the condition of the company’s liquidity and the stability of operational risk management to the controlling company and financial markets. Specific action plans have been established overseas subsidiaries. for each level to prepare for crisis situations. Financial market stability is also monitored by selecting specific indicators that take into account the attributes of each management department, and senior management is briefed on a regular basis. 54 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 55 2 Listed on the DJSI World tu re Fe a ec ia l in 2012 and 2013 Sp KDB Daewoo Securities will contribute to Investor Risk Management Activities KDB Daewoo Securities carries out systematic risk management activities throughout the process of financial transactions, thus the development of the Korean capital helping investors engage in safe wealth management. The company stepped up risk management to protect investors and to markets and fulfill its social responsibilities reduce the risk burden on the firm in consideration of recent conditions in the securities market, where there is a high degree of through sustainability management. volatility. Improvements to Method of Calculating Liquidation Received Grand Prize in the Securities Category at the Amount for Credit Transactions Korea Financial Industry Awards A decision was made to allow the credit-based continued KDB Daewoo Securities won the Grand Prize in the securities Globally Recognized for Excellence resale system in February 2007. Accordingly, the covering category of the 2013 edaily Korea Financial Industry Awards, liquidation based on partial repayment methods was expected held at 64 City, Seoul in February 2013, and organized by in Sustainability Management to increase investor discontent and risks of securities firms. EDAILY and sponsored by the Financial Services Commission, KDB Daewoo Securities has continued to take on the challenge of growing into a global KDB Daewoo Securities therefore developed the ‘relationsthe Financial Supervisory Service, and the Korea Federation financial investment company, despite rapid changes in the financial markets, and now based collection of consignment guarantee money’ in 2009. of Banks. The prize was specifically awarded for ‘Folione’, an we have a base to establish a truly global presence. KDB Daewoo Securities was listed This is a distinctive method that was created by making asset distribution wrap product. Recently, the performance of for the first time on the DJSI World in 2012, and has been listed for a second consecutive improvements to a method used to calculate the liquidation active equity fund products has been sluggish compared to year in 2013. This is recognition of the company as a truly global and sustainable amount for credit transactions. This new approach substantially growth in the KOSPI; however, Folione generated much better company. contributed to increased financial soundness, better investor returns, securing financial security and liquidity by accurately protection and better risk management. Its strengths were taking into account economic trends and market volatility. New Milestone in KDB Daewoo sustainability even during the recent fully recognized when this method was selected as a model Securities’ Sustainability Management instability in global markets. It became for the industry, and it was commended by the Board of Audit Developing Products from an Investor Perspective For two consecutive years in 2012 and the first financial investment company and Inspection in 2011. KDB Daewoo Securities always strives to minimize investor 2013, KDB Daewoo Securities has been in Korea to issue a sustainability report risk and think from a customer perspective when developing listed on the DJSI World, the global in 2006, and now issues a sustainability Named ‘Best Distributor’ at the Asia Funds Awards products. In recognition of these efforts, KDB Daewoo sustainability standard. Every year, report every other year as part of its companies are evaluated on 12 factors, active external communications policy. In February 2013, KDB Daewoo Securities received the Grand Securities received ‘This Year’s Seller Award’ at the 2012 Korea including social contributions, governance KDB Daewoo Securities’ implementation Prize in the best distributor category at the 4th Asia Funds Fund Awards, held in December 2012. The award recognized structure, human rights, and environment of sustainability management to fulfill Awards, held at the CCMM Building in Yeouido, hosted by funds that are truly faithful to investment fundamentals, and in addition to financial performance, and its social responsibilities and to enhance Asia Business Daily and FnGuide, and sponsored by the products that are specifically developed for investors. transparency brought about its 2012 and then the best companies are chosen for the Financial Supervisory Service, the Korea Financial Investment Index. KDB Daewoo Securities was listed 2013 listings on the DJSI World, which will Association, and the Korea Capital Market Institute. KDB on DJSI Korea and DJSI Asia-Pacific in contribute substantially to the company’s Daewoo Securities received high scores for sales activities 2010 and 2011, and then listed on the DJSI image as a trusted global investment bank. that emphasize investor requirements rather than just the size World in 2012 and 2013. The company Foundations for Further Growth of the sale, and for its investor risk management, including risk has thus received recognition for its worldmanagement and consumer protection services. leading sustainability, having received high KDB Daewoo Securities is determined to scores in ethical management, customerleverage this accomplishment to achieve centered management, internal personnel further growth. It will review the evaluation development, public announcements and categories in which the company did reports, and the human rights of workers. not excel to make improvements, and It is one of only 12 securities firms will further disclose information on listed on the DJSI World in the category sustainability performance and activities of financial services, creating a new to stakeholders through the sustainability milestone for the company’s sustainability report. There will be strenuous efforts management. to make KDB Daewoo Securities a sustainable global financial investment Growing into a Global Investment Bank company, and one that provides the KDB Daewoo Securities engages in a greatest possible value to investors, Certificate for ‘relations-based Received the Grand Prize in the best Received Grand Prize in the Securities wide range of activities to enhance its customers, staff, and the nation as a collection of consignment distributor category at the 4th Asia Funds Category at the Korea Financial Industry whole. guarantee money’ Awards Awards 56 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 Think Prosperity Think Sustainability Think Responsibility Appendix 57 Customers Shareholders/Investors Employees Local Communities Shareholder/Investor Interviews Maximizing Growth through Group Synergy Minimizing Losses by Establishing The main source of revenue for financial investment a Systematic Risk Management System A financial investment institution’s institutions in Korea is usually commissions and interest from As a top-level financial investment institution, KDB Daewoo risk management is essential in financial transactions. The institutions have tended to be Securities must focus on risk management to protect the protecting shareholder and investor somewhat easygoing in how they do their business, and this assets of the company, its shareholders and customers. The assets, which in turn requires careful has restricted profits and made it difficult for them to achieve planned enforcement of the Capital Markets Integration Act, and detailed management. continued growth. KDB Daewoo Securities has been leading which calls for securities firms in Korea to further strengthen the capital market in Korea, and to grow into a true pioneer IB their risk management systems, will also mandate this. KDB of Asia, KDB Daewoo Securities must enhance its corporate Daewoo Securities is committed to developing the strong risk finance capabilities, reaffirming its position as a leading IB. In management it needs in order to become a pioneer IB of Asia. line with this, KDB Daewoo Securities needs to differentiate The securities industry has considerable exposure to market Transparent Disclosure of Information on itself by actively making use of the corporate financing knowrisks, such as interest rate and exchange rate risk, and that is Governance Operations how and the infrastructure of the KDB Financial Group. why it is important to minimize losses through systematic risk management. A company’s governance, including by top management and the BOD, is an extremely important indicator in evaluating the company’s competitiveness and soundness. There is growing emphasis on the transparent and professional aspects of governance, especially for financial institutions, KDB Daewoo Securities will develop profitable and financial authorities are implementing policies that are businesses that are distinct from those of other Myeongseo Kim aimed at improving the fundamentals of financial institutions’ securities firms in Korea by making active Researcher, Corporate Governance Service governance systems. KDB Daewoo Securities must maintain use of its corporate financing know-how and The Corporate Governance Service the highest levels of transparent governance, in line with infrastructure of the KDB Financial Group. conducts ESG-related evaluations of social demand, so that it can fulfill its leading role as a major companies listed in Korea. investment institution in Korea. Active Responses to Sensitive Issues Fulfilling Global Social Responsibilities Concerning Financial Institutions through Overseas Activities The activities of financial institutions can influence the KDB Daewoo Securities undertakes social contribution economy in Korea and abroad, and this is one reason why activities around the world. In 2011, the company donated Protecting Investors through Systematic Risk there is demand for financial institutions to fulfill their social tractors to villages in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Management responsibilities. Recent cases of recklessness and corruption and helped farmers to learn how to use and manage the have increased concern among stakeholders. As a result, there tractors, which will help farming villages to become more There is now a greater emphasis on systematic risk is now a need for prudent management and active measures independent. This reflects the company’s efforts to practice a management for financial institutions owing to the prolonged to deal with all sensitive issues related to financial institutions. global ‘finance of sharing’. As a global investment institution, sluggishness and high volatility of the securities market. KDB Daewoo Securities must actively investigate and explain KDB Daewoo Securities must diversify the areas where An institution’s risk management is essential in protecting negative issues that arise, and disclose information through the it fulfills its social responsibilities, and formulate effective shareholder and investor assets, which in turn requires Samgi jeong sustainability report on what countermeasures it has taken. It strategies so that social contribution activities result in both careful and detailed management. KDB Daewoo Securities Executive Managing Director, KDB Financial Group is important to inform stakeholders about efforts the company the development of local communities and the strengthening must disclose transparently the risk management systems it is making to resolve any and all issues that affect the company As the largest institutional shareholder of of the KDB Daewoo Securities brand. The company may has in place to protect shareholders and investors, and what KDB Daewoo Securities, KDB Financial Group and stakeholders. is committed to the company’s continued look to countries like Myanmar and Indonesia, for example, the outcome of its risk management is, to increase investor growth and development. where there is both a need for our social and environmental confidence. contributions and the company’s name has a high level of marketability. KDB Daewoo Securities will also be able to provide better help if the company undertakes its social contribution activities in cooperation with outside specialists rather than on its own. 58 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 Think Prosperity Think Sustainability Think Responsibility Appendix 59 Customers Shareholders/Investors Employees Local Communities Employees An open corporate culture based on commitment, communication and hiring the best talent will drive KDB Daewoo Securities’ continued growth. Employees A Sound Labor-Management Culture Based on Mutual Respect KDB Daewoo Securities respects the diversity of its staff, and strives to establish a sound labor-management culture that is free from discrimination. The company is improving work satisfaction by adopting staff communication programs and operating a practical welfare system. Workforce Recruitment and Retention KDB Daewoo Securities’ total workforce stood at 3,150 at In 2012, the number of employees who left for another the end of 2012, of whom 1,232, or 39.1%, were female. company or who retired was 124 male employees (6.47%) and This percentage is growing every year. Non-regular workers 54 female employees (4.38%). This number is falling every comprise approximately 15.5% of the total workforce, and we year, and has halved since 2010 for both male and female aim to make more of them into permanent employees so as to employees. KDB Daewoo Securities will continue to strive to enable greater harmony and financial security among all staff. reduce staff outflow through activities that boost workplace satisfaction. Open HR Composition of Workforce (Unit: Person) Category Details 2010 2011 2012 Total 3,176 3,164 3,150 Male 1,955 1,938 1,918 Female 1,221 1,226 1,232 No. of employees Permanent 2,541 2,691 2,661 Non-regular 635 473 489 EAP System Domestic 3,155 3,128 3,112 Overseas 21 36 38 Status of Employment (Unit: Person) Details 2010 2011 2012 Male 31 75 40 New employees Female 77 48 40 Male 124 78 71 Experienced employees Female 44 27 23 Male 244 172 124 Employees who left the company/who retired Female 96 72 54 KDB Daewoo Se Junior Training curities Academy WM Community 60 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 Think Prosperity Think Sustainability Think Responsibility Appendix 61 Customers Shareholders/Investors Employees Local Communities Employment Policies that Respect Diversity Protecting Human Rights Employee Communication KDB Daewoo Securities is actively taking part in efforts made To protect human rights and establish a work culture free from As part of its commitment to a culture of openness and discussion, KDB Daewoo Securities operates ‘Retail Community’, by the financial industry to abolish discrimination based on sexual discrimination, KDB Daewoo Securities undertakes ‘X-meeting’, and ‘Talk. Talk. Talk’. The company collects information on staff needs and suggestions, and aims to make academic background. The company is also pursuing diversity activities that enshrine human rights in its culture, and also improvements accordingly, based on this information. The company is also doing its best to fully establish a sound culture of in employment by providing equal opportunities to women, the provides training on preventing sexual harassment. There were discussion. disabled, and foreigners. no incidences related to discrimination reported during the latest reporting period. WM Community ‘Talk. Talk. Talk’ Communication Channel The ‘2012 Job Concert’ for the Employment of High School Graduates Compliance with the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact KDB Daewoo Securities’ WM Community has been newly reThe ‘Talk. Talk. Talk’ communication channel promotes the launched. Wealth Management Business Division employees sharing of information among staff, and aims to establish a KDB Daewoo Securities participated in the ‘Job Concert KDB Daewoo Securities joined the UN Global Compact in are effectively using the WM Community to share various culture of discussion. It encourages active participation so that for High School Graduates’ held in May 2012. We held October 2006, and abides by its ten principles of human rights, information, materials, and opinions. It is a true arena of ideas and knowledge are shared. employment counseling sessions with job seekers, and hired a labor, environment, and anti-corruption, thus fulfilling global communication that enhances expertise and understanding total 26 talented high school graduates. The counseling session standards of social responsibility. The company also prohibits on the market, customers, and products. The previous sales Monthly Webzine – KDB Daewoo Securities People enabled communication with the best talent, and was based child labor and forced labor. support channels were all integrated into the WM Community Each month, KDB Daewoo Securities publishes its company on the theme, ‘KDB, a pioneer of passion, challenge, and Training on Sexual Harassment Prevention to focus on strengthening the competencies of sales webzine, “KDB Daewoo Securities People”. This is another innovation’. KDB Daewoo Securities will ensure discriminationemployees. The WM Community is also helping to improve way in which we communicate with staff and their families. free recruitment, with no restrictions based on academic and KDB Daewoo Securities provides mandatory annual training understanding and to maximize synergy among employees. There are interviews, so that our staff can meet, albeit educational background. on sexual harassment prevention to its entire workforce, indirectly, their colleagues in other departments and in other from most senior to most junior, to prevent discrimination and KDB Financial Group’s X-meeting fields of work. They can also share their work experience and infringement on human rights. In 2012, all staff completed Operated by KDB Financial Group, ‘X-Meeting’ brings together give advice. The webzine is one of the company’s main internal online training on sexual harassment prevention. young staff members from each subsidiary, to promote media; it has existed for 27 years and has a great track record communication within the Group as a whole. Various teamwork in informing and sharing values. games contribute to an increased sense of unity among Employment Diversity (Unit: Person) Sexual Harassment Prevention Training subsidiaries, improved networks, and better communications Dialogue with the CEO at a Group level. ‘Dialogue with the CEO’ is one of KDB Daewoo Securities’ High-school graduates Participation No. of People Training Disabled* Year Rate (%) Participating Schedule unique internal communications programs. It helps to build 389 391 Oct. 4 ~ Oct. 27 an internal personnel network and makes everyone feel truly 375 2010 100.0 3,236 (Off-site training, involved in the organization. All staff are able to communicate 58 58 On-line training) 55 directly with the CEO, a leader of the company. Nov. 29 ~ Dec. 8 2011 98.3 2,925 (On-line training) Nov. 26 ~ Dec. 5 2012 100.0 2,943 (On-line training) 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 * Including short-term workers Foreigners Persons of national merit WM Community X-meeting Talk. Talk. Talk KDB Daewoo Securities People 81 71 74 33 32 28 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 62 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 Think Prosperity Think Sustainability Think Responsibility Appendix 63 Customers Shareholders/Investors Employees Local Communities Staff Welfare Programs Health Management KDB Daewoo Securities operates various welfare programs, as well as a retiree support program and a parental leave program, all KDB Daewoo Securities has various programs in place that are designed to promote staff health, including a grievance settlement of which boost staff satisfaction. It has operated a company childcare center since 2011 as part of its active support for staffs who system, an anti-smoking campaign, and the EAP (Employee Assistance Program) for counseling. Thanks to our commitment to are raising children. physical and mental health, the number of staff who were absent from work due to a disease or injury went down approximately 30% in 2012 from the previous year to stand at just seven male and nine female staff members. Welfare System Parental and Child Care Leave To help staff enjoy their leisure time, KDB Daewoo Securities KDB Daewoo Securities guarantees the unrestricted use of its Grievance Settlement System EAP (Employee Assistance Program) Counseling System operates condominiums and provides subsidies for various parental and child care leave programs. As a result, in 2012, The company’s HR system is used to collect information on KDB Daewoo Securities started the EAP service in 2010 to club activities. The company provides housing loans, so that the return-to-work rate after parental leave was extremely high, staff requirements, including any grievances, and there are take the lead in creating a healthy workplace. EAP services employees enjoy a sense of stability in their lives, and financial at 98% for female and 100% for male staff. active efforts made to address them. Prompt HR-related include professional psychological counseling and coaching support for tuition and medical expenses. In addition, KDB measures are also a vital part of our efforts to boost staff to resolve any issues that staff may have, helping employees Daewoo Securities has purchased a group term life insurance Company Child Care Center satisfaction. manage their mental health. policy for its entire staff, and pays all the premiums. Pursuant to Article 14, Establishment of Company Child Care Center, of the Infant Care Act, KDB Daewoo Securities has Fitness Center Retiree Support Program been operating a company child care center. This measure KDB Daewoo Securities has a fitness center on the 17th floor To secure a high quality of life for retirees, KDB Daewoo was taken as a part of the company’s welfare programs so of its headquarters building in Seoul to promote the health Securities provides severance pay and offers a variety of as to contribute to the resolution of the low-birth rate issue, of its staff. The center is open throughout the day, helping development programs for re-employment and business starttriggered by the burden of having and raising children, as well employees relieve themselves from stress and strengthen ups. The company is expecting to adopt a retirement pension as to help employees feel less burdened from child care. their physical health. system, subject to the outcome of internal analysis and discussions. Staff Welfare Programs Return-to-work Rate after Parental Leave No. of Employees Absent from Work Due to Disease or Injury EAP System Operation Process (Unit: Person) Category Details Female 100 26 (Unit: %) STEP 1 STEP 2 Operates condominiums and provides 98 98 Support for leisure life 23 Apply for counseling Make reservation for subsidies for clubs Application can be counseling Protection and support Wage for maternity leave before and after birth, 17 made via phone, Professional counseling 13 e-mail, website coordinator handles for new mothers congratulatory fund for birth 16 reservations 9 Loans for purchasing/renting a home, support Housing support employees living outside of their hometown STEP 3 STEP 4 due to work 9 10 7 Professional Happy Call counseling Post-counseling Medical and health Assistance for medical expenses, health 2010 2011 2012 Face-to-face, phone, management support checkup, medical room 2010 2011 2012 or e-mail counseling Female Male Educational support Assistance for school expenses Male 100 100 100 Health leave for women, maternity leave before (Unit: %) EAP Operation and after birth, Paternity leave for spouse, annual Vacation system leave, regular leave, other leaves related to Satisfaction Level No. of Person Used No. of Times of Use congratulatory and consolatory events (Unit: Score) (Unit: Person) (Unit: Case) 152 762 4.5 4.4 115 Transportation expenses for overtime / 4.3 compensation for working on holidays, discount for trains, reward for continuous service, employee Support for daily life association operation, EAP, fitness center, group term life insurance, support in relation to 455 congratulatory and consolatory events, etc. 2010 2011 2012 43 111 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 64 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 Think Prosperity Think Sustainability Think Responsibility Appendix 65 Customers Shareholders/Investors Employees Local Communities Cooperative Labor-Management Culture Developing Global Financial Leaders KDB Daewoo Securities respects all autonomous labor union activities that comply with the relevant laws and regulations. To build a foundation to grow into a global IB (Investment Bank) and to enhance our personnel competitiveness, KDB Daewoo Transparent communication between labor and management is brought about through the Labor-Management Council and the Securities has established a new training system which allows staff to develop and maximize their abilities according to their labor union, and there are continuing efforts being made to improve the work environment. talents. Labor-Management Council Internal Labor Union Operation and Membership A Model Employee HR Principles KDB Daewoo Securities enacted the Labor-Management KDB Daewoo Securities upholds the three labor rights as A model employee is defined as a ‘global financial leader, one KDB Daewoo Securities pursues HR principles based on Council regulations in 1990, and holds a Labor-Management stipulated in Article 33 of the Constitution of Korea and who puts the highest value on the customer, has top-level and the ‘fostering of outstanding talent’, ‘fair evaluation and Council meeting every quarter. The Labor-Management Council does not have any internal regulations or guidelines that diverse knowledge, and enjoys taking on creative challenges’. remuneration’, and the ‘sharing of core values’. KDB Daewoo represents all employees at KDB Daewoo Securities, and is in counter or curtail the application of the law. It does not take We are seeking to build global financial leaders who relish Securities selects, fosters, and supports talented people who charge of engaging in discussions with senior management any disadvantageous HR measures against employees for new challenges, develop world-leading professional skills, and fit with the company through the application of its clear HR with regard to major employee-related issues. Four meetings engaging in labor union activities. To guarantee the three labor dedicate themselves to customer satisfaction through the principles. were held in 2012, during which discussions took place on 16 rights in practice, KDB Daewoo Securities upholds labor union application of a customer-oriented mindset. agenda items. KDB Daewoo Securities does not stipulate a activities and labor disputes that are stipulated in the collective deadline for making notices on important business changes, agreement. As of the end of 2012, labor union membership but mutual compliance is a basic principle upheld at the stands at approximately 89.4%, with 2,116 labor union company. members from among the 2,367 persons who are entitled to membership. Labor-Management Council Meetings from 2011 to 2012 Labor Union Operations and Membership KDB Daewoo Securities People and HR Principles 2010 2011 2012 91.5 KDB Daewoo Securities People 90.3 No. of council meetings 4 4 4 89.4 Creative Challenge Professionalism No. of agenda items 21 16 19 discussed 2,412 2,367 2,301 Customer Orientation Honor & Pride 2,177 2,116 2,105 Major Agenda Items Discussed between Labor and Management from 2011 to 2012 KDB Daewoo Securities HR Principles Year Major agenda item Resolution made on Improvements in BEP adjustment Retail system and manager registration 2011 improvements, time HR Development Evaluation/Compensation Shared Core Values standards, Agreement on an 2010 2011 2012 off agreement annual 10,000 hours No. of employees eligible to become a labor union member (Unit: Person) Career Development Programs Performance/Capability-based Customer-oriented Collective wage Wage negotiation 2012 No. of employees who are a member of the labor union (Unit: Person) bargaining Signing of collective agreement Labor union membership rate (Unit: %) Coaching for Success Creative Enterprising Spirit Global Manner 66 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 Think Prosperity Think Sustainability Think Responsibility Appendix 67 Customers Shareholders/Investors Employees Local Communities KDB Daewoo Securities Junior Training Academy DWS Learning Center Talent Fostering System The KDB Daewoo Securities Junior Training Academy provides The DWS Learning Center provides one-stop services for KDB Daewoo Securities’ education focuses on the three major directions of Leadership, Professionalism, and Insight & Faculty. customized, in-depth training that matches each individual staff acquiring knowledge and information, and handles trainingSpecialized curricula allow employees to engage in self-led learning and the development of the skills that are needed for their member’s role and seniority level. The company established related matters. It serves as the foundation for developing respective jobs. The company is seeking to develop global financial leaders through the systematic management and development a training roadmap and completed a pilot course in 2011, talent within the company. The newly-opened DWS Learning of the right people. This includes developing professional retail capabilities, fostering sector specialists, developing leadership followed by full implementation in 2012. Training was provided Center breaks away from traditional training methods, and skills, and building the best global talent. to 104 new middle-management employees in 2012, as part of focuses on training in the field and voluntary self-improvement our efforts to build their skills to the fullest. by staff members. Its convenience was further improved by Leadership Curriculum Professional Curriculum introducing a search function in connection with the Korean Leadership training is offered to executives, department KDB Daewoo Securities provides specialist in-depth training for search portal, Naver, in addition to the company’s online managers, branch managers, and staff being promoted. Key each business sector in order to foster expertise in every area platforms, such as TOSS and WM Community. personnel who will shape the future of KDB Daewoo Securities in which we operate. The company also provides language get high-quality training in order to develop leaders with a education to develop globally competitive talent, as well as business mindset and the best in leadership skills. a global MBA support program, to target key talent at the company. Insight & Faculty Curriculum Humanities lectures are given on such themes as literature, Roadmap for KDB Daewoo Securities Junior Training Academy history, and philosophy to promote company-wide knowledge about the humanities. Staffs with particular skills in this area Admission ceremony / TCE* Second Third Completion ceremony First year year year (September) become internal lecturers, to enable effective dissemination of knowledge and know-how. Introductory Foundation Application Advanced March OJT Boot Camp Course Course Course Course KDB Daewoo Securities’ Talent Development Scheme 1 week 3 weeks 2 weeks 6 weeks 9 months 12 months 9 months Professional Curriculum Faculty Leadership Insight • Understandingof the company • Comprehensive • Development of • Improvements in • Development of Curriculum Curriculum Curriculum • Development of basic financial understanding of competencies in duty expertise and competencies WM CIB Mgmt. Global competencies the overall securities relation toone’s application skills needed to provide business duties solutions by area Executive Executives Officer Leadership Common training Professional training by area Branch Manager/ Advanced Course of WM Expert CIB Expert Mgmt. Expert * Team Challenge Exercise General Manager Fostering Korean MBA Network Financial Planning Deputy General Outside-the-company Understanding Global Financial Environment Future Leaders Manager Leadership Stock Investment Financial Products Financial Planning Case Workshop Mgmt. & Strategy Knowledge Specificity Internal Lecturer Development Course DWS Learning Center Operation Global Communication Lecture on Humanities Global MBA Manager Hands-on Work for Mgmt. Seminar Lecturer Development Course Elite PB Position Leadership Network Leadership Apply for training and Share knowledge Search for Duty Leadership E-Learning Assistant check results resources knowledgew Manager • Staff can view history information on learning through the DWS Learning Center Business KDB Daewoo Securities Biz Skill My HRD Position Junior Training Academy • Staff can check information on the training history, customized training, and certificates Middle-ranking WM Part CIB Part Mgmt. Part Employee Financial Basics Self Motivation • Staff can choose learning content that they need to develop relevant competencies or acquire a certificate Learning • Staff can apply for internal training, external training, online training, real-time training, or correspondence learning Introductory Course / March / Boot Camp • Staff can search for knowledge through IT systems and the knowledge bulletin board Knowledge Sharing Staff New Employee Business Position • Staff can participate in communities, produce UCC, and engage in online and video meetings 68 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 Think Prosperity Think Sustainability Think Responsibility Appendix 69 Customers Shareholders/Investors Employees Local Communities Fostering Trusted Financial Experts Training Outcomes Fair and Reasonable Compensation KDB Daewoo Securities has established training systems KDB Daewoo Securities uses its systematic training programs KDB Daewoo Securities places great emphasis on a fair and reasonable performance evaluation process, using a transparent to strengthen the expertise of all its employees in finance. to maximize the knowledge, skills and expertise of all staff. By procedure and suitable criteria. Outstanding employees receive various incentives, thus motivating staff to perform their duties The KDB Daewoo Securities Junior Training Academy gives offering 528 employee trainings, a 16% increase over 2012, effectively. concentrated training to junior personnel, which builds a KDB Daewoo Securities fully supported the self-development sustainable foundation for the development of financial undertaken by its staff. Employees are also offered support in Performance Evaluation Process Multifaceted Evaluations expertise. In the retail sector, the company offers a program acquiring professional financial certificates, and the number Employees are graded on their performance and capabilities All employees have an interview with their department or that nurtures top-class PBs to develop wealth management with CFP, AFPK, and CPA certificates is rising steadily. based on evaluation factors, such as innovation, creativity, and branch manager to ensure fair performance evaluation. experts. In corporate investment banking, the company will customer-orientation. Clear feedback is given so as to ensure After the first half of the year, employees have an interview successfully establish the CIB Expert Course to strengthen fair evaluations. There are upward appraisals of executives, with their final evaluator (department manager or branch professional skills and to maximize the synergy within our department managers, branch managers, and team managers manager), as an intermediate assessment. This allows value chain. to ensure open communication, fairness and the development impartial evaluations, and offers opportunities for regular of good managers. communication. We also carry out multifaceted evaluations, which include both top-down and bottom-up assessments, at the end of every year, to maintain impartiality. Direction of New Employee Training System Strengthening the Professional Training System Downward Evaluation Upward Evaluation Department and branch Completion of KDB Daewoo Securities Retail: Development of excellent comprehensive CIB: Job expertise and strengthened synergy manager interviews Category Main details Junior Training Academy wealth management experts in value chain • Full launch of KDB Daewoo Securities • Development of PBs who can engage in • Successful full establishment of Target of Executive, department manager, branch manager, Junior Training Academy initial financial planning CIB Expert Course 1. Self-evaluation evaluation and part manager (team manager) evaluation • Junior personnel fully demonstrate their • Execution of future expert development • Support employees in acquiring professional skills earlier program to foster top-class PBs certificates related to finance Part manager Executive Department manager (Team manager) 2. Initial evaluation Compliance Employee Training Hours/Training Courses Employees with Professional Financial Certificates (Unit: Person) 3. Feedback 528 CFP holders AFPK holders Leadership 456 181 Evaluated Policy 407 1,052 categories 4. Final evaluation competencies 851 Organizational culture 141 113 improvements 107 82 139.7 41 5. Finalization of evaluation 337 Organization value oriented 125.6 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Job 6. Application for objection competencies Work drive 71.8 CFA (Level 3) * Year 2012: Cost-efficient course operations 40 employees passed the CFP test in 25 Use of evaluation Referenced for provision of opportunities for top-down communication, the first half of 2012 (Pass rate of 49.4%, 19 Industry average of 24%) 7. Finalization of grade results skill development of unit organizational managers, and organizational operations 17 137 employees passed the AFPK test in 2010 2011 2012 the first half of 2012 (Pass rate of 32%, Industry average of 21%) Average training expenses per person (Unit: KRW 10 thousand) Training hours per person (Unit: Hour) No. of training courses (Unit: Case) 2010 2011 2012 70 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 71 3 tu Fe a re ‘Open HR’ to Select ec ia l the Best Talent Sp Employee Compensation System The Best Club KDB Daewoo Securities uses its new All employees receive both financial and non-financial KDB Daewoo Securities held the ‘Best Club’ event in January internal recruitment system, ‘Open HR’, compensation, fairly assessed according to performance 2011, to reward staff members who contributed the most to evaluation results. Compensation includes base salaries, KDB Daewoo Securities’ retail business over the year. The to find the best talent. bonuses, and welfare benefits. Staff motivation is enhanced event was held for the second time, followed by its launch in through systematic compensation and our various welfare 2010. Two ‘Best Branch Managers’, 16 ‘Best Private Bankers’, programs. There is no difference in base salaries between and one ‘Best Customer Support Staff’ were chosen, and each female and male staff. In 2012, the new employee wage was was presented with prize money of KRW 1 million. 332% of the Korean minimum wage. The Best People Will Shape Our Future Global IB Training for Outstanding Sales Employees Rewarding Outstanding Employees In November 2012, KDB Daewoo Securities implemented its new ‘Open HR’ system, Qualifications for Open HR In October 2012, eight leading sales staff went to Hong Kong aimed at unlocking outstanding talent and supporting employees in accomplishing KDB Daewoo Securities strives to enhance a sense of pride by to receive global IB training. This visit helped them to gain their professional goals. This system will put the best talent in the right positions and • Staffs who have been with operating various reward programs, including ‘The Best Club’ better understanding of the company’s global strategies. As allow staff to expand their work experience, thus increasing their expertise and skills. KDB Daewoo Securities for more than four years and global IB training. well as visiting the KDB Daewoo Securities office in HK, they Departments and branches that are recruiting publish a notice of the number of people • Must have worked in current also visited the offices of major global investment banks, such needed and the qualifications required, after which the best talent is chosen through open department for three years or as Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, and UBS, to broaden their competition. more, or two years for branch staff knowledge and experience. Open HR Process A screening Each department Departments and process takes place and branch Individuals apply Announcement is branches subject to at each appropriate Employee Compensation seeking internal internal recruitment for internal department and made on selected recruitment applies recruitment employees are finalized branch (screening to participate for selection) Base Salary Cash Compensation Selecting the Best 11 Personnel Incentives ‘The Best Club’ Plaque An in-house notice publicized Open HR when it was launched in November 2012. Benefits • Support for stable housing 20 departments and branches submitted applications for recruitment, and 35 staff • Child tuition support applied for positions. After a detailed, thorough and confidential screening process Benefits • Medical subsidies & health checkup at each department and branch, 11 employees were selected and assigned to the • Family affairs and disaster subsidies appropriate departments and branches. Open HR will be expanded so that departments, • Leisure and hobby expense subsidies branches, and staff alike can benefit from it, and so that it will actively contribute to the development of the company. How Open HR Works Male and Female Base Salary Ratio by Rank in 2012 • Staffs chosen are immediately appointed act, such as making personal requests (Unit: %) to the appropriate department or branch or violating the principle of confidentiality 104 in the selection process, the recruitment 101 101 • Themanager of the department or branch 100 is cancelled and appropriate disciplinary 99 from which the staff will be departing 94 measures taken is notified after the selection process, to ensure there is no disadvantage to • The number of staff selected by one the employee, such as evaluation and department or branch through Open HR compensation for performance is restricted to no more than 10% of the total number of employees in that • Strict confidentiality is maintained until department or branch (where the number the final appointments are made of selected employees exceeds 10%, the Chief Assistant Manager Deputy General General Manager Manager Manager • Any fraudulent conduct is strictly longest-serving are given priority) prohibited. If there is such a fraudulent * Percentage of female employees’ base salaries when the base salaries of male employees with the same rank are set as 100 (No. of years working for the company and salary class are reflected) 72 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 Think Prosperity Think Sustainability Think Responsibility Appendix 73 Customers Shareholders/Investors Employees Local Communities Employee InterviewS Establishing a Horizontal and Flexible Supports and Efforts to Boost Work Establishing a Culture where Autonomy and Organizational Culture Satisfaction Responsibility Coexist Good internal communication activities ensure that staffs I believe that customer satisfaction begins with staff I am very happy with KDB Daewoo Securities’ organizational always have access to information on what is happening at satisfaction. KDB Daewoo Securities is striving to build a work culture, through which each individual’s opinions and autonomy the company, and know about important issues. There is also culture that considers staff first, and is implementing welfare are respected. This in turn enables staff to demonstrate their a need for an arena of communication to share information programs with the aim to help staff focus on work without creativity. The monthly internal broadcast from the CEO also with employees. This is why KDB Daewoo Securities has an unnecessary stress. For example, unlike most companies really contributes to an open corporate culture. In addition, the internal broadcast at the beginning of each month through which keep the top floor of the company’s headquarters for lobby at the company HQ is used for many types of internal which the CEO can communicate openly about important executive offices, our top floor houses a fitness center and communications, building a corporate culture where ideas are corporate matters and discuss issues that are important to cafeteria for our staff. This symbolizes the highest priority that shared and discussed. I think this strong, flexible culture helps our staff. The broadcast has substantially improved corporatethe company places on the welfare of its staffs. to ensure that KDB Daewoo Securities’ unique principles and wide awareness of important issues, and has shown the rules are respected, for the benefit of all. management’s abiding commitment towards companywide communications. It is very important for staff to think Expertise to Provide Top-Quality Financial that individual performance evaluations and compensation Training to Invest in the Development of Services packages are reasonable, so we should build an evaluation Global Financial Experts A securities firm must create value for customers at its Juna Lee process that is acceptable to everyone. KDB Daewoo Securities has an effective and systematic Middle-ranking Employee, Global FI Sales of customer contact points. KDB Daewoo Securities emphasizes KDB Daewoo Securities training system, matched by a real commitment to a training the importance of staff training to strengthen financial Ms. Lee works in Global FI Sales. culture that befits its reputation as an institution that develops expertise, thus making us a securities firm that delivers the She was hired in 2013 through the the nation’s best financial experts. It is encouraging to best in value and service to customers. As the leader in the company’s open recruitment process. know, as a member of KDB Daewoo Securities, that the Korean securities market, KDB Daewoo Securities will assume company provides support for personal growth as well the responsibility of identifying and pioneering best practice, as for the development of work skills. For example, the and will strive to give customers confidence in the company’s company supports staff in learning languages and in acquiring professionalism and leadership. professional qualifications. The company is aiming to become a pioneer IB of Asia, so I hope to see it expanding training, and offering more opportunities for the development of global As the leader in the Korean securities market, experts, such as by offering a global MBA program or giving KDB Daewoo Securities will assume the staff the chance to work overseas. responsibility of identifying and pioneering best practice, and will strive to give customers Embedding Sustainability Management in the confidence in the company’s professionalism and leadership. Work Culture I am proud that KDB Daewoo Securities is involved in a wide variety of sustainability management activities. The company’s Yeongchang Min commitment has been proven by its listing on the DJSI World, Executive Director, Management Support Creating a Mindset Committed to Headquarters of KDB Daewoo Securities support for multi-cultural families, and joining of the UN Global Sustainability Management Compact. However, not every staff member is fully aware of Mr. Min is one of the company’s executive officers, with particular KDB Daewoo Securities will achieve sustainable growth by these activities and achievements. Internal communication responsibility for management support. should improve, so that information on sustainability committing to sustainability management and by satisfying Joohyeon Kim management is shared with everyone at the company. There stakeholder demand and expectation for real corporate social Middle-ranking Employee, Research Center of responsibility. It is therefore important for the company to KDB Daewoo Securities should be particular focus on the social contribution activities create a mindset of sustainability management within the undertaken by staff; this would lead to greater awareness Mr. Kim works at the company’s Research organizational culture. KDB Daewoo Securities will establish Center. He was hired in 2013 through the of what KDB Daewoo Securities is doing in its communities company’s open recruitment process. corporate-wide sustainability management by putting in place around the world. systems that commit us to fulfilling our social responsibilities, and by having senior management lead by example. 74 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 Think Prosperity Think Sustainability Think Responsibility Appendix 75 Customers Shareholders/Investors Employees Local Communities Received a Presidential Citation at the ‘Nationwide Multi-cultural Family Support Contest’ Local Communities We believe that the only path towards sustainable growth is to grow alongside our local communities; that is why we fulfill all our responsibilities as a corporate citizen. Social Contributions to Grow with Local Communities Global CSR activities in the Democratic KDB Daewoo Securities undertakes social contribution activities so that we can contribute to the local communities in which we Republic of the Congo are involved, as part of our commitment to sustainability management through sharing. Social Contribution Schemes Social Contribution Organization KDB Daewoo Securities’ social contribution schemes rest on Our Corporate Social Responsibility Corps organizes and carries the three pillars of mutual prosperity, participation, and sharing. out our corporate social responsibility activities. In addition, there is a CSR Steering Committee and a Donation Beneficiary Mutual Prosperity Selection Committee, to ensure transparency and fairness in KDB Daewoo Securities undertakes a variety of programs each CSR project. in partnership with external organizations, focusing mainly on support for multi-cultural families, educating teenagers CSR Steering Committee from low-income families, and the development of social Consisting of six executives, the CSR Steering Committee enterprises. formulates social contribution strategies, allocates budget, evaluates suitable donation amounts, and undertakes the Participation regular monitoring of projects. Everone at KDB Daewoo Securities is encouraged to participate in volunteer activities in our local communities, emphasizing Donation Beneficiary Selection Committee our commitment to corporate-wide social contributions. This Committee consists of staff from the General Affairs, Finance, Human Resources, and Public Relations Departments, t Sharing as well as the secretary-general of the Corporate Social Social contribution activities mean more when they are Responsibility Corps. It determines the beneficiaries and the sustained by a culture of volunteering among staff. KDB sponsorship amounts. Daewoo Securities has put in place the ‘Lovemeter’, a forum through which staff can voluntarily donate part of their salaries. Corporate Social Responsibility Corps epo These funds are used to give help where it is needed, such as This social contributions team was established in July 2009, to to charity groups near the company’s regional offices nationconduct KDB Daewoo Securities’ social contribution activities wide. in a professional and systematic manner. It acts as the company-wide control tower for social contribution activities. R n bl ‘Jump Up Project’ to support Social Contribution Schemes CSR Organization young social entrepreneurs Support for multi-cultural families • Creation of recipe books in multiple languages, development Lovemeter of bilingual studying materials, sponsorship of free hospitals BOD in the metropolitan area, sponsorship for multi-cultural centers and schools Mutual Educational support for teenagers from low-income families prosperity • People Who Share Learning, educational donation program CEO Development of social enterprises • Identification of youth business teams with potential, growth fund support CSR Steering Committee Mandatory employee volunteering once a year, monthly communities theme-based volunteering • Establishes social CSR Corps • Habitat for Humanity, sharing briquettes, lending farming contribution strategies and Participation hands • Serves monitors relevant activities as the corporate-wide control Each regional headquarters sponsors groups and engages tower of social contribution in volunteer activities • Engages in social contribution activities Donation Beneficiary Selection Committee ‘Lovemeter’, an Intranet for employee salary donation • Engages in deliberation to Sharing • Sponsorship for local community groups and relief CSR Secretariat determine the beneficiaries organizations and the amount 76 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 Think Prosperity Think Sustainability Think Responsibility Appendix 77 Customers Shareholders/Investors Employees Local Communities Mutual Prosperity: Support for the Under-privileged Educational Support for Teenagers from Low-income Families Supporting Multi-cultural Families Animation to Improve Knowledge about Multi-cultural KDB Daewoo Securities seeks to support children’s growth Families and development, so that they can achieve their dreams, and KDB Daewoo Securities supports multi-cultural families so that KDB Daewoo Securities has created an animation that do not give up on learning because of financial difficulties. they can live stable and integrated lives in Korea. In 2012, the company received a Presidential Citation at the ‘Nationwide improves knowledge about multi-cultural families in association Support for College Student Volunteer Groups Multi-cultural Family Support Contest’ in recognition of with ‘Red Bicycle’, a children’s TV show on KBS that talks about social issues. The show looks into scenarios that multiKDB Daewoo Securities sponsors college volunteer groups its efforts. The company will continue to take the lead in cultural children may experience with their friends, and the which help children from low-income families to get a better improving the general public’s thoughts on lives of multianimation shows how the elementary school students can education. ‘People Who Share Learning’ is a group of around cultural families in 2013. come to understand each other. It has aired every Friday 600 college students who provide private lessons, volunteer Cook Books in Multiple Languages since August 2013. KDB Daewoo Securities worked with an activities and essential items for around 350 junior high school What wives from overseas find most difficult about in living in NGO, the ‘Global Village of Love’, to produce the animation, students. With sponsorship from KDB Daewoo Securities, the Korea is the language and the cooking. KDB Daewoo Securities and we are developing a lesson plan to be used alongside the group’s education centers grew in number from two in 2009 to created recipe calendars in seven languages, including Chinese animation in collaboration with the Seoul National University of nine in 2011. and Vietnamese, in 2009. Starting in 2010, the company Education, to educate elementary school students. Learning Aid Equipment for Visually and Hearing-Impaired made cook books containing 45 Korean recipes in nine College Students different languages and is delivering them, through the Korea Since 2010, KDB Daewoo Securities has provided 40 Braille Immigration Service, to immigrate women entering Korea for terminals for the visually impaired, to help students who are the first time. Also, cook book materials were posted on the passionate about learning but cannot afford expensive learning Workshop for teachers of company’s website so that anybody can easily download the ‘People Who Share Learning’ aid equipment. In addition, in 2013, KDB Daewoo Securities materials. In March 2012, the company moved ahead with bought 20 hearing aids from a social enterprise and provided commercial publication of the cook books in 10 languages to Received a Presidential Citation at them for free to those in need. enable use by a greater number of people. All proceeds from the ‘Nationwide Multi-cultural Family royalties are used for multi-cultural family support. Support Contest’ Sponsoring Community Child Centers and Study Rooms Bilingual Educational Support for the Children of Multi-cultural KDB Daewoo Securities sponsors community child centers Families and study rooms that protect and educate children from lowincome families. It began by sponsoring seven centers and To help parents from abroad to teach their part-Korean children study rooms in 2009, and this number grew to 50 by 2012. mother tongue, KDB Daewoo Securities developed teaching In addition to providing monthly financial support to cover materials in five languages – Chinese, Vietnamese, Mongolian, operating expenses, KDB Daewoo Securities provides support Japanese, and Russian – in collaboration with Seoul National Cook books in multiple languages through experience programs and learning materials. The University in 2011 and Hankuk University of Foreign Studies in Providing learning aid company actively seeks out what each center needs, so that it equipment for visually and 2012. All materials were uploaded to the company’s website hearing-impaired students can offer customized social contributions. in 2013 so that they could be easily accessed by any users. To motivate children to continue to learn two languages, the ‘Go, Dream Tree Class’ company has held a ‘Mother Tongue Contest’ every November In 2013, KDB Daewoo Securities began providing an since 2011, with scholarships awarded to the winners. Bilingual teaching materials educational program for elementary school students in the study rooms sponsored by the company. The program is tailored for each study room, and the diverse content, such Sponsoring community child centers as character, future plan, and culture, focuses on the child’s emotional development, which in turn increases the effects of the practical aspects of education. Seven education sessions were held across five study rooms from January through TV animation to improve knowledge about multi-cultural families August 2013. In the second half of the year, the company will continue to provide diverse learning opportunities for children, such as the creation of a samulnori (traditional percussion Field trip of ‘Go, Dream Tree Class’ quartet) troupe. 78 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 Think Prosperity Think Sustainability Think Responsibility Appendix 79 Customers Shareholders/Investors Employees Local Communities Participating in Local Communities Sharing: Employee Participation Annual Volunteer Activities Volunteering with Customers Lovemeter, 1% Sharing, 100% Happiness Using the Social Contribution Budget Once a year since 2006, everyone at KDB Daewoo Securities Since 2011, KDB Daewoo Securities has undertaken volunteer KDB Daewoo Securities’ culture of sharing becomes stronger Funds collected through ‘Lovemeter’ are used for KDB has continued to choose a facility that needs support and help, activities alongside customers, to increase the impact of our through the voluntary and continuing participation of our staff. Daewoo Securities’ many social contribution activities. ranging from nursing homes and facilities for the disabled to social contribution activities. Volunteering with customers Staff can donate a portion of their salaries through ‘Lovemeter’, The Corporate Social Responsibility Corps combines these nurseries and hospices. The company encourages its entire not only helps the under-privileged and fulfills our corporate an internal intranet built for donation activities. The funds donations with those from the budget set aside by the staff to experience the sense of happiness that comes from social responsibilities, but also strengthens relationships with donated are then used to sponsor facilities recommended company for its corporate social responsibilities. KDB Daewoo sharing with others, and revels in fulfilling its commitment to customers in a very human manner. by the company’s regional offices throughout the nation. Securities will be completely transparent about the use of the the local communities which make up the foundation of the Lovemeter is growing every year thanks to active staff company’s budget on social contribution activities, including company. participation. the donations made by staff. Monthly Theme-based Volunteering KDB Daewoo Securities has many volunteer programs in place: ‘Habitat for Humanity’, which provides affordable housing for low-income facilities; ‘Kimchi Sharing’, through which this essential Korean food is provided to residential welfare Employee Participation in ‘Lovemeter’ Allocated and Spent Budget for Social Contribution facilities for the benefit of their residents; ‘Lending Farming (Unit: KRW 100 million) Hands’ for farming villages where there is a shortage of young Category 2010* 2011 2012 workers; and ‘Delivering Briquettes for Humanity’ for senior 84 citizens who have mobility difficulties. 82 83 Budget set aside for 31.1 38.0 35.5 CSR Volunteer Corps 2,660 Support for 2,613 9.1 11.6 6.7 multi-cultural families 2,589 Educational support for teenagers from 4.9 8.0 6.2 low-income families Social enterprises 3.0 2.5 Details on Social welfare spent Habitat for Humanity Kimchi Sharing 2010* 2011 2012 facilities (the disabled, 3.8 4.6 4.6 budget childcare, senior) No. of employees who participated (Unit: Person) Donation to KDB 3.0 4.0 9.8 Participation rate (Unit: %) Sharing Foundation (Unit: KRW 100 million) Project and 4.0 2.4 2.0 volunteer support Category 2010* 2011 2012 Emergency and 6.3 4.4 3.7 Collected amount 4.6 5.5 4.6 distress relief * From April 1 to December 31, 2010 * From April 1 to December 31, 2010 Lending Farming Hands Delivering Briquettes for Humanity 80 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 Think Prosperity Think Sustainability Think Responsibility Appendix 81 Customers Shareholders/Investors Employees Local Communities Contributing to Society through Finance Participating in New & Renewable Energy Generation Developing Financial Products for Retirement Projects By developing financial products for retirement, KDB Daewoo As a major financial investment institution, KDB Daewoo Securities seeks to contribute to society through finance. The company has developed ESG (Environment, Social, Governance)-related financial products that reflect social needs, such as global warming, KDB Daewoo Securities is involved in new and renewable Securities is able to offer financial solutions that are right for aging population, and demand for SRI (Socially Responsible Investments). The company is also reducing difficulties experienced by energy generation projects as part of its commitment to fight customers in an aging society. the visually-impaired in using the services through increased web accessibility. climate change, and to develop new business areas. Future Planning Research Institute Yeongwol Photovoltaic Generation Project Established in February 2012, the Future Planning Research Green Finance Promotion Committee Developing ESG-related Financial Products This project involves building and operating a 38.9MW Institute conducts research on changes in society and the KDB Daewoo Securities launched the Green Finance KDB Daewoo Securities has developed various ESG-related photovoltaic power plant in Gangwon Province in Korea. economy, and on the resulting changes in asset markets. The Promotion Committee in 2010, to develop ideas for green financial products, including SRI, clean energy funds, and KDB Daewoo Securities has provided financial advice, made institute publishes research reports and holds seminars to financial products and raise its corporate image as a green donation funds. The ‘KDB Bank SRI Fund for a Better World’ financial arrangements, and served as the agent bank for help customers plan wisely for their future. The Institute offers financing leader. Comprised of nine executive members, the is an ESG product that invests in companies that lead the field project funds worth a total of KRW 140 billion. The company services which truly distinguish it from other organizations; Committee collaborates with the Working Council, a group of in sustainability management. The company also manages the is also a financial investor in the project, with an 18% these include the ‘future-oriented approach’, the ‘professional general managers from related departments, for swift decision‘KDB Bank S&P Clean Energy Fund’; this fund invests in the stake, demonstrating its commitment to the construction personnel pool’, which consists of research and product making and an organized workflow through an integrated S&P Global Clean Energy Index, which consists of new and of the largest photovoltaic power plant in Asia. If the plant experts, and ‘market-focused planning’. channel for corporate-wide green financial initiatives. renewable energy-related companies. The ‘Dongbu Econation is registered as a CDM (Clean Development Mechanism) Fund’ is a private equity fund established for high net worth Golden Age No. 3 business, additional profit generation is anticipated thanks to customers with a specific interest in donating; funds are raised the recognition of the plant’s CO2 reduction performance. Released in 2011, KDB Daewoo Securities’ Golden Age No. based on a percentage of the customer’s salary, and then 3 has remained popular with retirees looking to a comfortable these funds are used to grant scholarships. Biomass Power Generation Project in Teesport, England post-retirement life. Sufficient monthly payments are made, in KDB Daewoo Securities is participating in a project to build a addition to stable wealth management services. It calculates biomass power generation plant at Teesport in northeastern the monthly payments by offering a pay-back of 0.5% of the England in partnership with MGT Power, Eco-Frontier, and investment. Asset allocation aims at matching price rises, Green Finance Promotion Committee Implementation System ESG-related Financial Product Management Korea South East Power. This huge project involves building which helps customers to guarantee stable profitability for Appraised Value the world’s largest 299MW biomass power generation plant. their post-retirement life. Golden Age No. 3 was chosen as an ESG Financial Products Base Month CEO (KRW 100 million) Project costs are expected to total approximately KRW 1.2 excellent financial product by prestigious organizations, such as KDB SRI Funds for a Better World 40.9 June 2013 trillion. KDB Daewoo Securities is in charge of financial advice the Herald Business and Maeil Business Newspaper in 2011 Chairperson of and the arrangement of project financing. Its role in this and 2012, respectively, thus receiving external recognition for Green Finance Promotion KDB S&P Clean Energy Fund 9.1 June 2013 project will help KDB Daewoo Securities to become a leader its excellence. in exporting domestic finance into overseas financial markets, Green Finance Promotion Committee Dongbu Econation Fund 24.2 June 2013 which will boost the reputation not only of the company but of Korean finance in general. Green Finance Promotion Steering Committee Equity Project General Corporate Investment Private Derivatives Finance Affairs Research Research Equity Trading Department Department Department Department Department Department Wrap Financial Principal Trust Alternative Strategy & Account Product Investment Management Investment Planning Trading Development Department Department Department Department Department Department Bird’s-eye view of Yeongwol Signing an agreement for biomass power photovoltaic power plant generation project in Teesport, England 82 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 Think Prosperity Think Sustainability Think Responsibility Appendix 83 Customers Shareholders/Investors Employees Local Communities Providing Working Capital for Social Enterprises Increased Web Accessibility for the Visually-impaired Implementing Eco-friendly Management In April 2011, KDB Daewoo Securities signed a memorandum KDB Daewoo Securities became the first company in the KDB Daewoo Securities has established a systematic environmental management system. The company thus systematically of understanding for the promotion of social enterprises with Korean financial investment industry to receive the ‘Web manages the environmental elements needed in its business activities, and builds a green work environment that minimizes the Korea Social Enterprise Promotion Agency and Social Accessibility Certification Mark’ for both its website and its our impact, employing green management throughout all aspects of our business. KDB Daewoo Securities is also participating Solidarity Bank. Since then, the company has been providing WTS (Web Trading System), which have helped to make in global environmental protection initiatives that have been launched to counter climate change, including the CDP (Carbon short-term operating funds to social enterprises that are financial services available to all. A screen reader program Disclosure Project) and C4C (Change for Climate). certified by the Korean Government, which helps enterprises enables the visually-impaired to hear the screen content that are experiencing short-term cash-flow difficulties. This audibly, and they are designed to help those with color Environmental Management System Activities to Counter Climate Change support was offered to 15 social enterprises in 2011 and five blindness. Visually-impaired software developers provided KDB Daewoo Securities established the foundation for its KDB Daewoo Securities takes part in various global and enterprises in 2012. consulting and verified the WTS during the system’s environmental policies in 2006, and now implements policies national climate change initiatives. It is a sponsor of the Korean development, ensuring that it is as user-friendly and efficient Developing Young Social Entrepreneurs based on a corporate-wide environmental management CDP, and has disclosed its carbon usage information every year as possible. process. Environmental management policies are categorized since 2010. Also in 2010, the company joined C4C, a climate KDB Daewoo Securities signed an agreement with the into three major areas, and the company selects specifics change initiative for companies based on the UN Global Social Enterprise Gyeonggi Foundation and the Korea Social missions in each area, after which results are evaluated and Compact Enterprise Promotion Agency to promote business start-ups then reflected in future policies. by young people, and to support the sustainable growth of social enterprises. This is part of our support for the ‘Jump Up Project’, which has had outstanding results. From ten social enterprises that have received initial support through the project, five have been successfully designated as preliminary Environmental Management Strategy Scheme and Missions social enterprises. ‘Changing the World’, a book that contains honest stories of social entrepreneurs, has been published, and this has helped to spread the word about how to create the model of a successful social enterprises. ‘Jump Up Project’ for young social entrepreneurs Optimizing eco-friendly Establishing a green Realizing green financial input and output workplace environments Support for Social Enterprises Project Year Project Size Note • Adopting a target management system for • Planning and practicing • Reviewing environmentally-responsible eco-friendly input and output environmental activities derivatives products Short-term 5 enterprises New support of KRW 42 million, Publishing ceremony for • Reflecting environmental performance data • Reducing the consumption of • Including the environmental management operating fund 2012 (KRW 30 million including KRW 123 million in the ‘Changing the World’ • Complying with global standards and electricity and water practices in IB business activities and research support for social per enterprise) repayment made the previous year increasing related activities • Campaign to reduce disposable • Reviewing the application of demand/supplyenterprises paper cup use related incentives of ‘financial investments’ certified by to environmentally-responsible companies the Ministry of 15 enterprises Loan support of KRW 150 Employment and 2011 (KRW 10 million million, Operational management Labor per enterprise) of KRW 15 million Four project teams (more than Increasing web accessibility for Environmental Management Process eight companies) chosen as the visually-impaired part of the Jump Up Project were provided with growth Total funds. A contest was held 2013 KRW 200 for undergraduate students million Management and graduate school students Environmental Implementation Development Planning Checking across the nation to submit policy and operation review of social social enterprise papers and a entrepreneurs & collection of papers was issued. PR and marketing support Ten enterprises chosen as part of the Jump Up Project were Total provided with growth funds, and 2012 KRW 200 a book on social entrepreneurs million titled ‘Changing the World’ was published. 84 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 85 4 tu Fe a re A Global Finance ec ia l of Sharing Sp Minimizing Our Ecological Footprint through Eco-Friendly Reducing Paper Usage KDB Daewoo Securities is becoming Business Operations KDB Daewoo Securities has been striving to reduce the a ‘global company of hope’ by undertaking As a financial investment company, KDB Daewoo Securities’ amount of paper used in its business activities and to curtail business activities do not have a substantial impact on the expenses by reducing the usage of multi-functional printers many overseas social activities. environment, but the company is still committed to ecoand other printing expenses since April 2012. Staff are friendly business activities where it can. These include saving required to use black & white, and double-sided printing in all energy and paper, and limiting our emissions of greenhouse but exceptional circumstances, and there is a printer manager gases. designated at each department and branch. Reducing Energy Usage KDB Daewoo Securities complies with government policies on the efficient use of energy. The air-conditioning setting Planting a Seed of Hope in the Democratic Republic is no cooler than 26°C in summer, and the company has of the Congo implemented a ‘cool business’ policy, whereby staff are not required to wear suit jackets or ties. In winter, the temperature KDB Daewoo Securities has been carrying out social contribution activities in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) since 2011, spreading hope and dream around setting is no higher than 20°C. Year-round, lights are turned off the world. The DRC is a huge, third largest in Africa, mineral-rich country, but it has been during non-working hours and in areas that are rarely used. rived by war and corruption, so it now lacks infrastructure and basic facilities, resulting in huge difficulties for the vast majority of its citizens. In November 2011, some 20 staff from KDB Daewoo Securities visited Menkao Village and Mongata Village in the DRC, and delivered tractors and other farm equipment. They GHG Emissions Other Green Management Performance also undertook volunteer activities with village residents. In December 2012, ten staff visited Menkao Village, Mongata Village, and Bas Congo Village, and delivered school (Unit: tCO2e) Category Unit 2010 2011 2012 supplies and soccer balls. In addition, KDB Daewoo Securities donated KRW 70 million 3 to the Lubumbashi area alongside the WFP (World Food Program) to sponsor the Gas Nm 84,929 38,541 construction of the ‘KDB Daewoo Securities School’. This will enable around 700 local 12,364 children to receive a formal education. We will go beyond, and continue to expand our Electricity kWh 26,114,126 22,492,181 10,572 overseas social contribution activities. Paper ton 281 328 295 Donating PCs to Mongolia Copy Paper ton 87 114 96 In December 2012, KDB Daewoo Securities donated 300 PCs to Pure University in Printed ton 119 110 105 Mongolia, where decent computer equipment was beyond their financial reach. From Materials among the 1,050 PCs that were subject to replacement for the company, 900 PCs were DM ton 75 104 95 donated to Com One, a social enterprise that recycles PCs, and the rest 300 PCs were 2011 2012 reassembled and delivered to the university. We are happy and proud of carrying out Water m3 81,637 74,388 69,367 overseas CSR activities, together with support for a social enterprise. Category Unit 2011 2012 Waste ℓ 499,000 403,000 389,000 Scope 1 tCO2e 187.9 85.3 Educational Support in Indonesia While expanding its business into Indonesia by acquiring e-Trading, KDB Daewoo Scope 2 tCO2e 12,175.7 10,487.0 Securities is also implementing a program to improve the educational environment at elementary schools in the country. The program has been boosted in size and scope Total emissions tCO2e 12,363.6 10,572.3 by support for half of its expenses through the public-private cooperation program of the Korea International Cooperation Agency. The project will launch at the end of 2013 * Including two buildings such as the Yeouido HQ in Seoul and the company building in Gwacheon-si in Timor Tengah Selatan, in Nusa Tenggara Timur. This area has suffered severely from natural disasters, including earthquakes and tsunamis, and schools have come under threat. This project will thus provide a safer environment for children to continue their studies in. 86 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 Think Prosperity Think Sustainability Think Responsibility Appendix 87 Customers Shareholders/Investors Employees Local Communities LOCAL Community InterviewS Increasing Sincerity and Continuity in Social Strengthening the Donation Culture Global Sharing through Overseas Social Contributions There are several ways a company can increase the donations Contributions Social contribution activities should never be used just for it makes to the local community. It can donate a percentage For KDB Daewoo Securities to become a truly global company, corporate PR or marketing. If that happens, the activities of its revenues, or staff can donate a percentage of their the company must fulfill the responsibilities that come with are then reliant far too much on a company’s financial salaries. This second approach is more meaningful because being a global corporate citizen. This means undertaking condition. A company should therefore focus on long-term of the staff’s voluntary participation, which in turn spreads a overseas contribution activities that reflect local social issues joint development with local communities, and give much culture of donating throughout the company. KDB Daewoo and need for welfare. KDB Daewoo Securities should leverage thought to the activities as part of its efforts to enhance the Securities has set an example to other companies in Korea by the experience and know-how which the company has sincerity of such activities. The key is to think from a long-term collecting donations through ‘Lovemeter’, its salary donation accumulated from supporting multi-cultural families, and use perspective and communicate closely with local communities, campaign. As of the end of 2012, around 84% of staff took that to help families in need overseas. thus ensuring continuity in social contribution activities. part this program, which reflects the true culture of sharing within the company. ‘Lovemeter’ has become a unique part of KDB Daewoo Securities, and I hope it will be improved and Distinctive Social Contribution Activities expanded, so that it can help in the development of a donation culture throughout the nation. There are many ways in which a company can contribute to a local community. However, there are always people For a company’s social contribution activities who experience great difficulties because they are excluded to be truly effective for both the company from welfare programs, even though they are in dire need of itself and the society in general, the company help and support. This applies, for example, to some foreign must pick the right ones, and manage them workers in Korea who lack access to medical services. systematically. They may not be able to receive medical benefits because Hyeseong Kim of financial difficulties, or because of a lack of professional Reverend, Global Village of Love medical facilities in their area, or because they do not get enough support due to prejudice against foreign workers. The Global Village of Love carries out programs to support multi-cultural families jointly with KDB Daewoo Securities has sponsored several free hospitals KDB Daewoo Securities, including free medical Key Social Contribution Activities of for foreign residents since 2006, and has undertaken other care for foreigners and the Red Bicycle Campaign. KDB Daewoo Securities social activities that are specifically aimed at foreign residents. Social contributions for those who are alienated, or who For a company’s social contribution activities to be truly do not receive any help from mainstream society and are effective for both the company itself and the society in excluded from welfare benefits, mean so much more than general, the company must pick the right ones, and manage activities involved solely with popular and well-known causes. Social Contribution Activities that Reflect them systematically. Social contribution activities that embody Developing a unique culture of sharing along these lines at People’s Needs a company’s unique characteristics and strengths maximize KDB Daewoo Securities would enhance the distinctive aspects their effects, and also have a positive effect on the company’s Many financial institutions in Korea take part in social of the company’s social contribution activities. image. KDB Daewoo Securities has been very effective in contributions, but most of them focus on the corporate PR and supporting multi-cultural families and providing educational marketing effects. Truly sincere social contributions begin by support to children from low-income families; now it should paying attention to local community issues, and really trying leverage its experience and know-how and develop these hard to understand and respond to them. For example, one programs further, instead of trying some other contribution major problem for multi-cultural families in Korea is food and I am sure that KDB Daewoo Securities will activities. It would also be good to make a connection with cooking. KDB Daewoo Securities and the Global Village of continue with its heartfelt social contribution the company’s financial products and services, to create social Love noticed this practical issue and committed themselves activities, providing practical help to local contribution programs in which customers can also participate. Jinok Jeong to creating recipe calendars in several languages, which has communities and to those most in need. Director, Community Chest of Korea helped wives from overseas to cook Korean food. I am sure The Community Chest of Korea uses donations that KDB Daewoo Securities will continue with its heartfelt from KDB Daewoo Securities to implement various social contribution activities, providing practical help to local social welfare programs. communities and to those most in need. 88 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 89 we always Peyonghwa Son think our Middle-Ranking Employee, Fixed Income Product Department We always think about what customers really want and how to deliver the best services. Everyone at KDB Daewoo Securities does more than just do their allotted tasks; we really think about what could most benefit our customers and our local communities, and we put that into action. We will all continue to use our professional abilities and experience to enhance the value of customer assets and to shape a better tomorrow for our customers. 90 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 91 Jiye Choi Staff, Strategy & Planning Department Shareholders and investors are also the owners of KDB Daewoo Securities. Everyone at KDB Daewoo Securities pursues consistent, responsible and sustainable growth so that we can grow in partnership with our Insun Song shareholders and investors who have given us their support, and have enabled us to become what Deputy Manager, we are today. The whole company Corporate Finance Department II is committed to more active Our people are what drive communications with shareholders KDB Daewoo Securities forward. and investors for greater trust, We have the best talent in the as well as a more transparent industry, helped by our staffgovernance structure. oriented management for recruiting and managing the best financial experts over the last 40 years. Our friendly and professional work environment encourages our staff to achieve a balance between their personal and work lives, thus helping to double their abilities. 92 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 93 Gaeun Cheon Daughter of Youngmin Cheon, Assistant Manager, and Strategy & Planning Department Local communities are KDB Daewoo Securities’ closest we will neighbors who live and grow together. As a member of the communities, we strive to continue to build happier society through management based on mutual prosperity, participation and sharing. think Based on our CSR motto of “a company that thinks customers first”, “warm-hearted and bright KDB Daewoo Securities”, and you “harmonious society”, everyone at KDB Daewoo Securities is committed to fulfilling our very much obligations and responsibilities in the development of local communities as a responsible corporate citizen. 94 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 Think Prosperity Think Sustainability Think Responsibility Appendix 95 UN Global Compact Third Party’s Assurance Statement GRI Index GRI Statement Membership UN Global Compact Principles & Pledges In October 2006, KDB Daewoo Securities joined the UN Global Compact, a voluntary initiative that calls for the fulfillment of corporate social responsibilities. By signing up to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, on human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption, KDB Daewoo Securities is committing itself to abiding by global standards on corporate social responsibility, and has thus declared its determination to practice sustainability management in Korea and abroad. KDB Daewoo Securities will fulfill its social responsibilities as a global financial investment company by adhering to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. The company’s activities in this area, and the outcomes of those activities, are listed in the table below. 10 Principles of UN Global Compact Principle Performance Indicators GRI G3.1 Page 1. Businesses should support • Join the UN Global Compact and obey its 10 principles HR1 HR2 HR3 60, 95 Appendix and respect the protection • Pursue employment diversity for high school graduates, the disabled, HR4 HR5 HR6 of internationally proclaimed and foreigners HR7 HR8 HR9 human rights. • Employee education to prevent sexual harassment Human Rights 2. Businesses ensure that they HR1 HR2 HR8 are not complicit in human rights abuses. 3. We practically recognize the • Operates a labor-management council that represents all employees HR5 64 freedom of association and • Operates an internal labor union and guarantees the three labor A4 LA5 collective bargaining rights. rights of employees 4. We eliminate all forms of • Joined the UN Global Compact and abides by the ten principles HR7 95 forced labor. Labor 5. We efficiently abolish child HR6 95 labor. 6. We abolish discrimination in • Pursues diversity in employment, including the hiring of talented HR4 60, 70 employment and work. high school graduates, the disabled, and foreigners LA2 LA10 • Provides training on sexual harassment prevention to all employees LA13 LA14 • There is no wage discrimination based on gender 7. We support a preventive • Practices eco-friendly green management 4.11 83 approach to environmental • Built and fully established a corporate-wide environmental issues. management process 8. We implement measures • Participates in the Carbon Disclosure Project and was listed as one EN5 EN6 EN7 83 UN Global Compact 95 that enhance environmental of Korean signatories EN10 EN14 EN18 responsibility. • Jointed C4C, an initiative under the UN Global Compact that is EN26 EN27 Third Party’s Assurance Statement 96 intended to counter climate change Environment • Carries out activities to reduce energy use in the summer and winter. GRI Index 98 • Conducts activities to reduce paper use GRI Statement 104 9. We promote the development • Development and management of green finance products: KDB SRI EN2 EN5 EN6 EN7 80, 81 Membership 105 and dissemination of ecoFunds for a Better World, KDB S&P Clean Energy Fund, etc EN10 EN18 EN26 friendly technologies. • Participation in new and renewable energy generation projects: EN27 Yeongwol photovoltaic generation project, biomass power generation project at Tees Port in England 10. We oppose all forms of • Enacted the code of ethics and held a ceremony for employees to SO2 SO3 SO4 24, 25 corruption, including extortion take an oath on ethics and compliance and bribes. • The first Wednesday of each month was designated as the Day of Anti-corruption Ethics and Compliance • Established and operating a monitoring system for money laundering transactions 96 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 Think Prosperity Think Sustainability Think Responsibility Appendix 97 UN Global Compact Third Party’s Assurance Statement GRI Index GRI Statement Membership Third Party’s Assurance Statement Introduction Stakeholder Inclusivity Det Norske Veritas Certification Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as ‘DNV’) has been commissioned to carry out KDB DAEWOO SECURITIES has engaged with a range of stakeholders regarding sustainability issues. assurance engagement on KDB DAEWOO SECURITIES CO., LTD. (hereinafter referred to as ‘KDB DAEWOO Stakeholder communication channels are stated in detail in the Report. Four Stakeholder groups of Employees, SECURITIES’) 2013 Sustainability Report (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Report’). This engagement focused on Customers, Shareholders and Investors, Local community are identified. Stakeholder engagement is conducted the information provided in the Report and the underlying management and reporting processes. independently to identify the expectation of respective stakeholders. This Assurance Statement is intended for the readers of the KDB DAEWOO SECURITIES’ Sustainability Report. Materiality KDB DAEWOO SECURITIES is responsible for the collection, analysis, aggregation and presentation of all Significant issues are identified by combining business relevance and social impacts. The sustainability issues information within the Report. DNV’s responsibility regarding this Assurance engagement is to the management were sought from various international standards and Stakeholder opinions. The Report generally provides an of KDB DAEWOO SECURITIES only, in accordance with terms of reference and scope of work agreed. DNV account of performance on the issues that are most significant to KDB DAEWOO SECURITIES and are most disclaims any liability or responsibility to a third party for any decisions, whether investment or otherwise, based relevant to its stakeholders. upon this Assurance Statement. Completeness The scope and boundary of the Report cover all operations, which are material issues and performances related Scope of Assurance to KDB DAEWOO SECURITIES and its stakeholders. No significant omission was found in verification of data This Assurance Engagement covered data and information in the calendar year 2011 and 2012. The scope of and information. DNV’s Assurance Engagement, as agreed with KDB DAEWOO SECURITIES included the verification of: Principles for Ensuring Report Quality • S ustainability policy, goals, initiatives, practices and performance for calendar year 2011 and 2012, as The data and information in the Report are presented in a comparable and chronological manner, and are described in the Report generally reliable on the report. It is recommened to establish a formal process of internal evaluation on data • Non-financial data related to the environment, health and safety management, social aspects, and corporate and information. governance issues that refer to the period between January 2011 and December 2012 as contained in the Report Opportunities for Improvement • Evaluation of the extent to which the principles and requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) The following is an excerpt from the observations and opportunities reported to KDB DAEWOO SECURITIES’ Guidelines for Sustainability Reporting (GRI G3.1) are reflected in the Report management. However, these do not affect our conclusions on the Report. These are provided to encourage continual improvement. Limitations • Adopt more structured and systematic processes for data gathering, analysis and reporting The engagement excluded the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of KDB • E stablish documented procedure for accounting and reporting criteria for data gathering so that the DAEWOO SECURITIES’ suppliers, contractors and any third parties mentioned in the Report. DNV did not consistency along the subsidiaries can be achieved interview external stakeholders as part of this Assurance Engagement. Economic performances including • Conduct internal verification on the data and data control process in order to enhance the reliability of data financial data were crosschecked with internal documents and the financial statements audited by another third and information party. The assurance statement on the financial statements issued by another third Party is also provided in the • Set quantatitive objectives and monitor on a regular basis the progress of achievement for the Economic, Report. Overseas activities are not included in this Assurance Engagement. Environment and Social performance management Verification Methodology This Assurance Engagement was planned and carried out in accordance with DNV Protocol. In reaching our Statement of Competence and Independence conclusion, we have undertaken the following work. DNV is a leading provider of sustainability services, including the verification of sustainability reports. Our environmental and social assurance specialists operate in over 100 countries. • Interviewed KDB DAEWOO SECURITIES’ management representatives • Examined DNV was not involved in the preparation of any statements or data included in the Report except for this relevant documents, data and other information requested by DNV and made available by KDB Assurance Statement. DNV maintains complete impartiality toward stakeholders interviewed during the DAEWOO SECURITIES verification process. • Reviewed a selection of internal communication and external media reports relating to KDB DAEWOO SECURITIES’ sustainability management approach, performance and adherence to its policies DNV expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based • Sampled data for verification on this Assurance Statement. The verification conducted in August and September 2013 with moderate level of assurance. Seoul, Korea September, 2013 Conclusions In DNV’s opinion, and based on the scope of this Assurance Engagement, nothing has come to our attention to Country Manager suggest that the Report is not fairly stated. Further conclusions and observations on the adoption of reporting principles are made below. In Kyoon Ahn 98 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 Think Prosperity Think Sustainability Think Responsibility Appendix 99 UN Global Compact Third Party’s Assurance Statement GRI Index GRI Statement Membership GRI Index ● Fully reported ◐ Partially reported ○ Non-reported N/A Not Applicable ● Fully reported ◐ Partially reported ○ Non-reported N/A Not Applicable Level of Level of GRI Index Description Page GRI Index Description Page Disclosure Disclosure Profile Disclosures 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body 22 ● 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 04~06 ● Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives Strategy and 4.5 (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental 22 ● Analysis 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 32~33 ● performance) 2.1 Name of the organization 18 ● 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 22 ● 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 21 ● Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance body 4.7 22 ● and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures 18 ● Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, 4.8 28~29 ● 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters 18 ● environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of 2.5 19 ● 4.9 economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or 22 ● Organizational specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report Profile compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 18 ● Governance, Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to economic, Commitments, 4.10 22 ● 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries) 19 ● environmental, and social performance and Engagement 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 18 ● 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 51 ● 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership 19 ● Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the 4.12 105 ● organization subscribes or endorses 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 09~13 ● Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided 02 ● 4.13 which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides 105 ● substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) 02 ● 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 30 ● 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 02 ● 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 30 ● 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 02 ● 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group 32~33 ● 3.5 Process for defining report content 32~33 ● Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has 4.17 33 ● Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting 3.6 02 ● Boundary Protocol for further guidance Economic 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope) 02 ● Disclosure on Management Approach 49~50 ● Report Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can Parameters 3.8 02 ● Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations EC1 31 ● donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying 3.9 estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to 02 ● Economic EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change 80~81 ● apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols Performance EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations 62 ● Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such 3.10 ● EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government ● re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods) Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations 3.11 ● EC5 70 ● in the report of operation Market 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 98~103 ● EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation 42 ● Presence 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 96~97 ● Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community EC7 60 ● at significant locations of operation Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for 4.1 22~23 ● Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight Indirect EC8 85 ● Governance, commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement Economic Commitments, 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 22 ● Impacts and Engagement EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 31 ● For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest 4.3 22 ● governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members 100 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 Think Prosperity Think Sustainability Think Responsibility Appendix 101 UN Global Compact Third Party’s Assurance Statement GRI Index GRI Statement Membership ● Fully reported ◐ Partially reported ○ Non-reported N/A Not Applicable ● Fully reported ◐ Partially reported ○ Non-reported N/A Not Applicable Level of Level of GRI Index Description Page GRI Index Description Page Disclosure Disclosure Labor Practices and Decent Work Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human Security Practices HR8 42 ● rights that are relevant to operations Disclosure on Management Approach 60 ● Indigenous Rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken ● LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender 59 ● Assessment HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments ● LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 59 ● Remediation HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 63 ● Employment Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, LA3 62~63 ● by major operations Society LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 62 ● Disclosure on Management Approach 75 ● LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 64 ● Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations Labor/ SO1 76~79 ● on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting Management Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified Relations LA5 64 ● Local in collective agreements SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities ● Communities Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts LA6 64 ● SO10 51~52 ● help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs on local communities Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption 25 ● LA7 63 ● Occupational by region and by gender Health and Safety Corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures 24 ● Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, LA8 63 ● their families, or community members regarding serious diseases SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 25 ● LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 64 ● SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying ● Public Policy LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 68 ◐ SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country ● Training and Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and Anti-competitive LA11 62 ● SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes 42 ● Education assist them in managing career endings Behavior LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender 70 ● Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance Compliance SO8 42 ● with laws and regulations Diversity and Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, LA13 22 ● Equal Opportunity age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Product Responsibility Equal Remuneration Disclosure on Management Approach 80 ● LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation 70 ● for Women and Men Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and Human Rights PR1 41 ● percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures Customer Disclosure on Management Approach 60 ● Health and Safety Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts PR2 41 ● of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating HR1 95 ◐ human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services PR3 41 ● Investment and subject to such information requirements Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone human rights Procurement HR2 95 ◐ Product and screening, and actions taken Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service Practices Service Labeling PR4 41 ● information and labeling, by type of outcomes Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to HR3 42 ● operations, including the percentage of employees trained PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 39 ● Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 60 ● Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including PR6 41 ● advertising, promotion, and sponsorship Freedom of Marketing Association Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective Communications HR5 64 ● Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing and Collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights PR7 41 ● communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes Bargaining Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 41 ● Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures Child Labor HR6 60 ● taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision Compliance PR9 41 ● and use of products and services Prevention of Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, Forced and HR7 60 ● and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Compulsory Labor 102 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 Think Prosperity Think Sustainability Think Responsibility Appendix 103 UN Global Compact Third Party’s Assurance Statement GRI Index GRI Statement Membership ● Fully reported ◐ Partially reported ○ Non-reported N/A Not Applicable ● Fully reported ◐ Partially reported ○ Non-reported N/A Not Applicable Level of Level of GRI Index Description Page GRI Index Description Page Disclosure Disclosure Environmental EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation 80 ◐ Products and Services Disclosure on Management Approach 83 ● EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category ● EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 84 ● Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with Compliance EN28 ● Materials environmental laws and regulations EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials ◐ Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the Transport EN29 ● EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 84 ● organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 84 ● Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type ● EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 84 ● Financial Services Sector Supplement Energy Disclosure on Management Approach 80 ● Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy EN6 81 ◐ requirements as a result of these initiatives FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to business lines 80 ● EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 84 ● FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in business lines 25 ● EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 84 ● Processes for monitoring clients' implementation of and compliance with environmental and social FS3 25 ● Water EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 84 ● requirements included in agreements or transactions EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused N/A Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement the environmental and social policies and FS4 25 ● procedures as applied to business lines Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity Product EN11 N/A Portfolio Interactions with clients/investees/business partners regarding environmental and social risks and value outside protected areas FS5 80~81 ● opportunities Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas EN12 N/A FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g. micro/SME/large) and by sector 47 ● of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Biodiversity Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each business line EN13 Habitats protected or restored N/A FS7 80 ● broken down by purpose EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity N/A Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit for each FS8 80 ● Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by business line broken down by purpose EN15 N/A operations, by level of extinction risk Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental and social policies and risk Audit FS9 25 ● EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 84 ● assessment procedures Percentage and number of companies held in the institution's portfolio with which the reporting organization EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 84 ● FS10 25 ● has interacted on environmental or social issues EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 84 ● Active FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening 25 ● Ownership EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight N/A Voting polic(ies) applied to environmental or social issues for shares over which the reporting organization FS12 22 ● holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight N/A Emissions, FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type 76~77 ● Effluents and EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination N/A Local Waste Communitie FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people 82 ● EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method N/A DMA PR FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and services 41~42 ● EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills N/A Product and Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary 40 ● EN24 N/A Service Labeling Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by EN25 N/A the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff 104 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 Think Prosperity Think Sustainability Think Responsibility Appendix 105 UN Global Compact Third Party’s Assurance Statement GRI Index GRI Statement Membership GRI Statement Membership Year Name of Group and Association 2013 National Strategy Institute (NSI) 2012 Korean Pension Association 2011 ISDA UN Global Compact 2011 The Institute of Internal Auditors This is a voluntary corporate initiative to observe ten major principles, including those on the environment, human rights, 2010 Financial Securities Forum labor, and anti-corruption. KDB Daewoo Securities joined in 2010 Korea Economic Research Institute October 2006. 2010 Korea International Finance Association 2010 The Korean Financial Engineering Society 2009 Korean Securities Law Association C4C, Caring for Climate 2008 Seoul IB Forum This is a voluntary corporate initiative aimed at fighting 2008 Korea Money and Finance Association climate change that is under the UN Global Compact. 2007 Korea Center for International Finance KDB Daewoo Securities joined in 2010. 2006 Korea Capital Market Institute 2006 Financial Security Agency 2005 Internal Auditor’s Society of Korea Listed Companies Association 2005 Center for Financial Law of Seoul National University CDP, Carbon Disclosure Project 2003 ISAC KDB Daewoo Securities signed the Korean CDP. Since 2010, 2002 Financial Information Security Council the company has been taking part in the climate change information disclosure program every year. 2000 Korea Management Association 1991 Korea Employers Federation 1983 Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry 1980 Korean Securities Association 1975 The Federation of Korean Industries 1975 Korea Listed Companies Association 106 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 The paper used in printing the KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 is certified as acid-free and Elemental Chlorine-Free by the FSC™ (Forest Stewardship Council), an NGO that promotes forest management. In addition, the soybean oil ink used in its printing minimizes the impact on the environment.
