Global Compact Annual Communication on Progress On Our Shoulders – 2013 CSR Project It is an old tradition in the United Kingdom to carry the coffin on the shoulders. This represents the profound respect for the deceased on their last journey. It also represents the love, care and dignity dedicated to those who have died. This has been our goal from the very beginning, and we have chosen the theme “On our Shoulders” to represent it throughout our work and our corporate social responsibility project. F A Albin & Sons Limited 52 Culling Road, SE16 2TN, London T: + 44 (0) 20 7313 6920 F: + 44 (0) 20 7313 6999 M:+ 44 (0) 78 6641 3191 E : emerson@albininternational.com W: www.albins.co.uk www.albininternational.com Country: United Kingdom Contact name: Emerson De Luca Contact position: Managing Director Date: Membership date: 15th November 2009 Number of employees: 52 Sector: Service Provider Company’s description F A Albin and Sons is a Funeral Director based in London, which provides complete Funeral Services as well as repatriation of Human Remains through its International branch Albin International Repatriation. It has a wide range of agents around the globe giving support to organise repatriations to and from anywhere in the World, including zones affected by conflict and/ or wars. The two companies work together to provide the most dignified service for the deceased and the bereaved. Statement of support “On Our Shoulders” “F A Albin and Sons is committed to providing unique service in the UK and around the World looking after the deceased and their families with the utmost professionalism, dignity and respect. We are committed to implement our social responsibility project according to the objectives set by the United Nations Global Compact and will strive to exceed their principles. It is our aim to be the shoulder that everyone can rely on in their time of need” Signature Position Human Rights Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Our commitment F. A. Albin and Sons fully supports the Human Rights Declaration1 adopted and proclaimed during the General Assembly on 10th December 1948 and will endeavour to promote it and as stated by the assembly “to cause it to be disseminated, displayed, read and expounded”. We are committed to operate according to the human rights declaration and help our partners and suppliers abide to the same principles. Process The Human Rights principles are addressed in three different areas, namely Clients, Community and Suppliers. In 2013 we had a particular new process which has helped us to achieve our objectives in the Human Right principles, in particular in the area dedicated to our clients. The company contracted an independent evaluation to take place of all the work performed by Albins. This has certainly had an impact on the way we work to an even better standard. The focus has certainly been to meet family’s expectations and to be able to attend to their needs at the very difficult time when a loved one passes away. CLIENTS Albins is committed to implement the Human Right’s principle in what we believe will address the objectives presented by the United Nations and beyond. The deceased and their family and friends are undoubtedly the main concern of our staff. The company ethos dictates that the deceased and their family are treated with dignity and respect at all times and this is reflected the manner in which our services are carried out. To meet our clients’ needs we will ensure that a comprehensive level of service is offered, respecting different cultures races and beliefs. This is certainly a major challenge in such a heterogeneous place like London, however we have over the years managed to accommodate most requests made by families and friends. Article 18 of The Universal Declaration of Human Rights says: “Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion; this right includes freedom to change his religion or belief, and freedom, either alone or in community with others and in public or private, to manifest his religion or belief in teaching, practice, worship and observance.” We believe that as funeral Director we can help the bereaved family to be able to express their belief in one of the most difficult times for them, on the loss of a loved one. We believe that the best away for us to play a positive part in it is through training, where 1 The Universal Declaration of Human Rights available at http://www.un.org/en/documents/udhr/, accessed on 22/02/2010 our members of staff feel confident to help the families achieve their wishes during the funeral of their loved ones. What is more, with the aim to help those who have suffered the loss of a loved one we have created a Bereavement team. The group comprises of 15 experienced people, ranging from professionals in the areas to ministers with many years of experience in dealing with the bereaved. The group will meet regularly to ensure all members are working as a team and considering the possibility of helping in an event of a Mass disaster, if required by any of our clients. COMMUNITY We recognise that engagement in the local community is important for any firm and have through the years worked towards a greater involvement with the Bermondsey community. Albins support organisations which help giving people better quality of life and has its own Charity: the Bermondsey and Rotherhithe Foundation. The Albin-Dyer Bermondsey and Rotherhithe Foundation 52 Culling Road, London SE16 2TN t: 020 7237 3637 f: 020 7252 3205 www.albins.co.uk headoffice@albins.co.uk Registered Charity Number 1067137 Background – The foundation was created in 1996 and registered under the Companies Act 1985 on the on the 11th November of the same year. The foundation was created for the relief of local people and local causes. We collect donations via our collection box in reception on all branches. The charity has provided a mini-bus to a local club, assisted with the provision of disabled ramps and access, and has provided numerous scholarships and sponsorships to local worthy causes. Another Charity which is close to our heart is the Evelina Children’s Hospital The Evelina Children’s Hospital Appeal First floor,West wing, Counting House, Guy’s Hospital, London SE1 9RT Tel: 020 7188 1196 www.evelinaappeal.org Registered Charity Number 251983-21 Child Bereavement UK In 2012 Albin started a support project to the Child Bereavement UK. Child Bereavement UK is a charity that supports families and educates professionals both when a baby or child of any age dies or is dying, or when a child is facing bereavement. Every year the charity delivers training, across a breadth of issues, to around 5,000 professionals at the front line of bereavement support. The Saunderton Estate, Wycombe Road, Saunderton, Bucks,P14 4BF Tel: 01494 568900 www.childbereavement.org.uk Registered Charity Number 1040419 Albion Street Community Charity, Background: “Following a suggestion at a Rotherhithe Community Council (RCC) Meeting in 2010 to have a theme for future meetings, Amanda Squires suggested “Albion Street regeneration” as a topic. Southwark Council was aware of the demise of the street and was committed to promote regeneration. A RCC meeting was duly set up in 2011 to address the topic, which culminated in the setting up of a community led Albion Street Steering Group (ASSG), by those present who were interested to stimulate the revival of the street. The ASSG elected an interim committee and set itself a working plan, one strand being to improve footfall in the street by improved retail facilities. At the time the street had 4 empty shops and gave a run down image.” The street has 2 churches (Norwegian and Finish) , the parish Church St. Mary’s is nearby, and all have a good relationship with the fourth Church St. Peter (RC) and one task was to look at the possibility of a multi church charity shop to improve the footfall in the street. This was called The Albion Street Community Project.” (First Annual project report 2013) FA Albin has been part of this project, initially by lending some money interest free for setting up of the shop and also by appointing a member of staff to be part of the management committee. The shop is now running for over a year and has been a great success. STAFF InvolvementBeside the support we give to the above charities, F A Albin also supports and promotes staff initiatives for the benefit of the community and other charities. This is done on a voluntary basis, but all members of staff are invited to take part. The biggest event which takes place in December every year is the Memorial Service. The objective of this service is to celebrate the life of those who passed away, as well as a moment of remembrance which involves the community as a whole. Members of staff give their time freely and have always been there to support the Service – it is a healing and important moment for the people who come for the service. SUPPLIERS Despite being a relatively small firm, we reach a considerable number of companies around the World, by engaging them with our repatriation work, through our International Department. We currently play a part in disseminating the human Rights principles within our global network. What is more, some of our coffins and equipment suppliers are also based overseas and is imperative for us that they have a good reputation and are not involved in any form of Human Rights abuse. To present we are working in two fronts: First of all we have re-written our Service Agreement and added a section which includes the commitment of our agents to abide to the Human Right Declaration. This document will in time be sent to every agent worldwide and signed by the owner or MD. Second: As part of our commitment to our clients we have in the last few years been visiting our agents whenever possible. The first objective of this visit is to check the quality of work undertaken by our agents and their capabilities. However, since we have become part of the Global compact we started checking if there are any signs which would suggest the abuse of any of Human Rights. Practical actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year 2010-2011 CLIENTS: Our Bereavement group is able to give support to anyone who is facing difficulties following the loss of a loved one. Meetings for 2013 25th April 10th October Staff training took place as follows: Training 2013 Date & Session number Title 25 October Session 1 Registration of death 8 November Session 2 Coroner’s deaths 22 November Session 3 Cremation 13 December Session 4 Burial Scheduled trainings for 2014 Date & Session number Title 7 February Session 5 The First Call 21 February Session 6 Children’s Funerals 7 March Session 7 Care of the deceased 1 21 March Session 8 Care of the deceased 2 4 April Session 9 Care of the deceased 3 25 April Session 10 Dealing with the unusual and Occasional 1 9 May Session 11 Dealing with the unusual and Occasional 2 23 May Session 12 Dealing with the unusual and Occasional 3 13 June Session 13 The history of funeral service COMMUNITY: Memorial Service Albin Memorial Service takes place on the first Wednesday of December every year. This is a moment for the community to celebrate the life of their loved ones at Christmas time. Around 2.000 people participate. A ceremony with music, readings, tributes take place and once the service is finished food, and hot drinks are offered to everyone who attends. Members of staff help right from the preparation up to the cleaning process for free. It is their contribution to the community and everyone does it with great enthusiasm. During the service money is collected for the Barry Albin Bermondsey and Rotherhithe foundation to help projects and different community activities in Bermondsey and Rotherhithe. In 2013 the ceremony took place on the 4th December. In 2014 the ceremony will be on the 3rd December. Charities Albins has been involved with many local organisations, as local schools governors, St. Olav’s charity’s trustees, Time and Talents and is a patron of Bedes, a charity in Southwark, London which provides support to victims of Domestic Violence & LGBT Hate Crime, adults with Learning Disabilities, young people, voluntary and community groups. 2012 – DONATIONS TO CHARITIES/ORGANISATIONS IN NEED Date NAME OF BENEFICIARY EVENT 11/01/2013 Ambassadors for Missio Ambassador’s Mass and Supper 07/02/2013 Great Ormond Street Donation 04/04/2013 Mr. B Duckett/ Cancer Research Rotherhithe Festival Tom Greenwood/ Eat end 17/04/2013 Community Foundation London Marathon 23/04/2013 Ronald Buckingham Court May Day Fun Day Greenwich, Deptford & 24/04/2013 Rotherhithe Sea Cadet Unit Cadet Parade St. Augustine of Canterbury’s 10/05/2013 Church Lighting and Re-wiring Project Parents Teacher Association/Southwark Primary 20/05/2013 School Summer Fair 21/05/2013 St Christopher’s Hospice Family Fun Day 23/05 Danson Primary School Summer Fete 28/05/2013 Civiv Office LBS Armed Forces Day Peter Hills with St. Mary’s And St. Pauls Church of England 10/06/2013 School School Fete 13/06/2013 Save our Surdoc The New Barrowboys 13/06/2013 The Friars Aylesford World Youth Day 14/06/2013 RMBI Matrons Raffle 21/06/2013 Yalding Healthy Living Centre Midsummer Party 06/08/2013 St. James’ Bermondsey P.C.C. Donation Southwark Young Pilgrims 17/10/2013 Project Summer course 2014 15/11/2013 BEDE Donation 15/11/2013 Cray Wanderers Youth FC Donation 12/12/2013 Visitation Monastery Donation The Beormund Community 19/12/2013 Centre Donation 19/12/2013 Evelina Childrens Hospital Donation 11/01/2013 Ambassadors for Missio Ambassador’s Mass and Supper Total of donations: £ 4,669.07 December 2013, Albion Street Community Charity shop “Up Market” presented Time and Talents and Bede a cheque of £1,000.00 from the trading proceedings from the shop. SUPPLIERS: As stated on our previous COP we are continually revisiting our agreements with our agents, this is a continuing process which helps to ensure the quality and dignity of the work we do. In addition, we continue our visits throughout the World to assess in person the quality of the their work but also to check if they are not involved in any kind of actions which are against the Human Rights principles. Visits 2013: YEAR COUNTRY CITY COMMENTS 2013 FRANCE Paris All the agents visited in 2013 BELGIUM Brussels these places, according to 2013 AUSTRIA Vienna the evidence seen, were 2013 GERMANY Guttersloh found not to be complicit to any kind of Human Rights abuses 2014 GERMANY Dusseldorf 2014 ITALY Venice 2014 SWITZERLAND Zurich Measurable results or outcomes Training provided to our staff has definitely helped to improve the services we provide to our clients and to fulfil their wishes when dealing with the death of their loved ones The Charity shop has been a success in particular with the funds given to two important organisations in the community BEDE and Time and Talents. As stated in our previous COP, due to the size of our company, we are not exposed to great risks in respect of Human Right abuses. The main risk for the company arises when we employ the services of an Overseas Agents, hence the fact that we decided to work proactively not only to Promote the Human Right Principles but also to avoid any possibility of using rogue funeral Directors around the World. Once again, the scheduled visits to our suppliers have proved an important tool to enable us to guarantee a professional and dignified service to all our clients as well as our continue commitment not to use any companies that are complicity to any Human Rights abuse In 2013 we did not have the opportunity to review as many contracts as we would have liked to, however we are willing to improve on this issue in 2014. The Bereavement team continues to be a great success, and is certainly a potential great contributor to the bereaved families. Our group has risen this year, and we have provided training for some of our corporate clients, so that they in turn can provide an even better service to bereaved families. Engagement with our local community continues to grow. Around 1300 people took part of annual Christmas Service, despite the bitter cold. We once again, were able to help many local charities as per schedule presented above. Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Our commitment or policy Albin’s are committed to create best practices as an employer to promote the development and confidence of all employees within their work environment including the freedom of association and recognise the right to collective bargaining. Albin’s are totally against any kind of forced and compulsory labour and are committed to fight against any kind of child labour. We are also committed to treat all our members of staff with respect and care and to give them all equal opportunities within the company. F. A. Albin & Sons and Albin International are an equal opportunity employer. We are committed to ensuring within the framework of the law that our workplaces are free from unlawful discrimination on the grounds of race, disability, colour, religion or belief, gender (including gender re-assignment), age, national origin, marital or family status, ancestry, ethnic origins, sexual orientation, or other protected status. We value diversity and are committed to promoting diversity within the workplace by seeking to ensure that all individuals are treated fairly with dignity and respect and by recognising and encouraging individual contribution within the organisation. We aim to ensure that our employees achieve their full potential and that all employment decisions are taken without reference to irrelevant or discriminatory criteria. We have adopted the following policy as a means of helping to achieve these aims. We are committed to ensuring that all our staff and all applicants for employment are protected from unlawful discrimination in the workplace. We endeavour not to discriminate in the areas of recruitment, selection, promotion, transfer, training, access to benefits and services, discipline or dismissal. It is also our policy that all employees should be allowed to work in an environment free from harassment, bullying or unsolicited or unwelcome comments or overtures on discriminatory grounds. Process Annual assessment: this is the main opportunity for the employees to and the company to assess every individual performance and future prospects. We adopt a policy of equal opportunities and cross training has giving many members of staff the possibility to move within the company to departments they feel more comfortable with. Harassment and discrimination at work place Responsibilities Employees If an employee believes that they have been subject to harassment, discrimination, victimisation or bullying they should report the incident to their Manager, or anyone appropriate in their reporting relationship. Please refer to the Grievance Procedure . Employees are encouraged to report all incidents of perceived harassment whether or not they are the victim. Managers are responsible for ensuring that the work environment is free from all forms of harassment, discrimination, victimisation and bullying by regularly communicating this policy to their department/team and by taking immediate and appropriate action when complaints are raised and/or violations exist. Managers and supervisors who knowingly allow or tolerate bullying or harassment are in immediate violation of F a Albin & Sons policy themselves and may be subject to disciplinary proceedings. Undoubtedly, if any important issues appear during the year, any member of staff has the freedom to request a meeting with their line manager or indeed with any of the directors. All members of staff are issued with the staff handbook which clearly shows all our policies as well as a description of their entitlement and obligations. The handbook is also available at any time by request. We have 52 members of staff and with the company growth; opportunities have been arising for members of staff to take more senior responsibility within the company. In 2010 alone we had several members of staff promoted to higher position, taking into to consideration their skills and experience within the company. Whistle-Blowing The Company recognises that incidents of workplace fraud or mismanagement are matters of serious concern and is therefore committed to ensuring that any such malpractice, as far as possible, prevented and dealt with immediately if it arises within the Company. The Company recognises that employees are the first to realise that something is wrong in the workplace but feel unable to express their concerns for fear of being disloyal to their colleagues or the Company, or for fear of being subjected to harassment or victimisation. The Company encourages you to raise your concerns about any malpractice at the earliest possible stage. Staff Committee Participation in the decision-making not only contributes to professional enhancement but also helps a more effective environment where all employees feel part of the development of the company. Hence the decision to create a staff committee combining both Albin International and FA Albin and Sons. Practical actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year 2013 The year of 2013 was marked by the creation of the Staff committee. A group of employees who will be discussing any issues from workplace and to how to improve our services to the families we serve. The first meeting took place on the 18th July 2013. The next meeting in 2014 will be scheduled in due course. In January, annual appraisals took place giving employees a formal opportunity to discuss their carrier within the company as well as any issues they may deemed to be important for discussion or clarification and we are in the process of finishing appraisals for 2014. The company, in cooperation with Scottish Equitable, offers free advice for each employee regarding their pension. A meeting with all staff and Scottish Equitable is scheduled to take place on the 14th February 2014. This is the annual meeting which helps every member of staff to evaluate their pension plans and how they could improve their own pension scheme. Measurable results or outcomes The creation of the staff committee is another important step to help our staff creating a better working environment. The meeting is an opportunity for the staff to speak out as a group and not only individually as it normally happens during the assessments which take place in January of every year. The pension scheme continues and the support given by the company in conjunction with Scottish Equitable is of great assistance to every member of staff. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Our commitment or policy F. A. Albin & Sons and Albin International are committed to conduct their business mindful of the impacts they have on the environment and will promote awareness and protection of the environment. Process Our environment commitment has two main objectives: energy saving and recycling. We hope to accomplish energy saving from two fronts: installation of solar panel which has already taken place and through training to all our members of staff on how to save energy as well as raise awareness of its importance. In relating to recycling, we had some objectives set up for 2013 which unfortunately were not achieved mainly due to issues we had with the waste management company. We are in the process of changing supplier and once this is done, we environmental project will finally take place. Once this issue is resolved training will be offered to all members of staff. Both issues will undoubtedly need to have the understanding and support of all our members of staff. Therefore training is essential for this to happen. The staff committee will have a major role for the environmental project in terms of motivating everyone to take part. Practical Actions implemented in the last / planned for next year The generation input from our solar panels in 2013 was 3149 KWh. Implementation of recycling facility in two of our locations to be completed in 2014. Presentation and training of our environment project to all staff to take place in 2014. Measurable results or outcomes In 2012 we had the first steps towards our full commitment to the environmental principle. Despite the major investment for the solar panels, our biggest objective is the involvement of all staff, which we are hoping will happen in 2013. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Business should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery Our commitment or policy FA Albin and Sons and Albin international are committed to adhere to the highest legal and ethical standards and aim to reflect such commitment to every aspect of the way they operate. We are fully aware of the harms caused by bribery and corruption and want to play active part in fighting it, giving our contribution to the proper economic growth and development of our society. The Company board has applied “zero tolerance” approach to any act of bribery and corruption by any of our employees or business partners. Any breach of this policy will be regarded as a serious matter by the Company and is most likely to result in disciplinary action or termination of supplier agreements. The UK Bribery act 2010 says that “adequate bribery prevention procedures ought to be proportionate to the bribery risks that the organisation faces”2. We are confident that the guidelines set out in our policy will suffice any risks we would encounter and will continue to manifest our commitment to stand against bribery and corruption. 2 Available at: www.justice.gov.uk/guidance/docs/bribery-act-2010-guidance.pdf . Accessed May 2011. A brief description of our processes or systems 1 Risk Assessment Proper risk assessment determines the success or failure of this policy. Risk identification highlights the specific areas in which we face bribery and corruption risks and allows us to better evaluate and mitigate these risks and thereby protect ourselves. This will be an ongoing process with constant communication at all levels within the company and in particular with our compliance officer. 2 Books and Record-Keeping It is our duty to ensure that we maintain accurate books, records and financial reporting within Albin Group. Namely, they must truthfully reflect each of the underlying transactions. False, misleading or inaccurate records of any kind could potentially damage Albin. 3 Effective Monitoring and Internal Control The Albin group aims to maintain an effective system of internal control and monitoring of our transactions. Once bribery and corruption risks have been identified and highlighted via the risk assessment process, procedures can be developed within a control and monitoring programmes in order to help mitigate these risks on an ongoing basis. Practical actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year 2013 Refresh training to all staff 2014 ReEvaluation of Anti bribery project Measurable results or outcomes Staff received a refreshment training on the anti-bribery policy and in 2014 the policy will be reviewed to check for any possible improvements on our policy. How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? This COP will be published at our Web site and made available to our stakeholders should they wish to see it.
