Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013-2014 UN Global Compact nkt cables wishes to protect the environment, safeguard human and labour rights and work against corruption nkt cables statement In the long history of our company, Corporate Social Responsibility has always been an implicit and explicit part of how we do business to achieve sustainable success As an active corporate citizen, nkt cables has a clear philosophy and conviction about our social responsibilities. With strict adherence to our CSR principles and the framework of the UN Global Compact, we take our commitment towards high ethical standards seriously wherever we seek to do business and to abide by all local laws and regulations and respect the rights of all individuals. Accordingly, we continue to train our employees and promote awareness of our zero-tolerance attitude towards non-compliance with laws and regulations. To underline this commitment, we ask the management of the units in the countries and regions of our activities to sign an annual Statement of Representation confirming adherence to the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. “ Along with our participation to the UN Global Compact charter we continuously work to increase the awareness of the importance of CSR and we constantly develop new objectives to improve our performance in this respect. We keep in our focus the pursuit of the reduction of energy, nkt cables is an active water and material consumption as well as the emissions of our production corporate citizen of the facilities. Against this background we continue to invest in the development and improvement of our products and relevant production standards. global society with a clear Furthermore, we pursue a safe and accident-free working environment. and firm philosophy and With regard to our objectives we have achieved good progress in many conviction about our social areas, but we know that we can and need to do more. We are convinced that responsibilities” financial success, social responsibility and protection of the environment are fully interlinked and essential for long-term sustainability. We want our business partners to choose nkt cables as their partner because of our commitment to high ethical standards for the human interaction in and around our company as well as because of the high standards for the quality of our products and services. Marc van’t Noordende CEO, nkt cables CSR Report 2013-2014 nkt cables 2/5 nkt cables Highlights 2013-2014 Hands-on experience with installation trials First Safety Buddy Award New distributor and agency contracts 20 energy saving projects launched With view to maintaining focus on In order to further prevent potential Energy saving is one of the components safety, an annual Safety Buddy Award bribery and corruptive practices in in a comprehensive programme with the was established in 2013. At a ceremony connection with purchasing, new aim of increasing efficiency and improving in Cologne attended by an audience distributor and agency contracts have profit ability in nkt cables. Consequently, that included the CEO of nkt cables and been formulated. These contracts also 20 energy projects are currently in the 10 winners of the local Safety Buddy incorporate acceptance by the supplier of progress. Awards, a special trophy was presented the principles of the UN Global Compact. to the first Group Award winner, Vaclav Some of the saving targets for the period Hajny, from the Kladno site in the Czech The revised contracts were introduced 2014 to 2015 included a 340 MWh Republic. in 2013 as standard for new agreements reduction of electricity and a 490 MWh while existing agreements will be replaced reduction of natural gas generating by the new contracts when renegotiated. in total a reduction in CO2 emissions of about 270 tonnes per year. CSR Report 2013-2014 nkt cables 3/5 HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS areas for improvement. Our Meet-the-Board initiative introduced in 2012 has proven very valuable for opening discussions Respecting human and labour rights is fundamental to our between employees and Group Management. business. nkt cables has established ethical guidelines, and our local management teams in all countries are asked to sign a Statement of Representation affirming adherence to the ENVIRONMENT principles of the UN Global Compact. Environmental impact from cable production is relatively small nkt cables conducts surveys on a regular basis regarding the and mainly related to CO2 emission and use of limited resources, position of our suppliers on these 10 principles, and the results of especially copper. the last survey showed that the commitment level among suppliers had increased to 88%. In order to further facilitate and increase the Looking at our carbon footprint, 83.8% is attributable to suppliers acceptance of the UN Global Compact, nkt cables is to roll out of raw materials, whereas 2% is direct emissions (Scope 1) from new general conditions of purchase which will make suppliers’ our sites, and 14.2% is related to our power consumption (Scope  compliance mandatory for doing business. nkt cables thus 2). The development in carbon footprint allocation is a mirror of continuously monitors its goals with regard to human and labour the improvements made since last year’s reporting: rights and ensures that the fundamental principles are known and followed throughout the company and also by its suppliers. • CO2 emissions from heating have been reduced by 17% or 4% when adjusted for climate. All accidents have causes. Removing these causes reduces • CO2 emissions from production have been reduced by 11% accidents, and a programme was set up in 2013 aimed at per tonne of cable. eliminating a minimum of 3,000 dangerous situations and behaviours annually. This goal was reached in the reporting The 50001 Energy Management System was implemented at the  period under review. Despite these efforts the targeted 25% Cologne plant and is planned for introduction at another German annual reduction in accidents was not achieved in the period. plant in Nordenham. Very sadly one fatality occurred in August, after the end of the reporting period. A root cause analysis was instituted to identify Copper is an essential part of manufacturing cables. The potential any shortcomings in the safety risk assessments. for savings lies in optimising material utilisation and reducing We value a diverse workforce and we firmly believe that not insulation thickness. The material utilisation rate has been  stable for several years, but as the target of 96.2% is challenged,  only does offering international career opportunities, talent management programmes and training opportunities make nkt cables an attractive workplace but that a skilled and highly continuous focus is required. A number of slim-line cables have been developed, reducing the amount of plastics used for insulation.   motivated workforce is a prerequisite to a continued success of our business. We conduct worldwide Engagement Surveys on  In addition to goals for reducing CO2 emissions, nkt cables  a regular basis to measure employee satisfaction and to identify is engaged in fostering research and development relating Goals & actions Human and labour rights 2013-14 Target Achieved Status 30.06.14     Procurement () Based on results of the last survey, a further improvement in supplier commitment to the Global Compact 100% 88% will be targeted. ()  Supplier compliance with Global Compact principles incorporated as standard item in new purchasing 100% 100%  contracts and a mandatory condition for doing business. Occupational injuries Improve safety performance towards best-in-class industry standards, defined as a frequency of less than  5 accidents per 1 million working hours. Starting point 2010: Number of accidents 131, frequency 22.6. Annual target is a 25% reduction. Number of accidents in the reporting period. Frequency per million working hours in the reporting period. <53 <8.8 58 () 9.7  Eliminate the number of unsafe situations and behaviour. >3,000 () 3,976 Employees New goal: Measurement of employee satisfaction by conducting a global survey in the autumn 2014.  Development of action plans based upon the findings. Health management () Provide the resources and management systems to ensure a safe and healthy work environment. All sites are to 100% 100% create action plans based on OHSAS 18001 by end-2014 in line with nkt cables’ health & safety policy. ÷ Not accomplished () Partly accomplished or behind schedule  Accomplished or on track CSR Report 2013-2014 nkt cables 4/5  Goals & actions Environment 2013-14 Target Achieved Status  30.06.14 CO2 emissions  CO2 emission from comfort heating reduced more by more than 40% compared with 2010. >42% ( ) 44% ( ) 100% Optimise machinery energy consumption. Ongoing measurements followed by data analysis 100% will lead to definition of specific goals. An action plan is defined in the period under review. Reduce consumption of natural gas by 500 MWh by end-2014. New goal: Reduce consumption of natural gas by another 490 MWh by end-2015. 500 MWh ( )1,930 MWh  Reduce power consumption by 1,000 MWh by end-2014. 1,000 MWh 794 MWh ( ) New goal: Reduce power consumption by another 340 MWh by end-2015.  New goal: Implement ISO 50001 Energy Management System at plant in Nordenham, Germany. Material utilisation efficiency  Increase efficiency by 0.1% yearly, i.e. to 96.2% in 2014. 96.2% () 94.8% Water Save 5,000 m3 drinking water by end-2014. A 2013-acquired plant in Sweden is not included. >5,000 m3 () 1,433 m3 ÷ Not accomplished () Partly accomplished or behind schedule  Accomplished or on track  to renewable energy and knowhow in this field. In 2011, nkt taking immediate corrective action. nkt cables also engages cables was the prime mover in sponsoring the Offshore Wind in transparent business relations with partners who undertake Studies Programme and the Wind Energy Research Centre at to respect the principles of the UN Global Compact. As part of the Ozzietzky University Oldenburg in Northern Germany. The a continuous awareness campaign, these principles, rules and programme offers knowhow relating to the engineering of guidelines are communicated throughout the company, and sustainable power production and creates common ground for training sessions are held in compliance with laws and regulations.  all parties and professions within the energy sector. By sponsoring and sending our employees to this programme, our goal is to In addition, a code of conduct has been implemented in order strengthen a further expansion of the sustainable energy sector. to provide all employees involved in Group purchasing activities with guidelines for compliance with our corporate governance  and to prevent possible bribery and corruptive practices in ANTI-CORRUPTION connection with procurement.  nkt cables is committed to conducting its business in a manner which allows the company to make positive contributions to Compliance awareness campaign and employee training society and ensures compliance with national and international laws and regulations in a manner that is consistent with principles of integrity, honesty, respect and also internal policies. Acting with integrity is the central requirement for sustainable Our awareness campaign continued in the period under review, increasing the attention of our employees on  compliance, anti-corruption, facilitation payments and nkt cables’ policies. Training sessions are continued with a view to instilling permanent employee awareness of these matters.  success and a maxim that we follow in our daily business.  If these guidelines are violated, nkt cables is committed to 2013-14  30.06.14  Goals & actions Anti-corruption  Target Achieved Status Anti-corruption () Explicit communication to be established and understood by all employees and business partners.  An awareness campaign started in 2012 using a variety of tools and forums. 100% 70% More training sessions are planned in order to instil permanent awareness in employees. Train relevant employees in anti-corruption and competition law topics. 100% 25% () () New goal: Develop a model form of contract that includes clear statements regarding anti-corruption. Facilitation payments Ban on facilitation payments. Communication on non-acceptance of facilitation payments is part of the awareness campaign. 100% () 100% ÷ Not accomplished () Partly accomplished or behind schedule  Accomplished or on track CSR Report 2013-2014 nkt cables 5/5
