2 0 1 4 United Nations Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) June 2013 – June 2014 Company Name CESVA instruments, s.l.u. Address C/ Maracaibo, 6 08030 Barcelona Country Spain Contact name Joan Casamajó Monclús Contact Position General Manager Contact phone no. (+34) 934 335 240 Date 1 June 2014 Membership date 9 June 2008 Number of employees 24 Sector Metallurgical BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF NATURE OF BUSINESS We design and manufacture instruments for the measurement and control of noise and vibration. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2014 | page 3 GENERAL MANAGER’S STATEMENT OF SUPPORT Since June 2008, our company has adhered to the Global Compact voluntarily, and is committed to promoting universal principles that govern it. Result of this commitment, we have integrated into our mission, vision and corporate values the universal principles of the Global Compact, being these completely related to our values and corporate philosophy. The responsibility is not exclusive to governments, companies must play a social and environmental function and not just an economic role. The Global Compact allows us to participate in a project of international alliance with other companies that think that, acting with responsibly is vital to build a better world for future generations. CESVA aims its activity not only to profit maximization, but also to the social welfare and environmental protection. This communication shows the progress and commitments of CESVA with its Corporate Social Responsibility CSR, emphasizing its active policy of sustainable development and respect for human rights, the quality of working conditions within our company and in companies that we operate protection of the environment, especially in the field most closely related to our business: the noise pollution, and the rejection to any act of corruption. Despite the difficult social and economic situation and the need for restrictive policies to the survival of our company, we are committed to achieving this without ever taking recourse to actions that would infringe on the 10 principles of the Global Compact:  We stand firmly against any form of corruption, supporting fair play in a competitive market and the protection of the workers’ rights and working conditions.  Despite the difficult economic environment in which we live, we have been able to maintain all the team forming our company, which we consider very important for our immediate that future.  We have adopted policies for the rational use of resources to avoid waste and minimize the impacts caused by our business activity.  We are equally committed to our support for environmental protection, especially in the field most closely related to our business: noise pollution. We also have an active paper on the WEEE Directive for collecting, and recycling electrical and electronic equipment. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2014 | page 4  We focus on researching and developing products of higher added value, reliability and consistent with the quality standards set by the company. So as to contribute actively to the creation of value, increasing our commitment to society.  We have promoted and participated directly in campaigns and activities that promote quality of life and social welfare. We support the work of the United Nations Global Compact wholeheartedly, and without reservations, and we hope that by doing so we may be a positive role model for those in our spheres of influence. Signature Joan Casamajó Monclús General Manager of CESVA instruments s.l.u. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2014 | page 5 2014 HUMAN RIGHTS The first two principles cover the area of Human Rights: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed 1: Businesses should human rights; and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights support and respect abuses. the protection of internationally proclaimed human Policy and Processes rights; and In order to ensure that CESVA is not complicit in human rights abuses, 2: make sure that they we have adopted a policy of not sourcing materials from countries with are not complicit in a systematically poor human rights record. human rights abuses. All our customers, suppliers and employees have been informed of the policies of corporate social responsibility. Results In 2014 CESVA did not import goods from, nor do business with any companies in countries with a systematically poor human rights record. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2014 | page 6 2014 LABOUR The second area covered by principles 3 to 6 is that of Labour Rights: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective 3: Businesses should recognition of the right to collective bargaining; the elimination of all uphold the freedom of forms of forced and compulsory labour; the effective abolition of child association and the labour; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment effective recognition of and occupation. the right to collective bargaining; 4: The elimination of all Policy and Processes forms of forced and CESVA has a policy of recruitment based strictly on qualification and compulsory labour; ability. 5: The effective Factors such as sex, religion or sexual orientation play no part in the abolition of child recruitment process. labour; and In addition, in line with the policy described in reference to Human 6: The elimination of Rights, we ensure that our suppliers do not use child labour in their discrimination in production processes. respect of employment We reject all forms of intolerance, bullying or discrimination. We and occupation. consider any of these manifestations are disrespectful and unacceptable practice in our company. The transparency and honesty govern our every action in this area. Training is also an integral part of our company culture. Our workers are aware of the need to constantly improve their knowledge and skills. Results In 2014 CESVA did not import parts from companies that use child labour in their production processes. Employees and Management have taken training courses to improve their knowledge and skills. All CESVA employees are paid according to their qualifications and the work that they carry out, independent of factors such as sex or religion, etc. As a result of a great effort and counter to Spanish indicators for active population, we were able to keep all people in the CESVA team. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2014 | page 7 2014 ENVIRONMENT Principles 7 to 9 pertain to the area of Environmental Protection: Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to 7: Businesses are environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater asked to support a environmental responsibility; and encourage the development and precautionary diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. approach to environmental challenges; Policy and Processes 8: undertake initiatives At CESVA we keep with the policy of “reduce, reuse and recycle” in the to promote greater factory. environmental responsibility; and We continue being active members of ECOTIC ECOTIC Foundation is a non-profit private organization that works 9: encourage the development and towards environmental protection and sustainable development through diffusion of the awareness and training of manufacturers, distributors and users of environmentally electrical and electronic devices. friendly technologies. ECOTIC Foundation manages the WEEE (collection and recycling of electrical and electronic devices at the end of their lifespan) of its affiliated enterprises through its Integrated Management System (IMS). The mission of ECOTIC Foundation is not only to conveniently recycle the wastes that are generated by its affiliates after the use of these devices, but also to do it in the most efficient and economically feasible way, so that the system is environmentally and economically sustainable to guarantee its durability. We are equally committed to our support for environmental protection, especially in the field most closely related to our business: noise pollution. Results The results achieved applying the 3R policies are positive. CESVA is listed in the National Register of Industrial Establishments producing Electrical and Electronic Equipment (RIE WEEE). And we keep on our policy of buying lead-free electronic components. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2014 | page 8 We have adhered to ECOPILAS, Foundation for Environmental Management batteries. Ecopilas Foundation, which is recorded in the register of foundations of the Spanish Ministry of Environment, works from its origins, in the design and organization of an Integrated Management System of waste batteries and accumulators in compliance with communitarian, national and regional rules in force. This is possible thanks to the adherence to the IMG of manufacturers, importers, retailers, or any person or company responsible for placing the product in the market, which will become spent batteries after their use. The collection of batteries is performed using the following procedure: TYPE OF TYPE OF MINIMUM REQUEST STORAGE CONTAINER BATTERIES WITHDRAWAL ECOPILAS Different type of Battery removal TUBE ECOPILAS TUBE batteries request delivery with the 1st withdrawal The batteries are stored using a polycarbonate TUBE, 80cm high and 20cm diameter. Its capacity is 25 liters / 40 kg. After reaching 20kg, we proceed to make the removal order by accessing the web platform of ECOPILAS. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2014 | page 9 Tube Material: Policarbonate 80cm-high 20cm diameter Capacity: 25 liters / 40kg We have 2 small containers for separate collection of plastic and cardboard. The collection is done daily, Monday to Friday in the morning. The collection of furniture, appliances, wood, etc., is performed in Friday’s afternoons. We adopt policies for the rational use of resources to avoid waste and minimize the impacts of our activity. Is optimized the energy waste with the use of timers taps and it has been unified working hours of workers to optimize the consumption in electricity. We have actively participated in the symposium “LESS NOISE, MORE ACOUSTICS”, a whole day of work-exchange and reflection oriented to the acoustics and public and private noise management sectors, held to mark the International Noise Awareness Day 2014. CESVA participated in the conference as a speaker at table no.2 dedicated to the ”Control and inspection of noise activities with telematic systems without displacements”. The symposium LESS NOISE, MORE ACOUSTICS” was jointly organized by the city of Terrassa, the Laboratory of Acoustic and Mechanical Engineering of the UPC university (LEAM-UPC), the Association of Engineers and Graduates in Telecommunications of Catalonia, the “Diputació de Barcelona” government of the Barcelona province and the “Generalitat de Catalunya” the self-government of Catalonia with the purpose of promoting the care of the acoustic environment and awareness of the inconvenience and damage generated by the noise in day to day of citizenship. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2014 | page 10 Symposium Less noise, more acoustics hold in Terrassa (Barcelona) International Noise Awareness Day 2014 UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2014 | page 11 2014 The tenth principle deals with the problem of Corruption, and states ANTI-CORRUPTION simply that: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Policy and Processes extortion and bribery. CESVA has always adhered to this principle. It may be that there are companies who resort to bribery to win contracts, but CESVA has never entertained the idea that this could, under any circumstances, be an acceptable business practice, even when it has cost us contracts or tenders. Results CESVA does not, and never has resorted to bribery or extortion. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2014 | page 12 Maracaibo, 6  08030 Barcelona (Spain) www.cesva.com
