GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on progress 2013 IDEALEC S.A.S Rue Claude Chappe 25300 PONTARLIER +33(0)3-81-46-99-00 +33(0)3-81-46-99-58 Contents Introduction Human Rights Labour Environment Anti-corruption Introduction I am pleased to confirm that IDEALEC reaffirms its support of the ten Principles of United Nations Global Compact in the areas described in the content. Communication on Progress is based on our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information using our website. Yours sincerely, Fabrice VITAL DURAND HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Idealec ‘s goal is to engage its employees and all business partners to respect and join the Global Compact principles relative to human rights protection. We publish on our website a code of conduct as well as our Sustainable Development Charter to make our engagement clear to all of our partners. The IDEALEC’s entities policies and practices in the matter of labour, governance, environmental protection are assessed by an external audit company. The 2013 audit has confirmed that significant progress have been achieved. Our vision and values Our sustainable charter CHARTE DE DEVELOPPEMENT DURABLE Le développement durable est une valeur essentielle pour Idéalec. C’est pour cette raison qu’en 2012, Idéalec adhère au Pacte Mondial des Nations Unies qui invite les entreprises à adopter, soutenir et appliquer un ensemble de valeurs fondamentales dans les domaines des droits de l’hommes, des normes de travail, de l’environnement et de lutte contre la corruption. Les objectifs d’Idéalec sont plus particulièrement les suivants : Respecter la personne humaine et les libertés de chacun, le droit du travail, notamment en développant, valorisant et reconnaissant les compétences des salariés, en éliminant la discrimination en matière d’emploi, Limiter et valoriser les déchets, Utiliser des produits et matériaux les moins dangereux pour l’homme et pour l’environnement. Idéalec confirme ainsi les valeurs qui sont les siennes, et demande à l’ensemble des salariés d’y contribuer, et engage ses fournisseurs à y adhérer. Pour de plus amples informations, se référer aux 10 principes du Pacte Mondial sur www.unglobalcompact.org LABOUR Our company handbook and policies states the right for collective bargaining. Our handbook covers policies concerning our employee rights and responsibilities. Furthermore, we have put a strong emphasis on safety at work, individual protection equipment and safe practices. These efforts have resulted in avoiding any significant accident work accident*. IDEALEC has created an Employee Charter which encompasses the requirements and principles of the Global Compact Initiative. This charter has been communicated to some of our employees. An employees and union representatives meet with the management every month to review the company situation and negotiate improvements in working rekationship. All employees are entitled to medical insurance. IDEALEC has a 100% compliance on approved working contracts. * accident involving lost days ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES IDEALEC has with a limited impact on environment (assembly of components). In 2013, we have reduced our electricity consumption and have increased to 50% the share of Electricity produced from renewable energies. Products regulation is monitored by dedicated employees and IDEALEC engages itself and its suppliers to respect all the regulation included REACH and ROHS requirements. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES IDEALEC is in compliance with all relevant laws including anti-corruption laws. IDEALEC pushes its suppliers to act against the corruption in the Supplier charter. In 2013 we have communicated and explained to our business partners our ethic charter.
