Corporate Sustainability Report 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility A concept whereby companies integrate social and environmental concerns in their business operations and in their interaction with their stakeholders on a voluntary basis (A renewed EU strategy 20112014 for Corporate Social Responsibility, COM(2011) 681 final) Communicating your ideas Foreword by the representative of the Board of Directors | Dear readers, we are proud to present the second corporate social responsibility report of CIKLOPEA for 2011, prepared in accordance with G3.1. guidelines of Global Reporting Initiative for level C. For sake of consistency, during the making of this report we followed the requirements of ISO 26000, as well as the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Initiative. Last year the continuous monitoring of indicators and principles of social responsibility and paying attention to the demands of stakeholders in terms of sustainability and social responsibility resulted in our first corporate sustainability report, which, together with other parameters indicated in the CSR Award questionnaire, undoubtedly contributed to the decision to award the honour to CIKLOPEA in the small enterprises category. The award ceremony and the featuring of CIKLOPEA in relevant publications certainly gave rise to the increased public interest that followed. A frequently asked question was whether sustainable development only served promotional purposes and if sustainability and social responsibility can be the company’s permanent commitment. News columns simultaneously expressed disbelief and enthusiasm that the presented parameters had provoked. Our answer to this question was that without the company’s true commitment to sustainable development and social responsibility, they would not even be recognized, which renders the idea of promotion as the sole objective of CSR ungrounded and void. This award was presented as the recognition of our work so far and has set high standards for the future. The key to CIKLOPEA’s success is clear commitment to corporate social responsibility and the objective of maintaining profitability. As any other market-oriented organization, CIKLOPEA also aims at increasing its revenue and achieving higher profitability, all the while keeping in mind sustainability and the strong foundation on which it rests: knowledge and business excellence of its vendors, as well as preserved and healthy environment and the transparency of the market in which it competitively operates. Despite a deep economic crisis, the impact of which is evident in all spheres of social life, during the previous year CIKLOPEA achieved economic growth and fulfilled its objectives in business operations and in its relation to employees and vendors. Guided by the idea of the first Report, we will continue to be the engine of change that we expect to see. The long-term challenge for our company is a healthy economic growth based on the a fair relationship towards our employees, investment in new technology, research relevant to our activities and stimulating investment in education of current and future employees, which is reflected in close cooperation with educational institutions. We hope this Report will meet you expectations. We would be happy to get your thoughts and suggestions. Sincerely, Sandra Boljkovac Stojak Founder and CEO of Ciklopea Ltd Table of Contents | 1. Corporate Social Responsibility – CIKLOPEA...................................................................... 2 2. Profile.................................................................................................................................... 4 3. Economic Indicators............................................................................................................. 7 4. Donations and Investments.................................................................................................. 8 5. Employees............................................................................................................................. 9 6. Environment........................................................................................................................ 13 7. Human Rights, Child Labour and Corruption..................................................................... 14 8. Conclusions and Objectives for 2012................................................................................. 15 9. Index................................................................................................................................... 17 Communicating your ideas 1 1. Corporate responsibility – CIKLOPEA | D Who reads this Report? uring the preparation of the previous Corporate Sustainability Report issued in December 2011, we tried to establish a sustainable system Other than our employees, clients and partners, for continuous monitoring of parameters that our people interested in seeing how CSR principles are stakeholders have recognized as the key ones and carried out in practice. which we present in this Report and indicate their trends and interrelations. Why do we report? We report so as to acquaint our clients, partners and the general public with our work and, more importantly, the manner in which we operate. For us reporting is not the final product, the Report before you, but rather a continuous process in which CSR principles form a part of the company’s strategic operations throughout the year. Other than financial parameters, we also wish to include non-financial This report is intended for the following parameters in the report and strike a balance between stakeholder groups: the two. Furthermore, by publishing this Report we • employees want to show that corporate social responsibility is • vendors not the preserve of large and multinational companies, • clients but rather that any business, regardless of its size, can • local community follow these principles. • wider community in which we operate and the SEE region We are happy to be the change we expected and to • all others who wish to contact us in give our contribution to the sustainable development terms of suggestions for improvement of the society. and clarifications, such as professionals interested in sustainable development. 2 Communicating your ideas Sustainability Timeline | CSR Award Our firstCorpora te Sustainabil ity Report Internal Co de of Conduct CSR Award Joining the Croatian Employers Association KE HGK an d Corporate Social Responsibil ity Association Establishme nt of the company We systematically follow the development of our company’s corporate responsibility This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We welcome feedback on its contents. Communicating your ideas 3 2. Profile | C IKLOPEA is one of the leading translation and Our company has grown due to our constant localization services providers in the Republic investment in people and the organization, as well of Croatia and the SEE region. our investments into the latest technology and equipment. At the same time, we stand for quality and We manage and carry out large translation and offer a wide range of translation services. Our project localization projects, offer legal interpreting managers have a lot of experience with CAT tools and services, proof-reading services, DTP services localization processes. In addition, our translators are (desktop publishing), simultaneous and consecutive constantly working on building up new terminological interpreting, technical support services when databases, which gives our services extra value and organizing a conferen and the rental of equipment long term values for future translation projects our for conference interpreting, translation process aim is to provide a service that allows businesses and consultancy and educational services for translators institutions to be able to properly communicate their as well as business language training. ideas and vision to their clients and target markets. By exceeding our clients’ expectations in the fields We are positioned in the global market as a company of quality, service costs and ethical standards we are specialized in the translation and localization into aiming to continue to expand. the SEE languages in combination with all European languages, as well as in the translation of all types of CIKLOPEA has the following quality assurance texts in the language combinations of all European certificates: ISO 9001:2008 (quality management and world languages. system certificate) and EN 15038:2006 (quality standard for translation services companies). 4 Communicating your ideas Our organizational structure Board of Directors Administration, IT and CAT Marketing Human Finance and support and Sales Resources Operations Management Controlling Zagreb Translation Rijeka Translation Office Office Markets In 2011 the Board of Directors of CIKLOPEA Ciklopea operates in the global market with a comprised two members, performing the duties of specialization in the South East Europe (SEE) region the executive and strategic operatives. Due to the including: Croatia, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, size of the company, the Board of Directors also Bulgaria, Romania, Macedonia, Serbia, Montenegro, represented the supervisory body. Slovakia, Slovenia, Turkey and the Republic of Moldova. All of our current operations are located in Croatia. Communicating your ideas 5 C Fields of specialization IKLOPEA works as a specialized outsourcing partner that provides complete language services and support. CIKLOPEA has a • Technical translation portfolio of services that are divided into four basic • Law groups: translation, interpreting, localization and • Medicine consulting services. • Economy • Tourism and the hospitality industry The translation services group are services that relate • Marketing to managing translation projects, written translation • Finance services or services such as proofreading and • IT editing. Interpreting services include notarization by • Social sciences court certified legal interpreters, consecutive and simultaneous interpretation and rental of technical conference equipment as well as consulting in Certificates conference, meeting and travelling arrangements. Localization services include localization, • Gazela Award internationalization and globalization, as well as • CSR Award (Indeks DOP-a) layout, prepress (DTP – Desktop publishing) and proof • Nonimation for the Key Difference Award checking services. This includes supporting services • ISO 9001, EN 15038 related to localization. Consulting services cover a wide spectrum of advisory, managerial, educational as well as other services within the specific linguistic domain. These services relate to linguistic and intercultural consulting, consulting and management during the translation process, education, Copywriting, SEO consulting, SEO Copywriting and Multilingual SEO Copywriting. 6 Communicating your ideas 3. Economic indicators | D uring 2011 CIKLOPEA enjoyed a mild growth of revenues, but also had a disproportional growth of operating expenses. Revenue growth is the result of years of investment in human and technical resources and a steady market presence, while increased spending, particularly in the area of employee costs, can be justified by the increase in salaries and regular payment of bonuses and incentives for work and achieved results. 2010, HRK 2011, HRK % changes Trend Operating revenue 6,293,255 6,587,954 5% ­æ Operating costs 4,527,569 5,315,059 17% ­æ Employees wages and benefits 1,449,334 1,698,463 17% ­æ Payments to subcontractors 922,956 594,044 -36% ç Taxes − net income tax 396,684 270,876 -32% ç Payments to providers of capital 1,450,551 1,111,156 -23,40% ç Economic value retained 1,692,711 1,508,064 -11% ç Communicating your ideas 7 4. Donations and investments | A s a socially active and responsible business, over the years CIKLOPEA has been giving back to the community and taking part in various projects, providing its sponsorship and support. When it comes to the education of our employees, 2011 was marked by lectures held by Mr. Renato Beninatto, a distinguished international expert and a man with a knack for recognizing great opportunities in the language industry. During his April visit, Mr. Beninatto gave lectures at the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences in Zagreb and presented the importance and future industry trends. Some of the questions answered by Mr. Beninatto, which saw him share his views with the audience, included: how big is the global translation services market and how rapidly is it growing, how many language service providers are there in the world, how many in different regions of the world, is it true this is a recession-proof market, who are the biggest players, etc. The lecture was fully sponsored by CIKLOPEA, and entry and participation in this extremely interesting lecture were open to all students and professors of the Faculty. In addition to this lecture, during January 2011 CIKLOPEA organized an Open Day, during which the students of the German Studies Deparment of the Faculty of Humanities and Social Studies visited our headquarters in Zagreb and saw what working in a translation services company looked like, but were also acquainted with the demands of the market for which they prepared during their studies. Employees of CIKLOPEA played an extremely important role during this visit, because they spared their active working hours and used their own example to show the students and their future colleagues what working in the translation industry is really like. 8 Communicating your ideas 5. Employees | C IKLOPEA’s success is based on its linguistics, while others hold a degree in the field of educated, creative and innovative staff. engineering and management. The acknowledgement of our staff as our most important resource and capital determines our business decisions, our organizational and ntinually management structure as well p lo y e e s d u ring 2011 co e f em ith 17 full-tim as all the processes in the 99 Number o d th e y e a r w rose, and we ende worked organization. h ic h 5 e m p loyees (29%) fw employees, o act, and 12 (7 1%) LA1 d -t e rm c o n tr All the employees at under a fixe e contract. All staff and CIKLOPEA are university n in d e fi n it under a educated, mostly in the field hired locally. of translation studies and managers are Number of employees in 2011 by month 14 14 14 14 15 16 16 16 16 17 17 17 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Workforce by gender in 2011 In 2011 the CIKLOPEA workforce consisted of 94% female employees and 6% of male employees. We are aware that the language industry predominately employs women, but what matters to us is to discover, develop and hire competent people regardless of gender and develop the talents of employees because they are our driving force. Workforce by gender in 2011 Men 6% Women 94% Communicating your ideas 9 Employee turnover High employee turnover rate can be an indicator of dissatisfaction and poor relations within the organization, which is why reasons for leaving the company are important in assessing the organizational climate and decisions on further development and employment trends made by the Management. CIKLOPEA regularly conducts employee satisfaction surveys and organizes group and individual interviews to recognize and solve any problems in time. The fact that most of our former employees go on to become independent freelance translators while remaining our reliable partners makes us happy and satisfied because they remain a part of our community. Number of employees who left the company and had to be substituted 18,75% 81,25% During 2011 four women aged 25-35 left the company. Their reasons were: • 2 to be become freelance translators; they continue to actively cooperate with us • 1 due to the completion of a project; the company had no other position she could fill and • 1 who did not meet the expectations of her probation period. ignificant r s ta ff m e e tings about s of regula , and all tr o d u c e d the practice a re h e ld once a month e in n g s ted. 99 In 2011 w c o m p a n y. R egular meeti e fo re th e y a re implemen changes in th e eeks b a n n o u n c e d at least two w e ir w o rk a n d conditions in e any changes are opinion on th ct if they hav LA5 x p re s s th e ir e y c a n c o n ta an e erson th Employees c y s a n d they have a p u rv e satisfaction s questions. 10 Communicating your ideas Education At CIKLOPEA we believe that individual development and fostering a culture of organizational learning are ployee evaluates em key to reaching our objectives. The demands of the E A re g u la rl y environment and market are changing 99 CIKLOP nce with on a daily basis. In order to keep up, o rm a n c e a n d, in accorda f we invest in the development of our perf s , in tr o d u c e s measures o xt the result es for the ne LA12 employees. Each employee makes t a n d o b je c ti v an annual plan of their professional improvemen m o dels of motiv ation d e fi n e s development with their supervisor. period, or The goals for development are and reward. determined according to the needs of the employee and the demands of the work they perform. Accomplishment of the goals is made possible by attending different training seminars, domestic and foreign conferences as well as internal training and knowledge exchange of employees of different profile working within CIKLOPEA. Hours of education by employee category 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Employees Upper Mgm Mgm Board Diversity and equal opportunity (LA13) Overview of the employee structure at the end of 2011 Men Women Total 1 16 15 − 30 0 10 30 − 50 1 6 51+ 0 0 Minorities 0 0 Disabled persons 0 0 Communicating your ideas 11 Overview of the Board of Directors at the end of 2011 Board of Directors Men Women Total 1 1 15 − 30 0 0 30 − 50 1 1 51+ 0 0 Minorities 0 0 Disabled persons 0 0 Overview of the management at the end of 2011 Upper management Men Women Total 0 7 15 − 30 0 4 30 − 50 0 3 51+ 0 0 Minorities 0 0 Disabled persons 0 0 Equal remuneration for men Balance between private and and women (LA14) professional life Men and women are paid the same starting salary at The management of CIKLOPEA is aware of the every position. Their further progress is determined importance the balance between private and by a number of qualitative and quantitative indicators. professional life has on the level of satisfaction and The opportunities they have along the way are the productivity of employees. This is why we approach same, and in cases where they are not, as with every employee individually. Most of our employees women returing from maternity leave, Ciklopea has are women and some are mothers of young children, programs aimed at levelling the playing field. which is why individual adjustments of working hours and workplace are necessary in order to strike a Our Board of Directors consists of 1 male director and balance between personal and professional lives. We 1 female director whose salary ratio is 1:1. are aware that this balance helps companies attract, keep and train those employees with best skills and the greatest motivation because it allows y its talented staff to continue working in loy e e s a re n ot covered b spite of family commitments, motivate 99 Our emp a in in g a g reements them to quickly return from leave and rg collective ba le c te d enables all employee to advance their an e but they have LA14 ti v e th a t career. resenta employee rep arise s e n ts is s u e s that might We are very happy and pleased to have pre . ement Board to the Manag all of our employees return from maternity and parental leave and continue their career at CIKLOPEA. pational d a to ry fi rs t aid and occu ted man ince our p lo y e e s in 2011 comple la te d in ju ri es reported s ork 99 All new e m e . W e h a v e h ad no work-r n e w s ta ff w ill undergo w safety trainin g ing year . In the follow LA8 e n t in 2 0 0 3 establishm g. safety trainin 12 Communicating your ideas 6. Environment | I n their everyday work the employees of CIKLOPEA We systematically record and monitor energy costs try to act so as to have a positive effect on the and strive to reduce energy consumption as much as environment, which is why we pay attention to we can. So far we have succeeded in all of the above, every detail and: but in 2011 there have been major changes in the building which houses our headquarters. The building • Recycle paper and toner to control fixed costs of has finally, after many years of use, undergone our business and contribute to conservation of the condominium conversion and all consumption places environment. have been defined. In the process of arranging relations between co-owners differences in the • Dispose of electronic equipment in an appropriate calculation were identified and settled, and the costs manner. were included in the annual financial statement that, compared to the previous year, indicates a significant • Control power consumption. increase in energy consumption. This increase is not realistic but is rather a result of the settlement • Turn off the computers and all electronic devices of residual costs. Since we finally established all the at the end of the day. places of consumption, we will continue to be able to effectively monitor energy costs and impact their • Use bags made from 100% recycled paper. reduction and savings. • Use environmentally friendly pens which are 100% IKLOPEA did degradable. 99 In 2011 C ny fines or not receive a s for nonEN28 other penaltie • Participate in mass transit. All of our employees receive payment for transportation in the city they ith laws and compliance w live. l regulations. environmenta • Avoid the use of disposable cutlery and cups. 2010 2011 Energy costs HRK 35,129 HRK 51,769 Communicating your ideas 13 7. Human Rights, Child Labour and Corruption | I n 2011 we published our Declaration of Human Rights and posted it on our website http://www.ciklopea.com/en/csr/ethical-principles-157/. Neither we nor our partners use or assist child or forced labour in any aspect of our business. Our employees are acquainted with the policies and procedures related to human rights because compliance with these principles underlies our business principles. Since it was founded in 2003, Ciklopea has had no fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. Furthermore, our company has never been linked to any corruption charges. Our employees do not receive anti-corruption training because there have never been any incidents. If there are any inappropriate situations, our employees know how to handle them because they are well aware of the anti-corruption guidelines from our internal code of conduct. 14 Communicating your ideas 8. Conclusions and Objectives for 2012 | E very new beginning, such as a new year, represents a point in the life of a person or a society when we wish to set new goals or conclude the previous period. Given that everyone involved in the life of CIKLOPEA always strive for improvements, we present a brief overview of our objectives and planned improvements for the coming year: • strengthening cooperation with the academic community by educating graduates to work with translation technologies and reach permanent employment at CIKLOPEA • strengthening the function of human resources and vendor managements as a strategic position the company • making the recruitment and selection process faster and more transparent, according to the “CVs received CVs answered” principle • making the workspace more enjoyable by bringing natural light and reducing the need of using artificial lighting in offices Communicating your ideas 15 The Ten Principles Our report was done in accordance with the GRI The UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption framework enjoy universal consensus and are derived from: • The Universal Declaration of Human Rights • The International Labour Organization’s What is the GRI Reporting Declaration on • Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work Framework? • The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development The Sustainability Reporting Framework provides • The United Nations Convention Against Corruption guidance on how organizations can disclose their sustainability performance. It consists of The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, Sector support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a Supplements and the Technical Protocol Applying set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour the Report Content Principles. standards, the environment and anti-corruption: The Framework is applicable to organizations of any size or type, from any sector or geographic region, Human Rights and has been used by thousands of organizations worldwide as the basis for preparing their Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect sustainability reports. the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in The Sustainability Reporting human rights abuses. Guidelines Labour The Guidelines are the foundation of the Framework and are now in their third generation (G3). They feature Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of Performance Indicators and Management Disclosures association and the effective recognition of the right to that organizations can adopt voluntarily, flexibly and collective bargaining; incrementally, enabling them to be transparent about Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and their performance in key sustainability areas. compulsory labour; The G3.1 Guidelines are the latest and most Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and complete version of GRI’s G3 Sustainability Reporting Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect Guidelines. These Guidelines are based on G3 but of employment and occupation. contain expanded guidance on local. community impacts, human rights and gender. While G3-based reports are still valid, GRI recommends that reporters Environment use G3.1, the most comprehensive reporting guidance available today Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Source: http://www.globalreporting.org/ Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. In an effort to raise awareness of Anti-Corruption governing bodies on reporting on Principle 10: Businesses should work against sustainability, we present the principles corruption in all its forms, including extortion and which we adhered to when we prepared bribery. the Report. Source: http://www.unglobalcompact.org/ AboutTheGC/TheTenPrinciples/index.htmlhttp://www. unglobalcompact.org/AboutTheGC/TheTenPrinciples/ index.html 16 Communicating your ideas 9. Index | Profile Page Explanation for Applicable Global Compact Description Disclosure reported on omission principle Statement from the most senior decisionI Principles 1 and 2 maker of the organization. Organizational profile 2.1. Name of the organization. 4 2.2. Primary brands, products and/or services 6 Operational structure of the organization, 2.3. including main divisions, operating 5 companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4. Seat. 5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either 2.5. major operations or that are specifically 5 relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6. Nature of ownership. 5 Markets served (including geographic 2.7. breakdown, sectors served, and types of 5 clients/beneficiaries). 2.8. Scale of the reporting organization. 5 No changes Significant changes during the reporting 2.9. N/A since the last period regarding size, structure, or ownership. report. 2.10. Awards received in the reporting period. 3,6 Profile Page Explanation for Applicable Global Compact Description Disclosure reported on omission principle Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for 3.1. II information provided. 3.2. Date of most recent previous report (if any). 2 3.3. Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) II II Contact person for questions regarding the 3.4. II report or its contents. 3.5. Process for defining report content. 16 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint 3.6. 16 ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. Communicating your ideas 17 Profile Page Explanation for Applicable Global Compact Description Disclosure reported on omission principle State any specific limitations on the scope or 3.7. boundary of the report (see the Completeness 16 principle for an explanation of the scope) CIKLOPEA has been Basis for reporting on joint ventures, independent subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsources since its 3.8. operations, and other entities that can N/A inception and significantly affect comparability from period it operates in to period and/or between organizations. the market independently. Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided in earlier reports, No and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., restatements in 3.10. N/A mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/ relation to the periods, nature of business, measurement previous report. methods). No significant Significant changes from previous reporting changes from 3.11. periods in the scope, boundary, or N/A the previous measurement methods applied in the report. report. Table identifying the location of the Standard 3.12. from 17 Disclosures in the report. Profile Page Explanation for Applicable Global Compact Description Disclosure reported on omission principle Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest 4.1. governance body responsible for specific 5 tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. Indicate whether the Chair of the highest 4.2. governance body is also an executive officer 5 (if so, state the reasons for such decision). For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members 4.3. 5 of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees 4.4. to provide recommendations or direction to 5 the highest governance body. List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 4.14. 2 organization. Basis for identification and selection of 4.15. 2 stakeholders with whom to engage. 18 Communicating your ideas Profile Page Explanation for Applicable Global Compact Description Disclosure reported on omission principle Economic Indicators Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations EC1. 7 and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the 9 Principles 7, 8 EC7. 9 local community at significant locations of and 9 operation. Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily EC8. 8 Principle 2 for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Environment Direct energy consumption by primary energy Principles 7, 8 EN3. 13 source. and 9 Monetary value of significant fines and total Principles 7, 8 number of non-monetary sanctions for nonEN28. 13 and 9 compliance with environmental laws and Principle 2 regulations. Employment Total workforce by employment type, LA1. 9 employment contract, and region. Total number and rate of new employee hires Principles 1, 2 LA2. and employee turnover by age group, gender, 10 and 6 and region. Return to work and retention rates after Principles 1, 2 LA15. 12 parental leave, by gender. and 6 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category LA13. according to gender, age group, minority 11, 12 Principle 6 group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Ratio of basic salary of men to women by LA14. 11, 12 Principle 6 employee category. Percentage of employees covered by LA4. 10 Principle 3 collective bargaining agreements. Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant LA5. operational changes, including whether it is 10 Principles 1 and 2 specified in collective agreements. Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to LA8. assist workforce members, their families, 11 or community members regarding serious diseases. Communicating your ideas 19 Profile Page Explanation for Applicable Global Compact Description Disclosure reported on omission principle Education Average hours of training per year per emLA10. 11 ployee by employee category. Percentage of employees receiving regular LA12. performance and career development revi11 ews, by gender. Child Labour Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child Principles 4 and 5 HR 6. 14 labour, and measures taken to contribute to Principles 1 and 2 the effective abolition of child labour. Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for for incidents of HR 7. forced or compulsory labour and measures 14 Principles 4 and 5 to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour. Corruption Percentage and total number of business SO2. 14 Principle 10 units analysed for risks related to corruption. Percentage of employees trained in SO3. organization’s anti-corruption policies and 14 Principle 10 procedures. Actions taken in response to incidents of SO4. 14 Principle 10 corruption. 20 Communicating your ideas GRI Declaration Level | Report Application level C C+ This is a C Level report; CIKLOPEA shall publish Report on reports annually. 1.1 OUTPUT G3 Profile 2.1 − 2.10 Disclosures 3.1 − 3.8, 3.10 − 3.12 Publisher: 4.1 − 4.4, 4.14 − 4.15 Ciklopea d.o.o. Međimurska 21 10 000 Zagreb Standard disclosures Report externally verified Not required Croatia OUTPUT G3 Disclosures on Management Images used are owned by Ciklopea and the people Approach in the pictures are employees of Ciklopea. Report on a minimum G3 Performance of 10 Performance OUTPUT Indicators & Sector Indicators, including at Supplement least one of the following: Performance social, economic and Indicators environmental. * Sector supplements in the final version BraunGraf Graphic design BraunGraf, www.braun.hr Responsible person: Mladen Stojak, Managing Director Person for contact about information in the report: Marina Orešković, COO Zagreb Headquarters Međimurska 21, 10 000 Zagreb Tel: 01/375-1736 e-mail: info@ciklopea.com © 2012. All rights reserved ©
