BRANDIX LANKA LIMITED Communication on Progress Year: 2014 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT The 10 principles of United Nations Global Compact and the Millennium Development Goals continue to be reflected in the company’s core values-values that are proactively driving economic, environmental, social and ethical imperatives. This year our aim continues to be to enhance our positive impacts through the products and services that are beneficial to society and the entreprises themselves. Our commitment and vigilance to the Principles remains strong. Mr Ajit Johnpillai Director 07th January 2014 Contact: Ms Anusha Alles Email: AnushaA@brandix.com Phone: +94(0) 11 4727000 Fax: +94(0) 11 2575485 P 1/13 Brief description of nature of business Sri Lanka’s largest apparel exporter with an annual turnover exceeding USD 500 million. Employing over 35,000 Associates and generating indirect employment to an equivalent number. Supported by over 35 manufacturing facilities in Sri Lanka, India & Bangladesh and strategically located international Sourcing Offices. Providing over 50% of value addition locally through our backward-linked operations in textiles, thread, buttons and hangers. P 2/13 PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Actions taken Commitment: Brandix adheres to internationally recognized best practices in human rights, social compliance, corporate governance and ethics. System: Internally developed policies and procedures to protect human rights standards of anyone working within the organization. Activities: Actions 1. Well instilled core values of the Group communicated at regular intervals from Induction and throughout the career of an employee. 2. Well established recognition system which rewards and recognisers performance in line with core values. 3. HR and Compliance departments within each Strategic Business Unit to constantly evaluate & uplift the welfare of employees. 4. An independent Corporate Compliance division and Group Human Resources division to monitor the processes and activities of the Group’s strategic business units. 5. Annual 3rd party certifications ranging from WRAP to, SA8000 to ETI. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes Most of our facilities are WRAP (Worldwide Responsible Accredited Production), ETI (Ethical Trading Initiative) or SA8000 (Social Accountability) certified P 3/13 PRINCIPLE 2 BUSINESS SHOULD ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES Actions taken Please refer Principle no.01 Actions Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes Please refer Principle No.01 P 4/13 PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Actions taken Commitment: Brandix recognizes and respects the right of employees to exercise their lawful right of free association. Actions System: Internally developed policies and procedures on Freedom of Association. Activities: 1. All business units have an active Workers’ Council with office bearers being chosen from the cadre by the employees themselves. 2. Monthly meetings are conducted with minutes being maintained. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company 1. No labour strikes, walkouts or other indications of unresolved issues. Outcomes 2. High ratings in employee satisfaction measured through the annual employee survey P 5/13 PRINCIPLE 4 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR Actions taken Commitment: Prohibition of forced labour is one of the key components of the Brandix Social Compliance policy. System: Internally developed policies and procedures on prohibition of forced, bonded or prison labour. Actions Activities: 1. Terms and conditions are clearly defined in the appointment letters and 3rd party contract letters which they are required to sign before start commencement of employment. 2. Wages are directly deposited to employees individual bank accounts. 3. Original certificates or identity papers are not withheld and no cash deposit is sought when offering employment 4. Employees are hired through direct hiring methods by the HR Department of each strategic business unit. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes Numerous 3rd party certifications by international certification bodies such as WRAP, ETI etc. and no major/critical areas of non-compliance found during buyer COC (Code of Conduct) audits which are conducted regularly. No fines or other penalties imposed by local law enforcement authorities. P 6/13 PRINCIPLE 5 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR Actions taken Commitment: Brandix practices zero tolerance in child labour. System: Internally developed policies and procedures to prevent employment of children. Actions Activities: 1. Mandatory proof of age documentation (such as National Identity Cards, Birth Certificates) reviewed prior to recruitment and copies retained in personal files. 2. Identification and age check of all 3rd party contract labour prior to gaining access to the facility. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes Numerous 3rd party certifications by international certification bodies such as WRAP, ETI etc. and no major/critical areas of non-compliance found during buyer COC (Code of Conduct) audits which are conducted regularly. No fines or other penalties imposed by local law enforcement authorities P 7/13 PRINCIPLE 6 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION Actions taken Commitment: Brandix employs, pays and promotes employees based on a well established performance appraisal system and does not discriminate based on their personal characteristics, race , religion or religious beliefs. System: Internally developed policies and procedures on prohibition of discrimination. Actions Activities: 1. Male and female employees are paid equally when they perform the same job functions. 2. No discriminatory questions are asked during the recruitment process. 3. Pregnancy testing is strictly prohibited within the organization during the recruitment process. 4. All promotions are based on performance and skill level of the employee. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes 1. Many differently-abled associates employed within the Group. 2. All facilities employ different ethnic groups with the new facilities in the East Coast of the country providing a high percentage of employment to the minorities. P 8/13 PRINCIPLE 7 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES Actions taken Commitment: We are committed to ensuring that our business decisions will balance economic progress while driving a sustainable development through a responsible consciousness for the environment and community. System: Since its inception, Brandix has been conscious of its environmental imperatives. We are consciously adopting innovative approaches and technologies to minimize the impact manufacturing processes has on the environment. Actions Activities: 1. Our Risk & Control, Compliance, Logistics and Environment & Energy Divisions work hand-in-hand to ensure the health & safety of our staff and in overseeing the compliance and environmental impacts of our facilities and offices. 2. We are in the process of eliminating 11 hazardous chemicals which result in water pollution. 3. Reduction in Greenhouse Gas Emissions which have impact on climate change. These reductions have been made through green technologies. 4. We are sponsoring the National Occupational Safety & Health Conference for the fourth consecutive year 5. We conduct awareness programs and relevant trainings on waste management and handling hazardous material etc. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes We have identified the hazardous chemicals present in the system and we are now in the process of substituting those chemicals with environmentally friendly options. There has been a 10.7% reduction in our Group Carbon Footprint from our 2011 baseline. Through our awareness programs our staff are more educated on safety and precautions they must take when handling chemicals, machinery etc. P 9/13 PRINCIPLE 8 BUSINESS SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Actions taken Commitment: The Brandix Group’s raison d’être of “inspired solutions for branded clothing” encompasses all aspects of its business including its commitment to CSR in all its manifestations. We believe our stakeholders are as passionate about our commitment to the complex issues of water and environment management as we are. Since its importance to our manufacturing processes we have over the past few years focused our attention on “Water” as a giver of life and drawn in our associates, their families, suppliers and business partners into the initiatives we have employed around the country. System: Brandix has always worked on the platform of conscious responsibility. Our position as the largest exporter in the country and an industry leader adds more responsibility, transparency and accountability to our role and emphasizes the need for sincerity, ethics and integrity in Actions the way we do business. Activities: Food Waste Programs: In 2013 we conducted a food waste competition to mark World Environment Day and since then we have continued this program along with regular awareness programs in order to reduce the group-wide food wastage. Water Campaigns: We have encouraged our employees to save water through campaigns and relevant marketing such as water saving posters. Brandix Eco-Index: We have also developed a Brandix Eco-Index which is an environmental assessment tool unique to Brandix and it allows us to measure environmental data, score and rank each of our facilities within our three main pillars Water, Air and Earth. This tool is one of a kind in Sri Lanka and has aided us to set our environmental sustainability targets and goals for the future. 10% Energy Reduction Program: We have introduced LED fluorescent lights to factories, along with the replacement of clutch motors with server motors. Compressed Air leakage rectification process is in place. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes Over the last 6 months we have seen a group-wide reduction of 8% in our average food waste per person per meal. We have also seen an increased sense of responsibility among our employees with regards to waste reduction and disposal methods. We have maintained a water consumption level of 35 litres per head per day in our apparel factories which is a great effort by our staff. P 10/13 Our first Sustainability Report won the ‘First Time Report Winner’ in the Large Scale category at the Sri Lanka Sustainability Reporting Awards presented by the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) Sri Lanka Liaison Office. PRINCIPLE 9 BUSINESS SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Actions taken Commitment: Clean technology, waste management and environmental preservation have been inextricably integrated into our overall business. Believing strongly that clean technology can drive our ultimate goal of being a completely green business concern; we have invested a large proportion of time and money in order to ensure clean technology is integrated into our processes and operations. System: After successfully achieving our previous environmental sustainability pledges, Brandix is currently in the next phase of our sustainability plan that would take us towards our goal of becoming a totally “Green company”. Our goals of becoming carbon neutral, achieving zero water wastage and maintaining zero waste to landfill are being made possible by means of investments in new green technology and by exploring numerous options for renewable energy. Actions Activities: We have placed emphasis on developing our technologies and systems within our three pillars – Air, Water and Earth. Lighting systems have been improved by replacing T8 bulbs with LED bulbs. Air Conditioning systems, sewing machines and boilers have been replaced with higher energyefficient systems in order to minimize energy wastage. Also over the last year, 5 new factories have switched from furnace oil to biomass, in addition to the already existing 7 biomass boilers. We have worked on installing more water efficient fixtures in our kitchens, bathrooms and canteens. Another effort in our Water Pillar is the rainwater harvesting that is carried out in our Green Plant. In addition, 100% of Waste Water is treated through various water treatment technologies. A majority of the waste water is then recycled for gardening purposes and rest is released to water bodies or public drains. Some factories recycle a proportion of this water for flushing toilets. P 11/13 Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Over the last year, through the various new green technologies the group has seen a Outcomes reduction in carbon footprint of 10.7%, a saving of 92.2 million litres of water, while maintaining a daily consumption to 35 litres per head and zero waste to landfill. Through our biomass boiler initiatives, 275,417 litres per month of furnace oil have been saved. The Brandix Group was the apparel sector's standard bearer at the 2013 Best Corporate Citizen awards presented by the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, winning sector and category awards for 'Environmental Sustainability' and 'Environmental Integration'. We were also adjudged one of Sri Lanka’s 10 best corporate citizens. PRINCIPLE 10 BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY Actions taken Commitment: Our company is committed to working against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. For this we have our own code of ethics and fully respect to our customers/suppliers code of ethics in this regard. System: “Integrity” is recognized as the first value of our company/associates. Our strategy is to follow the best management systems with higher level of transparency. Strict adherence to written policies in all operations helps us for transparent transactions. Independent audit system supports us to identify further steps for improvement. Actions Activities: 01. Induction sessions help us to deliver the company expectation of ‘integrity” to all new employees. 02. Frequent awareness sessions to improve the employee’s knowledge of the company’s policy/procedure and transparency. 03. Strict adherence to company finance and other policies. Such policies are available in the company intranet for easy access. 04. Frequent communication of our company values to our customers and suppliers. 05. Frequent internal and 3rd party audits to ensure the correct implementation of our policies and procedures. 06. Strict follow up of audit recommendation to ensure further enhancement of transparency of transactions. P 12/13 Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcom es How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? Through our sustainability report, company website and half yearly CSR newsletter. P 13/13
