Communication on Progress 2014 Maldive Gas is striving to integrate the ten principles in their strategies and operations. This Communication on Progress (COP) is intended as a mechanism to inform company stakeholders on the progress made in implementing the ten principles thus far. #02-21 S.T.O Trade Centre Orchid Magu Male’, Republic of Maldives Tel: (960) 333 5614 Fax: (960) 333 5615 Communication on Progress I March 2013 – February 2014 Maldive Gas Private Limited Period covered by Communication on Progress (COP) From: March 2013 To: February 2014 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) 28th February 2014 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Maldive Gas Private Limited reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration ion of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely, Abdulla Maumoon Managing Director 2|Page Communication on Progress I March 2013 – February 2014 Maldive Gas Private Limited Human Rights Principles Our Commitment Maldive Gas has always endeavored to conduct its business responsibly and ethically. We are committed to earning the trust of Principle 1 our stakeholders by continuously improving our services and displaying the highest integrity in all our dealings. Businesses should support and respect the Our aim is to enrich the workplace while improving the community protection of we live in. We treat our employees with dignity, fairness and internationally respect and we are guided by our shared values of integrity, proclaimed human rights collaboration and accountability. and; We are committed to ensuring that we as a company, as well as our employees as individuals, respect and uphold human rights in every way. Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human Implementation rights abuses ♦ Our commitment to protect all human rights is anchored in various established processed and practices and will be additionally reinforced by the Code of Conduct that is being drafted. The Code of Conduct is being drafted to promote ethics, honesty and professionalism within the company and among its employees. ♦ We offer equal employment opportunity and practice a zero-tolerance approach towards harassment in the company. ♦ Employees are encouraged to bring any complaints or issues they have regarding unfair treatment directly to the top management, who review the concerns promptly. 3|Page Communication on Progress I March 2013 – February 2014 Maldive Gas Private Limited ♦ We comply to and act in accordance with the Maldives Employment Act. ♦ Child labor is prohibited and we heed the minimum age requirements for employment in accordance with the Employment Act. ♦ Our commitment extends to the protection of the health and safety of our employees and our community. As such we have partnered with the Maldives National Defence Force to conduct fire safety awareness programs in the country and continue to maintain a high standard of safety in all our work sites. Regular refresher trainings are conducted on safety annually. Goals Periodic reviews will be conducted by the Human Resource Department and Internal Audit Department to monitor compliance and identify areas of improvement. A safety and quality control personnel will be hired to ensure compliance with necessary quality and safety standards; and regular and mandatory reviews will be conducted. To ensure the health and safety of our employees, annual workplace inspections will be performed. To deal with potential situations of high pressure, annual stress management seminars will be offered. Once the Code of Conduct is drafted and implemented, it will form part of our new employee induction program and regular orientation sessions will be held for staff, to inculcate and accentuate the desired behavior and professionalism in staff. 4|Page Communication on Progress I March 2013 – February 2014 Maldive Gas Private Limited Labor Principles Our Commitment We are committed to providing our employees with a work Principle 3 environment that is open, friendly and non-discriminatory and that is fully in accordance with the Maldives Employment Act and the Businesses should uphold Global Compact. the freedom of association and the At the heart of our business are the skills, abilities and knowledge effective recognition of of our people—our human capital. Our goal is to have the right the right to collective capabilities, in the right places, to support the needs of our bargaining; customers and drive our future growth. Implementation Principle 4 ♦ At Maldive Gas we have a diverse workforce, spanning The elimination of all countries, generations, perspectives, backgrounds and educational forms of forced and experiences. We are committed to creating and providing an open compulsory labor; and equitable environment for individuals with different backgrounds, lifestyles, needs and expectations. Principle 5 ♦ We undertake continuous efforts to improve the skills, competencies and professional know-how of our staff. Both short The effective abolition of and long term trainings are offered to staff, locally and abroad. child labor; and These programs include technical specialist skill trainings, soft and leadership skills and general administrative and supervisory skills. Various trainings are conducted for all levels of staff every year. Principle 6 The elimination of ♦ We ensure that all our employees have opportunities to voice their opinions and concerns by providing mechanisms for discrimination in respect ongoing communication between employees and the of employment and Management. occupation. ♦ We believe that every employee is entitled to a working environment that promotes dignity and respect for all. At Maldive Gas we are committed to providing a work environment free of discrimination, bullying and harassment. We strongly prohibit discrimination in the workplace, whether committed by or against 5|Page Communication on Progress I March 2013 – February 2014 Maldive Gas Private Limited managers, co-workers, customers, vendors or visitors. Similarly, any discrimination or harassment based on an employee’s race, religion, sex, national origin, age status, sexual orientation, disability, and marital status is not tolerated. All employees are made aware that any staff found in breach could be found to have committed gross misconduct and as a result face dismissal. ♦ The Performance Management framework at Maldive Gas aligns rewards with performance. Bi-annual verbal and written feedback is received by all staff so that employees have opportunities for improvement. Additionally, formal annual reviews are conducted so that good performers can be recognized and rewarded. ♦ Our recruitment and selection process is based on employing candidates with talent, skill and potential. ♦ Our promotion system is based on transparency, performance evaluation and merit. Goals Increase the number of female representation in our workforce at all functional levels. Compile an employee handbook covering all policies concerning our employee rights and responsibilities. Continuously provide up-to-date and relevant training programs to our employees. Bi-annual internal audits of all human resource policies and processes will be conducted to ensure compliance with the Maldives Employment Act and Global Compact. Draft and implement a comprehensive Health and Safety policy to provide a safe working environment for all employees, customers, visitors and anyone else who may be affected by our business operations. 6|Page Communication on Progress I March 2013 – February 2014 Maldive Gas Private Limited Environment Principles Our Commitment Principle 7 We firmly believe that we as a Company have an obligation towards the environment. Our efforts to ensure sustainable Businesses should growth are reflected in all our operations; from how we support a precautionary engage with our employees and suppliers to the services we approach to provide our customers. environmental challenges; Implementation Principle 8 We strive to minimize our impact on the environment by: ♦ Launching a cost-saving and waste reduction initiative Undertake initiatives to across the Company to cultivate and instill a culture of promote greater prudence and increase awareness among the employees on environmental environmental protection. responsibility; and ♦ Using energy-efficient appliances and equipments as much as possible in all our work sites to conserve energy. Principle 9 Encourage the Goals development and diffusion of We will endeavor to minimize our environment footprint by using Autogas in all our vehicles and making it available for the environmentally friendly community. technologies Develop and expand the cost-saving and waste reduction initiative. 7|Page Communication on Progress I March 2013 – February 2014 Maldive Gas Private Limited Anti-corruption Principles Our Commitment Maldive Gas is committed to maintaining the highest ethical standards in our work environment and in all our business Principle 10 transactions and to comply with the anti-corruption act of the Maldives. Businesses should work against corruption in all Implementation its forms, including extortion and bribery. ♦ We have zero tolerance for bribery or any other activity that violates the anti corruption act of the Maldives. ♦ To prevent any abuse, all payments to Consultants are made via bank transfer. ♦ Regular internal and external audits are conducted during which all such payments are subjected to strict scrutiny. ♦ An important aspect of accountability and transparency is a mechanism to enable all individuals to voice concerns internally in a responsible and effective manner when they discover information which they believe shows serious malpractice. In this regard, a whistle blowing policy is being drafted to reinforce the value the company places on staff to be honest and respected members of their individual professions. It provides a method of properly addressing bona fide concerns that employees might have, while also offering whistleblowers protection from victimization, harassment or disciplinary proceedings. ♦ The Code of Conduct being drafted will convey a clear understanding of expected standards of ethical behavior and guide us in our day-to-day business decisions and transactions. 8|Page Communication on Progress I March 2013 – February 2014 Maldive Gas Private Limited Goals Maintaining the highest integrity in all our dealings and prevention of corruption is very important to us and to this end; we will continue to closely monitor all our business transactions and dealings. We will expand and professionalize our whistle-blowing system. 9|Page
