GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 30th August 2013 to 1st December 2014 1 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 2nd December 2014 To our stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that twentyfifty Ltd reaffirms its support for, and commitment to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-­‐Corruption. In this, our first annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and it’s principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are a small company, but one whose professional services are focused on helping large multinationals adhere to the principles of the UN Global Compact, especially those principles related to human rights and labour standards. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders through our website and the Global Compact. We are committed to continuously improving our sustainability performance and look forward to any feedback of our stakeholders on this report. Sincerely yours Luke Wilde Chief Executive info@twentyfifty.co.uk +44 203 393 2050 2 Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Policy and Goals Since 2004, we have worked with leading multinational corporations to embed respect for human rights into their global operations. The arrival of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UN Guiding Principles) has reinforced and given new impetus to much of our client work. We provide support in raising awareness, engaging internal and external stakeholders, program strategy and organisational change, understanding and assessing impacts, training, policy development and implementation. As a professional services firm, we aim to: • Develop practical, implementable approaches to the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights that deliver business benefits for our clients, and provide organisational change support which enables these approaches to be implemented across global businesses, • Encourage larger numbers of businesses, especially in the emerging markets, to implement the human rights principles of the Global Compact and the UN Guiding Principles, • Share, where clients allow, our work with wider audiences in order to develop the collective knowledge and practice of respecting human rights. In the year ahead our plans are to: -­‐ • Develop human rights-­‐based selection criteria and evaluation practices for our own business relationships including; suppliers, partner consultancies and facility providers (we committed to this in 2013 but did not achieve it) • Continue to work with our funding partners to take our engagement approach for Local Global Compact Networks to new countries, especially in the emerging markets, • Establish our second office outside of Europe providing our consulting services to emerging market multinationals. Implementation • In the past 12 months, we have supported activities of the UN Global Compact Networks in Germany, UK, Ukraine, Kenya, Indonesia and Switzerland to engage their membership in addressing the first two principles 3 • We have delivered training and coaching programmes to business members of UN Global Compact Networks in Ukraine (September 2013), Indonesia (January 2014), Kenya (February 2014), and the UK (July 2014). Reports of the training courses in Nairobi and Jakarta can be found on our website • We continued to support the human rights peer learning network on the UNGC in Germany • With the German Global Compact Network we published Integrating stakeholder engagement into Human Rights Due Diligence in August 2014, and in partnership with the Collective Leadership Institute developed a new course of the same title (and delivered that in Frankfurt in September 2014) • We continued our participation in and support of the work of the UN Global Compact Human Rights and Labour Working Group • We worked with the Global eSustainability Initiative to develop its thought leadership agenda on human rights • We were pleased to support a number of companies in refreshing their commitments to human rights, including Deutsche Telekom and Merck Measurement of Outcomes Over the 12 months, 95 individuals participated in our training programmes and 11 companies maintained 4 Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Policy and Goals In this year we have supplemented our capacity to support our clients to ensure local practices meet international expectations and the labour principles of the UN Global Compact. In addition to working with our clients, we seek to make sure our own practices are exemplary. Though we are a small business, we are growing rapidly and taking care to put good labour practices into place: • We seek to operate in a participatory style and give each employee a voice in major decisions which affect the business. • We are committed to diversity in the workforce and already have a range of flexible work arrangement to meet individual needs (e.g. to balance work and family life). • We are committed to supporting our people in their professional and personal development, and provide access to training, coaching and other forms of support as required to be able to reach their aspirations. • Our director conducts regular individual talks with each employee which also serve to understand their needs and expectations towards the business and ultimately improve their satisfaction and the working conditions. • We do not use unpaid labour, paying our interns and negotiating fair contracts with our associates • We have clear grievance channels and procedures and employees may approach either the director or the chairman with any issues arising. Implementation In supporting the Global Compact labour principles this year we have: -­‐ • Supported clients operating in Kenya and India to conduct reviews which include adherence to core labour standards Within twentyfifty we have:-­‐ 5 • Maintained a bonus system in which company profits are shared with all employees, • Developed a company contributory pension scheme for UK based employees, • Added further capacity to our consulting team by having Rishi Sher Singh bring his experience of securing labour standards in India to our team In the year ahead our plans are to:-­‐ • Ensure that pension arrangements in Germany are commensurate with those in the UK (we are recommitting to this, having not achieved in 2013-­‐14) Measurement of Outcomes In the reporting period no violations of the above-­‐mentioned principles have been detected by our management’s due diligence activities or reported through our employee grievance channels. 6 Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Policy and Goals twentyfifty is committed to minimising its impact on the environment wherever possible. Our biggest impact is the travel we undertake. This is increasing as we work further afield more often. Wherever possible we make use of public transport, and we make extensive use of teleconferencing and webinars to reduce the travel required (e.g. between the UK and German business, in our client work) but in a global business flying is inevitable. Implementation twentyfifty’s actions to promote environmental responsibility and reduce impact include: -­‐ • Recycling of materials/products including paper, packaging and batteries, • Printed materials, reports and correspondence minimalized, • Recycled stationary and office products, • Use of train over car/flight for business appointments as much as possible, • Sustainable methods of transport to work such as walking and cycling, • Economical cars. Last year we made a commitment to join a scheme to offset the carbon emissions of the flights taken by the business. We have not joined a scheme, but we did record our carbon emissions and have reviewed the schemes available to us. In the coming year, we will select and join an appropriate scheme. Measurement of Outcomes • We have started to record the carbon associated with our travel in a spreadsheet in preparation for selecting a suitable off-­‐setting scheme.. 7 Anti-­‐Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Policy and Goals twentyfifty Ltd prides itself on its transparent, ethical, open and honest business practices. We believe that business must include honesty in all of our dealings, which includes speaking plainly and not using language that will mislead or confuse people that we are interacting with. twentyfifty complies with the UK Bribery and Anti-­‐corruption Act (“the Act”) and any other relevant laws in the jurisdictions it operates in. twentyfifty does not tolerate any forms of bribery and corruption within its own operations and by its associates and clients. We have a policy on Bribery and Corruption which is available on our website. Implementation This year has seen several staff visit high risk areas. Alongside the Bribery and Corruption Policy twentyfifty has: -­‐ • Ensured our people are properly briefed on the customs and particulars of the area, • Ensured that staff feel comfortable with all aspects of personal security, Measurement of Outcomes We have introduced a gift and hospitality register. Our staff have reported no incidents of being asked for a bribe this year. 8
