Solar 2013 CSR report Competence and experience are vital to minimise our carbon footprint, reduce costs and boost our customers’ market share. CSR report 2013 Contents Word from the management 2 Solar at a glance 3 Our primary CSR stakeholders 4 Customers 6 Employees 7 Suppliers 8 Environment 9 Society 10 Corporate Governance 11 Our standards 12 Data Summary Table 13 Copyright: Solar, January 2014 Design and layout: Make® Text: Solar A/S 1 Go to content CSR report 2013 Word from management At Solar, we believe that acting responsibly is a natural part of doing business We wish to be seen as a company in which all of our stakeholders can safely invest – also from an ethical standpoint. Dear stakeholder, 2013 was a tough year for Solar. Our key markets were under heavy pressure, and like so many others, we struggled to deliver the results we wanted. However, at Solar we believe that acting responsibly is a natural part of doing business, regardless of the market situation. Therefore, we also in 2013 continued to carry out activities to support better opportunities in the sphere in which we operate. As an example, part of our 2013-2015 strategy is to promote digitalisation in Solar to make smarter business and to reduce any unnecessary use of resources. Solar has a strong business interest in energy-efficient solutions and sees a growing potential within this area. Our solutions bring major savings, both on energy costs and CO2 emissions. Our intelligent integration of solar cells, heat pumps and energy-efficient lighting is the way of the future. We think holistically and use our knowledge about renewable energy to create value. In 2009, we signed up for the United Nations’ Global Compact Programme, which formalises our obligation to communicate our progress within Corporate Social Responsibility to the world around us. In this report, you will find an introduction to the CSR activities that take place within Solar’s framework. Some of these activities are the results of large projects, while others are small everyday actions which, nevertheless, are equally important when defining Solar as a company. We want to be clear that we take our responsibilities with regard to people and the environment seriously. We are committed to the Global Compact Programme. We see our involvement in the programme as an asset in relation to customers and suppliers and as a clear advantage when it comes to attracting and retaining employees. In addition, we wish to be seen as a company in which both Danish and foreign investors can safely invest, also seen from an ethical standpoint. This report is also our Communication on Progress (CoP), honouring our obligation to report to the UN Global Compact. Thank you for your interest in Solar. We invite you to explore how we integrate our social responsibility into our strategy and our day-to-day operations, in this report and at www.solar.eu. Flemming H. Tomdrup Michael H. Jeppesen Group CEO Group CFO 2 Go to content CSR report 2013 Solar at a glance We want to be #1 in technical wholesale. We want Solar to be our customers’ preferred technical wholesaler. We are always on our toes to understand our customers’ needs so that we can provide value adding services and products. We call it stronger together. The Solar Group is a proud and ambitious wholesaler supplying the cross the conventional line of cooperation – and by doing so, we construction, building and energy sectors in most of Northern Europe. develop logistics solutions that optimise our customers’ workflow. At Solar, we acknowledge the fact that we owe our success to serWe are stronger together. vice-minded employees who love to turn opportunities into results. Employees able to have fun while working hard on smart solutions, With our Blue Energy concept, we focus fully on energy-efficient proand who glow with pride in our shared achievements. ducts and solutions. The Blue Energy concept enables our customers to meet demands for energy-efficient solutions. Together, we’re one of Northern Europe’s leading technical wholesalers, marketing 215,000 products but selling only one-of-a-kind Solar’s e-business concept is a tool that optimises our customers’ solutions. We pursue a determined, cross-border expansion strategy workflow and makes customer service more efficient. With the e-buand fight hard to establish, maintain and justify our reputation as best siness concept we interact with our customers 24/7. E-business proin class wherever we go. vides faster lead times, less administration and increased precision. And most importantly in this perspective, our e-business tools make We make it our business to sell and deliver the solutions that help our it possible for our customers to order goods without placing any CO2 customers optimise their processes, grow their businesses, deliver strain on the environment because it does not require additional dribetter projects and generate greater earnings while saving energy ving. We continuously work to increase our e-business share, thereby and lowering CO2 emissions. We deliver products, knowledge and significantly reducing CO2 emissions. solutions to customers within residential and commercial buildings, industry, marine and offshore, utility and infrastructure, and to the Global Compact public sector. Solar is a member of the UN’s Global Compact, which contains ten principles, including human rights, working environment/labour, the We have approximately 3,300 employees. Solar has companies in environment and anti-corruption. In our Code of Conduct, we have Denmark, Norway, Sweden, the Netherlands, Germany, Poland, the explicitly expressed our obligation to respect the human rights. You Faroes, Belgium and Austria. can read more about this on page 9. Solar is a listed company. The B shares are listed on NASDAQ OMX As a result of its membership, Solar is obliged to report on the activiCopenhagen and form part of the MidCap index and MidCap on ties in which we are involved within the Global Compact. Not only do NASDAQ OMX Nordic. we report on our CO2 consumption and our compliance with ethical standards. We have taken it one step further and have established Stronger Together our own reporting system for our CO2 consumption. You can read We want to be the strongest link between supplier and customer. more about our Carbon Disclosure Project on page 10. Our broad product range and specialised knowledge allow us to tailor those solutions that will help our customers the most. Executive Management The chairman of the Solar Group Board of Directors is associate We respect the fact that a good wholesaler must deliver more than professor, lic. scient. Jens Borum. The Executive Board of the comgoods. At Solar, we learn from our customers. We watch them work, pany is in the hands of Group CEO Flemming H. Tomdrup and Group we listen to them and get to know their workflow. In many ways, we CFO Michael H. Jeppesen. 3 Go to content CSR report 2013 Our primary CSR Stakeholders Customers, employees, suppliers, the environment and the society are key stakeholders to us 4 Go to content CSR report 2013 At Solar, we embrace the fact Customers Solar has created its warehouse and distribution system that we are stronger together – and with only one thing in mind: our customers. that our success is dependent on an Solar’s customers want quick, secure, precise and interaction between us, our customers, flexible delivery of the articles they need. So, we have our employees and our suppliers, with organised our logistics system accordingly. due respect to society and the enThat is why Solar’s customers can order articles and get vironment which surrounds us. in touch with us 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. That is why we distribute at night. And that is why we promise to deliver before 07:00 am if you order before 6:00 pm the To illustrate how we translate our previous day wherever this is geographically possible. corporate social responsibility into And for the same reason, 99.8% of our deliveries are flawless. actions, we have defined 5 primary stakeholder groups. You can read Employees more about the individual stakeholder At Solar we consider our employees our most groups later in this report. important resources. They allow us to reach our goals and expand our business so that we can continue to set new standards on the market and for our customers in future. At Solar we look for people who have the energy to move us forward with entrepreneurship, who set ambitious targets and deliver on promises. We offer challenging jobs, exciting career opportunities and individual development. Suppliers The collaboration with our suppliers is a very important asset to Solar. We have decided to enter into partnerships with a small group of strategic, responsible suppliers who cover 80% of the purchasing volume in our markets. We set the standards high for these suppliers – just like we do for ourselves. Environment Being a socially responsible company, we cannot ignore the fact that some of our activities can have a negative impact on our environment this is true for practically any kind of business. Therefore, we constantly strive to find ‘greener’ ways to conduct our business. Society At Solar, we have a responsibility to use our knowledge and competences in a way that benefits society at large. Solar has subsidiaries in various countries and we like to support good causes – both globally and locally. 5 Go to content CSR report 2013 As a contemporary technical wholesaler, we are challenging the Stakeholders conventional concept of a wholesaler. Solar’s close cooperation with our customers goes far beyond the traditional wholesaler-customer relationship, resulting in more efficient workflows. Customers Being a first-mover in technical wholesale requires not only a broad range of quality products and solutions, but also a profound knowledge of energy optimisation and energy savings technology and trends. Solar Consulting is an advisory function that works with enerWe think and act stronger together with our gy optimisation and plays an active role in advising our customers to optimise their businesses. customers. Competence and experience are vital for our ability to not only boost We understand our customers’ needs and our customers’ market share, but also to minimise costs and our carbon footprint. provide value-adding services and products. So, knowledge about energy optimisation, including the technical fittings which are necessary to cash in on the savings, places high Energy optimisation is a growing business area demands on the competences of everyone involved. and results are convincing when it comes to the reduction of energy consumption and CO2 Significant business potential From an energy perspective, Solar Consulting aims to increase focus emissions. on the significant business potential within energy optimisation of technical fittings in existing commercial buildings. In the technical fittings, i.e. within lighting, heating and ventilation, you will typically find a savings potential of 20-30% and a payback time for the investment of 3-6 years. Therefore, an investment in energy optimisation of the technical solutions is much better than investments made solely in energy-efficient windows and insulation (building envelopes) which typically have payback times of 10 years or more. However, it is necessary to invest in both the technical fittings and the building envelope to take full advantage of the energy optimisation potential. Green Business Growth In 2013, Solar Danmark A/S initiated a collaboration with the municipality of Vejen (the very area in which Solar Danmark’s headquarters are located) on the ‘Green Business Growth’ project. Over the next 3 years, project Green Business Growth will offer 600 home owners a free energy check-up of their homes to illustrate how they can save money through energy-efficient solutions. To prepare for the demand which is expected to follow, Solar Danmark is actively involved in further training of local tradesmen, including installers. Through this programme, Solar Danmark helps the local professionals optimise their knowledge of new technology and solutions, and discover the business potential in the area of energy efficiency. In November, the first batch of ‘Green Energy Installers’ graduated and are now ready to offer the local citizens and businesses advice on energy-efficient solutions. Over the coming three years, the Green Business Growth project expects to create 300 new jobs within the building industry by promoting energy-efficient building and renovating through increased demand and supply. You can read much more about the Green Business Growth project here: http://www.groenerhvervsvaekst.dk/ (site in Danish). 6 Go to content CSR report 2013 Stakeholders Continuous development We are continuously improving the way we do business. We are Employees growing at a pace where innovation and optimisation of our processes, our standards and our practices are just as important as on-time delivery. Therefore, we work strategically with competency development through employee performance appraisals (EPA). Our EPAs are carried Solarians are can-do people with an out every 12 months and enable us to work proactively with career ambition to make a difference. development to the benefit of both our employees and Solar. It is important to us that our employees know that we have a deep interest in their professional development. And the EPAs are yet another step At Solar, we know that our future in our strive to promote open and honest communication at all levels. development as a company depends on developing and holding on to our Solar Business Academy, Group Leadership Programme and our new project management education further strengthen our develemployees. Via the Solar Business opment. The way we are organised also requires our employees to Academy, we offer a variety of training have knowledge about distance and virtual leadership as well as an programmes which take our employees understanding of cultural differences. Therefore, both disciplines are available in our Solar Business Academy. from most likely to most valuable. The Solar Business Academy is not only about leadership development. The academy also provides a strategic lift when it comes to skills relating to Lean, talent development and a range of business competencies. Group Leadership Programme At Solar we make ever increasing demands on our managers 3,290 because good leadership motivates and develops employees, and because our business depends on good leadership. The aim is to develop our managers’ skills, enabling them to drive our current five-year strategy plan. On a regular basis, managers gain a shared understanding of their local leadership roles as well as their Total number of employees, 01.12.2013 co-responsibility in developing the business as a whole. Career paths and recruitment In 2013, our focus on attracting and retaining competent colleagues was turned up a notch with the introduction of a new employer branding campaign. The ‘can-do’ concept of the campaign expresses the quintessence of the willpower and ambitions that characterise a Solarian. With the campaign, we hope to have made it crystal clear that we are serious about securing career development at Solar in general. We believe that we can heighten the internal recruitment levels by making the career paths in Solar visible and by showing specialists that we also have career paths for them. As demographic developments in the workforce will give employers challenges for employers in the future, the aim of our can-do employer branding concept is to promote Solar as an employer, attract potential employees and increase pride among our current employees. Check out our employer brand at http://www.solar.eu/Menu/Career. Diversity policy In Solar, we wish to offer all employees the same opportunities, regardless of gender, age, race and religion. In 2013, we expressed our position in a Diversity Policy with the aim of securing equal representation of men and women in our Board of Directors by 2017 (40% as stated in the legal requirements). 7 Go to content CSR report 2013 The content of the diversity policy and Solar’s ability to comply with the policy is monitored by Corporate HR and our executive supervisoStakeholders ry board, and results communicated in our annual report. Solar Navigator Every 2 years Solar conducts an employee survey, Solar Navigator. Suppliers The recent survey was conducted in the first half of 2012. One of the results of the survey is the so-called value creation index We base our business on strategic which shows our ability to create value for customers. Another result partnerships with responsible suppliers is our leadership index which demonstrates our ability to lead. >70 is considered excellent. We have taken an active stand on our As part of our 2010-2015 strategy, Solar launched a range of strategic cooperation with our partners, requiring targets which must be met, and the latest results are in line with the targets: that they observe a number of principles within e.g. environment, work environStrategic targets 2013-2015 ment and social responsibility. Recent Strategic targets Strategic targets KPI measurement 2010-2012 2013-2015 Value creation index 715 > 680 > 720 As a business, we primarily work with important suppliers Leadership index 72 > 67 > 73 of branded products, several of whom have also signed up to the Global Compact. The next employee survey will be carried out during Q1 2014. Solar also has a clear supplier strategy and product policy, which means that we can vouch for the products from Code of Conduct our strategic suppliers at any given time. Solar is known for our high ethical standards, and our Code of Conduct leads the way for employees across the group. Under the Code We have taken an active stand on our cooperation with of Conduct, Solar is committed to comply with current legislation and our partners, requiring that they observe a number of regulations, and to act in an ethical, sustainable and socially responprinciples within e.g. environment, work environment sible way in all our business activities. and social responsibility. To make this possible, we have decided to focus our efforts on collaborating with a limited In our Code of Conduct, we explicitly express our obligation to group of responsible strategic suppliers (leading regional, respect the human rights. Every year, an audit ensures that all European or worldwide branded suppliers), which cover entities of the Solar Group act in compliance with the Code of approx. 80% of our purchasing volume in all of our Conduct. The code has been signed by all employees and is markets. accessible through leaflets in all languages used within the Solar Group. Each and every one of these suppliers is required to observe the principles stated in the UN Global Compact. Working environment Taking this one step further, we also demand that they We are constantly working to improve our working environment. require the same thing from their sub-suppliers. In 2013, Solar Sverige carried out work environment training for all managers in the organisation to ensure a healthy and safe environment for their employees. Whistleblower scheme An external whistleblower scheme was launched in 2012. This is an information system that provides employees with an opportunity to report breaches of our Code of Conduct or suspicions thereof confidentially. In 2013, the whistleblower scheme was made accessible also to suppliers, customers and other external stakeholders, opening up further opportunity to report any violation of human rights. The whistleblower portal is available through our intranet, at www.solar.eu or directly at https://solar.whistleblowernetwork.net 8 Go to content CSR report 2013 Renewable energy Stakeholders Solar sees considerable potential in energy efficiency both now and in the future. Our knowledge centre, Solar Blue Energy Explorium, showcases how various technologies can interact in energy-efficient Environment solutions. The Solar Blue Energy Explorium offers inspiration to end users as well as contractors, architects, consulting engineers, builders and politicians. The Solar Blue Energy Explorium, which is based on renewable Solar cares about the environment and sees energy sources, is categorised as an energy class 1 building and, therefore, complies with the new legal requirements that come into great potential in energy efficiency force in 2015. Carbon Disclosure Project And we walk the talk: we have energySolar has established a reporting system for the company’s CO2 optimised several of our own facilities, consumption. The system has been rolled out in all the group’s including an ultramodern green data centre subsidiaries and the first CO2 emission measurements have been completed. One of the areas being measured is CO2 emissions in Vejen, Denmark, which delivers top of generated from the direct burning of fossil fuels, i.e. fuel consumption the class operational reliability in a 245 m2 relating to company cars, lorries, etc. Another area that is measured energy friendly, low-consumption frame. is CO2 emissions from purchased electricity. Also, CO2 emissions in relation to goods distribution are measured. All these measurements are reported to the Carbon Disclosure Project. Solar subsidiaries have obtained a number of ISO certifications within environmental and quality management. And all throughout the group, Solar has now installed ‘follow you’ printers to minimise the use of paper and ensure efficiency. Follow you printers are virtual printers that allow the employees to submit print jobs to be retrieved from any 23.4% copier device on either location. During 2012, Solar Danmark was able to reduce the number of prints by 23.4%, which is more than 8 percentage point above their goal of a 15% reduction. Efforts to reduce emission of contaminants Euronorms refer to the permissible emission levels for both petrol and fewer prints in Solar Danmark diesel vehicles, which have been implemented in Europe. The fleet of vehicles which services Solar is continuously monitored and updated 99.2% to ensure the lowest possible emission of contaminants in connection with the distribution of our products. In the first 10 months of 2013, our distributors for Solar Danmark managed to significantly increase the number of lorries in euronorm 5 (from 39 to 48) while bringing down the number of lorries in the less strict euronorm 4 (from 25 to 16). By 1 October 2014, we expect to have no lorries in euronorm 2 and 3, only 12 in euronorm 4 – and 8 in the new euronorm 6. of the waste was sorted in our Norwegian subsidiary Simple initiatives with great results In all parts of our organisation, there is a clear focus on constantly reducing our energy consumption. Our Norwegian subsidiary, Solar Norge AS, has installed quickslide door systems and thereby reduced their energy consumption by 12% at their headquarters in Gardermoen, Norway. And their systemised approach to recycling and waste sorting means that in 2012, 99.2% of their waste was sorted, adding a financial bonus to the positive energy effect: the costs related to waste collection disappeared and were replaced by a small income in return for the sorted waste. 9 Go to content CSR report 2013 Stakeholders Society We believe that acting responsibly is a natural part of our way of doing business Solar has subsidiaries in various countries and we like to support good causes – both globally and locally. Relay for Life 78 Throughout our subsidiaries, there are several local initiatives supporting both local and global projects. This year, the employees in Solar Danmark A/S took an active part in the ‘Relay for Life’ project. Relay for Life is a global fundraising movement supporting the battle against cancer. Team Solar: Stronger Together mobilised 78 employees who ran or walked to support the good cause. employees ran or walked to support the Orbit Arena Relay for Life project Orbit Arena is a so-called vocational rehabilitation enterprise which enables persons with functional or psychological impairments to access or maintain occupation. Orbit Arena is located in Jessheim close 100% to the headquarters of our Norwegian subsidiary, Solar Norge AS. SoCastbjerggaard became lar Norge AS has chosen Orbit Arena as their regular supplier of fruit baskets, supporting the vocational rehabilitation in their local area. Castbjerggaard Castbjerggaard is a Danish centre for the deaf and hearing impaired which functions as a folk school and job centre. In the summer self-sufficient within electricity and heating with of 2013, Castbjerggaard decided to renew their energy supply and a payback time of less than 10 years invested DKK 8.6m in green energy. Through cooperation with local professionals and with Solar Danmark A/S, Castbjerggaard opted for a transition to solar energy and heat pumps. Castbjerggaard, now the proud owner of Denmark’s largest private solar cell panel, is 100% self-sufficient within electricity and heating. Castbjerggaard’s decision to renew their energy supply makes perfect sense, not only seen from an environmental angle. The payback time is less than 10 years. The Fund of 20th December Solar’s majority shareholder, The Fund of 20th December, continuously provides support to a number of projects in the Kolding area, where Solar was originally founded. 10 Go to content CSR report 2013 Corporate Governance Solar aims at transparency. As a listed company Solar A/S wants as much openness and transparency for all our stakeholders as possible. Solar views the recommendations of the Committee on Corporate Solar’s Board of Directors see it as their responsibility to ensure a Governance in Denmark as a valuable tool for ensuring sound manacompetent management, a clear-cut organisation, effective control gement, good transparency for shareholders and other stakeholders and risk management tools and to lay down and follow up on strategic and for efficient risk management. Solar, therefore, basically follows targets with due regard for financial opportunities and the company’s the recommendations relevant to the company. management resources. Solar wishes to maintain an ongoing dialogue with the company’s In our annual report and on our website www.solar.eu, Solar lists the shareholders and other stakeholders and to provide as timely and managerial duties, including board memberships, that the Executive detailed information about the company’s development as possible, Board and individual board members have undertaken. The annual balanced with the necessary consideration for the company’s compereport also holds information on the number of options held by memtitive situation. bers of the Executive Board and any changes hereto. Moreover, the annual report states whether any members of the Board of Directors Solar regards shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, lenders and Executive Board own shares in the company. Any changes in and society in general as important stakeholders. We believe that, in these shareholdings are published on an ongoing basis. the long-term, there are common interests between the company’s stakeholders. As a result, we wish to focus on these long-term inteOur website www.solar.eu includes more information about corporate rests that influence the company’s ethics, policies and information governance. practices. Solar wants as much openness and transparency for all stakeholders as possible with due consideration for our competitiveness. The intention is to provide a timely, true and fair view of the company’s position, financial position and development potential and to make this information available to all stakeholders at the same time. 11 Go to content CSR report 2013 Our standards We have developed standards and policies. Solar A/S employs about 3,300 people in nine countries, primarily in the northern part of Europe. To act as one company, we need clear standards. Since legal requirements and work cultures differ from country to country, we have developed standards and policies for how we want to do business. UN Global Compact In 2010, Solar implemented a Code of Conduct across the group. UnSolar has been an active signatory to the UN Global Compact since der the code, Solar is committed to comply with current legislation and 2009. This means that Solar has established a reporting system for regulations and to act in an ethical, sustainable and socially responactivities covered by Global Compact’s 10 principles, which encomsible way in all its business activities. The ethical standards will be an pass human rights, working environment/labour, environment and integral part of all new employees’ introduction programmes. anti-corruption. By signing up for Global Compact, Solar meets the reporting requirements of the Danish authorities applicable as of 2009. Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) The Carbon Disclosure Project was launched to accelerate solutions Solar wants to make it clear that we are committed to the UN’s Global to climate change and water management by putting relevant inforCompact Programme. We see our involvement in the programme as mation at the heart of business, policy and investment decisions. In an asset in relation to customers and suppliers and a clear advanta2010, Solar disclosed our greenhouse gas emissions, water manage when it comes to attracting and retaining employees. In addition, gement and climate change strategies for the first time in response to there is the need for and a desire to be seen as a company in which CDP’s information requests. both Danish and foreign investors can safely invest – also from an ethical standpoint. 12 Go to content CSR report 2013 CDP Environment Unit 2010 2011 2012 Total emissions of greenhouse gasses Tonnes CO2e* 22.055 25.811 26.194 ...of which company cars account for (Scope 1) Tonnes CO2e 3.529 3.970 4.269** Gasoline cars MWh 9.065 10.770 43.911 Diesel cars MWh 785 1.062 10.344 Ethanol cars MWh 62 14 40.22 ...of which energy use accounts for (Scope 2) Tonnes CO2e 6.112 7.462 9.992 Electricity MWh 12.261 16.973 18.424 Heat (district heating, heating oil and gas) MWh 12.711 12.588 13.083 ...of which transport of goods by lorries accounts for (Scope 3) Tonnes CO2e 12.414 14.379 14.932 Per full-time employee (Scope 1 & 2) Tonnes CO2e 3.35 3.57 3.96 Per € 1 million of revenue (Scope 1 & 2) Tonnes CO2e 7.14 7.46 8.38 * The greenhouse gas emissions is given in CO2 equivalents (CO2e). The equivalents allow to compare the impact from many different emitted gasses, as all emissions are converted via gas-specific impact potentials. For a complete overview of applied impact potentials, see Solars reporting to the investor CDP 2012. ** There has been a significant increase in the figures in scope 1. This is due to incorrect reporting from one subsidiary where report have been made in miles instead of kilometers for the previous years. The figures concerning 2010 and 2011 will be recalculated. Key figures Labour practices Total number of employees 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total 2955 3585 3564* 3290** Managers & White collars 81% 84% 85% 84% Blue Collars 19% 16% 15% 16% Age distribution 2010 2011 2012 2013 Average age 42 42 43 43 Seniority 2010 2011 2012 2013 < 2 years 16% 15% 21% 15% 2-5 years 31% 18% 21% 23% 5-10 years 18% 39% 23% 26% > 10 years 35% 28% 36% 36% Employee Satisfaction Survey 2010 2012 Value Creation Index 707 715 Leadership index 70 72 * Total number of employees 26.11.2012 ** Total number of employees 01.12.2013 13 Solar A/S Haderslevvej 25 DK 6000 Kolding Tel. +45 79 30 00 00 CVR no. 15908416 www.solar.eu http://www.linkedin.com/company/solar-as
