The sustainable partnership Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 3 Uhrenholt CSR report 2013 4 Message from the CEO 5 About Uhrenholt 10 Uhrenholt vision and values 11 The Uhrenholt Partnership Philosophy 12 Invitation to responsible partnership! 13 CSR projects that we prioritized in 2013 13 Employees 15 Human rights/Labour 18 Environment 21 Climate 22 Partnership Development 24 Business Ethics 26 Focus Areas 30 Progress 2013 31 Action Plan 2014 32 Thanks 2 Uhrenholt CSR report 2013 Welcome to the Uhrenholt CSR report 2013. The report will give you – partners and stakeholders an insight into our world and the way we handle and integrate our corporate social development in our daily business. You will find a review of our 2013 CSR activities as well as a status on a number of running projects that all contributes to fulfill our ambitions to improve our performance year by year. The report on corporate social responsibility is prepared in accordance with the Danish Financial Statement Act § 99 a. April 2014 Global Compact As usual we have structured our CSR work and report in accordance with the principles of the UN Global Compact. This means that we have committed ourselves to bring improvements in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. Global Compact is the world’s largest corporate responsibility initiative with more than 10,000 business and non-business participants in over 130 countries. For more information about Global Compact visit: www.unglobalcompact.org 3 Message from the CEO Dear Reader It is my pleasure to introduce the Uhrenholt Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013. All companies that are serious about their Corporate Social Responsibility have to stay tuned and develop their business mindset all the time. New issues are constantly rising on the global agenda and turn into new society demands regarding how we source, produce, transport, market and sell our products. This is a fact of life, and I am happy to say that in Uhrenholt we move closer and closer to feel these terms as an integrated part of our culture. At the same time there are things that never change: Performing well in the world has everything to do with the fundament we build at home…We all know that in our private life and in Uhrenholt we transfer this fact of life into the way we run our business. CSR is also to realize that we are nothing without employees, which feel as safe and comfortable as possible wherever the job may take them. As a responsible company operating globally there are specific and constantly changing challenges to deal with in this area. We do our utmost to equip our brave and hard working people in the best possible way to meet them. This year we not only mapped our activities geographically in accordance with Transparency International, we also targeted a very well received training program at educating employees travelling in high risk areas to raise the awareness and prevent travel risk. I hope you will enjoy reading our report. Sune Uhrenholt CEO 4 About Uhrenholt Uhrenholt A/S is a global food company supplying products within the categories dairy, seafood, meat and vegetables to wholesale, foodservice and industrial customers across the world. Our products are sold in more than 80 countries under the brand names Emborg™, Friendship™ and Amigo™ or as commodities and industrial sales. Uhrenholt was founded April 1st 1978 in Denmark by Frank Uhrenholt. The main business was international trading of table cheeses and cheese for processing and soon Uhrenholt became one of the largest privately owned dairy companies in Denmark. In 2005 Uhrenholt acquired Emborg Foods A/S and in 2009 all activities of the former Uhrenholt and Emborg Foods companies are merged and marketed under the Uhrenholt name. In 2007 Sune Uhrenholt took over the role as CEO and has undertaken a restructuring of the company to include sales to the retail channel and focus on branded products. The original ship logo was created by Frank Uhrenholt. He was inspired by the Hans Christian Andersen fairytale, The Steadfast Tin Soldier, who went to conquer the world in a ship of paper. Today the logo has been simplified and is mirrored in the water. This visualizes that Uhrenholt is a modern food company and all our actions are agile reflections of the surrounding world and the opportunities it offers. 5 6 About Uhrenholt Founded: 1978 by Frank Uhrenholt Number of employees: 650 Ownership: Uhrenholt A/S is a 100% family owned business CEO: Sune Uhrenholt Location Denmark: Head office in Middelfart Location worldwide: Offices and representatives in more than 20 countries 7 Uhrenholt Global Organization Uhrenholt employs 650 dedicated people. Our commercial organization is structured in four regions: Russia & CIS, Middle East & Africa, Asia and Europe & Oceania. Our Global Trading section focusing on commodities and industrial sales is integrated in the Europe Division. Uhrenholt Meat A/S and Uhrenholt Seafood A/S handle the groups trading in these areas. All regions are supported by our expert corporate functions including Legal and Risk Management, Quality Assurance, Procurement, Portfolio Management, Marketing, Logistics & Transportation, HR, Finance and IT to secure that we deliver the highest quality and standards and meet the diversity demands worldwide. The commercial organization is responsible for sales in the regions and divisions as mentioned above. The regions are apart from the geographical differences also different in terms of business focus. Unique for the region Russia & CIS is the large distribution setup in Moscow. Here Uhrenholt distribute own products and external brands to the retailand foodservice channel. Organization of the Uhrenholt Group CEO Commercial structure Corporate Russia and CIS Europe Human Resource Marketing Middle East Logistics and Legal and Global Trading and Africa Transportation Risk Management South East Asia Finance Portfolio Management and Oceania Uhrenholt Seafood A/S Uhrenholt Meat A/S Procurement IT 8 Business areas and product portfolio Uhrenholt has a long tradition and experience within sales of food products B2B and B2C. Reliability, tailor-made service and the ability to spot and seize opportunities together with our partners has made Uhrenholt a preferred business partner for many years. Our partners benefit from the Uhrenholt extensive global network of selected suppliers. This enables us to offer unique tailored food solutions across the entire portfolio. Dairy Seafood Vegetables Meat We supply a wide range of Our seafood portfolio is We supply our customers – Our meat sales activities cheeses sourced from all over sourced from all over the B2B and B2C with a wide cover retail, foodservice as the world and aim to source world. range of traditional frozen well as industry. the cheeses from where the vegetables e.g. peas, beans, cheese has its origin. Uhrenholt is one of the leading sweet corn and carrots. Our portfolio of meat prosuppliers of coldwater and ducts contains a broad range At our Grøndal Dairy we warm water shrimps. We have The Emborg vegetable range of pork, chicken and other produce cheeses like Fontina an extensive know how in has been awarded Supermeat products. and Havarti. international sourcing, producBrand several times in e.g. tion, processing and product U.A.E. The Uhrenholt trading secfunctionalities. tions deliver flexible solutions in terms of variety of product Uhrenholt was the first shrimp composition, origin and packsupplier in the world who was aging for milk powder and certified to use the Euro Leaf cheeses. logo on organic shrimps. The Uhrenholt dairy portfolio also contains whey products, butter, UHT-milk and cream. For more information about Uhrenholt please visit www.uhrenholt.com 9 Uhrenholt vision and values Vision Our vision is to be a Leading Food Solutions Provider. Globally. We will market a portfolio of high quality brands that anticipate and satisfy the needs of our customers and consumers. • We will create long-term value for our business partners, employees and owners based on our unique company competences and by delivering sharp commercial propositions. • We will succeed because of the unique Uhrenholt spirit, which is founded on responsible entrepreneurship, deep market and product insight and personal freedom. Values Uhrenholts activities are based on four values: Winning, Partnering, Excellence and Passion. These values are part of our daily work and we strive to follow them in everything we do. Winning We value partnership and win-win solutions in everything we do – when we develop great products, service customers and work together with suppliers. Our goal is to create an environment where we are inspired to perform our very best together. Partnering Our business is based on long-term partnerships with customers and suppliers around the world. We strive to add value in our partnerships by continuously exploring new opportunities and by working together to create mutual sustainable value. Excellence Professionalism and commercial excellence is the foundation for our behavior internally and externally. We deliver results through strong solutions for our customers and our organization. Passion We are passionate about food and enjoy an exciting and dynamic atmosphere in our daily work. Our enthusiasm is reflected in our way of working with markets, products, partners and colleagues. 10 The Uhrenholt Partnership Philosophy In accordance with our vision and values Uhrenholt is a partnership driven corporation. We believe in close partnerships and networks. The Uhrenholt way of working is to demonstrate an entrepreneurial approach to the development and innovation of food solutions. We have for 35 years made valuable connections and relations around the world. This is how we can be a part of the optimization of very strong and diverse food solutions for a global audience. We consider this knowledge-based partnership as the core of our business engine. Our Business and UN Global Compact We offer value chain optimizing services for the food industry from sourcing, distribution to sales, tailored to our business partners’ need. Our entrepreneurial approach, deep insight and broad knowledge make it possible for us to create value for our business and for our partners by finding and dealing with the links in the value chain which needs special attention. Through close cooperation with our partners we are well prepared to meet the increasing demand and continuously pressure from the world around us to deliver higher food safety, deeper traceability and information flow, sustainability etc. Every day this challenges the way we are working and how we understand doing business and we continuously look for improvements. As we comply with the United Nations Global Compact we commit to integrate and promote the ten principles into the value chain and into the Uhrenholt way of working. 11 Invitation to respon sib le partne Our philo sophy is to use our g lobal netw rship ork to lea We will b rn from an uild bridges b d influenc etween o e all partn out the be ur differe ers involv st practic nt projects ed. e to all co around th rners of th e world m e world. W aking sure The ambit e need yo that we b ion is to in u to join a ring vent susta nd challen inable solu ge us! tions with We will ta the highe ke the role st food saf as the link ety stand between ards. producers , custome and govern rs /end -users ment. , organizat ions/NGO You are in s vited to jo • Establis in us for co hment an mmitme d develop nt to pro • The hig ment of u jec ts wit hest food nbroken c h foc us o safety pro old chains n: • Certifie g rams and in n ew markets d sustaina best prac • Resp e c bility (Org tice (BRC t and imp anic, MSC , ISO220 0 rovement , ASC, Glo 0 etc.) of the Glo bal G.A .P bal Comp ., A EO etc environm a c t principles .) ent and a of human nti -corrup rights, lab tion our, 12 CSR projects that we prioritized in 2013 Employees Travel security project Employees of Uhrenholt are constantly travelling around the world. During recent years the risks associated with travelling have slightly changed. It is essential to Uhrenholt to secure that its employees are aware of such risks and are trained and educated to deal with such risks. During 2013 all employees received information on travel risks in general. Employees travelling frequently or travelling to high risk areas were all invited to attend a training program especially aimed at raising the awareness of travel risk and how you may prevent risk by proper preparation. The information and training was very positively received. Although the fundamentals are quite basic and simply requires each individual to act in a considered and responsible way, putting emphasis on the importance hereof and adding some list of “to-do’s” and practical tips and tricks it proved very productive to put focus on this part of our activities. Sales training and development program Qualified workforce is essential to the success of the Uhrenholt business. It is of extreme importance to have the right competences. This year we have been focusing on building a shared sales foundation vis-a-vis the retail sector. Not only to improve efficiency and results, but also to support and strengthen our culture as a trustworthy and professional organization. This is done through internal courses in basic selling skills for all commercial sales employees and external selected star market distributors’ sales employees. During 2013 these courses have been completed by 100 internal and 300 external people having been on courses. 13 Management training Besides courses in basic selling skills, courses in “Train the trainer” and “Structured sales meetings” are held internally for all commercial line mangers. The benefit of these courses is giving the management skills in how to execute on the job training, identifying skill gaps and setting clear training plans to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of all commercial sales employees. The Uhrenholt Challenge For 2014 we have introduced an internal Uhrenholt Challenge which is an inspiring virtual sailing race featuring all business areas and all companies in our Group. It is a game devised to measure the fulfillment of the local strategies, to enhance performances and to achieve an overall better result in our Group, in the regions and in each company around the world. And not least it is an initiative to combine motivation inspiration with a bite of collegial fun and competition. Points are awarded and the boats are moving forward on the basis of 3 objectives • Reaching the financial targets • Improving and developing internal co-operation • And finally making good use of back office services The companies’ achievements are measured once a month. The better the company is at achieving the goals and work together as a team, the better the company’s boat perform in the race. 14 Human rights/Labour Supplier management Our ambition and final goal is that all our suppliers must sign and follow the “Uhrenholt Quality Assurance confirmation letter” which includes all important requirements on Quality, HACCP, CSR and AEO. Supplemental to this we only work with suppliers who are approved by legal authorities and we prefer suppliers who have obtained a food safety certification. Our supplier approval/evaluation process undergoes continuous improvement. Recently we have included requirement for a business continuity plan in our requirements for suppliers and we have updated our CSR requirements as well. Supplier evaluation takes place at least once per year and is based on a risk assessment, documentation from and cooperation with the supplier as well as occurrence of customer complaints. The purpose of this program is to assure that Uhrenholt’s products are safe, at any time complies with the agreed quality and that the products are made by companies in which working environment fulfils the requirements stated in Global Compact. Our goal for 2013 was that more than 35% of all Uhrenholt suppliers and more than 90% of top 100 have accepted and signed the Uhrenholt Quality Assurance confirmation letter. The actual result was that 36,4% of all our suppliers and 76% of our main suppliers have signed the document. As an important part of supplier approval a risk assessment is conducted for all new suppliers in relation to factors including country of production, brand, product type, labour, and the supplier’s quality certifications (BRC, IFS, ISO 22000, ISO 9001 etc.) according to which suppliers must document their food safety systems. Suppliers must also complete the Uhrenholt’s supplier approval survey. The survey includes questions and requires documentation about supplier issues including: • Quality management and food safety system as well as documentation in the form of HACCP plan, flowchart, etc. • The supplier’s control measures in relation to ingredients, finished products, production control, supplier approval, etc. • Control of contaminants and foreign objects (metal, glass, etc.). • Allergens and GMO. • Traceability. • Cleaning and disinfection. • General hygiene and training. • Control. • Environment. • Social rights. • Human rights. • Minimum wages. • Workplace safety. 15 16 For 2014 we have introduced an internal Uhrenholt Challenge which is an inspiring virtual sailing race featuring all business areas and all companies in our Group. 17 Environment At Uhrenholt we want to minimize our impact on the environment! Environmental responsibility is a moral obligation for any commercial business. Protection of our nature including biological diversity on earth is an important issue when reviewing different business areas. Uhrenholt follows the environmental legislation in the countries we are placed, but acknowledge that our responsibility includes our business in other countries and an effort for further improvement. Our company structure leads to different areas on which we can influence the environment. These include our offices around the world, our cooperation with food producers and suppliers worldwide and of cause our own dairy plant Grøndal Sustainability MSC, ASC, Global G.A.P. and B.A.P. As to our objective for 2013 Uhrenholt has promoted certified sustainable products inside our Group and with our partners around the world. We continuously focus on promoting MSC products for wild caught seafood and Global G.A.P. and ASC for farmed seafood. Our focus areas: • Using MSC, Global G.A.P. and ASC as a sales parameter for our retail and manufacturing channels with focus on Denmark, Germany and UK. • Expand the knowledge about certified sustainable seafood products inside the Group. 18 Environment at Grøndal Dairy In 2010 we started to implement our environment strategy at Grøndal Dairy with focus on long term reduction of CO2, electricity and water consumption. We have set the following goals from 2010 until 2020: • Reduce our CO2 emissions by 20% • Reduce our water consumption by 2% per year • Focus on minimizing packaging • Focus on minimizing our waste and to recycle as much as possible • Focus on climate-friendly products We strive to use the most environmentally friendly cleaning products and equipments available without compromising product safety. Important steps have been: • Deployment of a new rack-washer using chemicals, resulting in a process that is gentler to the environment as well as to the employees. • Using a new type of carton with 5-10% less cardboard Results 2013 Total use Use 2013 vs. 2012 2013 vs. 2012 pr kg cheese produced CO2 -9.4% -1.5% Electricity -0.1% Gas -3.4% Water -7.8% -0.1% Waste -10.2% -2.3% Cheese production -7.2% The total amount of cheese produced at Grøndal Dairy decreased 7.2% in 2013 meaning that also the CO2 emissions and use of energy and water declined. Never the less it has been possible to reduce the use of energy and water and the waste production slightly. In 2014 we expect to increase the production of cheese significantly as we start a new production line of Kefalotyri cheese. It will allow us to increase the economies of scale in our production and by that to improve the environmental performance in relative terms. Also at our head offices in Middelfart we are focusing on energy saving. A number of smaller improvements have been carried out in 2013 to save electricity and heating. The major project in 2014 will be replacement of the more than 100 years old roof on the main building including improvements of the insulation. 19 ISO 22000 project at Grøndal Dairy During 2011 it was decided that Grøndal Dairy should aim for certification in concordance with ISO 22000. The purpose of this decision was basically to: • Get the highest standard on the food safety assurance program and in connection • Upgrade the whole organization with knowledge and awareness on food safety • Signal that our management system to control food safety is in place and up to date • Ensure an ongoing focus internally on continuous improvements As part of the project an extra resource in a newly established position was employed (a Quality Manager). In June 2012 the Management System at Grøndal Dairy was awarded with the ISO 22000-2005 Certificate with the underlying programs: PAS 220:2008 and FSSC 22000. All employees have been trained in ISO 22000 and through continuous internal miniaudits the knowledge and awareness is maintained in the organization. The goal is that all employees over time are able to accomplish such miniaudits and thus strengthen the daily effort to maintain the highest food safety assurance and quality of the product. 20 Climate Climate change is a global issue with many faces. As a trading company we are in touch with most of the links in the chain that brings the food products from farm (or sea) to fork. Year by year we aim to bring more and more climate related topics into play in our efforts to minimize negative impacts. Transport Uhrenholt has a huge focus on optimizing the transportation need and aim for using the most direct way to the customer, which gives the lowest impact on the environment with less CO2 for the climate. In the transport sector there is an increased focus on developing more environmental trucks, and the trucking companies we are using must live up to the CO2 norm valid for the involved countries. A big part of our volumes are shipped in containers by sea, and the vessel operators have a big focus on using fuel with less impact on the climate, and further developing vessels which have a very low fuel consumption. A big part of our volumes shipped by sea are loaded onboard vessels which are saving fuel by lowering the speed. Sustainable palm oil Palm oil is often produced in expense of enormous rain forest areas and human rights with big impact on the wildlife and the people who live in these areas. In 2003 The World Wildlife Foundation formed, in cooperation with a number of other NGO’s and some companies, “Round Table on Sustainable Palm Oil” (RSPO) with the purpose of promoting the focus and improvement of environment and social responsibility in the production of palm oil. In November 2008 the first certified palm oil reached the market and in 2011 a labeling was published. Uhrenholt goal for 2013 was to map the use of sustainable and not sustainable palm oil in our products. Next step will be to reduce the use of not sustainable palm oil. 21 Partnership Development Africa In 2012 a project was launched to secure the unbroken cold chain in cooperation with some of Uhrenholt’s African business partners. The project has been developed further during 2013 and the envisaged target of creating 2-3 more workplaces per country involved has been achieved. The project continuously aims at: • Improving food safety and developing our access to market • Allowing the retail stores to store frozen products correctly and offer products from an unbroken cold chain • Allowing our local business partners to offer a broader range of products, which are stored correctly and with due respect to food safety principles • Supplying freezers that have been assessed from an environmental view to avoid excessive electricity consumption • Providing freezers that are purchased and serviced locally As of year-end 2013 300 freezers have been distributed to local business partners in 9 countries. Charity The 2013 Uhrenholt Christmas Donation In Uhrenholt we have chosen at Christmas time to use the money we would otherwise spend on a present to our customers and business partners, to make a donation for charity. The donation is given to contribute to our social responsibility in the countries in which we operate. It can be given: • Anywhere around the world • To an international humanitarian organization, whose primary aim is to improve conditions for children This year our donation went to children in need of special care after the Typhoon Haiyan, which hit the Philippines November 8th 2013. Thousands of people were killed and the material damages were massive. The donation has given partly as Emborg UHT milk via local organizations and partly as a cash amount donated to Red Cross. 22 Russia Uhrenholt Russia has been doing a Social Project since 2011 in cooperation with Cloudwatcher a so called Laboratory of Social Initiatives – which implies donation of food. Cloudwatcher has a vast networking and long-lasting relationship with different organizations which support homeless people, families with many dependent children, orphanages and poor families with low income. Local activities Sometimes our CSR and charity activities also take place locally at smaller scale. During the school holidays this summer Uhrenholt sponsored the renting of a bouncy castle for a day for children in the neighborhood around our main office in Middelfart. 23 Business Ethics Uhrenholt A/S is an AEO certified company In December 2012 Uhrenholt A/S officially received the AEO certificate proving our status as an Authorized Economic Operator (AEO). In 2013 our compliance has been reviewed and sustained by the Danish tax authorities. The AEO certificate confirms that Uhrenholt A/S is a reliable partner in all economic, custom and safety related operations. Uhrenholt A/S meets all the common criteria regarding: • security and safety standards • record of compliance with customs requirements • satisfactory system of managing commercial and transport records, which allows appropriate customs controls • proven financial solvency To the benefit of our partners the AEO certificate allows goods handled by Uhrenholt a preferential treatment in certain procedures of customs control of goods and documents. First of all at the EU level, but in the long term it will become much more global. So far mutual recognition is in place with Japan, Norway and Switzerland and the EU Commission is negotiating with USA, China, Australia and Canada. Uhrenholt is among the frontrunners in the Danish food sector to obtain the AEO certificate and as such we are in due time to face the future. Companies with AEO status are recognized as safe, secure and compliant business partners in international trade. Code of Conduct As we operate in approximately 100 countries it is only natural that employees working in the frontline find our business ethics challenged from time to time. It is of paramount importance that all employees share Uhrenholt’s interpretation of moral and ethical values. Serving as an educational tool, as a moral obligation and as a support in daily decision making our Code of Conduct is perceived as an important tool. All employees have signed the Code of Conduct. Uhrenholt will continuously seek to improve the level of business ethics even further. We care about choosing business partners, whose business standards and ethics match ours. In 2013 we carried out a study that underlined our need to be very cautious on these items. Being a global trading company we inevitably also operate in a number of countries that according to the corruption index developed by Transparency International, are high risk areas. Risk Management During 2013 all responsible managers and managers of administrative functions were asked to identify key risks for Uhrenholt’s business seen form their view. A catalogue of risks has been developed on the basis hereof. A number of the identified risks are of a nature, which has CSR implications. During 2014 the work relating to measuring the risks will be further developed and be the basis for a continued systematic risk assessment in all commercial and administrative departments. A close link will be established between the risk management and the CSR related work on areas, where such cooperation is deemed relevant. 25 Focus Areas We have structured our CSR work around six focus areas. These areas are most relevant to our business and we focus our efforts here. The ten principles of Global Compact complement our work and activities and therefore we describe our progress and efforts in these areas. 26 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 10: Businesses should work against Principle 9: corruption in all its forms, including Employees Encourage the development and diffusion of extortion and bribery. environmentally friendly technologies. Business Ethics Environment Partnership Development Human Labour Rights Principle 1: Principle 3: Businesses should support and respect the Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the protection of internationally proclaimed human effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; rights; and Principle 4: Principle 2: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 27 Employees Internal diversity and uniformity Diversity has always been an important trade mark of Uhrenholt. We are represented in more than 20 countries and have 21 nationalities employed. We want to reflect the variety in society in terms of culture and way of thinking. At the same time our focus is on ensuring that our partners, customers and consumers experience a high level of service whoever they address. In Uhrenholt we want to promote not least gender diversity at all levels of management. It is our goal to increase the proportion of female managers to at least 40% within the coming four years. Regarding female directors the goal is to be back at 25% in four years. To underpin this development we will continue to aim for diversity through adaptation of existing processes more than the establishment of separate initiatives. We will in our recruitment process ensure diversity among candidates both in terms of gender and other qualifications. Furthermore, we want all employees, male and female to feel that they have the same opportunities for career and leadership positions regardless of gender. 28 Selected Employee Data 2013 2012 2011 Total employees 653 625 663 Female 41% 45% 45% Male 59% 55% 55% Average age 38,3 38,2 37,6 Average senority 4,6 5,0 6,2 Sick leave, percentage 2,5 1,6 2,6 Number of promotions 27 34 22 (next level promotions) Female manager 34% 39% 41% Male manager 66% 61% 59% Female directors 15% 16% 25% Male directors 85% 84% 75% Investment in education 182 112 165 and training (EURO) per employee Number of nationalities 21 27 24 29 Progress 2013 Focus Area Activity 2013 and Goal Results 2013 Employees Education Leadership training and continue sales 100 internal and 300 external people on training activities courses in 2013 Education CSR Masterclass Passed by two members of the CSR task force Education Leadership training “Train the trainer” and “Structured sales meetings” are held internally for all commercial line managers Human Rights/Labour Uhrenholt Quality Assurance Expansion of Uhrenholt Quality Assurance More than 36% of the Uhrenholt suppliers for suppliers for suppliers have signed the Uhrenholt Quality Assurance. 76% of the main suppliers have signed the Uhrenholt Quality Assurance Travel security Improve travelling employees awareness of Employees travelling to high risk areas risks, do’s and don’t’s invited to attend a training program. Written guideline prepared Partnership Development Sustainable Production Expansion and awareness of certified sustainable wild caught seafood Africa Continue to expand business through the Ultimo 2013 300 freezers have been cold storage facilities distributed in 9 countries Environment/Climate Grøndal Dairy Continue working against the 2020 Emission of CO2, use of water, gas and environment goals and action plan electricity and production of waste reduced pr kg cheese produced Energy saving Energy saving project at the head office Different improvements implemented in 2013 Palm oil Charting our products based on vegetable Mapping results ready oils in order to ensure the sustainability Business Ethics Code of Conduct Continue implementation of Code of All employees have signed the Code of Conduct Conduct Risk Management Implement new Risk Management System All responsible managers identified key risks globally for Uhrenholt’s business AEO certificate Maintenance and renewal Approved by tax authorities Governance Minimum 2 external board members Maintained 30 Actionplan 2014 Focus Area Activity 2014 and Goal Employees Education Enhance the CSR framework /foundation through our internal sales training activities (internal people/distributors) Human Rights / Labour Uhrenholt Quality Assurance for Expansion of Uhrenholt Quality Assurance for suppliers. Our goal for 2014 is that suppliers more than 45% of the Uhrenholt suppliers have signed the Uhrenholt Quality Assurance and that more than 90% of top 100 suppliers (on GM and sales) have signed Partnership Development Sustainable Production Expansion and awareness of certified sustainable wild caught and farmed seafood Africa Continue to expand and develop business through the cold storage facilities Environment/Climate Grøndal Dairy Continue working against the 2020 environment goals and action plan Energy saving Energy saving project at the head office Business Ethics Code of Conduct Continue implementation of Code of Conduct Risk Management Implement new Risk Management System globally AEO certificate Maintenance and renewal Governance Minimum 2 external board members 31 Thanks CSR 2013, English, Layout 03/2014, Print 04/2014 The CSR team would like to thank all partners and employees for inspiration and support to the 2013 CSR report. Special thanks to: • Kenneth Hald Jensen and his colleagues at KPMG for education and inspiration • Lars Christensen and Pia Mathiasen for valuable assistance to complete the report The CSR team: Mette Mikkelsen (Group HR), Lone Høgholt (Corporate Services), Anne-Marie Rasmussen (Quality Assurance), Charlotte Kaasing Skougaard (Global Trading), Lise Rysgaard Foget Østergaard (Seafood), Stine Jensen (Group Marketing), Jørgen Jeppe Hansen (Group Logistics) and Keld Winther Rasmussen (Global Trading). Uhrenholt A/S Phone: +45 64 41 40 41 Teglgårdsparken 106 Fax: +45 64 21 21 26 DK-5500 Middelfart E-mail: info@uhrenholt.com Denmark uhrenholt.com
