AAcFComq?,ffi:lp Communication on Prosress April 8. 2014 Self-assessment ' ACF Components & Fasteners lnc. supports the UN Global Compact, its initiatives and its 10 principles. John Mizutani 7:'{?**<::e* President ' Human Rishts Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. . ACF Components & Fasteners lnc. requires its employees to observe all laws of the United States ond Mexico. This is stated in the Company hondbook. . Discrimination and harassment troining has been completed, training with o no tolerance policy in effect. Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. . ACF Components & Fasteners lnc. requires its employees to observe all laws of the United Sfafes and Mexico. . The Company Handbook addresses employees' rights and responsibilities. . Company Handbook updates including an open door policy process. All complaints are reviewed by Humon Resources Deportment and Executive Management. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. o ACF Components & Fasteners lnc. has implemented sustoinability gools as focus oreas for approaching environmental challenges. . ACF observes and supports all regulations of the government in the environmental orea . Plans in effect, lean initiatives on waste and recycling are active and effective. . lmplemented significont woste material reductions at all locations, especially metols, poper products, and plastics. . Recycling is strongly encouroged. o No tobocco use policy implemented within premises of the company. Smokers are encouroged to quit their habit, with support from the company medical benefit. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. o ACF Components & Fasteners lnc. has a zero tolerance policy towards corruption, extortion ond bribery. . The Human Resources Deportment is responsible for investigating any potential instonces. Employees are encouraged to bring their knowledge or suspicions to the Human Resource Deportment or Executive Management. . There hove been no incidents, reviews by Executive Monogement, no legol coses, rulings, fines, etc. . Should an incident occur, the Human Resources Department would be the investigative group.
