Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 bioMérieux has supported the Global Compact since 2003 In 2013 bioMérieux celebrated its 50th anniversary A world leader in the field of in vitro diagnostics for 50 years, bioMérieux is present in more than 150 countries through 41 subsidiaries and a large network of distributors. In 2013, revenues reached €1.588 billion with 87% of sales outside of France. bioMérieux provides diagnostic solutions (reagents, instruments, software) which determine the source of disease and contamination to improve patient health and ensure consumer safety. Its products are used for diagnosing infectious diseases and providing high medical value results for cancer screening and monitoring and cardiovascular emergencies. They are also used for detecting microorganisms in agrifood, pharmaceutical and cosmetic products. bioMérieux is listed on the NYSE Euronext Paris market. (Code : BIM Code ISIN : FR0010096479). www.biomerieux.com www.biomerieux50.com 2 Principles related to Human Rights N°°1 : Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. N°°2 : Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. In accordance with Article 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, bioMérieux carries out initiatives to ensure access to quality diagnostics for the most disadvantaged patients. Providing access to quality diagnostics for populations in emerging countries True to its public health missions, bioMérieux continued to support the work of the Fondations Mérieux *. In 2013, the Company’s contributions to sponsorship activities amounted to a total of €2.557 million including €1.814 million for the above mentioned foundations. In the field, these two independent family foundations fight infectious diseases affecting developing countries, in particular by improving their clinical biology capabilities. Through the Christophe Mérieux Prize, worth €500,000, the Fondation Christophe and Rodolphe Mérieux encourages research in developing countries. In 2013, for the seventh edition, this major scientific prize was awarded to Dr. Valerie Mizrahi** to encourage her research on tuberculosis, the leading cause of infectious disease-related mortality worldwide, particularly in South Africa. * The Fondation Mérieux and the Fondation Christophe and Rodolphe Mérieux 4 * * Director of the Institute of Infectious Disease and Molecular Medicine and professor at the University of Cape Town Providing access to quality diagnostics for populations in emerging countries Products adapted to the needs of low-resource countries bioMérieux works to develop products to screen for global and tropical infectious diseases. Launched in January 2013, VIKIA® Malaria Ag Pf/Pan completes our current offer for rapid diagnostic tests which already includes HIV and Hepatitis B. In December 2013, VIKIA® HIV 1/2, for the detection of anti HIV 1 & 2 antibodies in the case of HIV infections, received WHO pre-qualification. VITEK® MS in Western Africa The first VITEK®MS* in Western Africa was installed at the main hospital in Dakar, Senegal. This clinical mass spectrometry system enables detection of disease causing microorganisms in minutes. A bioMérieux team was present to support and supervise this installation and the training of technicians who will use the system. This project is the result of close cooperation with a research unit on emerging infectious and tropical diseases (URMITE) under the leadership of Professor Didier Raoult in Marseille, France. 5 Providing access to quality diagnostics for populations in emerging countries bioMérieux supports the mobile HIV council and testing project in Benin and Togo, launched in 2013 by SANTE EN ENTREPRISE SANTÉ EN ENTREPRISE (SEE) is an operational platform that implements inter-business cooperation in coordinating high impact HIV, malaria, and chronic illness awareness actions that touches employees, their families and the general public. It operates internationally. This program aims to raise awareness among local companies and communities regarding HIV council and testing, offer free HIV testing using rapid tests and support the medical and psychosocial care of people tested positive. bioMérieux supports this project by providing free VIKIA® HIV 1/2 tests and training trainers to use this rapid test. 6 Commitments on public health priority needs International mobilization against superbugs Organized at the initiative of bioMérieux in June 2013, the World Healthcare Associated Infections (HAI) Forum brought together over 70 internationallyrenowned experts in the field of antimicrobial resistance and healthcareassociated infections*, who met in Annecy (France) for the Forum’s fourth edition. 10 priorities were established to address the challenges of this threat. bioMérieux has committed to support two of the priority actions within 18 months: Contribution to first worldwide surveys for the global measurement of antibiotic use and resistance. Participation in conducting a multi-center study on the long-term benefits of prudent antimicrobial use. Towards an even more personalized and rapid diagnosis Institut Mérieux is a founding member of BIOASTER, a technological research institute specialized in infectious diseases. BIOASTER, which brings together industry and public research organizations, entered its operational phase of activity in 2013. As part of this privileged partnership, bioMérieux contributes its active support to several research programs focusing on the identification of infectious diseases, healthcare-associated infections and antimicrobial resistance. 7 * The G8 Summit recognized this phenomenon as one of the major public health challenges worldwide. Principles related to Labour N°°3 : Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. N°°4 : The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. N°°5 : The effective abolition of child labour. N°°6 : The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Quality social dialogue bioMérieux has a tradition of meaningful social dialogue with employee representative bodies. In 2013, six company agreements* were signed in France. An agreement provides for the harmonization of the employment status of AESCHEMUNEX employees, marking an important step forward for the employees of this recently-acquired company, who gain access to new benefits. A working-from-home policy was formalized in 2013 to improve work-lifebalance and rolled out in seven voluntary countries. This measure is intended for employees with a laptop computer whose jobs offer sufficient autonomy. In France, about 150 employees have signed up to take part in this initiative. In addition, 2 company agreements on work organization have been signed in Italy. * Cf. Registration Document and Annual Financial Report 2013 Section 5.2.1.4 pages 41-43 9 on www.biomerieux-finance.com Focus on young people & training Giving young people a chance The “GPEC* Intergenerational Contract” was signed in France in 2013. Young people on work-study programs accounted for 5.4% of the workforce, with 143 under work-study or apprenticeship contracts, 19 with the international internship program (VIE), and five doctoral students. Over the course of 2013, the Company welcomed about 350 young people. Training, a strategic investment bioMérieux’s training budget is five times more than the legal requirement, representing 5% of payroll expenditure. * GPEC : Strategic Workforce Planning bioMérieux University created a Business Advisory Committee in 2013. It aims to determine the critical competencies that need to be strengthened within the organization as well as the associated development solutions. In 2013, 75% of Group employees took part in at least one training session. The average number of training hours per employee totaled 30 hours per person in France, 12 hours per person in the United States, and 49 hours per person in China. An e-learning platform devoted to performance management was created: 51% of Group managers accessed the platform in 2013. 10 Social responsibility Gender equality: focus on leadership Women represent half of bioMérieux’s workforce (50% as of December 31, 2013) and around 43% of managers are women. A corporate program called “Women Ready for Leadership Diversity” (WoRLD) was rolled out globally to improve access to management positions for women. Occupational health bioMérieux organizes its Health, Safety and Environment approach according to the principle of continuous improvement; programs are based on the ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards. The Craponne (France) site has received OHSAS 18001 certification in 2013. Application of the occupational health agreement signed in France in 2012 continued in 2013, addressing in particular hard working conditions and occupational risks. In 2013, the corporate Health, Safety and Environment Department set up an intranet section devoted to HSE topics to share programs, best practices and HSE information with all Company employees. 11 Principles related to Environment N°°7 : Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. N°°8 : Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. N°°9 : Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. BIOMÉRIEUX GOES GREEN With the aim of reducing its environmental footprint, bioMérieux adopted the BIOMERIEUX GOES GREEN approach in 2008, which focuses on five key areas: energy, water, paper, waste and emissions. The corresponding initiatives are rolled out through a network of 40 “green champions*” (environmental correspondents) working at the Company’s sites and subsidiaries. This commitment is supported by a pro-active training policy focused in particular on environmental, health and safety training modules for all new employees. In addition, environmental management system training is provided at production sites that are preparing for ISO 14001 certification. In 2013, ISO 14001 certification was confirmed for bioMérieux Switzerland, bioMérieux Brazil and bioMérieux UK, while the Craponne production site in France successfully underwent the certification process. * Environmental champions 13 BIOMÉRIEUX GOES GREEN Waste reduction and optimization All the Group’s production sites are equipped with waste storage facilities, and several of them have reached waste management without landfilling. That is the case for the Grenoble, La Balme and Saint Vulbas sites in France, as well as the Basingstoke (U.K.) site and the German subsidiary. In 2013, the Durham site in North Carolina (U.S.) achieved the same status. In 2013, the optimization of production equipment and the improvement of operator training resulted in: a 58% decrease in waste from the production of a range of culture media on the Lombard (U.S.) site; reduced quantities of discarded VITEK® 2 cards and filling pouches at the St. Louis (U.S.) site, amounting to total annual savings of 45 tons; a 6% decrease in waste from the production of ATB™ strips at the La Balme (France) site. At the end of 2013, the percentage of recycled or incinerated waste with energy recovery had increased four points in comparison with 2012, to reach 74%. 14 BIOMÉRIEUX GOES GREEN Water Reduction in water consumption Water consumption decreased significantly in 2013 especially at two sites: Marcy l’Etoile (France): a 9% reduction by discontinuing cooling towers and improving lawn maintenance management; Durham (U.S.): a 6% reduction by equipping cooling towers with a water recovery system. At the end of 2013, the ratio of water consumed to Company sales had decreased by around 18% over five years. Wastewater management The Marcy l’Etoile and Craponne sites in France have invested in wastewater pre-treatment facilities. In line with its commitment to the fight against antimicrobial resistance, the Company implements separate systems for the collection of effluents from preparations containing antibiotics used for production or R&D. Such waste is disposed of through specific treatment facilities. 15 BIOMÉRIEUX GOES GREEN Energy performance & renewable energies Investment in higher performance equipment * Among the sites that consume the greatest amounts of electricity in the Company Completion in 2013 of a program at the international logistics platform in SaintVulbas (France) for the replacement of the fluid management command system will lead to substantial energy savings in the future. Installation of a new boiler at the Florence (Italy) site resulted in a 22% reduction in the consumption of natural gas in 2013. At the end of 2013, the Company’s energy consumption in relation to sales had decreased by 14% over 5 years. bioMérieux also strives to encourage energy savings among its customers. For example, 55 products in the Etest® range no longer require negative temperature storage thanks to their redesigned packaging. Use energy from renewable sources The Marcy l’Etoile and Craponne sites renewed their contractual commitment to using 50% certified “green” electricity in 2013-2015. The Durham (U.S.) site produced and fed back into the local network 135,000 kWh of electricity in 2013 thanks to its solar panels. 100% of the electricity purchased by the Austrian and Canadian subsidiaries is hydroelectricity. 16 BIOMÉRIEUX GOES GREEN Greenhouse gas emissions (1/2) Evaluation and greenhouse gas emissions reduction In 2013, bioMérieux evaluated its Group* carbon footprint through an assessment of greenhouse gas emissions. They amounted to 171,000 metric tons of CO2 equivalent. By year-end 2013, eight sites had been equipped with telepresence facilities, which allow meetings to be conducted remotely via videoconferencing in conditions similar to those of face-to-face meetings. The home working policy, effective since the first quarter of 2013, contributes to reducing employee commuting. Commitment from a regional perspective Since October 2013, bioMérieux has been a partner of the Greater Lyon Energy-Climate Plan. This French region is where two of its largest production sites, Marcy l’Etoile and Craponne, are located. The 2020 Greater Lyon objectives: reducing greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption by 20%, and increasing the portion of energy from renewable sources to 20% of total energy consumed (in comparison to the year 2000). In 2013, the Craponne site joined the Greater Lyon regional carpooling platform as did the Marcy l'Etoile site in 2012. * Taking into account emissions related to energy consumption, refrigerant gases, product transportation, vehicle fleets, business travel 17 and employee commuting. BIOMÉRIEUX GOES GREEN Greenhouse gas emissions (2/2) Innovative solutions proposed to bioMérieux’s customers With VILINK®, remote interventions on bioMérieux instruments are possible for maintenance, incident resolution and software updates through a fast and secure connection. This solution avoids unnecessary travel by engineers working in the field and related emissions, and it enables faster problem resolution for customers of key product ranges. The roll-out of the VILINK™ IT solution, initiated in 2009, continued in 2013: it now includes the VITEK®2, VITEK®MS, PREVI®Isola, Myla®, VIDAS®, VIDAS®3, TEMPO®, OBSERVA®and VIGIGUARD™ product ranges. 18 Principles related to Anti-corruption N°°10 : Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The Ethics and Compliance Program bioMérieux works in a framework of principles, policies and procedures that reflect the highest ethical standards. The Company is commited to conduct its business activities in an ethical way and in compliance with the existing laws and expects its partners to respect these laws and principles. bioMérieux continues to support its Ethics and Compliance Program, launched in 2011, which aims to ensure policies and practices that clearly convey, both internally and publicly, bioMérieux’s commitment to an organizational culture of ethics and integrity. The Ethics and Compliance Program strives to promote: ethical conduct in all business dealings; provide training for employees on ethical standards and the laws that apply to them; provide an opportunity for employees to voice their concerns and ask questions. 20 Actions against corruption A Global Code of Conduct applies to all bioMérieux employees and managers worldwide. It establishes rules of behavior and procedures to ensure ethical conduct and integrity in business relations. Distributed to all employees, the code is accessible on the intranet and on bioMérieux’s website. It outlines what the Company expects of its employees, particularly concerning conflicts of interest and fighting corruption. Corruption Prevention Manual This manual is the foundation of a Group training program. Created and rolled out in 2013, it establishes the Group policies related to the fight against corruption and bribery and aims to state clearly the Company’s expectations in the context of its relationships with its partners. The Corporate Ethics and Compliance Program It includes an online training program on the Global Code of Conduct and the Corruption Prevention Manual for all employees. About 5,500 employees validated this module as of end of 2013. The objective of these trainings is to prevent, detect and respond to potential concerns or alerts concerning unethical behavior. 21 Contact : Aurore Sergeant External Communications aurore.sergeant@biomerieux.com
