1 Status report 30th June 2014 The UN Global Compact Progress Report 2013-2014 Table of contents 2 Table of contents Statement of continuing support . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 1. Sphere of influence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 1.1. Operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 1.2. Our commitment to acting in a socially responsible way . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 2. Valuing our clients . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 2.1. Putting plan members and clients at the heart of our activities . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 2.2. Paperless office and claims tracking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 2.3. IGO Connect – Our newsletter for clients . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 2.4. Business security . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 2.5. Improving access to health care . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 2.6. Regular assessment of health care needs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 2.7. Monitoring medical expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 2.8. Vanbreda International’s Medical Board . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 2.9. Solid case management capacities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 2.10. Surveys on specific topics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 2.11. Proximity to clients . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 2.12. Access to Cigna USA health care provider network . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 2.13. Affordable health care – the importance of a global provider network . . . . 10 3. Valuing our employees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 3.1. Taking care of our employees’ well-being . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 3.2. Valuing our employees’ point of view . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 3.3. Aiming at being an attractive and equal opportunity employer . . . . . . . . . . . 14 4. Valuing our environment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 4.1. Raising employees’ awareness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 5. Our ethics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 5.1. Company code of conduct . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 5.2. Code of Ethics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 5.3. Fighting money laundering . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 5.4. Fighting insurance fraud . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 6. Cross-reference table . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 Statement of continuing support 3 Statement of continuing support Corporate social responsibility is part of Vanbreda International’s ethos. Driven by a mission to help the people we serve improve their health, well-being and sense of security, we strongly believe that corporate success and a healthier world are interdependent. That is why we support and stimulate a healthy, educated and engaged workforce, and adhere to environmental sustainability and transparent governance best practices. These beliefs closely align with the principles laid down in the United Nations Global Compact. Taking our participation to heart, we are naturally renewing our support, as we have done for the past 9 years. As a Cigna company since 2010, Vanbreda International naturally embraced its mother company’s approach to corporate social responsibility (CSR), which is based on four pillars: communities, sustainability, diversity and ethics and governance. In 2013 and 2014, we took the alignment with Cigna’s CSR policy to the next level with the organisation of the first ‘CSR week’ in our headquarters and the launch of our community service programme. We not only aim at raising our employees’ awareness of the world around us but also actively engage them to become a catalyst of change within our communities. Our plan members and clients are at the heart of our activities. We reminded our staff of this promise and translated it concretely by launching several product and service enhancements throughout 2013 and 2014. Supporting our insured in difficult times has become more than providing easy access to health care. It also means helping them prevent sickness and manage their diseases as well as making the management of their insurance plan easier. Our core activity is helping people wherever they are. Our core value is doing things the right way. We remain committed to being a sustainable and ethical company and we do so by embracing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Wouter Reggers Bart Jordens Managing Director General Manager, Global IGO/NGO/Africa Vanbreda International Vanbreda International Sphere of influence 4 1. Sphere of influence 1.1. Operations Vanbreda International has over 50 years’ experience Transnational corporations and other business in designing, implementing and managing crossenterprises shall respect economic, social and cultural border employee benefits and health insurance rights as well as civil and political rights and contribute to programmes for private, public and not-for-profit their realization, in particular the rights to development, organisations. These include companies with expatriate adequate food and drinking water, the highest attainable staff and offices in different countries and continents, standard of physical and mental health, adequate intergovernmental organisations, diplomatic staff housing, privacy, education, freedom of thought, and foreign trade representatives as well as nonconscience, and religion and freedom of opinion and governmental organisations. expression, and shall refrain from actions which obstruct or impede the realization of those rights.”3 As a provider of insurance products, services and solutions, we are aware of the impact that our activities Since our foundation, we emerged as a company with an have on society, both nationally and globally. The United ever-increasing global reach. Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative report ‘Insuring for Sustainability’ (UNEP FI, 2007), For our clients, we play a role in helping them rightfully mentions that “the insurance industry is a implement their employee benefits strategy in line strong lever for sustainability due to its size, the extent of with their financial targets. We service over 438,000 its reach into the community and the significant role it people residing and working all over the globe. By plays in the economy.” providing global access to health care we touch upon and influence their daily lives and those of their families, By enabling economic actors to take risks and wherever they work and live. protect their assets, the insurance industry stimulates investments and innovations. By providing financial In addition to affecting our client’s HR and business protection against death and disability risks and annuities strategy and financial performance, and their employees’ for retirees, the insurance industry reduces the pressure well-being, we play a key role in the lives of our on the public sector. By analysing risks, it signals danger employees and their work environment. Our client and provides risk management advice. Last but not least, services are being taken to heart, day in day out, by 485 by investing collected premiums, it directly contributes people.4 The majority works from our headquarters in to the economy.1 Belgium while others are based in our offices in Spain, in the United States of America and in Malaysia. We “Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate also have sales offices and local representations in Italy, for the health and well-being of himself and of his family, Switzerland, Kenya, South Africa and Chile. including food, clothing, housing and medical care and necessary social services, and the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age or other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.2 3 UN Norms on the responsibilities of transnational corporations and other business enterprises with regard to human rights, article 12. 1 UNEP FI, 2007. 4 Number of Vanbreda International employees on 30th June 2013, 2 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, article 25. representing 449.49 full-time equivalents. Sphere of influence 5 Vanbreda International We support and pursue international principles is a Major Sponsor of and standards regarding human and labour rights, UNICEF Belgium environmental protection and ethical business conduct.5 Not only do we adhere to the United Nation’s Global For many years, Vanbreda International has Compact principles, but we also subscribe and live up sponsored UNICEF by making a donation for each to the Diversity Declaration of the Flemish Chamber of customer satisfaction survey fully completed by our Commerce. Moreover, we comply with all legislation clients. Thanks to this contribution we are officially recognised as a ‘Major Sponsor’ of UNICEF Belgium. and regulations that have a bearing on our activities and we act responsibly beyond what is legally required. Child survival and development in the Our adherence to the UNGC principles demonstrates Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) that we strive to be a socially responsible service UNICEF Belgium and Vanbreda International renewed provider and employer. their partnership at the end of 2012. As last year, Vanbreda International’s 2014 donation will be We translated all of our engagements into our own allocated to a project entitled ’Child survival and specific set of commitments. Based on the principles of development in DRC’. the ‘Triple Bottom Line’ (People, Planet and Profit), they While infant and child mortality rates have started represent our intentions with an eye to organisational as decreasing in DRC, the situation of children and well as societal success. pregnant women remains alarming. Insecurity, combined with the absence of access roads, makes In 2013, the integration of Cigna’s CSR policy was taken it difficult to reach children living in the most to the next level with the organisation of the first remote areas, where health care is the most needed. ‘CSR week’ in our headquarters. For a week, our staff Currently, 554,000 children die every year in DRC members were invited to look more closely at the world before they reach the age of 5. around us. Lunchtime sessions were organised to present Today, 40% of the children are covered by UNICEF’s our company’s CSR initiatives: charity programmes, CO2minimal activity package aimed at reducing infant reduction programme, etc. Employees were also given and child mortality. The objective is to cover 60% of one ‘green challenge’ per day: they were encouraged to the children by the end of 2017. come to work by bike or to use fewer paper cups. Some of the overall results achieved in 2012 by UNICEF in DRC: The ‘CSR week’ was the perfect opportunity to launch our Community service programme, which enables • 15 million children were vaccinated against polio by UNICEF and its partners; our employees to volunteer for 8 hours per year during working hours. Two organisations were chosen: • 28.9 million people were provided with mosquito • a nearby primary school, where our employees help to nets treated with insecticide for protection against set up the library or take part in cultural projects; malaria; • a charity that supports underprivileged families with • 1.3 million people were given access to safe young children, where our employees help pack food, drinking water; toys and clothing that are donated to the parents. • 223,000 malnourished children under 5 were supported. 1.2. Our commitment to acting in a socially responsible way 5 We refer to: the UN Norms on the responsibilities of transnational corporaWe are committed to acting in a socially responsible way. tions and other business enterprises with regard to human rights; Our commitment is reflected in systems and initiatives the International Labour Standards of the International Labour that benefit all our stakeholders. We strongly believe in Organization (ILO); the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development; business ethics. the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises; the UN Convention against Corruption; the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR). Valuing our clients 6 2. Valuing our clients We want to ensure easy and affordable access to health Our effort towards continuous improvement is reflected care worldwide and reduce barriers to health care and in our ISO certification, which we obtained in 1998 as protection wherever possible. At the same time, we raise ‘international settler of claims regarding employee plan members’ awareness of the cost of health care plans benefits’6. Ever since, this certification was renewed and how they can contribute to keeping these costs every three years. The latest recertification was awarded down. In addition, we foresee measures and mechanisms in 2013 and a follow-up audit was conducted to deter and detect insurance fraud. successfully in the first quarter of 2014. Our solutions are designed to enable staff covered by a As an ISO certified company we have a fully maintained health insurance or wider employee benefits programme quality management system in place that is based to optimally benefit from the plan’s advantages. By on quality design in the business process (PLAN), upgrading and fine-tuning these plans and by launching execution of the business process in accordance with new products and services, we continuously improve the quality guidelines as described in the quality handbook plan and product experience and cost impact. (DO), monitoring of the output with measurable and significant quality criteria (CHECK) and constant process improvement (ACT).7 Management responsibility pla ac t n Client’s Resource Analysis & Client’s requirements management improvement satisfaction che do c k Product realisation Input Output Product 6 Certificate no BE98/01053 SGS European Quality Certification Institute E.E.S.V. 7 For more information on ISO, see www.iso.org. Valuing our clients 7 2.1. Putting plan members and clients at the heart of our activities By focusing on customer centricity across all departments, wanting to receive future editions. we aim to make it easier for our clients and their employees to do business with us and to make their 2.1.3. Monthly tip experience with us warmer and more personal. In order to help plan members make the most of their plan and our services, a series of tips on various aspects 2.1.1. Customer Centricity Board of their plan was drafted. One new tip is published every Created in 2012, the Customer Centricity Board acts as the month on their personal webpages. The first tip was focal point for customer-centric actions and ideas, and published in April 2014. is responsible for monitoring customer centricity in all company-wide initiatives. 2.2. Paperless office and claims tracking Members from various departments and management levels We became a paperless office in July 2013. This means meet twice a month to track the progress of all initiatives and all claim documents and other items of communication examine ideas and suggestions sent by employees. sent by plan members are managed electronically throughout the entire process. By doing so, we are using This has translated so far into actions such as: less paper, and for plan members the advantage is that • improvement of internal processes for greater efficiency; they are able to track the status of their claims online in • sending a condolences card to the family members of a real-time. In addition, they receive email updates upon deceased plan member; receipt of a claim and after processing. • sending a ‘Get well soon’ postcard to hospitalised children, together with a set of colouring pencils; • creation of feedback forms on our secured website. Plan 2.3. IGO Connect – Our newsletter members can now send us a compliment, a complaint or for clients a question through the website. Their messages are sent In February 2013 we launched the first edition of our directly to our Customer Services team for further action. client newsletter as a new initiative to stay in close • implementation of call vetting; contact with our clients, and inform them on news from • customer centricity trainings for all employees. our company as well as market updates. Three times a year, the newsletter is sent out by email In order to make the board’s actions more visible within and regular post, and is also printed for direct distribution the company and encourage participation, we launched a to our clients during client visits, events, etc. dedicated Customer Centricity Board website in February 2014. Accessible to all employees, it allows them to share their ideas for customer-centric initiatives and to see how 2.4. Business security the board helps turn them into concrete actions. 2.4.1. Information protection policy 2.1.2. Pulse – our newsletter for customers As we deal everyday with personal and medical data, The first edition of Pulse, our quarterly plan member information protection is one of our top concerns. We newsletter, was published in April 2014 following positive further strengthened our information protection policy feedback from a pilot edition in March. Pulse is made up of in 2013 by: articles on health and well-being, company updates as well • achieving Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) compliance; as tips on our procedures. The newsletter is sent by email to • creating a full-time Information Protection Specialist an average of 100,000 plan members from 140 clients. function; • implementing Role-Based Access Control (RBAC); In the pilot, executed before the launch, we asked • implementing a security assessment programme customers about their preferences for the newsletter: consisting in a combination of periodic internal and distribution channel and frequency, topics, etc. third-party assessments; The results from this pilot were very positive, with • regularly reminding employees of information 96% finding the topics interesting for them and 99% protection guidelines by email or on our Intranet. Valuing our clients 8 Supporting our clients’ 2.5. Improving access to health care employees We have a significant impact on the extent to which Whenever our clients’ employees and their family our clients’ employees and their families are covered members need support, we want to be there. Our against health risks. When designing our health care support focuses on offering health information, plans we take into account local specificities and cultural coaching and assistance through the key moments diversities, therapeutic freedom and cost effectiveness. of their life that may impact physical and/or mental resilience. Stress, lack of physical activity and unhealthy eating 2.6. Regular assessment of habits rank as the top health risks in many parts of health care needs the world. To help our clients’ employees improve Every year we perform a detailed analysis of each client’s their health, we have implemented a health & wellmedical claims history. This analysis can reveal new cover being strategy consisting of 3 different programmes: needs that had not yet been included in the health care Health risk assessment: employees answer a plan. In such cases, we will advise our clients to adjust 15-minute online questionnaire on four topics: their plans to better meet the health care requirements nutrition, sleep, physical exercise and stress. Based of their employees and their families. At the same on this assessment of their health, a coaching plan time, the analysis of the plan experience helps to raise is offered, as well as regular reminders and tips and awareness about the cost of the plan both for employers tricks emails. The aim is to help them make small and employees. changes to their health & well-being for long-lasting results. 2.7. Monitoring medical expenses Chronic condition management: aimed at employees suffering from diabetes, HIV or a coronary When reimbursing medical claims to health care plan artery disease during the pilot phase, the programme members we always assess whether the expenses made was extended to include 3 new chronic diseases are justified. First of all, we verify whether the treatment in May 2014. Designed in collaboration with one of itself was justified, taking into account the underlying our clients, this individual follow-up programme is diagnosis. Secondly, we assess whether the expenses led by two in-house trained nurses acting as ‘health comply with levels that are reasonable and customary coaches’. During one year, the coach schedules in the country where the treatment was given. These regular telephone sessions with each patient (about assessments require a continuous follow-up of health 1 telephone session per month). The goals are to care developments and related costs worldwide. We are improve the patient’s quality of life and ultimately supported in this effort by our global network of 182 reduce the progression and complications of their medical correspondents based in 98 countries. condition. Employee assistance programme (EAP): 2.8. Vanbreda International’s telephone counselling to help employees identify and solve a whole range of personal problems. The Medical Board multilingual team of qualified counsellors answers Vanbreda International is specialised in health insurance plan members’ questions, assesses the problem, services to expatriates worldwide and is trying to meet and discusses and develops an action plan together an increasing customer demand for health management with them. Face-to-face counselling is available at a and advice. Making our Medical Board a top priority client’s request. confirms our strong global position and presence when it comes to our knowledge of regional medical cultures, the follow-up of reasonable and customary expenses, 2.4.2. Business Continuity Plan case management and the detection of possible fraud. In order to be able to respond to all kinds of disasters (accidents, emergencies, threats, etc.) without stopping our operations, we have a Business Continuity Plan. In 2013 we conducted a successful IT disaster recovery test of all our websites and their functionalities. Valuing our clients 9 Apart from the medical consultants based in our 2.11. Proximity to clients headquarters in Belgium, our Medical Board also includes medical consultants from all continents: Europe (Italy, We have local offices, sales and/or local representatives Spain and UK), America (Canada, Chile and Brazil), Asia in Italy, Switzerland, Kenya, South Africa, Chile and the (Malaysia, the Philippines, Bahrain, Hong Kong, China, United Arab Emirates. With Claims Processing Offices India and Afghanistan) and Africa (Senegal). in Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia), Antwerp (Belgium), Madrid (Spain) and Miami (USA), we are present in three time zones so that our customers globally have the best 2.9. Solid case management capacities possible access to us for communication and smooth In 2013, our case managers successfully assisted more claims handling purposes. than 1,300 patients and their families throughout their hospitalisation or other major treatment. Because we find it essential to offer our plan members a physical presence, we regularly organise visits in Case management is two-fold. On the one hand, their various locations all around the world. Our local case managers provide clinical support by looking for representatives continuously travel around the greater alternative treatments options that enhance the patients’ area they are in charge of to give presentations on comfort and well-being. Whether in the field or in our various aspects of the health insurance plan and hold Service Centres, they call or visit the patient and/or family individual appointments with plan members. Such visits members to ensure that the hospitalisation or treatment can also be performed by headquarter staff from other is running smoothly, provide information and answer departments such as the Account Management team, their questions. Customer Services or Provider Relations. On the other hand, in consultation with the patient and 2.12. Access to Cigna USA health care treating doctor(s), case managers discuss the length of stay and negotiate case-specific rates (on top of the ones provider network already agreed with our Provider Relations department). In 2013, twenty-nine new clients were granted access to Cigna’s proprietary provider network in the USA. 2.10. Surveys on specific topics This effort results in an improved customer service for plan members seeking care in the USA: they now have Our clients expect our advice to be well-founded and access to a network of 750,000 US providers without realistic. To this end, we make use of our extensive any administrative changes as Vanbreda International database of medical information to make analyses and remains the single point of contact for all care, in and organise surveys on specific topics such as preventive care, disease management, the impact of ageing on health care outside of the USA. costs, trends in disability management and return to work policies and other topics. We work closely with specialised Access to the Cigna US network also resulted in significant institutions and academics to perform these surveys. cost savings for both plan members and clients. As we place our members at the centre of our activities, processes and developments, we perform an ongoing satisfaction survey to ask plan members for input on what they find important and how we can improve ourselves. To keep a high response rate and make the completion of the survey as easy as possible, we have published it on an online platform. Plan members receive an invitation either by email or by paper and in both, we ask them to complete the survey online so all respondent data are available online in real time. The survey is sent out to a 5% random selection of members having claimed with us and can be completed in 6 languages. Valuing our clients 10 2.13. Affordable health care – the importance of a global provider network Our Provider Relations department manages and monitors contact between our Medical Network Managers and the worldwide Vanbreda International network of health providers. In 2012 and 2013, we visited 417 health care care providers. This network grows with the needs of our providers in 48 countries. clients, new and existing ones. Providers who sign up to our network agree to apply direct payment for our plan In March 2013, we added two functionalities to the online members and/or preferential rates for the health care search engine that allows our plan members to find a services they provide. In June 2014, Vanbreda International health care provider in their area: had concluded 10,415 direct payment and/or preferential • the integration of Google Maps™ enables users to rate agreements with health care providers worldwide. type any location (address or restaurant name, for This is an increase of 15% compared to last year (9,020 example) and visualise the location of health care agreements on 30th June 2013). providers on a map; • users can print a list of their preferred health care We maintain optimal relationships with and proximity to providers, download it as a PDF or receive it by email. providers worldwide and largely invest in face-to-face The importance of Vanbreda International’s direct payment agreements Direct payment agreements ensure that we pay hospital bills – as well as medical bills for outpatient care – directly and promptly to the health care provider. This service facilitates access to health care as it reduces outof-pocket expenses for plan members and thus the impact on their financial situation. Furthermore, Vanbreda International has obtained preferential rates from many providers, an added means of keeping health care costs under control. This has a positive impact on the aggregate claims expenditure and limits premium and contribution increases for health care plan members and their employers. Valuing our employees 11 3. Valuing our employees Our HR strategy – ‘Healthy Careers… Healthy Returns’ In line with our mission, we help our employees improve their health, well-being and sense of security (as we do towards our clients) through our Human Resources mission entitled ‘Healthy Careers…Healthy Returns’. ‘Healthy Careers... Healthy Returns’ encompasses an integrated People Strategy that covers the breadth and depth of employee experiences, career management and development, performance, and rewards. It is at the core to our overall business strategy. Our People Strategy components are: • Career – we focus on development and retention of talent. • Returns – we offer monetary and non-monetary rewards and our compensation is differentiated among employees based on responsibilities and performance. • Culture – we stand for a work environment that includes the beliefs, values, norms, and management style of our company. • Life – we show commitment to employees’ health, well-being and security, with a strong focus on wellness. Throughout this chapter we demonstrate how we implement this strategy with initiatives that keep our employees healthy and happy. 3.1. Taking care of our employees’ well-being Our employees are at the heart of our activities and they The means to put these ideas into practice are based on a represent our most precious asset. We consider their combination of labour regulations and practical provisions, well-being of paramount importance. targeted at promoting physical and mental well-being. “Transnational corporations and other business 3.1.1. Physical well-being enterprises shall provide a safe and healthy working environment as set forth in relevant international 3.1.1.1. Employees’ safety instruments and national legislation as well as New employees are informed about our safety guidelines, international human rights and humanitarian law.”8 and how to identify, evaluate and appropriately act upon dangers and risks. We stress the importance and regularly Our policies are aligned with international principles as remind employees of order and tidiness guidelines. One well as national legislation in Belgium, Spain, the USA of these is the ‘clean desk’ policy, as an orderly workplace and Malaysia. is a first condition to prevent accidents and provide easy access to fire extinguishers and emergency exits. We established a prevention policy, aimed at taking care of the physical and mental health of our Unfortunately, not all accidents or injuries can be avoided, employees and calling upon every employee to help which is why we work in close cooperation with an ensure his/her own health, safety and well-being and external service for work-related accidents. Each incident that of his/her colleagues and to maintain a clean and is evaluated and results in an improvement of preventive environmental-friendly workplace.9 measures whenever possible. Employees are encouraged to report defects, complaints and suggestions for 8 UN Norms on the responsibilities of transnational corporations improvement via dedicated communication channels. and other business enterprises with regard to human rights, article 7. 9 Vanbreda International’s prevention policy is laid out in its Policy statement on well-being. Valuing our employees 12 The following table includes the number of employee Moreover, it might also have a negative impact on accidents at work and on the road to work for the last the productivity and the work-quality and, as such, on five years. None of these accidents resulted in permanent our image as a company. Mainly, this policy has been working incapacity or death. established as a means of prevention. Accidents on In its commitment to provide its employees with a safe Accidents at work and productive workspace, a similar, strict approach the road to work towards ‘substance abuse’ has been implemented by 2013 3 6 Vanbreda International LLC for the Miami offices. 2012 1 13 2011 2 8 3.1.1.5. Health risk assessment 2010 0 7 In order to help our employees assess their health status and encourage them to make progressive changes to Vanbreda International organises fire drills for the improve their health and well-being, we have given fire intervention team, and the people in charge them access to an online health risk assessment program. of evacuation and first aid on a regular basis. Every All employees were invited to take a personal and month, all alarm signals are tested. After each fire drill a confidential survey on their nutritional, sleep, sports performance report is drawn up and discussed with the habits and their stress level. After the assessment, Committee for Prevention and Safety at Work. they received a detailed report with feedback as well as practical tips. To accompany them on the road to improved lifestyle, tips are also regularly published on 3.1.1.2. Internal medical service our Intranet. An Occupational Health Physician (OHP) and nurse are present at our offices once every two weeks. The OHP 3.1.1.6. Information session about energy examines new employees, follows up on prolonged management sickness and gives all staff working with computer The results of the health risk assessment showed that screens a sight test every three to five years. our employees are interested in stress prevention. That’s why we invited a company specialised in health He is also responsible for the annual influenza management to give two information sessions on vaccination campaign. In 2013, 85 employees working at energy and stress management to our employees in May our headquarters were vaccinated. The OHP is available 2014. Our employees learnt the basic principles of stress for employees who wish to consult him about workmanagement in a playful and relaxed atmosphere. related medical complaints. From the age of 40, all employees are entitled to a 3.1.1.7. Ergonomics complete medical check-up every 3 years. We attach great importance to ergonomics. The following extract from our ISO quality manual reflects 3.1.1.3. Non-smoking policy this concern: “Creating a pleasant working environment is a key element at Vanbreda International. The Workplace Our labour regulations include a smoking ban in all offices. Health and Safety Advisor ensures that all employees are able to work in the best possible conditions.” 3.1.1.4. Preventive alcohol and drug use policy As from 1st April 2010 a preventive alcohol and drug To eliminate ergonomic risks, Vanbreda International policy was included in the labour regulations for our invests in high-quality ergonomic office furniture for Antwerp headquarters because work-related alcohol and all employees and uses the services of an external drug use is a possible factor that can negatively affect ergonomist who visits our headquarters six times per the safety, health and well-being of the employee and year to advise employees individually. his or her environment. Valuing our employees 13 Additionally, a special focus was laid on ergonomics is applicable in our offices worldwide. We included the during the training sessions provided to employees who complaint procedure in our labour regulations, whereas now work in a paperless office environment. a personal confidant was installed who can be contacted by possibly victimised employees. 3.1.1.8. Plan S Promoting physical exercise 3.1.2.2. Company Policies We encourage our employees to stay fit and practice sports. Employees who come to work by bike are Although we are confident that everyone is aware of financially rewarded with a bicycle allowance of 0.21 EUR the applicable laws and regulations, we have decided per kilometre. Alternatively, Antwerp employees can to include them in our company policy. Divided into 2 make use for free of the bike-sharing system of the city of separate documents: compliance and ethics, on the one Antwerp as the company pays for their yearly subscription. hand, and travel, expenses, entertainment and gifts policy, on the other hand, our company policy is published on ‘Plan S’ is a yearly company-wide initiative to encourage our Intranet for easy access by all employees. our employees to improve their physical condition. Every year, we offer a different sports programme. 3.1.2.3. Sustainable work–life balance In 2013, Plan S consisted of a 12-month individual training “Everyone has the right to rest and leisure, including programme coached by a professional trainer. It was reasonable limitation of working hours and periodic made up of four 12-week training periods with interim holidays with pay”.10 follow-up fitness tests. After an initial test was conducted to establish their fitness profile, each participant was In support of this principle, our labour regulations and provided with a personalised programme and asked to collective labour agreements allow several possibilities to track his/her progress. improve our employees’ work–life balance. Depending on local labour practice, laws and legislation, these include 102 employees took part in the initial test in February options such as flex time, a choice of part-time packages, 2013 and 51 of them took part in the final test a year later. and time credit/career breaks. An ironing service is offered Their fitness level increased from an initial 2.9 out of 5 to 3.8. through a third-party provider, with pick up and delivery of linen in our premises. In 2013 we also encouraged and sponsored participation in the ‘Race for the cure’, a 3km walk or a 6km run 3.1.2.4. Employee Assistance Programme organised in September by ThinkPink Belgium, a charity Vanbreda International offers all its employees and their that raises breast cancer awareness. In total, 88 employees family members professional counselling, resources, referrals, and their family members took part in the race. and information to help them face short-term personal issues Employees and their family members can call 24/7 for 3.1.1.9. Cafeteria free in case they have work, family, health, legal or financial To support a more comprehensive approach to our issues and can be referred to a specialised counsellor for employees’ health and fitness, we decided to offer more further phone or face-to-face counselling. All contacts with than just sports programmes. The menu in the cafeteria the EAP provider are voluntary and strictly confidential. of our Antwerp office is both healthy and diverse including fresh fruit every day and fresh soup that are 3.1.2.5. Social events free of charge. Our employees can also choose from a In order to create a good working atmosphere, we wide variety of salads, sandwiches, pastry and desserts. uphold a tradition of organising social events on a regular basis such as company parties, team-building 3.1.2. Mental well-being activities, family days and cultural events. This tradition is 3.1.2.1. Protection of personal integrity an integral part of our company identity. In line with international and national law, we have set up a specific procedure to protect employees against violence, bullying and sexual harassment at work which 10 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, article 20. Valuing our employees 14 3.2. Valuing our employees’ point made on these areas since the 2013 survey. As a result, we have launched several actions to improve our company’s of view personal and career development opportunities. 3.2.1. Freedom of association and collective The second survey was conducted in June 2014. bargaining The results are currently being analysed. We endorse the international principles of freedom of association and collective bargaining as described in the 3.3. Aiming at being an attractive and Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the UN Norms equal opportunity employer on the responsibilities of transnational corporations and “Transnational corporations and other business other business enterprises with regard to human rights. enterprises shall ensure equality of opportunity and treatment, as provided in the relevant international “Everyone has the right to form and to join trade unions instruments and national legislation as well as for the protection of his interests. international human rights law, for the purpose of eliminating discrimination based on race, colour, sex, Transnational corporations and other business enterprises language, religion, political opinion, national or social shall ensure freedom of association and effective recognition origin, social status, indigenous status, disability, of the right to collective bargaining by protecting the right age – except for children, who may be given greater to establish and, subject only to the rules of the organization protection – or other status of the individual unrelated concerned, to join organizations of their own choosing to the inherent requirements to perform the job, or of without distinction, previous authorization, or interference, complying with special measures designed to overcome for the protection of their employment interests and for past discrimination against certain groups.” 13 other collective bargaining purposes as provided in national legislation and the relevant conventions of the International We support international standards on equal Labour Organization.” 11 employment and remuneration opportunities. Consequently, we aim to provide fair remuneration and We encourage an open and constructive dialogue growth opportunities, and to foster diversity. between employer and employees. In line with the relevant national legislation12, our internal regulations describe the 3.3.1. A fair and competitive remuneration composition and duties of the Works Council. package for everyone 3.2.2. Engagement survey “Everyone who works has the right to just and favourable remuneration ensuring for himself and his family an existence Our ability to perform successfully as a company worthy of human dignity, and supplemented, if necessary, by depends on how effectively we engage, develop and other means of social protection.14 deploy our people. In order to assess our employees’ engagement, we are conducting a series of four short Transnational corporations and other business enterprises quarterly surveys throughout 2014. These surveys shall provide workers with remuneration that ensures an check our progress against the actions we are taking to adequate standard of living for them and their families. address the areas our employees identified as needing Such remuneration shall take due account of their needs for improvement in the 2013 engagement survey. adequate living conditions with a view towards progressive improvement.”15 The first survey was conducted in March 2013. The subject was career development and career resources. The participation rate amounted to 75%. In general, we note that 37% of employees are satisfied with the progress 13 UN Norms on the responsibilities of transnational corporations and other business enterprises with regard to human rights, 11 UN Norms on the responsibilities of transnational corporations article 2. and other business enterprises with regard to human rights, 14 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, article 23. article 9. 15 UN Norms on the responsibilities of transnational corporations 12 Bedrijfsorganisatiewet (1948), Royal Decree of 15 May 2003 and and other business enterprises with regard to human rights, of 27 November 1973. article 8. Valuing our employees 15 We apply a remuneration policy based on objective 3.3.2. Training and personal growth criteria such as responsibilities, skills, expertise, Continuous learning opportunities are an important experience and personal performance. motivator and a condition for job satisfaction. We attach great importance to the professional and personal We provide a broad package of fringe benefits to all development of our employees. employees. Depending on local legislation and ‘good employer’ practice, this may include group insurance In 2013, Vanbreda International organised a total of (pension/death), health care benefits, protection 760 training days, which corresponds to 1.5 training against work incapacity or advantageous mobile days per employee. We especially invested in in-house phone subscriptions. Salaries and fringe benefits are language courses offered throughout the year (except being determined without taking into consideration for the school holidays) during lunch time. Participants or discriminating against gender, religion, ethnic can choose between English, French, German and background or physical handicap. Dutch (for the employees who do not have Dutch as their native language). Every individual staff member is entitled to transparency concerning his or her remuneration package. We Apart from language training, computer skills and will use appropriate means to offer this transparency, medical terminology remain important focus points in such as a correct and detailed employment contract, our training offer. staff rules, collective bargaining agreements, internal communication vehicles such as an intranet, and The table below shows the total number of hours personal benefit statements. of training of our headquarters’ staff for the calendar year 2013: number of hours of training per type of training Seminar/teambuilding: 37,00 Language training: 117,00 Management training: 218,24 Networking: 28,80 General training: 355,80 Technical training: 388,64 Computer training: 392,94 Study leave: 2.819,40 Skills: 1.271,60 Valuing our employees 16 • Education Savings Account past discrimination against certain groups.”16 Since the academic year 2008-2009, Vanbreda International has decided to intensify its investment in 3.3.3. Equal remuneration up-skilling its management. Every academic year, each “Everyone, without any discrimination, has the right to equal management staff member receives a credit on his/ pay for equal work.”17 her personal Education Savings Account, which (s)he can spend on his/her professional development. The We endorse the collective labour agreement18 regarding the balance of this budget can be transferred to the next equal remuneration for male and female employees. This academic year. agreement is an integral part of our labour regulations. The principle of equal remuneration implies that, for equal work of • Cigna University equal value, every difference regarding the sexes is abolished. Cigna University is a web-based training platform In practice, this means that we have committed ourselves to offering various internal trainings to all Cigna making sure that the company’s performance review system employees worldwide. The Customer centricity does not lead to discrimination. workshops were rolled out to all staff in 2013. • Performance management 3.3.4. Fostering diversity Each new employee completes a training schedule We commit ourselves to fostering diversity among our aimed at acquiring the knowledge and skills required employees and not to discriminate based on gender, in several fields (commercial, technical, administration, age, nationality or ethnic background. At the end of communication). Employees with new responsibilities or 2013, we employed people of 30 different nationalities. in need of developing additional skills receive appropriate Worldwide, 485 people work for Vanbreda International. internal or external training. All types of training are registered, monitored and evaluated. Vanbreda International’s age structure as from 30th June 2013 is as follows: A new performance management system was put in place at the end of 2012. Every employee defines Annual Age bracket Number of employees Performance Objectives (APOs) and competencies he/she want to focus on during the year to come. After 6 months, < 20 years 0 employees and their manager will review the APOs and 20 – 29 years 151 competencies to check where they stand, giving both an opportunity to adjust where needed before year-end. This 30 – 39 years 191 creates an opportunity for employees to formally discuss 40 – 49 years 109 career development and training opportunities with their 50 – 59 years 34 manager three times a year. • Selecting the best people, regardless of We signed the Diversity Declaration of the Employers’ nationality, ethnic background, age, gender or Platform for Diversity, a collaborative initiative of UNIZO physical condition (Union of Independent Entrepreneurs), VOKA (Chambers “Transnational corporations and other business of Commerce) and VKW (Employers’ Organisation). enterprises shall ensure equality of opportunity and Our company agrees with the basic principles of the treatment, as provided in the relevant international Declaration and is making every effort to implement instruments and national legislation as well as them within the organisation. international human rights law, for the purpose of eliminating discrimination based on race, colour, sex, language, religion, political opinion, national or social origin, social status, indigenous status, disability, 16 UN Norms on the responsibilities of transnational corporations age – except for children, who may be given greater and other business enterprises with regard to human rights, protection – or other status of the individual unrelated article 2. to the inherent requirements to perform the job, or of 17 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, article 23. complying with special measures designed to overcome 18 CAO no 25 of 15 October 1975, modified by the CAO no 25 b of 19 December 2001. Valuing our employees 17 Specifically, our commitments are as follows: 4. Valuing our environment • We seek to make our personnel policy as objective as “Transnational corporations and other business possible. We achieve this by ensuring that: enterprises shall carry out their activities in accordance • the recruitment and selection process focuses on with national laws, regulations, administrative the competencies of candidates and offers equal practices and policies relating to the preservation of opportunities to everyone; the environment of the countries in which they operate, • training and developmental opportunities are the as well as in accordance with relevant international same for everyone; agreements, principles, objectives, responsibilities and • the salary policy is non-discriminatory; standards with regard to the environment as well as • people of foreign origin, people with a work human rights, public health and safety, bioethics and the handicap and older employees, etc. can also apply precautionary principle, and shall generally conduct their for jobs and be hired. activities in a manner contributing to the wider goal of • We evaluate how we formulate vacancies and which sustainable development.”19 recruitment channels we use to reach a diverse group of candidates. We make the selection interview and We comply with the ecological requirements determined the practical tests objective. by international principles, Belgian environmental • We do not comply with discriminating conditions that legislation and the ‘Welzijnswet’ (Law on Well-being). are imposed by clients or other external parties. We have translated this commitment into systems to • We demand respect for all employees and do not prevent, minimise and compensate any harmful impact tolerate discrimination between colleagues on the on the environment. This includes initiatives at employee basis of origin, age, gender and sexual preference, etc. and company level. • Both inside and outside the company, we make people aware that we are a member of the ‘Employers’ Platform for Diversity’. 4.1. Raising employees’ awareness When joining our company, employees are informed of our environmental policy and their individual Support plan for responsibility to comply with it. 45+ employees 4.1.1. Sorting waste As the population ages and retirement age increases, On top of the 4 separate bins for the collection of special assistance and guidance is needed in the recyclable waste placed in 2010 within reach of every workplace to motivate and keep older employees employee, Vanbreda International employees in Antwerp at work as long as possible in the best conditions have been using biodegradable drinking cups since possible. This is the aim of the programme that was December 2011. After seeing an initial 13% decrease in set up at the beginning of 2013 in our company for drinking cup usage, it showed the cups were not always employees older than 45. Special attention is given to thrown in the recycling bin. We launched an awareness their training needs, to part-time work opportunities action as part of the CSR week in September 2013 and as well as to their physical health. noticed improvement since then. In 2013, the HR department conducted a series of individual interviews with all employees older than For optimal waste collection, we have drafted guidelines 55 in order to assess their professional situation on how to sort and minimise waste and regularly remind and see if special accommodations are needed all employees of these guidelines. such as extra training or adaptation of their tasks or workplace. However, none of them expressed the need for any special accommodation. Moreover, no specific issues were reported to the Work council by the Company doctor in his yearly report on the health state of employees older than 45. 19 UN Norms on the responsibilities of transnational corporations and other business enterprises with regard to human rights, article 14. Valuing our environment 18 4.1.2. Saving natural resources 4.1.4. Company-wide initiatives Employees are explicitly encouraged to save energy by turning off lights and electrical devices whenever possible, using heating and ventilation moderately, and Ecology – Vanbreda avoiding waste of water. International aims at CO2 By means of financial and practical incentives, employees neutrality are encouraged to come to work by bike or public transport, or to carpool. Since 2006, Vanbreda International has implemented an increasing number of measures to live up to its The following table displays Vanbreda International’s commitment of achieving CO2 neutrality. In 2013 annual consumption of natural resources: our emissions amounted to 1.967 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e). Compared to 2012 this is an increase of 18%, which is mainly due to a Resource 2013 2012 2011 significant increase in air travel as a consequence of Electricity 847,000 KWh 866,000 KWh 942,000 KWh the continuous integration of our activities with our mother company. Gas 730,000 KWh 738,000 KWh 729,000 KWh However, we have taken several actions to reduce Tap water 4,000 m³ 4,050 m³ 4,000 m³ our company’s impact on climate change. A significant amount of emissions (222 tCO2e) were In 2013, we managed to bring our electricity avoided by using green electricity since December consumption further down by 2.2% and our gas 2009. Also, emissions related to company cars consumption by 1%. decreased compared to 2012, as a result of a change in our car policy. Taking air travel out of scope, we We provide the Belgian government with an annual can see a decrease in emissions of 1.2% per full-time environmental report on our performance in terms equivalent compared to 2012 and of 8% per full-time of waste production as well as emission and energy equivalent compared to 2009. consumption (Integraal Milieujaarverslag – IMJV). Vanbreda International offsets its emissions by offering financial support to a CO2-reducing project: 4.1.3. Environmentally-friendly for each ton of CO2 we emit, the project achieves an cleaning products equal CO2 reduction. Our contributions are used to support a woodstove project in Uganda. Since March 2012, the catering company running the Vanbreda International cafeteria has been using ‘green’ cleaning products bearing the EU Ecolabel. Our ethics 19 5. Our ethics We strive to set an example of ethical and transparent gifts or other objects of value) whatsoever in order to business conduct by taking initiatives in favour of ethical improperly influence decisions or actions or obtain conduct of employees, fighting corruption and money any improper advantage whatsoever; not directly nor laundering and discouraging insurance fraud. indirectly; • will uphold all laws that apply and which are relevant With regard to business ethics, Vanbreda International is to countering bribery and corruption, regardless of at the forefront of implementing and maintaining best whether those laws refer to government officials, corporate practices. It is deeply committed to creating political parties, candidates for political office, public and upholding a culture of ethical behaviour across organisations or persons, and/or private organizations the company. These efforts are supported by formal and persons. procedures as well as regular checks and balances to make sure ethical behaviour is not only a mindset, but 5.2.1. Raising awareness among our staff also properly secured through a formal system. Both All our employees are requested to take a 45-minute culture and procedures are kept alive through training online Ethics & Compliance course detailing the various and awareness actions. aspects of the Code of Ethics, with concrete examples. In the past year, we have worked further on our best Regular policy reminders are published on the practices and continued the implementation and followcompany’s Intranet as well as information on all actions up of our company policies in the areas of anti-money taken towards our business partners. laundering, anti-corruption, data protection, compliance with economic sanctions and third-party due diligence (i.e. ensuring that the partners we deal with also respect 5.2.2. Raising awareness among our high ethical standards). business partners We expect from all our business partners and clients 5.1. Company code of conduct that they share our commitment and that they support our relentless efforts of conducting business ethically Our labour regulations describe our general commitment throughout the world. We have thus inserted this mutual regarding attitude and conduct at work. New employees commitment in contractual documents, varying from are clearly informed of these guidelines. Terms & Conditions of our products to group insurance contracts and agreements with brokers and health care 5.2. Code of Ethics providers. Being part of Cigna, a global health service company, We have also published our commitment on our Vanbreda International adheres to the Cigna Code of corporate website at www.vanbreda-international.com. Ethics and Principles of Conduct. 5.3. Fighting money laundering The Code of Ethics includes topics such as integrity in We comply with Belgian Anti-money laundering the marketplace, fair business practices and competition, Legislation, which complies with the relevant European the protection of customers’ and employees’ privacy and Union directives. The legislation imposes a number or client confidentiality. rules with a view to preventing money laundering. Part of the Code of Ethics relates to bribery and Internally, we have drafted a detailed policy document corruption. Vanbreda International is committed to the as well as operating procedures that will guide and highest standard of integrity and has implemented a enhance our continuous efforts in that area. In order to comprehensive anti-corruption policy involving our staff raise awareness, some of our employees took part in an as well as all our business partners, existing and potential Anti-money laundering course. ones. All parties commit that they: • will not promise, offer, make nor accept any bribes (including payments of money or any other assets, Our ethics 20 5.4. Fighting insurance fraud 5.4.3. Investigation by our Health insurance, especially in an international context, is Fraud Investigation Unit typically prone to fraud. During and after the processing of a claim, a fraud investigation may be opened by our Fraud Investigation Medical insurance fraud is a serious offence, which Unit. Its role is essential in order for us to increase our leads in the long run to other medical plan members knowledge through practical experience of fraud becoming the major victims. To protect our clients’ problems tackled and to ensure that future preventive financial interests we developed a detailed anti-fraud measures are up to date with the reality of the fraud risks policy aimed at preventing, detecting, investigating, that we face. reporting and recovering fraud. It closely cooperates with the Medical Claims Units Vanbreda International is a member of various organisations where possible as fraud monitoring is an important part that aim at reducing fraud and corruption in health care of the claims handling process as well and where new throughout Europe (European Healthcare Fraud and fraud files often will be initiated. Corruption Network, EHFCN), in the USA (National Health Care Anti-Fraud Association, NHCAA) as well as in the UK The team can also rely on international networks to (Health Insurance Counter Fraud Group, HICFG). keep informed of all new health care fraud trends and techniques. 5.4.1. Preventing fraud and raising awareness We maintain close working relationships with a worldwide network of health care providers, whom we have thoroughly screened in terms of quality and trustworthiness. In addition, we count on health care plan members’ sense of responsibility to avoid fraudulent activities. We appeal to them to counter malicious practices and to work towards a balanced and financially healthy medical insurance plan. We guarantee strict confidentiality and a thorough investigation of each individual complaint. 5.4.2. Detecting fraud During the processing of health insurance claims, various checks are performed with the goal of minimising the risk of unjustified reimbursements. We assess each claim on the basis of what is typical, customary and reasonable in terms of treatments as well as costs. Thorough training and geographical specialisation enable our Claims Analysts to recognise possible deviations at an early stage. We will contact the health care provider directly if necessary. Data mining exercises are now regularly performed to detect subtle, repetitive fraud. The source of data mining is a database that contains all reimbursements made in a certain period, with detailed data for each reimbursement. Cross-reference table 21 6. Cross-reference table This table contains a cross-reference guide between the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact and Vanbreda International’s Progress Report 2014. UN Global Compact Principle: Vanbreda International Page Businesses should … … support and respect the protection of internationally Valuing our clients proclaimed human rights 2/3 1/2 6 17 Valuing our employees … ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses … support the elimination of all forms of forced and 3 Valuing our employees 4/5 compulsory labour 11 17 … support the effective abolition of child labour … uphold freedom of association and the effective 3 Valuing our employees 3 11 17 recognition of the right to collective bargaining … support the elimination of discrimination in respect 3 Valuing our employees 6 11 17 of employment and occupation … support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Valuing our … undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 4 7/8/9 17 18 environment responsibility … encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Valuing our clients … work against corruption in all its forms, including 6 17 2/3/5 Valuing our employees 10 extortion and bribery 19 20 Our ethics is a company of Chief editor: Wouter Reggers • Vanbreda International BVBA • Plantin en Moretuslei 299 • 2140 Antwerpen • Belgium • RPR Antwerpen • VAT BE 0414 783 183 • FSMA 13799 A-R • UNGC Report (0914)
