Sustainab ility Repo rt 20 13 Energy for a Better World Co n t e n t s CEO Message 02 Our Leadership 04 Overview Introduction to POSCO ENERGY 06 Vision and Core Values 08 Sustainability Management System 09 Communication with Stakeholders 10 Shareholders and Customers Local Government Employees Partners Investors Communities Value Chain 11 Sustainability Management Core Issues 12 Governance 14 Ethical Management 15 Risk Management 17 Economic Value Economic Value Creation and Benefit Sharing 20 Financial Soundness 22 R&D 23 Business Innovation 24 Power Generation 26 Fuel Cell 29 POSCO ENERGY‘s Creating Shared Value (CSV) 32 Stakeholder Committee 34 Environmental Value Response to Climate Change 38 New and Renewable Energy Business 39 Eco-Friendly Management System 40 Operation of Eco-Friendly Power Plants 41 Material Flow 44 Eco-Friendly Communication 46 Social Value Global Talent Training and Competency Building 50 About this Report Happiness Management 53 Safe and Healthy Workplace 56 Since 2012, POSCO ENERGY has published its annual sustainCustomer Satisfaction 58 ability report in an effort to show our resolve and achievements regarding sustainable growth in full detail, thereby providing a Shared Growth with Suppliers 60 balanced perspective on POSCO ENERGY to stakeholders. Social Contribution 62 Cover Story Report period Jan~Dec 2013 (including some record of 2014) Appendix The simple and modern image of Report scope E very local business premises and Financial Information 67 some subsidiaries the energy slogan that brightens Sustainability Management Performance Data 70 For any inquiries or feedback relating to this POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report, please contact us the world symbolizes solar energy. Report In terms of fiscal year, presented in temporal Corporate Governance of Affiliates 71 via any of the options shown below. standard sequence for no less than three years The sun stands for POSCO ENERGY’s GRI G4 & ISO26000 Index 72 Report GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G4, passion and resolve for sustainability guidelines EUSS (Energy Utility Sector Supplement, Independent Assurance Report 78 POSCO ENERGY management to make it a brighter Energy Industry Optional Indexes), ISO26000 UN Global Compact 80 135-777, 8th Floor, East Wing, Posco Center, 440 Teheran-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul world by providing cleaner energy. Report Outside verification organization (Samil PwC), Membership in Associations 81 Tel 02-3457-2246 Fax 02-3457-2115 verification Independent Assurance Report (78-79 pages) E-mail sustainability@poscoenergy.com Additional POSCO ENERGY information homepage (www.poscoenergy.com) 2 2013 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report World Best Green Energy Company 3 CEO Message Dear Stakeholders, I would like to express my sincere gratitude for your interest and support for POSCO ENERGY and its sustainable management. This is our third edition of the POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report detailing our efforts and performances for sustainable management. Despite the challenging business environment in 2013, POSCO ENERGY saw sales of KRW 2.9 trillion and operating profits of KRW 240 billion. The growth we have achieved was the result of our well-balanced economic, environmental, and social performances, which makes it more significant. POSCO ENERGY has become a global energy company by contributing to the national economy by providing a stable supply of electricity and actively developing fuel cell energy business as well as new and renewable energy business. Along with the Incheon LNG Combined Cycle Power Plant of 3,000MW, the company currently operates off-gas combined cycle power plants of 300MW in Gwangyang and Pohang. With the commencement of the operation of the Busan SRF Power Plant that produces electricity out of house waste, the company has completed the second solar photovoltaic power complex in Shinan, and won projects for building an off-gas combined cycle power plant in Indonesia, the Mong Duong2 Coal Power Generation in Vietnam, and the CHP5 Coal Thermoelectric Power Generation in Mongolia. In terms of the business for fuel cell, which have been at the center of attention as dispersed generators, we have successfully completed the construction of the Gyeonggi Green Energy of 58.8MW, the largest fuel cell park in the world, proving our capabilities in undertaking large projects. We are aiming to localize fuel cell up to 100% with the completion of a cell manufacturing plant by 2015. To strengthen the synergy between gas and power grids and stabilize the fuel supply, we have been working on directly importing LNG and advancing into the LNG terminal business. In addition, the company is striving to ensure a foundation for sustainable growth by entering the Korean base development market and expanding the Independent Power Producers (IPP) business. We also create environmental value by operating environmentally friendly power plants, expanding competitive domestic and overseas energy development businesses, and actively executing activities for greenhouse gas emission reduction. As a result of the continual environmental investments for improvement of energy efficiency and reduction of environmental pollution in 2013, we reduced energy use by 22,000MWh and have been reducing NOx emissions. In addition, as a trusted corporate citizen, we support the efforts of domestic and overseas stakeholders that respond to environmental pollution and climate change and partake in various related activities. POSCO ENERGY is also active in creating value through cooperation with stakeholders based on trust and consideration. We have also been engaged in shared growth and boosting the local economy through such works as the joint development of reaction steam turbines and building a fuel cell cluster. Having expanded our energy welfare program which was launched in 2012, we have promoted social contribution activities of sincerity and internal stability, including the 1% Sharing Fund Campaign and volunteer work. Recognizing that the basis of such activities is our employees, we have tried to create a pleasant workplace by practicing family-friendly management with strengthening of job competency training, opening of a daycare center, and providing flexible work schedules. Sustainability is the core of our business approach and activities, which details how POSCO ENERGY deals with economic, social, and “For the sustainable development of the environmental issues. I hope the publication of this report allows us to disclose the sustainable management performances of the company, communication with stakeholders company and share with you, our stakeholders, our core values of Passion, Communication, Co-Success, and Green Innovation. On behalf of POSCO ENERGY, I sincerely appreciate your continued support and encouragement. based upon genuine organization and trust.” Thank you very much. President & CEO 4 2013 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report World Best Green Energy Company 5 Our Leadership POSCO ENERGY annually conducts interviews with sustainability management experts in order to review the directions of POSCO ENERGY and reaffirm the commitment of the management. POSCO ENERGY makes strenuous efforts to become a company that grows together with stakeholders through the innovation and the creation of our own Sung-Gyu Han Heung-Yul Yang unique values. Executive Vice President Senior Vice President / / Power Generation Business Division Management & Supporting Division Based upon strict environment, safety We will strive, with upmost management and communication with genuineness, for a happy workplace local community, we will provide clean based upon communication and energy. cooperation and co-growth. Kyung-Hoon Lee Jin-Won Park Dong-Deok Choi Senior Executive Vice President Senior Vice President Senior Vice President POSCO ENERGY will create / / Power Plant Construction Division Corporate Audit Division a healthy company through We will make a power plant in We will realize the ethics system and balanced growth based upon cooperation with and trusted by local culture of POSCO ENERGY based upon economic, social and environmental community. fundamentals and principles. considerations. Chang-Dong Shin Myung-Chul Lee Yong-Hee Cho Sang-Soon Cho Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Senior Vice President Vice President We will internalize global standards / / / Technology Strategy Division New and Renewable Energy Corporate Relations Division by implementing sustainability We will create a brighter world Development Division We will carry out our social management. through energy storage, energy We will secure not only environmental responsibility as a corporate citizen, recycling, and power efficiency value but also the business competitiveness such as contribution technology development. of new and renewable energy. to local community and response to climate change. Woo-Kyu Lee Jung-Gon Kim Min-Shik Shim Sung-Byung Kim Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Vice President Vice President / / / / Management & Planning Division Fuel Cell Business Division PI 3.0 Project Department Power Plant Development Division POSCO ENERGY will become a leader POSCO ENERGY will promote the POSCO ENERGY will build a solid We will discover new markets in the future energy market by attaining industrialization of fuel cell foundation for competitiveness by actively launching competitiveness in the ever-changing as a growth engine. through innovation. overseas businesses. business environment. 6 2013 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report World Best Green Energy Company 7 1 LNG Combined Cycle Power Plant •Incheon LNG Combined Cycle Power Plant (units 1-6) 3,052MW 1 •Incheon LNG Combined Cycle Power Plant (units 7-9) 1,260MW Total construction to be completed 2 Fuel Cell Production and Service 4 by Jan. 2015 1 •Pohang Fuel Cell Hub Annual Production Capacity 70MW 3 Solar Power Plant •Shinan Solar (Photovoltaic) Power Plant 14.5MW 2012-13(7MW), 2014 (7.5MW, expected) 4 O verseas Power Plants Introduction to POSCO ENERGY 3 •200MW Off-gas (from steel mills) Power Project in Indonesia Commercial operation started since Jan. 2014 POSCO ENERGY – the first and largest private power company in Korea that provides a stable supply 2 •Mong Duong2 1,200MW Coal-fired of electricity to the metropolitan area is a global comprehensive energy company that pursues Power Project in Vietnam three core energy businesses of power generation, new and renewable energy and fuel cell. Construction to be completed by mid 2015 POSCO ENERGY, which provides a stable supply of electricity to metropolitan areas, operates •CHP5 450MW Coal-fired Cogeneration Power Project in Mongolia Gwangyang and Pohang Off-Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant and has gradually expanded its Construction to be started in 2015 overseas business to Indonesia where Off-Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant is located, Vietnam and Mongolia. Also, through consistent R&D and investment in the fuel energy area, POSCO ENERGY has grown into the world’s largest fuel energy operator and engaged in a variety of renewable energy businesses, such as resource recycling, solar and wind power generation. General Information (As of Dec.31, 2013) Company Name POSCO ENERGY No. of Employees 1,010 5 Total Assets KRW 4 trillion Installed Capacity 3,498MW Sales KRW 2.9 trillion Crediting Rating Corporate Bond AA+, Commercial Paper A1 8 Wind Power Plants 7 Waste to Energy Businesses 5 Fuel Cell Power Plants •Tamra Offshore Wind Power Plant 30MW •Busan SRF (Solid Refuse Fuel) Business •Pohang 2.4MW Project under development Waste Treatment Facility Capacity: 900tons/day •Seoul (Nowon) 2.4MW Construction to be completed by 2016 Power Generation Facility Capacity: 25MW •Seoul (Sangam) 2.4MW •Jeonnam Onshore Wind Power Plant 99.6MW •Tancheon Sewage Heat Energy Utilization Facility •Incheon 2.4MW Project under development Heat Pump Capacity: 63Gcal/hr •Gyeonggi Green Energy 58.8MW Construction to be completed by 2015 Heat Generation 200,000Gcal/yr (19% Equity Partnership) •Jeonnam Onshore and Offshore Wind Construction to be completed by 2014 Power Plant 400MW Project under development 6 6 Off-Gas Combined Cycle Power Plants 7 •Gwangyang Off-Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant (Units 1-2) 284MW 8 •Pohang Off-Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant (Units 1-2) 290MW 8 2013 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report World Best Green Energy Company 9 Vision and Core Values Sustainability Management System Based on the mission of making brighter world by providing cleaner energy, POSCO ENERGY has POSCO ENERGY champions sustainability management throughout the enterprise by sharing and promoting its values on sustainability set forth its vision, core values, and strategies. The core values of Passion, Communication, Comanagement with employees and implementing a variety of activities for employees‘ internalization of sustainability management. Success, and Green Innovation will lay the foundation for the company to unite its employees and accomplish the Vision 2020. Sustainability Management Strategy Goal Become a much loved company that balances economic, social, and environmental performance / Mission / Economic Value Environmental Value Social Value •stable electricity supply •minimization of •Happy and safe workplace We make a brighter world by providing cleaner energy •expansion of global market environmental impact •contribution to local •establishment of future growth base •climate change response community development •Co-success company / Vision / Strengthen the Sustainability Internalize Sustainability Promote Communication Direction Management Infrastructure Management with Stakeholders World‘s Best GREEN Energy Company •Establish a task force for the •Establish enterprise-wide business •Identify key issues of (Global, Reliable, Excellent, Efficient, Nature friendly) execution of plans strategies based on sustainability stakeholders and create the Action management appropriate response process •Implement sustainability Plan management strategies •Run programs that increases •Promote mutual awareness with -S elect key tasks to improve values to each stakeholders stakeholders / Core Value / implementation effectiveness •Strengthen training and •Publish sustainability reports •Link the goal for sustainability awareness-raising activities management with KPI Sustainability Management Organization Strategic CEO Decisions Sustainability Management Committee Passion Communication Co-Success Green Innovation We are running the Sustainability Management Committee, our Sustainability Management Committee corporate consultative group under the direct control of CEO Sustainability Management for handling various issues of sustainable management. And the Group / Secretary Sustainability Management Committee has five working groups Operational Sustainability Management Working Committee Decisions •Ownership •Trust •Prosperous eco-system •Eco-friendly growth in the areas of environmental management, social contribution, •Challenge •Consideration •Social responsibility •Creativity and innovation shared growth, GWP (Great Work Place), and customer satisfacEnvironmental Social Shared Customer •Professionalism •Cooperation GWP Management Contribution Growth Satisfaction tion in order to share the relevant issues, ensure consistency of / Our Behavioral Principles / sustainable management activities, and to raise awareness about Sustainability Management Facilitator, WorkingGroup Action those issues. •We are proud •We trust one •We grow with all •We are pioneering members of POSCO another with an stakeholders, and future energy Sustainability Management Task Force ENERGY and open mindset, and we help to advance through eco-friendly The Sustainability Management Group, which is the company‘s sustainability management orgatake the lead in communicate freely the ecosystem to growth. everything we do. and unreservedly. which we belong. nization, establishes and implements plans, reviews progress and executes the measures that are •We apply creativity •We seek out new •We recognized our •We fulfill our and innovation to designed to strengthen internal capacity, thereby enhancing value for stakeholders. challenges with a diversity and take responsibilities as secure new business sense of pride. care of one another a global corporate opportunities. with sincerity. citizen. Sustainability Management Facilitator •We grow with our In order to raise internal awareness, improve work efficiency, and provide the means for execution, work, develop our •We transcend professionalism, and regional and in March 2014, POSCO ENERGY appointed 19 representatives as sustainability management facilibecome the very organizational tators for each sustainability management issue. For each quarter, the sustainability management best at everything barriers to work Sustainability Management we do. together and facilitator receives training provided by an outside expert for capacity-building. For each area, the Facilitator Workshop achieve shared facilitator identifies sustainability management issues and the need of Stakeholders and executes goals. implementation tasks. 10 2013 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report World Best Green Energy Company 11 Communication with Stakeholders Value Chain POSCO ENERGY continuously identifies the expectations and interests of stakeholders and reflects them in the strategies The business management activities of a company are meaningful when it creates a social value in every value chain, rather than and activities of its sustainability management, while using various channels to communicate with stakeholders. simply creating profits and returning them to the community. POSCO ENERGY intends to create economic and social values in every value chain via sustainability management activities. Key Stakeholders and Communication Channels POSCO ENERGY has defined its key stakeholders as shareholders and investors, the government, local communities, employees, partner companies, and customers and established the channels customized to each stakeholder. The company utilizes communication channels in order to identify the key interests and issues of each stakeholder group, thereby effectively responding to stakeholders‘ requests. Sustainability Our Commitment Management Activities Stakeholders Key Issues Communication Channels •Fair trade •Stable supply of electric •KEPCO workshop power and improving •Benefit Sharing •Domestic and foreign customer satisfaction exhibitions •Partner‘s environment Value chain Material management support •Stable supply of electric •Counseling for new customers Procurement power •Co-success cooperation program •M •Reinforcing price and •Customer seminars al axi nci m quality competitiveness and New Year‘s party na by sha izing g fi rin s c u rin and •B g g yner •Development of new products e ty •S tabili cing uild row gies inf ing th s h an bility r sup astru the •KEPCO/KPX en fita e p c lier ture •Renewable energy power companies, pro cor •S i ng ines ha s for power subsidiaries and f y ate ter ring nti h eng rpor de •F m bu mid •P local governments •I rowt ng co ess ai sin -to ow g i n sel r eva ess lon rov itive d •Continuous R&D and investment ect lua •P pla ger  I mp pet an risks ion tio ow ns at gen • om c ing o •Operation of eco-friendly power plants ag ing t •W na • inMa r ge hom erat n de t n a nd ors CO tmen •M espo su win ect •T ppor gro int ne e a ion dir •Climate change response en ra nd co Customers OS s r f s •P Inve ent t rview ech t te w o exc nol am th Co ance tion abr mpa e tm oa rd en em s inte •Workplace Health & Safety fac oad nie Lak ves mp  B h an gy i activi o m • a g an ostic R&D, Power management Sky IC In •S up ge n an form ies t on ate ilit s en i •M iagn t Generation t su rials· es·Fu plie T en •S dt ati d e •Great workplace rp r a inin n o stm tions sur res en S pp erv l·E e Partners Shareholders n v e ia clo g lie •I ssoc dis rs ices· PC· tat and Investors t e •Competency building of employees ion A s ora  C orp •Contribution to development of local • communities or •Social contribution activities rt f •T po •I p su cy •R h nc I eM eco reasin ore eten nt art ele van ndus inist sm nt •M omp pme ting e f ge -frie g th c o m so ne n e as t go try an ry of vel mo on ee Y Employees Government rat dly p de pro envir loy RG ion ow d ork Co ve mp ENE bu e -Su rnm d En Trad an king •R sin r nw •E SCO o r e ei ess w tw e cce en erg e, ma nforc be PO na ing n ce Local ss C t a y •S tre gem gre al a fe of om gen pla ngth ent en •B nd li nt Communities a p me l mi cie•C ce sa enin lo a tte s su fet g w eve ssion y lim y •D rofe tenc e res ate ch po c ork Use •Stable electricity supply p pe ey nse han com urv ing •Local governments and ge i o ns ess residents of HQ and business premises •P •Customer satisfaction c t c i sfa pro nt olic a t c e me ym •S ievan nage eet r a & ing •G bor-m ety s  L a c i l a l Saf e •Promoting social •Blue Sky meetings • oun on mitte c ati contribution activities •Regular meetings c cup Com customized to the local •O ealth communities •Resident‘s Association H Customers Local Communities presentation •Conducting social contribution •Working committee of four Shareholders •Minimizing environmental impact Incheon power plants Employees and Investors •Supporting the development of •Development fund review Government Partners local communities committee 12 2013 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report World Best Green Energy Company 13 Sustainability Management Core Issues POSCO ENERGY identifies the expectations and issues of stakeholders in order to reflect them in the sustainability management Step Define Key Issues strategy and activities and communicate with stakeholders via various channels. Materiality Evaluation Process 03 The company created a pool of issues on sustainability management and selected the top issues by mapping the results of the evaluation of external interest and business importance in a matrix based Step 01 Identify issues of Step 02 Evaluate level of interest Step 03 Define key issues on the opinions of stakeholders and the comprehensive analysis. The activities and performance of sustainability management and importance to business sustainability management regarding these key issues are mainly disclosed in this report. Issues other than the top ones will also be monitored and managed continuously. Domestic&foreign standards benchmarking Social concern evaluation Materiality evaluation Media analysis Business impact analysis Definition of sustainability core issues Materiality Evaluation matrix Step Identify Issues of Sustainability Management Sustainability Management System Economy Environment Society 01 1-1. Analyze and Benchmark Domestic and Foreign Standards The company identified 24 issues related to sustainability management by analyzing a group of doHigh 11 Improve productivity and management efficiency (24-25p) 1 Obtain new growth engines (29-31. 39p) mestic and foreign standards of sustainability management (GRI, EUSS, ISO26000 and UNGC), peer 2 Great workplace creation (53-55p) group benchmarking (key activities and issues), and advice from sustainability management experts. Sustainability Sustainability Management Issue Management System Economy Environment Society 24 5 6 5 8 Implement new renewable energy business (39p) 7 Establish transparent and stable corporate governance (14p) 1-2. Media Analysis 15 Strengthen co-success growth activities (60-61p) 4 POSCO ENERGY conducted a media analysis on its sustainability management activities by examin5 Respond to climate change (38p) ing 797 articles published in 2013.  16 Secure financial stability (22p) Provide stable supply Minimize the 14 Expand the stakeholder 9 of electricity (26-27p) amount of pollutants Communication (41-43p) Establish the sound Positive Customers 10% Partners 4% (10, 34-35p) 8 labor-management 3 Business Impact culture and protect Negative 18 Operate social contribution program (62-65p) the rights of 6 61% Government 19% Employees 27% 10 employees (55, 79p) Implement ethical Stakeholders 39% Execute customer satisfaction management and management (58-59p) fair trade (15-16p) Local Communities 19% Shareholders and Investors 21% Contribute to the development of Respond pre-emptively to government regulation and 12 20 local communities (31, 62-65p) policy (39, 41-43, 58p) Step Evaluate level of Interest and Importance to Business 21 Expand the global market (7, 28p) 02 Recruit quality talent and 22 Reinforce company-wide risk management system (17p) 13 strengthen the competitiveness 2-1. Evaluate Social Concern of directors and employees (50-52p) Industry Benchmarking Identify major issues of superior companies in the same industry domestic and overseas (17 companies) Global Standard Review GRI G4, UNGC, ISO26000, etc. 17 Invest in R&D activities and secure technology competitiveness (23p) External Stakeholder Survey Conduct a survey on external stakeholders 19 Health & Safety Management (56-57p) (participants:109 persons, sample:297 persons, response ratio:37%) 23 Use resources in an efficient manner (41p) 2-2. Business Impact Analysis Internal Stakeholder Survey Conduct a survey on management, group leaders, and facilitators BOD Agendas BOD agendas for 2013 24 Preserve biodiversity (41p) Low Strategy Tasks Major implementation tasks per group Low Social Concern High Business Report Sustainability management-related activities within business report Web-zine Contents of Web-zine issued 2013 14 2013 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report World Best Green Energy Company 15 Governance Ethical Management Stable Governance Fair Trade In order to meet its own goals and the expectations of stakeholders, POSCO ENERGY is practicPOSCO ENERGY conducts fair trade compliance activities on a continuous basis and promotes fair and free competition, thereby iming responsible and substantial management. The board of directors, the highest decision-making proving the market mechanism, suppressing the concentration of economic power. body of the company, is fully committed to enhancing the value for shareholders and the benefit of stakeholders. Introduction and Operation of the Fair Trade Compliance Program POSCO ENERGY introduced the fair trade compliance program (CP) in October 2009. For transparent and ethical transactions, the Composition and Procedures of the Board of Directors company developed guidelines and the standing auditor establishes and implements specific action plans. To ensure that all employees The board of directors (BOD) is the highest decision-making authority of POSCO ENERGY and understand and comply with the laws and regulations, the company offers compliance programs and an online education program, consists of a total of seven directions: four internal directors, two non-executive directors, and one ‘Easy to Understand Fair Trade’. The company continues to develop in-house experts, who can perform their jobs with thorough unauditor. At the BOD meeting, internal directors with business management expertise and nonderstanding of law, through regular training sessions from specialized agencies. Also, the training that is provided utilizes internal and executive directors are appointed and a financial expert shall be appointed as the auditor via a BOD external instructors (law firms and in-house attorneys, the person in charge of POSCO fair trade). The company also distributed a handresolution. The appointed directors shall make major decisions on key management issues regardbook on fair trade to all departments, and encouraged employees to practice fair trade in their daily lives. Furthermore, the company ing the company management and the auditor checks and assesses the performance of directors. is taking disciplinary action against violators as stipulated in the HR policy. The BOD approves the resolutions regarding key management issues. The BOD regulations stipulate that directors who have a special stake in the company should not exercise their voting rights in Autonomous Inspection of Fair Trade these meetings. POSCO ENERGY has introduced a system that enables employees to autonomously check whether they are violating the laws and regulations of fair trade and takes measures against the risks as soon as they are reported. The fair trade compliance committees are held Evaluation and Compensation for each quarter, promoting the autonomous inspection culture. Based on such activities, the potential violations have been prevented Evaluation and compensation for the BOD members comply with a internal merit-based compenand the company has contributed to the fair and free market economy; as a result, it obtained “A” grade for CP grade evaluation (valid BOD Activities sation system. Participation and performance in BOD meetings during the tenure of directors are for two years). monitored and performance compensation is paid after the evaluation of the executives of POSCO No. of meetings family companies. 10 BOD Operation and Major BOD Agenda in 2013 No. of approved agenda  Ethical Management For effective BOD operation, regular and extraordinary BOD meetings are held. In 2013, a total of ten BOD meetings were held. The major BOD agendas in 2013 include a total of 32 reported and 32 POSCO ENERGY has made corporate ethics a part of its corporate culture and implements various ethical management training and activities for the company‘s survival and growth regardless of approved cases: domestic and overseas projects for power generation, new renewable energy inAttendance any challenges. vestment, CSR, risk management. In order to become a fully sustainable company, POSCO ENERGY will coordinate in a balanced manner the opinions of diverse stakeholders at BOD meetings in which 95.7 % Ethical Management System the major decisions of the company are made. POSCO ENERGY continuously implements ethical management activities by internalizing the new ethical management culture that values the fundamentals and principles. As part of such efforts, the BOD Composition (As of April 2014) Shareholder Status (As of December 2013) Ethical Management Team solely responsible for ethical management supports the internalization Classification Name Position of ethical management by establishing regulations, offering programs on ethical practice as well as KoFC Skylake Internal Eun-Yeon Hwang CEO education on the prevention of unethical behavior, and checking any violations of the code of ethics. KoFC STIC Growth Growth-Champ Declaration of Ethical Practice and Directors Communication with Trust Kyung-Hoon Lee Vice President Champ No. 2010-2 2010-5 Private STIC Korea Private Equity Fund Equity Fund POSCO Family Code of Conduct Woo-Kyu Lee Head of Management & Planning Division Integrated7.5% 1.4% Technologies The code of ethics of POSCO ENERGY is based upon the fundamental motto that the continuous Myung-Chul Lee Head of Technology Strategy Division POSCO New Growth growth of the company and the instilling of correct values among the directors and employees are NonDong-June Yoon Vice President of POSCO Engine Private executive Directors (Management Infra Division Head) 77.6 % Skylake Global Incuvest 5 Private Equity Fund 0.6% most important. Also, in order to keep pace with global trends, the values are not solely focused on anti-corruption − Human rights, the environment, and shared growth are emphasized as well. Gyung-Chul Gu Executive Director of STIC Investment Equity Fund Standing Dong-Deok Choi Head of Ethical Management Division 12.9% Under the code of ethics, the behavioral principles and practice guidelines are established in order Auditor to encourage the compliance of every director and employee. In short, at POSCO ENERGY, everyone practices ethical management and as a result, the company has received good reviews as a model company for excellent ethical management. Composition of Shareholders 16 2013 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report World Best Green Energy Company 17 Risk Management To act pre-emptively toward risks that might affect the company‘s business activities for Ethical Management Program continuous growth, POSCO ENERGY has established its risk management system and has Ethics Helper Program / Each division assigns an ethics helper for the Programs on Corporate managed such risks through inter-division cooperation. Ethics Autonomous Practice so that the ethics helpers can assist in the implementation of the ethical practice activities of their responsible division. The ethics helpers serve as messengers for Risk Management Strategy ethical practices conducting such duties as ethical consultations, spreading related information and Under the responsibility of the CEO, POSCO ENERGY defines and manages the risks related to Programs on Corporate Ethics notifications, and training. Autonomous Practices strategy, finance, law, procurement, EHS, maintenance, manufacturing, human resources, and ethics by division and position. Moreover, the company identifies the risks that can negatively affect Programs on Corporate Ethics Autonomous Practice / POSCO ENERGY has operated the Programs on Corporate Ethics Autonomous stakeholders in advance, reflects them in the decision-making, and makes all-out efforts to prevent Practice since 2010 through which employees voluntarily identify ethical risks of their respective divisions and identify appropriate the subsequent loss through self-assessment. assignments to prevent unethical behaviors, while the executives of each division take the lead in such activities. Each division selects at least two ethical assignments including an assignment to prevent unethical behaviors to resolve ethical risks of the division and an action that can be taken in daily life to internalize ethical management. Risk Management Activities Autonomous Inspection of Risk Factors The company has conducted autonomous inspection of risk factors by division and position to STEP STEP STEP identify the risk factors embedded in working-level divisions. Regarding the risk factors, autonomous 01 Ethics Diagnostics 02 Task Designation 03 Task Execution inspection, improvement, and feedback on activities help the company to establish an effective •Conduct a questionnaire in •Establish the department ethics •Establish activity plans and response system and to internalize the importance of risk management. order to diagnose the level of vision and individual ethics goals execute activities via task ethics practice and status •Conduct corporate ethics education designation Enhancement of the Management Audit Portal led by the department head Carrying out advancement of the company management audit portal, POSCO ENERGY strengthens •Select potential ethics violations via department discussion the monitoring and inspection of risks in various sectors including finance, operation, ethics, environment, etc. The process of risk management starts with detection, moves on to pre-inspection, then final inspection by the Management Audit Group, and ends with post-management by the Ethics Violation Report and Compensation System / For the establishment of ethical corporate relevant division. Ethics Violation Report Center culture, POSCO ENERGY operates ethics violation report system and the person who reports gets •Cyber Sinmumgo up to KRW 1 billon. Operation of English cyber Risk Management Framework Sinmungo via overseas report receipt Ethics Training / In order for our ethics violations to be rooted out, POSCO ENERGY provides Management System Division Heads Staff in Charge training on ethics violation and sexual harassment prevention to all directors and employees. Various Audit Group •Ethics Violation Report ethics trainings, including those for the newcomers, are provided differently for each rank in the System company, in addition to ethics education for partners in connection with co-success activities by Report on abnormalities Report on abnormalities Korea Corporate Ethics Manthrough SMS through SMS agement Research Institute preventing ethics violations regarding stakeholder. In particular, in order to reinforce leadership and ethics, the leaders receive group training and the ethics training room is operated along with Checking of abnormality •Ethics and Fair Trade Checking of materials Counseling Department directors. Also, director ethics sessions are planned in line with the POSCO ethical management Audit Portal and appointment for explanation of staff in charge department in 2014. Lack of materials Request for materials Inclusive Ethical Management Participation / In order to encourage directors and employees for explanation for explanation YES to participate in ethical management activities, various activity programs are being implemented: Materials for NO explanation ethics management issues are published via the company-wide intranet pop-ups, helpline PR stickers Participation of Ethics Grading and Checking and approval Training by Employees are distributed, a present return center is operated during the holiday season, a small wedding post-management of materials commitment is announced. Going forward, POSCO ENERGY will make its best efforts to raise the 100% awareness of directors and employees regarding ethics management and instil a transparent ethics culture throughout the company. Cause analysis and establishment/distribution of measures to prevent Post-management recurrence / Economic Value Creation and Benefit Sharing / Financial Soundness / R&D / Business Innovation Material Issues / / Power Generation / Fuel Cell We conducted a materiality test and selected such key issues as ensuring new items for future / POSCO ENERGY‘s Creating Shared Value (CSV) growth and stable electricity supply for economical materiality. / Stakeholder Committee Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) / To achieve the middleto long-term financial goals and become a sustainable company, POSCO ENERGY conducts diversified activities such as maximizing revenues through improving the competitiveness of the power generation business, ensuring the original technology for fuel cell, and establishing a foundation for growth with conducting new projects and developing new technology. With an effort to strengthen internal stability, POSCO ENERGY focuses on reinforcing R&D competencies and business innovation to provide better products and services while fairly distributing economic value to stakeholders. Achievements in 2013 and Plans for 2014 Achievements in 2013 KPI in 2013 Plans for 2014 •Minimized the breakdowns of power plants, •Installed •Achieve zero breakdowns of power plants contributing to the stable supply of electricity Capacity of •Ensure internal stability of the earnings base with Stable •Enhanced the performance of Incheon LNG 3,498MW efficient performance management Supply Combined Cycle Power Plant Units 5-6 •Sales of •Achieve early stability of Incheon LNG Combined of •Optimized the construction of Incheon LNG KRW 2.9trillion Cycle Power Plant Units 7-9 Electricity Combined Cycle Power Plant Units 7-9 •Completed the construction of the Pohang off-gas combined cycle plant earlier than planned and successfully started its operation •Completed the construction of off-gas power •Installed •Completion of constructing the first unit plants in Indonesia Capacity of of the Mong Duong2 Coal-fired Power Plant •Selected as a preferred bidder for the CHP5 200MW in Vietnam Expansion Cogeneration Power Project in Mongolia generated from •Execution of major project agreements for the into the off-gas •Diversified overseas markets to Middle East and CHP5 Cogeneration Power Project in Mongolia Global in Indonesia Market South America •Diversification of overseas business portfolio to new and renewable energy •Business expansion in existing markets such as Indonesia, Vietnam, and Mongolia •Competitive fuel sourcing •Commenced the construction of a cell •Accumulated •Automate processes and complete the manufacturing factory orders for construction of the cell manufacturing factory Foundation •Developed a reaction steam turbine fuel cell of in time for Future 146.65MW •Ensured a foundation for growth by conducting •Acquire the original technology for the cell to Growth new projects and developing new technology •Investment build an independent business structure in R&D of •Ensure the economic feasibility of fuels and KRW16.1billion advance into new markets We will continue such activities to become Korea‘s signature energy company in overseas markets, beyond the Korean market. Moreover, we will continue to focus on improving the cost-competitiveness of fuel cell, developing and supplying new and renewable energy while diversifying power generation sources. 20 2013 POSCO ENERGY Economic Value World Best Green Energy Company 21 Economic Value Creation and Benefit Sharing POSCO ENERGY creates economic value through stable revenues and continual growth. The economic value created is distributed by economic activities with the stakeholders. et ROE s 9.1% ss n lio To ril ta 4. lA 0t W KR Economic Value Creation Operating 8. Profit on illi Profit Rate 2b on g ra 8.2% illi EB 1. A D IT 2b O pe tin 23 36 KR W W KR on illi e on s le 1b nc om 8b illi Sa 1. Ne tI 4. 90 14 2, W W KR KR Purchase Agreement Costs KRW 197.1 billion Benefit Sharing Salary, Training and Welfare Benefit Costs Taxes KRW 65.3 billion KRW 50.2 billion Social Contribution Environmental Investments 12.8 billion Expenses KRW KRW 2.8 billion Local Government Employees Partners Environment Communities 22 2013 POSCO ENERGY Economic Value World Best Green Energy Company 23 Financial Soundness R&D Financial Risk Management Promotion Directions and Organization POSCO ENERGY manages risks effectively by operating a risk management system covering various POSCO ENERGY strengthens its R&D competency to become a profit center based on the mission F/X Derivatives (%) R&D Investment and financial activities in accounting, tax, and treasury. We ensure financial soundness and minimize of providing the value of the current business through R&D activities and ensuring new items for Personnel volatility with well-diversified debt maturity structures and using financial instruments such as USD 100 future growth. 2013 2013 EUR 51 KRW 16.1 billion 65 persons derivatives, etc. JPY 30 Providing the Value of the Current Business through R&D Activities and 2012 2012 Securing New Items for Future Growth KRW 18.3 billion 69 persons Growth, Profitability, and Stability •Securing efficiency-improving technology •Sourcing domestic/overseas information 2011 2011 POSCO ENERGY enhances financial soundness through maintaining a stable revenue structure and Korean Won 69 31 to maximize the value of the current business on technology and policy, applying suitable KRW 9.8 billion 53 persons strategies to the business implementing non-debt financing initiatives. We accomplished sales of KRW 2,901.1 billion, and Foreign •Finding new items for future growth to respond Currency to energy policy and market changes •Maximizing R&D efficiency with close operating profit of KRW 238.2 billion (EBIT margin of 8.2%) in 2013. Although the large-scale management of assignments •Diversifying power generation fuels by securing investments in establishment and expansion of power plants in the past three years resulted in total waste resource recycling technology •Resolving business risks and maximizing the value of the company‘s technology by securing and loans of KRW1.9 trillion at the end of 2013, the issuance of hybrid securities worth KRW 500 billion Credit Ratings managing strategic patents has decreased in leverage from 252.3% to 153.2%, which considerably contributed to the financial soundness. Due to such achievements, POSCO ENERGY has a long-term credit rating of AA+ and a Long-term Credit Rating AA+ In addition, we have professional researchers working for the Technology Planning Group, Green Energy Research Center, and SOFC short-term credit rating of A1, being recognized as an ability to secure sound funding, as well as the Short-term Credit Rating A1 Research Team under the Technology Strategy Division; POSCO ENERGY strives to secure technical competencies and establish a most excellent financial structure among independent power producers in Korea. company-level technical support system. On top of the transformation of the two-story maintenance building in the power plant to an experiment building for the Green Energy Research Institute in January 2013, we have continued research activities to strengthen Growth Profitability competitiveness and increase profitability of the power-generation business with the development of new technology. Sales (KRW 100 million) ROA (%) 2013 29,011 2013 3.6 2012 28,052 2012 5.4 Technology Development Improvement of the Efficiency of the Power Generation 2011 19,176 2011 1.5 with Shared Growth! Business and Leading New Growth Fields POSCO ENERGY finds R&D opportunities to develop new, leading technology in the energy field, Sales increase rate (%) The reaction steam turbine ROE (%) taking the connectivity with business portfolios and results of megatrend analyses into account. With 2013 3.4 technology that reuses the 2013 9.1 low-temperature waste heat the current key research subjects including recycling of waste resources, responding to demands for 2012 46.3 2012 18.9 from generators not only 2011 117.5 energy, and dispersed generation, we are establishing a foothold for midand long-term growth 2011 5.3 improves power-generation efficiency but also reduces through dynamic R&D activities. Total assets (KRW trillion) fuel costs. The steam Operating profit (KRW 100 million) turbines, co-developed with Energy Production Energy Storage Energy Generation Source 2013 4.0 and Delivery Consumption 2013 2,382 small and medium-sized 2012 3.3 enterprises (SMEs) in Korea, 2012 2,748 Waste Resource 2011 3.0 have resulted in visible 2011 1,406 research outcomes and been Recycling Industrial evaluated as a successful case Reaction steam Asset increase rate (%) Waste Heat Fuels turbine (middle-low of win-win cooperation. 2013 21.3 EBIT Margin (%) temperature generator) Heat Pump Middle-low 2012 11.1 2013 8.2 Middle-low temperature Temperature waste heat recovery Sewage Generator 2011 17.1 2012 9.8 system (heat pump) 2011 7.3 Transformation of waste source to gas Stability Waste Debt-to-equity ratio (%) Net income (KRW 100 million) Responding to the Gasification 2013 1,448 Demand for Energy System 2013 153.2 2012 1,778 Technology development Energy storage devices 2012 252.3 (ESS, Energy 2011 241.6 2011 461  emonstration for D Energy Storage Storage System) Electricity commercialization Device Solar Geothermal Responding to Equity-capital ratio (%) Net Income Margin (%) Gas Dispersed Generation 2013 39.5 2013 5.0 Fuel cell for the next Electricity generation, energy 2012 25.4 2012 6.3 Heat storage devices 2011 29.3 2011 2.4 Hydraulic Wind New and Renewable Fuel Cell for the Next Heat Energy Generation Generation (SOFC) 24 2013 POSCO ENERGY Economic Value World Best Green Energy Company 25 Business Innovation Process Innovation Business Innovation Activities POSCO ENERGY conducts process innovation (PI 3.0) that reorganizes an ERP system and redefines POSCO ENERGY has set its direction of innovation activities as ‘Employees all together participate in the business process as well as management operation structure to improve the efficiency of the innovative activities voluntarily and continuously to solve issues with wasted factors‘ and conoperating systems. With the PI 3.0, we redesign the business process across the company and ducts company-level activities to instil values. design an optimal organizational structure for employees to focus on creating value added activity. QSS Activities Framework PI 3.0 Goals Establish a transparent and speedy management information system Create a pleasant and rewarding workplace for all employees through company-wide process innovation Process 3-ZERO Design a customer-oriented process based on the visualization of all business processes and (Zero Accidents, Zero Defects, Zero Waste) simplification and standardization of the work approach Information Carry out the site improvement project System Build an enterprise-wide integrated management system corresponding to the energy Be a leader of QSS centered on 3: site, current state, industry and global standards improvement and wise solution Make a Nurture worksite talents with Organizational Design a process-oriented organization and internalize the culture of continuous that wastes Take the Continue to improve the daily the power of Culture improvement to focus on creating higher added value nothing initiative business processes execution Improve the daily 5S, My Machine, Best Plant business processes Jump-Up activities Current Progress Status A PI 3.0 task force team was established under the direct control of the CEO in November 2012 and Reform of consciousness, awareness of waste, activity of practice, encouragement of suggestions the TF team has been leading the company‘s PI 3.0 team. The process innovation is carried out by Commendation · Encouragement · Appreciation phases of establishment of a master plan, building, and operating an integrated system. Currently it is in a testing phase and is slated to commence operations in July 2014. Some of the systems including SWP, floor plan information, and administrative support systems pre-opened in April. erp System Kick Off Quick Six Sigma (QSS) Activities With the new ERP system, the work process time can be greatly reduced, work-efficiency increased, Along with the QSS Jump-Up activities that carry out innovation throughout the power plants, and the purchase and electricity sales system can be upgraded to world-class level. POSCO ENERGY POSCO ENERGY assigns Senior QSS Improvement Leaders for each operation. The Senior QSS has also deployed a standard cost management system using the ERP, a first in the power-generation Improvement Leaders have led innovation of change management, facility enhancement, and industry, to analyze cost breakdown of power generation and remove wasting factors, thereby work environment improvement. Currently the fourth batch of leaders is on duty supported by the System Building Workshop reducing costs and increasing profitability. company for their continuous innovation activities.  QSS Remarkable Worksite Certification PI 3.0 Road Map and Achievements The company certifies facilities and worksites that have achieved outstanding innovation through Establishment of Building an integrated System the QSS activities as a QSS Remarkable Worksites. By sharing exemplary innovation cases of safety, a master plan system operation facility, and work efficiency improvement, employees are encouraged and motivated to engage ’12.11~’13.02 ’13.03~06 ’13.07~10 ’13.11~’14.01 ’14.02~06 ’14.07~09 in innovation activities on a daily basis. With the heat recovery steam generator (HRSG) 7 in the (As-Is analysis) (Designing a (Detailed (System (Testing) (System Incheon Plant that enhanced safety facilities and improved efficiency being certified in July 2013 for To-Be model) designing) building) stabilization) the first time, three worksites so far have been certified with QSS. Find improvement opportunities through •Developing an ERP and •Operating Selection of Strategic Assignments and Conducting D+ Activities identifying wasted factors and conducting interviews non-ERP along with four tests to the ERP with employees and draw up 22 innovation prepare for actual operation •Monitoring POSCO ENERGY selects and conducts strategic assignments to achieve business goals. To reinforce assignments to design a To-Be process •Generating work standards (806 the operation the ability to take action, the company also conducts the D+ activities along with the innovative →E xpected effect of the innovation assignments: cases) that fit the system of the ERP activities. We set key performance indicators (KPI) based on our midto long-term business strategy, KRW 167 billion Investment costs: KRW 31.6 billion AS-IS analysis of the 985 work standards identify improvement assignments accordingly, and connects them with individual MBO. In 2013, 91% of D+ assignments were performed. QSS Remarkable Worksite Certification 26 2013 POSCO ENERGY Economic Value World Best Green Energy Company 27 Power Generation Introduction to Power Generation Business Zero-Forced Outage POSCO Energy is Korea‘s largest private power generator providing 16.5% of the electricity to Supply Capacity Strengthening Preventive Inspections 60 million the metropolitan areas and 4% of the electricity to the entire country. Competing against Korea Demand Curve kW The possibility of a breakdown of facilities increases in proportion to their usage. As such, POSCO Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO)‘s power plants, POSCO ENERGY especially focuses on LNG LNG ENERGY has expanded the online inspection of facilities rather than the existing PM maintenance Combined 3000 power plants. Our LNG power plants quickly respond to the volatility of the domestic electricity Peak load and takes preventive measures following the schedule of facility replacement to prevent the Fossil demand dealing with peak load electricity use. The high-efficiency power plants (combined cycle Base load occurrence of failures. The facilities are monitored based on the inspection checklist to maintain Nuclear power plants units 5-9) focus on continuous operation while low-efficiency power plants (combined their optimal conditions while abnormalities of the on-site equipment are detected in advance with 1 11 23hr cycle power plants units 1-4) run with the daily start-and-stop operation by electricity demand. close inspections and corrected in a timely manner to prevent any unexpected breakdowns. LNG Combined Cycle Power Plants Forced Outage Rate (%) Improvement of Operational Workforce Competencies POSCO ENERGY’S LNG combined cycle power plants burn LNG to produce primary electricity in a The LNG combined cycle power plants require a high level of operational skills due to their more gas turbine and the waste heat discharged from the gas turbine is passed through a heat recover frequent operation and suspension than base-load stations. Accordingly, we have enhanced the 0.09 steam generator (HRSG) to produce high pressure, high temperature steam, which is to be supplied 1.37 soundness of the facilities through cooperation among the divisions of power-generation operation, to a steam turbine generator. 2013 technology, and maintenance and strengthened the ability to cope with emergency situations through the ”Operator Upskill Training.“ The company strives to respond to emergencies in a LNG Combined Cycle Power Plant Specifications timely manner by accumulating facility maintenance skills through internal recruiting and training of 0.64 Classification Units 1-4 Units 5-6 Units 7-9 0.06 maintenance workforce, and running a task force for around-the-clock maintenance. Commencement ‘95-‘02 #5 : ‘11.02, #6 : ‘11.06 ‘14.07-‘15.01 2012 Availability (%) 2012 2013 of operation (Construction in progress) 50 50 Capacity 1,800MW 1,252MW 1,260MW 0.45 Composition GT 100MW×3units GT 202MW×2units GT 275MW×1unit 1.18 25 75 25 75 ST 150MW×1unit ST 222MW×1unit ST 145MW×1unit 2011 Method of PPA CBP CBP 4 Electricity Trading (Power Purchase Agreement) (Cost Based Pool) (Cost Based Pool) Units 1-4 93. Units 5-6 93. 8 Units 1-4 Units 5-6 7 0 95.6 100 0 94. 100 Flow of LNG Combined Cycle Power Generation Process Technical Cooperation and Information Exchange POSCO ENERGY promotes the effective operation of facilities through regular technology exchange with power companies and Gas Turbine LNG(fuel) production companies that use the same facilities. We strive to secure the measures of effective facility operation through the following Produces the 1st stage electricity by converting ways: sharing technical information on operation and maintenance of the facilities; updating the current status of reserve materials Source of Demand heat energy, which is and special tools used for construction and operation; cooperating on the rental of emergency materials; and a joint response with generated from combustion of LNG, to rotational domestic and foreign production companies to deal with any defects in the powergeneration facilities. energy Heat Recovery Steam Boosting Power Generation Efficiency Generator Generator Power Improvement Activities to Maintain Efficiency of Power Generation Facilities Steam transmission Supplies highly pressured and reception We have invested in improvement of the facility in the Incheon LNG Combined Cycle Power Plant Units 5-6, which enabled the steam to a steam turbine facilities generator by boiling wasteheat generated from gas turbines to be collected and used for steam turbines. With the enhancement of the facility, the capacity water in the boiler with high temperature of the power plant increased by approximately 2MW. Moreover, cleaning of gas turbine compressors and regular repairs has minimized combustion gas from gas performance degradation, allowing more efficient and effective operation of the high-efficiency power plant. turbines Generator Cooling Deploying High-Efficiency Power Generators Steam Turbine Recovery of In order to contribute to mitigating of a shortage of electricity supply in the country caused by the rapidly increased demand and Produces the 2nd stage electricity condensate improving resource efficiency nationwide through enhancing the power-generation efficiency, POSCO ENERGY is currently in the by converting heat energy, water which is generated from HRSG, process of replacing its old power-generation facilities with state-of-the-art, high-efficiency facilities. Supply of cooling to rotational energy water 28 2013 POSCO ENERGY Economic Value World Best Green Energy Company 29 Fuel Cell Off-Gas Power Plant Challenges Posed by New Markets Off-Gas Power Plants with Resource Recycling POSCO ENERGY has contributed to the development of the new and renewable energy industry Off-gas is generated from blast furnaces and 20% of it is used for the general steelmaking processes with its fuel cell business. The company has localized 70% of BOP and Stack while establishing an and the rest remains in excess. Using the excessive gas to produce electricity is off-gas power independent service network for customers and an independent construction system. In addition, generation. the company has conducted various R&D activities on fuel cell to contribute to development of new items for national growth, building competencies in technology, quality, customer satisfaction, Timely Completion of Off-Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant in Pohang, Korea organization, and personnel matters to improve the performances of its products and services. Pohang Off-Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant The Pohang Off-Gas Combined Cycle Power / Plant began operation of unit 1 in September 2013 and unit 2 in March 2014, currently supplying Product Line-up 290MW of electricity per hour. Along with the existing off-gas, the plant reuses FINEX off-gas (FOG) generated from the FINEX process which was developed by POSCO. When using FOG, the power 100kW 300kW 1.4MW 2.5MW 50m (15 pyeong) 2 120m (40 pyeong) 2 400m (120 pyeong) 2 500m2 (150 pyeong) plant generates significantly more electricity as its calorific value is double that of blast furnace Small to medium-sized Small-sized production Sewage treatment Power plant, garbage gases (BFG). In addition, the power plant reuses the heat generated from gas turbines by sending building facility, middle to large facility, hospital landfill, large building sized building it to steam turbines to produce electricity; its efficiency is approximately 46% whereas that of the existing off-gas power generators is around 38%. Off-Gas Power Plant in Indonesia Construction of the First Overseas Power Plant / POSCO ENERGY completed the construction of an off-gas power plant of 200MW based on the accumulated technical skills in Cilegon, Indonesia in January 2014, which is the first overseas power plant of the company, and the first integrated The World’s Largest Fuel Cell Park steel mill off-gas power plant in Southeast Asia. Consisting of two 100MW units, it is expected to POSCO ENERGY has installed more than 115.6MW (which can supply 300,000 homes) and completed construction of the world‘s produce 200,000 kW of electricity an hour using the off-gas generated from the steel mill which can largest fuel cell park of 60MW in 2013 in Hwaseong City, Gyeonggi-do called the Gyeonggi Green Energy. The Gyeonggi Green supply 600,000 households a year. Energy fuel cell park consists of 21 fuel cell energy power plants which can supply electricity to 35% of households in Hwaseong City (population of 520,000 of 200,000 homes). The Gyeonggi Green Energy is expected to contribute to stabilization of the national electricity grid using new and renewable energies and become an exemplary case of distribution power generation. Classification Gwangyang Units 1-2 Pohang Units 1-2 Indonesia Units 1-2 Commencement of #1 : ‘10.08 #1 : ‘13.09 #1 : ‘14.03 Fuel Cell Supply Operation #2 : ‘10.12 #2 : ‘14.03 #2 : ‘14.04 Capacity 284MW 290MW 200MW Composition GT 86MW×1unit GT 88MW×1unit ST 100MW×2units ST 56MW×1unit ST 57MW×1unit Seobuk Hospital Korea South-East Power, Bundang Fuel BFG, COG FOG, BFG, COG BFG, LDG, COG POSCO ENERGY, (Korea‘s First FIT Facility in 2006) Incheon Korea South-East POSCO ENERGY, Korea East-West Nowon Efficiency 45.9% 45.7% 36% Power, Bundang Power, Ilsan Gyeonggi Green Energy, Children‘s GS EPS, Hwaseong Grand Park Dangjin POSCO ENERGY, Distributed Power Generation in the Metropolitan Sangam area, Nowon, Sangam(2010), and Seoul Korea Midland Power, Boryeong POSCO ENERGY, Natura Pohang HS Holdings, Power, TCS1, Korea South-East Jeonju Gunsan Daegu Power, Ulsan Second MPC(2011), Korea‘s First RPS Facility Pohang Off-Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant Indonesia Off-Gas Power Plant BFC, Busan Byucksan Engineering, Busan Total 115.6MW MPC, For power generation(Direct operation) Yeosu For power generation For building use TCS1(2011), Daegu, First 10MW-Power Plant 30 2013 POSCO ENERGY Economic Value World Best Green Energy Company 31 Establishment of Independent Business Infrastructure Building a Regional Cluster Construction of a Cell Manufacturing Plant / POSCO ENERGY is working hard to build an POSCO ENERGY is planning to build a cell manufacturing plant of 6,300 pyeong (20,826 m2) in its independent business infrastructure of fuel cell. Since the establishment of a strategic partnership fuel cell manufacturing complex in Pohang, Gyeongsangbuk-do (North Gyeongsang Province) by the with Fuel Cell Energy (FCE) of the USA, the company has localized BOP in 2008 and Stack in 2011, first half of 2015 to produce 70MW of cells a year. With the construction of the plant, the company self-producing them at its own manufacturing plants. Throughout the localization process, POSCO has been focusing on building a domestic supply chain as well as an industrial cluster of fuel cells to ENERGY promotes a virtuous cycle that expands the supply chain, including a number of domestic contribute to boosting local economy by cooperating with SMEs and creating new jobs. Such efforts SMEs, and creates excellent examples of win-win cooperation throughout the cycle. The company have been recognized by local governments including North Gyeongsang Province and Pohang City; is also in the process of constructing a plant for the in-house production of cell, a key component the local governments are planning to foster Pohang as a cluster of fuel cells and invest KRW 22 for fuel cell facilities. trillion in 30 major companies including POSCO ENERGY and green industries to create economic effects. In line with the plan, POSCO ENERGY has established a plan to build leading infrastructures BOP plant such as the Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Power Valley and New and Renewable Energy Certification Center. The company will serve a vital role in boosting the local economy by expanding win-win Cell manufacturing plant cooperation with SMEs and directly and indirectly creating jobs through continuously strengthening the industrial cluster of fuel cells and increasing industrial intensity. Stack plant Bird‘s-eye View of the Cell Manufacturing Plant Groundbreaking Ceremony Resource Recycling and Fuel Cell Gwangju New and Renewable Energy Complex Project / POSCO ENERGY signed an MOU with POSCO ENERGY is expecting to strengthen its overall business competitiveness, which includes cost Gwangju Metropolitan Government on the Gwangju New and Renewable Energy Complex Project reduction, quality stabilization, shortening of deadlines, and development of exclusive models with in November 2013. The project will not only enable the complex to supply a significant amount the in-house production of cell, a key component of fuel cell. Its competiveness will lead to customer of new and renewable energy (47MW) to the city but also recycle the existing resources by using satisfaction, and further, improvement of independence of the fuel cell industry and expansion of idle lands and excessive gasses generated from the water recycling center. Moreover, it is aimed the market. to contribute to the national economy by fostering new and renewable energy businesses in the region. Localization Roadmap FCE POSCO ENERGY Fuel Cell Project Using BOG / POSCO ENERGY is undertaking the world’s first project on using boiloff gas (BOG) generated from LNG production facilities for fuel cells. It collects the BOG naturally Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 generated by the temperature and pressure difference in the production facilities such as LNG Import and sale of Localization of BOP Localization of STACK Localization of CELL storage tanks and carriers to produce electricity. finished FCE products MBOP MBOP MBOP MBOP STACK STACK STACK STACK CELL CELL CELL CELL EBOP EBOP EBOP EBOP Fuel cells supplied Manpower recruited No. of SMEs for win-win cooperation Compound annual growth rate (CAGR) CAGR CAGR +71% +90% +58% 32 2013 POSCO ENERGY Economic Value World Best Green Energy Company 33 POSCO ENERGY’s Creating Shared Value (CSV) Fuel Cell Power Plants Strengthening Clustering in Urban locations for Industrialization of Fuel Cell Changes in Energy Paradigms The Fukushima nuclear accident, followed by Korea‘s To be competitive with new products, the technical Energy is essential to maintain society. A tremendous amount of energy is needed to make, move, blackout, and issues involving with construction of competitiveness needs to be strengthened through and use products and humankind has continuously strived to make the energy more efficient. Such transmission cable towers in Miryang, have made us clustering with R&D fields. POSCO ENERGY is reinforcissues as resource exhaustion, climate change, and environmental pollution have increased the need rethink the social impact of power-generation faciliing its technical competitiveness with related institutes to create new energy and make the existing energy more efficient. POSCO ENERGY recognizes ties that are concentrated in certain areas, caused by and research centers while fostering the fuel cell inpower supply that only focuses on large-scale power dustry. With continuous localization and development that the energy source we use is the energy source that will be used by and shared with the next generators. Fuel cells are able to respond to electricof technology, the company is planning to establish a generation. POSCO ENERGY is trying to serve its role as an economic entity to create added value ity demand in a timely manner, being the center of vertical supply chain of the fuel cell industry. Diversifyand create a virtuous circle of energies through identifying energy that is wasted and developing attention as a generation power source distributed ing the application areas, POSCO ENERGY is aiming to future energy sources. that mitigates the instability of supply and demand. work with 3,000 SMEs in Korea by 2020. Increasing the energy independence of major big cities is expected to improve efficiency of primary energy consumption and reduce social costs by mitigating conflicts with local residents. Fuel Cell Power Plants in Urban locations siness Opportunit f Bu ies Air no an Heat Electricity Conditioning tio d Crea b POSCO ENERGY Jo • Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions s • Reduction of the use of fossil fuels • Creating new jobs with new industry Fuel Cell Pohang Local Local and business Component Research •Increasing energy •Mitigating the Governments Manufacturers Communities Complex • Technology innovation independence of instability of electricity big cities supply • Waste reduction through •Increasing energy •Improvement of resource circulation efficiency stakeholder consensus Social Value Solid Refuse Fuel-Generation Project Supplying Heating Energy Using the Thermal in Busan Energy in Sewage Water Household waste has been disposed of by land-filling The sewage water discharged after treatment has or incineration. However, POSCO ENERGY‘s SRF genan average temperature of 12°C even during winter eration system in Busan, Korea, separates and sorts months. POSCO ENERGY collects the thermal energy flammable waste from the household waste to proin the waste water using heat pumps and converts it POSCO Energy’s duce electricity and heat, reducing use of fossil fuel into heating energy to be supplied to nearby areas. Value and air pollutant which can be caused when the The company increases energy efficiency and creates waste was buried or burnt. revenues by gathering energies being wasted and supplying them to where needed most. •Development of new items for future growth • Being the first to lead Average of Heat Pump Average of Annual heat the market expected sales Capacity of expected sales generation • Establishment of in 2015 waste being in 2015 200,000 Gcal a foundation to advance POSCO ENERGY’s KRW 34.5 billion transformed into KRW 7.7 billion into overseas markets fuels per day • Creation of new income sources Shared Value 900 tons •Positioning the company as an Annual amount Annual amount Annual Annual eco-friendly company of LNG used as of LNG used as Co2-reduction Co2-reduction a substitute fuel a substitute fuel 75 million Nm 3 90,000 tCO 2 19 million Nm 3 44,000 tCO 2 34 2013 POSCO ENERGY Economic Value World Best Green Energy Company 35 Stakeholder Committee POSCO ENERGY is expanding its energy business while striving to achieve its mission, ‘Make a brighter world by providing cleaner | POSCO ENERGY’s Creating Shared Value | energy.’ The company has held a meeting with the Stakeholder Committee to discuss whether POSCO ENERGY’s business is bright•LNG power ening the world and how the company can create greater value for itself and stakeholders in terms of business. The committee generation reviewed POSCO ENERGY‘s core capabilities and new energy businesses and suggested that the company needs to consider the •Fuel Cell production stakeholders involved in every step of the business cycle, from the sourcing of raw materials to the use of energy. The committee •Waste to energy business also emphasized the need for communication and the measurement of the impact of each step. Things POSCO ENERGY is Date_ May 9, 2014 Venue_ Conference room of the company headquarters in Seoul the best at doing •Climate change •Energy reduction POSCO ENERGY’s ACADEMIA •Resource recycling Professor Kim Tai-young Creating Shared Value •Eco-friendly energy _Graduate School of Business/ Sungkyunkwan University resources Creating shared value (CSV) starts from a direct and influential •Shortage of power Things that need Business question, “What is the role and essence of the company?” CSV transmission and to be resolved opportunities is a strategy of reverse thinking that solves social issues through distribution facilities with in society core capabilities of the company. The bottom line is how effectively, efficiently and sustainably they can create shared value utilizing their core capability. While mitigating such social •Korean and overseas issues, companies create customer and economic values and Shared energy reduction policies •Increased investments in share such values with stakeholders. Growth new and renewable Enterprise energy Director Song Soung-soo Social Adviser Kim Young-woo _Global Policy & Relations Team CONTRIBUTION Samsung Electronics _Shared Growth Committee From compliance, to strategic social contribution, Companies are economic entities that can create and shared value creation − for a company to added value. I think that POSCO ENERGY’s business practice sustainability, there are many ways to activities are a good example of creating and sharing choose from, depending on their reasons for value, considering the company creates economic sustainability and environments required. POSvalue by investing in the fuel cell industry, forming a CO ENERGY is required to thoroughly review cluster for shared growth with suppliers, and striving the purposes of creating shared value. to solve social issues such as climate change. ENVIRONMENT Deputy Managing Director Chung You-ah_Civil Society Cooperation Office, KOICA POSCO ENERGY‘s business can be categorized as a social investment business which can be exported to overseas markets. Internationally, assuring energy supply to developing countries has been a crucial social issue. I believe that POSCO ENERGY‘s business models can serve as a solution to supply energy to developing countries while Director, Choi Gwang-lim reducing environmental impacts. However, it is important to analyze whether such business (and cost) is applicable _Business Institute for Sustainable Development/KORCHAM to those countries and take advantage of partnership with local companies. Energy policies have promoted distributed power generation. This means energy supply facilities will be disseminated to where there is demand, thereby increasing contact points with people. To wipe out concerns about environmental impacts of such facilities, data related NEXT to environmental load that can be shown to and convince stakeholders needs to be collected POSCO ENERGY will and managed. •Develop and expand the waste to energy business that uses waste resources to produce electricity, steam, and heat. •Expand the distributed power generation business using new and renewable energy to solve social issues. •Create a new industrial ecosystem by promoting the growth of an industrial cluster of fuel cell. Material Issues / In terms of environmental materiality, the key issues of POSCO ENERGY include minimizing the amount of pollutants, responding to climate change, and working on new and renewable energy business. Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) / To practice environmental management systemically, POSCO ENERGY has established an environmental management system, strived to minimize environmental impacts and become an eco-friendly / Response to Climate Change company. In addition, the company has responded to climate change issues by establishing strategies / New and Renewable Energy Business to combat greenhouse gas emissions and actively working on new and renewable energy businesses. / Eco-Friendly Management System / Operation of Eco-Friendly Power Plants / Material Flow Achievements in 2013 and Plans for 2014 / Eco-Friendly Communication Achievements in 2013 KPI in 2013 Plans for 2014 •Effectively responded to the Renewable •8.42GJ/MWh •Monitor and make a proactive response to Portfolio Standard (RPS) and GHG & Energy Energy consumption policies on climate change Target Management System •0.71tCO2/MWh •Reduce energy consumption through waste heat Climate •Proactively responded to the Emission GHG emissions recovery and improvement of facility efficiency Change Trading Scheme •22,304MWh •Expand Korean and overseas competitive power •Began the construction of Busan Energy reduction generation businesses (Solid Refuse Fuel) SRF Power Plant •Began overseas new and renewable energy businesses (began the construction of the Off-Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant in Indonesia) •Internalized the ISO14001 standard •0.13kg/MWh •Optimize the ISO14001 standard •Minimized environmental impacts through NOx emissions •Obtain environmental management system minimizing the emissions of pollutants •0.13ton/MWh certification for new worksites Environmental Water consumption •Strengthened cooperation with external •Establish measures to monitor the Total Management organizations for environmental improvement •KRW 12,818million Maximum Daily Loads for NOx, and manage •Stabilized the operation of environmental Environmental emission intensity facilities investments POSCO ENERGY will continue environmental investment and development of new and renewable energy to position the company as an eco-friendly energy company and pursue eco-friendly practices throughout the business operation. We will also expand the eco-friendly business to build green environmental infrastructures and become a leading energy company. 38 2013 POSCO ENERGY Environmental Value World Best Green Energy Company 39 Response to Climate Change New and Renewable Energy Business Strategy to Respond to Climate Change New and Renewable Energy Business GHG Emissions Reduction Strategy POSCO ENERGY is expanding the business field of new and renewable energy from power generation Plans to Develop New and For the reduction of GHG emissions, POSCO ENERGY is promoting the new and renewable energy Renewable Energy Business to building a total value chain of eco-friendly energy businesses. Accordingly, we have set the new business and activities to increase the efficiency of power facilities, through which the annual energy (MW) and renewable energy business a sub-core business, spurring the development of new businesses consumption has been reduced by 22,304MWh. 2020 548.1 using new and renewable energy such as off-gas, solar energy, wind power, and resource recycling 2018 333.1 based on our experience and capabilities accumulated over 40 years. Increasing the Efficiency of Power Facilities New and Renewable Energy Business 2015 139.1 •Optimizing the •Deploying •Expanding the new •Promoting a To become an eco-friendly energy-leading company through strengthening business •RPS (Renewable Portfolio Goal efficiency of power high-efficiency and renewable waste-to-energy capabilities in new and renewable energy facilities power facilities business business Standards) •REC(Renewable Energy Climate Change Response Task Force Certificates) Efficiently responding to the Strategies Successful completion of Enhancing business RPS and identifying new POSCO ENERGY has formed a task force to respond to climate change, supervising their roles the existing projects development capabilities business opportunities and responsibilities. The task force establishes plans to reduce GHG emissions and encourage each worksite to engage in GHG reduction activities. Solar Power Improvement of Energy Efficiency POSCO ENERGY has independently developed and is operating solar (photovoltaic) power plants It is essential to operate high-efficiency power generations and reduce energy use when it comes in the Palgeum-myeon area, located in Shinan-gun, Jeollanam-do. In particular, the Shinan solar to electricity generation. POSCO ENERGY engages in making continuous improvements for facility power plant has been recognized for its outstanding work in minimizing the environmental impact efficiency, recycling waste heat, and conducting company-level energy saving campaigns to optimize on surrounding areas and creating eco-friendly synergy with local communities by utilizing a disused the generator operation and save energy consumption. salt farm that had closed for years. The plants of 7MW are able to produce electricity of 9,300MWh a year which can be supplied to 3,000 homes for the next 20 years. The company plans to construct Photovoltaic Power Plants in Shinan Energy Use Reduction Activities Energy Reduction (MWh/year) GHG Reduction (tCO2/year) another power plant of 7.5MW, thereby will operate a large solar power plant of 14.5MW by Deployment of high-performance washing 20,611 9,633 August 2014. The solar power plants will ensure REC and stable incomes while providing measures facilities for gas turbine compressors to respond to the government‘s RPS. Controlling sea water circulation pumps 1,216 1,594 with inverter Introduction of lighting sensors 270 126 Wind Power Tamna Offshore Wind-Power Plants Installation of high-efficiency lighting POSCO ENERGY is developing Korea‘s first commercial offshore wind power complex of 30MW 207 96 system near the northwestern part of Jeju island, and also planning to develop a large-scale onshore and Total 22,304 11,449 offshore wind power complex of 99.6MW in Shinan-gun, Jeollanam-do. The wind power plant in Jeollanam-do is expected to contribute to revitalizing the local economy by using wind power Energy Consumption and GHG Emissions turbines assembled and produced within the region. As POSCO ENERGY has increased the amount of electricity produced, its GHG emissions have grown SRF Power Generation Facility in Busan accordingly. However, the company strives to reduce GHG emissions produced by electricity generaSRF (Solid Recovery Fuel) Business tion through a series of energy reduction activities such as introducing high-efficiency facilities, and POSCO ENERGY has developed a solid recovery fuel (SRF) business, which uses combustible waste making continuous improvements to facilities. to produce electricity and supply the heat generated during the process to industrial facilities. Completed in October 2013, the company‘s SRF facility currently handles 900 tons of house waste Classification 2011 2012 2013 a day in Busan and produces 25MW of electricity, which can be supplied to 40,000 homes, using Energy Total (TJ) 104,784 128,403 131,819 the solid fuels generated from the waste. Tancheon Water Reuse Center Direct consumption (TJ) 104,365 128,146 131,555 Using Sewage Heat Indirect consumption (TJ) 419 257 264 Use of Sewage Heat Energy Intensity (GJ/Mwh) 8.18 8.13 8.42 POSCO ENERGY‘s sewage heat energy business collects and recovers the heat energy generated GHG Total (tCO2) 8,895,004 9,863,100 11,048,184 from sewage water, and supplies heating energy to nearby areas. Since being designated in Direct emission (tCO2) 8,875,412 9,849,384 11,035,778 February 2012 as a contractor for the Tancheon Water Reuse Center Using Sewage Heat project, Indirect emission (tCO2) 19,592 13,716 12,406 the company has been undertaking a project to complete the facility by October 2014. The center Intensity (tCO2/Mwh) 0.69 0.62 0.71 is expected to supply 200,000Gcal of heat energy to 20,000 homes. * T he GHG data from 2011-2012 has been changed due to the GHG emission calculation method for off-gas combined cycle power generation revised by the government 40 2013 POSCO ENERGY Environmental Value World Best Green Energy Company 41 Eco-Friendly Management Operation of Eco-Friendly Power Plants Environmental Management System Prevention of Environmental Impacts Environmental Management Strategy Environmental Impact Assessment To achieve the vision of ‘World Best Green Energy Company’ POSCO ENERGY has established and To minimize environmental impacts during the construction of power plants, POSCO ENERGY is Environmental Investments practiced the four directions of Green System, Green Operation, Green Business and Green Comconducting an environmental impact assessment. The environmental impact assessment allows the (KRW million) munication along with action strategies. company to analyze such impacts to the location and habitat of the power plants after completing Air Pollution Management and the construction, which helps minimize environmental impacts to local communities. None of the Response to Climate Change Mission We make a brighter world by providing cleaner energy operated sites of POSCO ENERGY have been identified as located in biodiversity protection areas. 2011 2012 2013 20,730 7,450 9,525 Before Construction During Construction After Construction Vision World Best GREEN Energy Company Predict and prevent Identify and mitigate Control environmental environmental impacts environmental impacts impacts during power plant arising from power plant during construction operation Waste and Waste Water Control construction 2011 2012 2013 Action Green Green Green Green Strategies System Operation Business Communication 3,392 110 3,293 Environmental Investments •Advance the •Comply with •Operate •Publish sustainability environmental laws through the high-efficiency reports to POSCO ENERGY minimizes environmental impacts while conducting its business by investing in reinforcement of Total management system power generation disclose company air pollution control, response to climate change, and wastewater and waste management for the and standardize the internal management facilities information 2011 2012 2013 optimal installation and maintenance of environmental facilities and environmental impact reduction work process standards •Develop and •Enhance employee technology. The company invested approximately KRW 12.8 billion in such areas in 2013 and will 24,122 7,560 12,818 •Carry out •Minimize expand the supply awareness of performance checks environmental impacts of fuel cells environmental continue making environmental investments. •Establish an and improve facilities •Strengthen management emergency response continuously the new and •Conduct Major Environmental Investments system •Improve energy renewable energy eco-friendly social efficiency and increase business contribution  Air Pollution Management and Waste and Waste Water Control GHG emissions activities Response to Climate Change reduction activities •Installation of air pollution prevention •Establishment of the discharge water facilities for the Incheon LNG Combined facility for the Incheon LNG Combined Cycle Cycle Power Plant Units 7-9 Power Plant Units 7-9 Organization of Environmental Management •Installation of waste transfer stations for The Technology Team under the Power Plant Division supervises the organization in charge of the Pohang Fuel Cell Power Plant environmental management system and supports each worksite. In addition, the environmental management working committee is operated at company level to manage the current status of the Compliance with Environmental Laws environmental management at each worksite, discuss the relevant issues, and carry out the activities POSCO ENERGY has been rigorously complying with environmental regulations and has not violated to strengthen environmental management. such regulations. The company especially has set stricter standards for the air and water pollutants control than the government standards to minimize environmental pollution. Environmental Management System Certification To optimize the operation of environmental facilities and spread awareness of environmental Minimization of Environmental Impacts improvement, POSCO ENERGY has adopted and applied ISO14001. The company is advancing Fuels and Energy the environmental management framework with a quarterly self-assessment and post-assessment With the increased amount of electricity produced by the Incheon LNG Combined Cycle Power Plant conducted by external experts. and Off-Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant, the amount of fuels used by POSCO ENERGY has also increased. However, the company has conducted projects and assignments for energy reduction and Company-Level Management of Environmental Risks strived to maximize energy recovery. POSCO ENERGY has established and managed emergency response plans for each worksite against Fuel Consumption 2011 2012 2013 environmental accidents and emergencies, conducting a mock emergency drill quarterly. We have LNG (Nm3) 1,967,934,125 2,540,069,749 2,603,784,684 also identified potential risks in such aspects as the air, water quality, waste, soil, and chemical BFG (Nm3) 5,068,025,525 4,834,404,296 5,091,653,614 substances to assess urgency of each risk and establish response measures. POSCO ENERGY‘s COG (Nm ) 3 25,103,776 51,319,218 58,652,766 partners related to environmental risks are subject to the environmental risk management and assessed by visit inspection, monthly meetings, and management evaluation. FOG (Nm ) 3 110,983,038 42 2013 POSCO ENERGY Environmental Value World Best Green Energy Company 43 Discharged Water Quality Water With the company‘s own standard for water pollutants, which is set more stringent than the legal Water is used for the production of steam and operation of facilities. The water used for all the standard, POSCO ENERGY monitors abnormalities of waste water discharging and prevention operations is 100% tap water excluding the Gwangyang Plant, which uses both tap water and facilities using the TMS. In addition, the company has a management system to quickly grasp the industrial water. POSCO ENERGY has continuously reduced the volume of water used with reuse situation and take measures should any problems occur in relation to the water quality, with regular and recycling of water and constructed infrastructures to recycle water for the LNG Combined Cycle self-assessments on the water pollution standards such as COD, SS, and pH, pursuant to the relevant Power Plant Units 7-9. regulations. Water Consumption 2011 2012 2013 Classification 2011 2012 2013 Legal Standards Total (ton) 2,261,989 2,080,858 2,079,558 Water discharges (ton) 1,367,166 1,427,948 1,223,459 Incheon LNG Combined Cycle Power Water discharge intensity (ton/MWh) 0.11 0.09 0.08 1,297,331 1,316,858 1,357,955 Plant (ton) COD Incheon LNG Combined 3.2 2.9 3.4 130 Gwangyang Off-Gas Power Plant (ton) 945,822 735,398 689,913 (mg/L) Cycle Power Plant Pohang Fuel Cell Power Plant (ton) 18,836 28,602 31,690 Gwangyang Off-Gas 6.4 6.5 5.0 Combined Cycle Power Plant SS Incheon LNG Combined 1.8 1.2 2.3 120 (mg/L) Cycle Power Plant Chemical Substances Gwangyang Off-Gas 8.2 6.4 4.0 Chemical substances are used to produce pure water, the water used for power generation, and Combined Cycle Power Plant treat discharged water. In order to comply with the environmental regulations, prevent accidents, * COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand), SS (Suspended Solid) and adequately manage chemical substance facilities, POSCO ENERGY regularly inspects the status of such facilities and possible leakages with daily and weekly inspections. To prevent the leakage Waste of chemicals, all the chemical-related facilities have the system to transfer the leaked chemicals The general and designated wastes generated during the operation or repair of power generation to treatment plants should any leakage occur, and proliferation-prevention systems have been facilities are sorted and separated to be recycled or treated by an outsourced company. The comconstructed around the facilities. In addition, outsiders are not allowed to enter the facilities without pany has increased a recycling rate of wastes from 29.3% in 2011 to 44.8% in 2013 by reducing permission, and a discharge of chemicals is prevented through a strict management of locks to the the waste generation and increasing the amount recycled. facilities and entrances. Waste 2011 2012 2013 Air Waste generation (ton) 721.0 1,126.5 1,202.1 POSCO ENERGY has established a telemetry monitoring system (TMS) for real-time monitoring of Waste generation intensity (kg/MWh) 0.06 0.05 0.05 nitrogen oxide (NOx), the only pollutant emitted from the company‘s power plants. We have set our Recycling rate (%) 29.3 37.9 44.8 own standards for NOx emissions that are more stringent than the legal limits, voluntarily reducing such pollutants to avoid environmental impacts. Management of Persistent Organic Pollutants NOx Emissions 2011 2012 2013 POSCO ENERGY is equipped with facilities for managing Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs) Total NOx emissions (ton) 2,499 2,126 2,045 that include oil-filled transformers, condensers, and metering outfits, as well as equipment using NOx emission intensity (kg/MWh) 0.20 0.13 0.13 electrical insulating oil as insulating medium. These facilities are reported, used, and discarded in accordance with the Persistent Organic Pollutants Management Act. Air Pollutants Emissions (ppm) Soil Contamination Incheon LNG Combined Cycle Incheon LNG Combined Cycle Gwangyang Off-Gas Combined Cycle POSCO ENERGY strives to not only manage soil conditions of its facilities but also the soil of local Power Plant (Units 1-4) Power Plant (Units 5-6) Power Plant (Units 1-2) communities and the national environment. To do so, the company reports and manages the 2013 14 2013 10 2013 21 facilities which may cause soil contamination, in accordance with the relative laws. Furthermore, 2012 13 2012 12 2012 24 we prevent the corrosion or oxidation of facilities through regular soil contamination tests, and 2011 16 2011 20 2011 24 ensure that no pollutant is leaked. In the case of a leakage, the company makes sure all the leaked (Legal standard _ below 100) (Legal standard _ below 50) (Legal standard _ below 50) pollutants flow to the wastewater treatment plant to prevent proliferation. 44 2013 POSCO ENERGY Environmental Value World Best Green Energy Company 45 Material Flow Compared to 2011 Fuel consumption (Nm3) +25.2% LNG 2,603,784,684 Power Generation (MWh) Fuel Cell (MWh) 5,091,653,614 BFG 16,032,516 BOP 49.3 COG 58,652,766 fog 110,983,038 15,791,978 Stack 38.2 OUTPUT 12,809,742 Compared Energy to 2011 131,819 Energy consumption (TJ) +130.3% Direct (%) 99.8 2011 2012 2013 Indirect (%) 0.2 GHG (tCO2) Emission 11,048,184 Water Water used (ton) 2,079,558 Water recycled (%) 16.4 Compared NOx (kg/MWh) to 2011 0.13 -35% Emission Environmental Investments (KRW million) 12,818 Waste Generation (ton) 1,202.1 Recycling rate (%) 44.8 INPUT Hazardous Chemicals (ton) Usage 2,586 Compared to 2011 -10.5% Water Discharged (ton) Discharge 1,223,459 46 2013 POSCO ENERGY Environmental Value World Best Green Energy Company 47 Eco-friendly Communication Environmental Education Support for Environmental Management of Partners POSCO ENERGY has established and offered systemic programs to employees for them to adopt an POSCO ENERGY holds monthly meetings with its partners to strengthen their environment, safety, eco-friendly mindset and strengthen their expertise. Along with the legal training for environmental and health management, providing them with environment-related information and instruction, technicians, customized education programs are regularly provided to employees to satisfy their training programs, and VOC hearing. We also evaluate and manage the status of the safety and needs by position or job. When an environmental issue arises, weekly meetings are held for position environment management of each partner company. holders, and employees in charge of such issues are given the relevant training, which makes the programs more practical and efficient. Environment Education Framework Classification Target Description Method Note Identify and support improvement factors for eco-friendly management of partner companies Environment Persons in charge •Environment management system Outsourced When changing/newly appointing Management of environment training persons in charge of environment management at each department Environmental Legal managers •Education for air experts Legal education Experts and persons in •Education for water quality experts (once every three years) charge by •Education for toxic chemicals managers *Education for persons in charge of environmental •Education for waste managers waste treatment: upon the request sector of the concerned agency Stationed Partners Non-Stationed Partners •Education for toxic chemical handlers In-house training Education for persons in charge of Providing them with education Running programs to chemicals (once a month) on environment, safety, and support their environmental health management, inspectmanagement programs Introduction Newly employed •Outline and management points In-house training Upon new employment ing their on-site management, through regular field visits Program and evaluating the status of Environmental All employees •Environmental control and issues Circulation of Bi-monthly such management Awareness materials •Outline of environmental management E-campus Providing education first to position holders and persons in charge, gradually extending the target to all Increasing Awareness of Environmental Management employees POSCO ENERGY seeks to accomplish genuine environmental management through the participation On-site operators •Environment-related laws and Group training Once a year (using the shift work of all employees. To help employees participate in environmental activities and management, the group education points schedule for programs) company offers them a variety of awareness-raising programs such as Green Office campaign and PR activities. Other promotions and activities held to encourage them to reduce energy use and GHG emissions include using public transportation during business trips, video conferences, bicycle commuting, and managing checklists to ensure power saving in the office. Environmental Education and Emergency Drills / Global Talent Training and Competency Building Material Issues / / Happiness Management In terms of social materiality, the key issues of POSCO ENERGY include creating a great workplace, / Safe and Healthy Workplace building a sound labor-management culture, human rights protection, and customer satisfaction / Customer Satisfaction management. / Shared Growth with Suppliers / Social Contribution Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) / POSCO ENERGY conducts business activities and manages indicators focusing on key issues for each stakeholder. Internally, the company strives to provide employees with a pleasant and safe workplace so that they can maintain a balance between work and life. Externally, POSCO ENERGY builds trust through continuous communication with customers, partner companies, and local communities Achievements in 2013 and Plans for 2014 Achievements in 2013 KPI in 2013 Plans for 2014 •Established education programs to improve •Average education •Execute a roadmap for strengthening employees‘ employees‘ work competencies and hours per employee: work competencies performance commitments 82 hours •Create a pleasant workplace Employees •Adopted a new position structure agreed by •Happiness index: with communication of trust and on-site the labor and management 81.4 points management •Began the ’Appreciation Campaign’ and settled •Absenteeism: 0.86% •Build a cooperative labor-management a labor-management culture of appreciation relationship based on communication and •Obtained level P for the process safety mutual understanding management (PSM) •Reinforce the communication for increasing safety management standards for each worksite •Improve safety work processes with continuous facility enhancement •Reinforced the customer service •Operation rate: •Improve the technical competency for customer competitiveness and organization 94.3% service and reinforce the operational structure (opened Hwaseong Office) •Strengthen customer satisfaction activities Customers •Held seminars and technical trainings tailored •Stabilize the quality of operations to product type •Provided real-time customer service for technical issues •Adopted fair trade standards and standardized •Benefit Sharing cost: •Promote shared-growth activities based on subcontracting agreements KRW 783 million the needs of supplies •Increased the number of assignments for •Reinforce the support programs for secondary Partner benefit sharing and rewards partner companies Companies •Held a public recruitment of partner companies •Ease the payment condition by expanding to give new companies business opportunities the criteria to be eligible as a small company •Expanded the beneficiary areas for the energy •Average Volunteer •Internalize social contribution projects and sharing project of hope hours: 28.9 hours diversify the program content •Launched the project of study rooms of love •Participation rate of •Provide social contribution activities taking Local to brighten the world the 1% Sharing Fund: advantage of the nature of the business Communities 90.7% •Increased the participation rate of the 1% •Improve employee satisfaction and Sharing Fund accomplishment through the BEST volunteering work POSCO ENERGY strives to become a company that shares values through communication with employees, customers, partner companies, and local communities. With the structured talent training programs, customer-satisfaction activities, shared growth with partners, and practicing sharing with local communities, the company will make the world a better place to live in, trying its best for the company‘s internal and external stakeholders. 50 2013 POSCO ENERGY Social Value World Best Green Energy Company 51 Global Talent Training and Competency Building Recognizing that employees are the core of our global competitiveness, POSCO ENERGY recruits and Average Education Hours and trains highly qualified and motivated individuals, supporting them to become talented employees. Expenses Manpower Training Program Mandatory Selected Selective 2013 Recruitment of Talented Individuals 82 hours/person Common Job Expertise Basic Training Global and Leadership Training The confidence and passion of POSCO ENERGY for securing capable talents is a core value across 2012 Competency Training Training Tailored by Position Language Education 132 hours/person the business, and the company ensures that it recruits and nurtures excellent individuals. 2011 110 hours/person Jump-up program for Leadership education for Job competency program Language learning club POSCO ENERGY‘s Ideal Employee / POSCO ENERGY seeks to recruit individuals who focus on the Engineer dissertation employees who have position holders for fresh graduates (6 months, mandatory presentation worked for the company for (1-3 days) (three years) language test) value of challenges and trust to train them as the world‘s best leaders in the energy sector based on In-House over a year (1 night 2 days) 2013 the four core values including Passion, Communication, Co-Success and Green Innovation. KRW 890 million Programs Education from Innovation Education from Innovation Education from Innovation Overseas training 2012 Support Center Support Center (common Support Center (4 nights 5 days) KRW 1,090 million (shiftwork regular courses) technical education) (installment and repair) World‘s Best Experts 2011 Courses on Sojourning Language with global competency and leadership KRW 1,080 million Monthly business Executives Cyber Global leader employee course Family MT Saturday education strategy for training University training training outside of (2 days) (4 hours/month) executives (18 weeks) (6 months) (10 months) course work POSCO (2 days) (5 days) (3 months) Trusted Talents Group Programs Education for newly Education Education for who recognize their differences and communicate with others promoted employees for new experienced World’s Best Energy Leaders (3 days: executives, team, employees employees who place importance on the and group leaders) (2 weeks) (1 week) values of challenge and trust Talents with Challenging Spirits who prepare for the future with creativity and passion and take Chief officer course MBA Language learning over the lead in green innovation (6 months) (2-2.5 years) the phone (6 months, Basic education on mandatory language test) electricity trading (3 days) Training from power Outside Breakfast with IMI generation education center Programs (monthly) (1-2 weeks) Respect for Diversity / POSCO ENERGY offers equal and fair opportunities to individuals according Intensive training for sojourning employees before to their qualifications without discrimination, actively hiring the disabled, veterans, and patriots. We Autonomous selection of courses by division (with their budget for education) the dispatch (1-3 months) encourage the recruitment of local people in the area where the power plants are located and increase overseas recruitment to expand global leader training and localization. Mandatory E-learning Selective online courses Selective online courses on e-campus online education via Programs on e-campus e-campus Talent Development System Manpower Training System POSCO ENERGY seeks to become the world‘s best GREEN energy company and place its priority on fostering competent individuals. Based on the personnel policy and corporate culture, all employees | World Best GREEN Energy Company | (Global, Reliable, Excellent, Efficient, Nature friendly) are trained with basic programs tailored to their position that teach the common values of the POSCO Group, leadership training of trust and communication, job competency programs to improve problem solving skills, and various language learning and overseas programs to strengthen Leadership Competency Leadership by Position/ Position-Holder Trust Leadership their global competitiveness. Global Competency Common Competency Job Competency Innovation Competency Basic Direction of Employee Training •Enhancing •Internalizing the •Training experts by •QSS education and understanding of other common core values business area activities Basic training tailored Fostering leaders that Reinforcing global cultures and improving of the Group •Studying abroad •Six Sigma Belt Training experts for each language proficiency to each position to create performances competitiveness through •Fostering basic acquisition support job who have excellent •Academic conference internalize core values with trust and various language •Training courses for job skills problem solving skills sojourning employees and visions communication learning programs •Overseas training 52 2013 POSCO ENERGY Social Value World Best Green Energy Company 53 Happiness Management Practices Strengthening Global Competency Employee Communication To help employees develop and strengthen global competency, POSCO ENERGY has continuously Happiness Management enables individuals pursue enhanced happiness and the company grows provided them with foreign language learning programs along with support for their language circle and develops with stakeholders by balancing the overall benefits. POSCO ENERGY seeks to establish activities, phone language learning courses, and language learning courses tailored for those who its own corporate culture to become a close-knit organization, by internalizing the corporate culture are scheduled to be sent overseas. In addition, the company sends employees to power-generation and unifying the visions of both the company and its employees. project sites overseas as trainees, provides them with studying abroad programs, support for attending seminars, and academic activities, while striving to recruit and train local people to localize Happiness Index Survey Happiness Index the company‘s overseas projects. POSCO ENERGY believes that the happiness and satisfaction of employees form the foundation for 2013 81.4 points improving the competitiveness of the company and to establish its own corporate culture. Based MBA Program 2012 on this principle, all employees are cooperating to help create a pleasant workplace, increase trust The company provides employees with an MBA program to nurture enterprising and creative leaders 75.1 points within the company and the management, enhance pride in their work and the company, and who will lead the future growth of POSCO ENERGY. The program provides full tuition to the selected 2011 respect and understand each other. The company conducts annual surveys and interviews targeting 73.4 points employees studying MBA. all employees to measure the Happiness Index. The Index is measured through various criteria − for example, based on worksite, position, length of service, and gender. The survey results are actively Different Culture Experience Program incorporated to improve systems and to establish the future directions for happiness management. POSCO ENERGY selects around 40 employees a year (20 employees at a time, twice a year) to send Different Culture Experience Program them to countries where the company plans to establish new business. The program allows the selected Meetings with the CEO and the Executives employees to experience different cultures, learn more about the industries and companies in such Luncheon meetings with the CEO and the executives are held to promote communication between countries, and develop the ability to actively respond to changes in the global business environment. employees and management. Employees and executives can share ideas or problems about the company, or discuss any other questions in a relaxed atmosphere. Through the ideas and suggestions Job Competency Program exchanged at the meetings, POSCO ENERGY has shown positive improvements such as opening Engineer Dissertation Presentation a daycare center, providing special lectures on dating for singles, and celebrating employees‘ For the improvement of job competency, problem-solving skills and career development of engineers, anniversaries. The ideas suggested during the meetings have been gathered and evaluated to the company holds an annual engineer dissertation presentation. Engineers select topics for their continuously improve the welfare of employees. dissertations, focusing on the fields that require R&D or improvements, and write their dissertations based on their acquired field knowledge. The presentation offers a venue for engineers from all In-House Club worksites to gather and share their knowledge and information. POSCO ENERGY actively sponsors employees’ club activities for them to enjoy leisure times and Engineer Dissertation Presentation self-development and to encourage the interaction among employees. A total of 27 clubs in various Action Learning fields including sports, music, and photography are run within the company, which all have been POSCO ENERGY provides the Action Learning program to all administrative staff. Action Learning continually and actively supported by the company. is a learning job competency program that helps employees set their own research themes closely related to their duty and performance, find the problems, and establish problem-solving strategies. The program has helped employees to improve their job competency and spread a culture of learning. Family-Friendly Management POSCO ENERGY allows employees to make monthly adjustments to start work at any time between Fair Performance Management and Compensation 7 a.m. and 11 a.m. to flexibly utilize their time for self-development, childcare, and education and To ensure that all employees display their maximum ability, POSCO ENERGY has established a fair balance between work and private life. Furthermore, the company designated every 2nd and 4th and rational performance evaluation system. Based on this system, the company manages the Wednesday as ‘Family Day,’ the day all employees must leave the office on time so that they can performance of employees, without discrimination of gender, and evaluates them with independent spend more time with the family. and objective evaluation factors. The company impartially compensates and rewards the employees according based on a performance-based approach. Opening of Daycare Center and Support for Childcare / Even though POSCO ENERGY is not a company that is obliged to have a daycare center, it has opened one to create a working Feedback environment where employees can work happily without concerns about childcare. The company Linked to First Evaluation Second Evaluation Personnel also allows female employees to take 90 days cumulative maternity leave and up to one year of child Employee Feedback Evaluation Performance Competency Performance Competency care leave. Male employees can also take paid paternity leave. Evaluation Evaluation Evaluation Evaluation 54 2013 POSCO ENERGY Social Value World Best Green Energy Company 55 Promoting a Labor-Management Establishing Labor-Management Relations Certified as Family-friendly Company / POSCO ENERGY runs various family-friendly programs Culture of Appreciation In regard to human rights and labor issues, POSCO ENERGY stipulates the continuous stability of such as support for childbirth and childcare, leisure activities, club activities, healthcare, weekend labor-management relations in the internal collective agreement and ethical standards, prohibiting farms, and summer various places. In December 2012, the company was certified as a familydiscrimination, forced labor, and child labor. POSCO ENERGY has established a systematic grievance friendly company by the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family, for its successful implementation of resolution system to listen to the voices of employees and to promptly address their difficulties. family-friendly policies, which improved the quality of employees’ lives and the productivity of the company through a work-life balance. Labor-Management Council (Grievance Committee) and POSCO ENERGY has exchanged Grievance Consultation Office Employee Welfare the ”100 Appreciation Book“ POSCO ENERGY operates a labor-management council and a grievance committee at each at the salary negotiation table POSCO ENERGY enforces the statutory welfare and benefits program and operates various welfare to create a labor-management operational site to discuss almost every item related to labor-management cooperation including and benefit programs for all employees to improve their happiness and health. culture of trust, harmony, and employees‘ grievances, improvement of work environments, healthcare programs, and salary win-win cooperation. The ”100 system enhancement. Through online or face-to-face meetings, employees can make a suggestion Appreciation Book“ contains Loans Medical (Health) Support Educational Support 100 items to appreciate, or report a grievance to the company on the problems related to work duties or family issues identified by both the CEO and such as childcare. The grievance committee at each operation deals with human rights complaints Lending money for home Annual health checkups Financial aid for school tuition the head of the labor union purchase and lease to for employees, supporting of employees’ children, and employee grievances, which are immediately handled by the applicable division heads through during the salary negotiation non-homeowners, lending employees and their family supporting over-the-phone processes, which solidifies consultations. The committee guarantees the confidentiality of the reported grievances, and when it living stabilization funds members with medical foreign language education the mutual trust between the is impossible to handle the issue immediately, the company does its utmost to address the grievance expenses and language clubs management and labor. at the quarterly labor-management council. Selective Welfare Leisure Activities Other Programs Welfare card for employees Condominium reservations, Congratulations and Dialogue between Labor and Management that can be used for their summer resorts, rail fare condolences program, company POSCO ENERGY regularly conducts collective bargaining with the labor union in regard to wages welfare and benefits such as discounts, and travel expense housing, club activity support, self-development, hobbies, discounts funeral service overseas training and agreements to build a cooperative relationship and form close ties with the labor union. As for leisure, and healthcare programs for outstanding important company decisions or issues directly connected to the working conditions of employees, employees, etc. the company frequently consults with the labor union to reflect their opinions in the decisions. Retirement Pension / To ensure the stable management of employees’ severance pay, POSCO Besides the labor-management council, the company holds monthly meetings to review grievances ENERGY introduced a retirement pension program in December 2011. The program sets the and difficulties, and to ensure a close dialogue between labor and management. retirement age at 60, and guarantees the highest level of job security. Moreover, the company re-hires some of the employees scheduled to retire for a certain period of time considering their Appreciation Campaign expertise and necessity. POSCO ENERGY‘s appreciation sharing movement ’Appreciation for Energy of Happiness’ meaning to share hearts, thank right now, and love together. Based on the sincere interaction, it contains BALANCE a concept of ‘Let me be thankful first to share love with colleagues, the company, and local communities and spread the energy of happiness.’ Creating a smart A culture that In-House Appreciation Sharing Broadcasting work environment respects the lives through improving and individuality of The appreciation sharing broadcasting started in May 2013 to start every day with a sense of work processes employees gratitude. Staff in charge of broadcasting read stories of appreciation every day at the end of office work LIFE hours for employees to wrap up their day with smiles. Easy Thanks Planet ”Balance between work and life To invigorate the appreciation sharing activities and help employees to internalize the sense of In-house Appreciation Sharing with an originality-oriented work culture” appreciation, the company has introduced the Easy ”Thanks Planet” (an online appreciation Broadcasting POSCO ENERGY will bring innovation to our work processes and procedures sharing system) in December 2013, which can be accessed anytime, anywhere. The system includes by building a smart work infrastructure so that employees can achieve a balance between work appreciation notes, texts, letters, and other appreciation activities such as complimenting others and private life. The company will also strive to become a trusted company by improving the work productivity of employees and their quality of life satisfaction. and appreciation contents, contributing to creating a culture of appreciation and encouragement among employees. 56 2013 POSCO ENERGY Social Value World Best Green Energy Company 57 Safety and Health Safety and Health System Recognizing safety and health as the top priority and a basic value, POSCO ENERGY has established Safety Management Performances and operates a safety and health system to prevent industrial incidents and create a pleasant With the systemic operation of the safety and health management system, POSCO ENERGY has workplace. With the acquisition of KOSHA18001, the company has continually improved the realized accident and disaster-free power plants while successfully positioning the company as a system, leading a culture of safety and ensuring the health of employees. leading company in safety and health management. As a result of such endeavors in identifying issues regarding the 12 tasks on process safety management (PSM), the company was awarded Operational Maximizing profits and securing a foundation for growth the highest rating of ‘P’ for PSM in 2014. POSCO ENERGY will continue improving the activities for Goals through optimization of operations The Highest Rating of P for PSM safety through raising employee awareness of safety, safer installation of processes and facilities, Implementation Creating accident-free operational sites by putting safety first and optimization of safety systems. Goals Improve and standardize Establish autonomous safety Felt leadership that complies Implementation the level of safety and management focusing on with principles and Rating P for PSM Plans health at operations the line organization procedures PSM is a safety management evaluation system conducted by the Ministry of Labor and Employment to assess industrial sites in the metropolitan area. Rating P is the highest level for •Establish a company-level •Define roles and •Increasing exemplary safety and health responsibility for safety actions of position-holders PSM which is only given to 5-10% of the sites subjected to the evaluation. Emergency Drills management system by position on safety issues •Operate a support •Establish performance •Reinforcing the Safety program for safety and analysis processes by Leadership Training Safety-Health Education health management at department •Identifying potential risks The company provides employees with safety education programs by sector, including statutory operations •Operate an emergency and mitigating such risks •Establish a company-level education, in-house education, and fire drills. To raise the awareness and competency of employees response system safety communication on safety, the company also holds workshops, regular and special safety education programs, and network conducts periodical risk evaluations of processes and facilities as well as emergency drills. Absenteeism Industrial Operation of the Occupational Safety & Health Committee Accidents POSCO ENERGY established the Occupational Safety & Health Committee for the safety and health 2013 2013 0.86% 2 cases of employees and preventing occupational incidents. The Committee meetings are held every quarter, to consult and discuss issues related to safety and health. In addition, the Voluntary Safety 2012 2012 Statutory Education In-House Education Fire Drills 0.97% 2 cases •Statutory manager education •Special education on safety •Fire drills for all employees Committee is held every month for the heads of plants and position-holders, to encourage position2011 2011 •Regular education for all and health •Drills to put out fires holders to voluntarily participate in safety measures and strengthen their mindset on safety issues. 0% 0 case employees •Safety and health education in the early stage •Safety education for supervisors for employees of partners •Emergency drills Activities to Improve Safety •Safety education for new •Education before harmful employees and dangerous work Near-Miss Activities •Special education •Company’s own safety POSCO ENERGY conducts Near-Miss Activities with all employees to discuss incident cases at the education worksites. The activities are aimed to minimize risk factors of such incidents and firmly establish a safe operating system. Moreover, the company encourages study groups to register safety activities in real time so that employees can share the activities. In 2013, a total of 123 cases were registered. Coexistence & Cooperation Programs Those who identify the best Near Misses are selected and rewarded on a monthly basis and their POSCO ENERGY operates coexistence & cooperation programs An Autonomous Safety Management Meeting cases are through weekly news. to train partner companies stationed in the operation with safety knowledge by providing them with safety education by safety Risk Top 10 experts. In addition, the company also conducts a joint safety The Top-10 Risk System assesses the risks of the accident-prone power generation facilities, inspection with the partner companies to prevent safety incidents A Starting Ceremony for Coexistence identifies the top 10 improvement tasks and conducts improvement activities to prevent disasters. by complying with the safety regulations and inspecting riskand Cooperation Programs The selected cases of improvement are shared at the Voluntary Safety Committee held monthly and prone machinery and equipment. A Risk Top-10 Improvement Activity spread throughout the company. Registered Identify risk factors Discussion Individual activities to department (individual) (SV. manager) (all employees) (general manager) 58 2013 POSCO ENERGY Social Value World Best Green Energy Company 59 Customer Satisfaction Strengthening Customer Services Strengthening the Service Organization Improving the Voice of Customer Channels Operation of the Hwaseong Office POSCO ENERGY collects VOCs via various channels following the VOC receiving and handling proPOSCO ENERGY opened the Gyeongin Service Center in May 2012, expanding the service range to cess. The company promptly responds to them and VOC results are provided to customers with Pohang and Incheon and reducing response time for fuel cell in the Gyeongin area from five hours feedback in documentation. VOCs are regularly analyzed and significant VOCs are shared throughto one hour. To strengthen the service organization, the company opened the Hwaseong Office that out the company. POSCO ENERGY has continually improved the VOC handling process to provide serves as a service hub in the Jungbu area, thereby closely and promptly responding to large-scale customers with a better service. worksites of fuel cell such as the Gyeonggi Green Energy. With the opening of the Hwaseong Office, the company established a foundation to build regional service systems and became able to focus Real-Time Technical Support on stable operation of fuel cell by region, improvement of customer satisfaction and operation rate. Improving the Functions of the 24/7 Technical Support Center / POSCO ENERGY established Moreover, the company plans to build a web portal system for customer service and supply chain for a remote-access system and the basic hardware in the Pohang fuel cell manufacturing plant in April prompt material supply, striving to win credibility with the existing and potential customers. 2009 and had provided remote-operation and technical support through the manufacturer of fuel cell, FCE. However, we built a 24/7 technical support center in February 2013 and have trained technical experts through collaboration with the manufacturer and technology transfer programs. Operating the 24/7 Technical Customer Service Centers for Fuel Cell Support Center Currently, the company‘s 24/7 technical support center provides customers with remote-operation services for 39 out of 49 fuel cell operated in Korea while offering real-time customer services such as Seobuk Hospital Gyeongin Region emergency response, repairs and maintenance support, and sustaining of optimal operational status. Nowon Ilsan Korea Incheon Bundang Korea POSCO East-West Power POSCO ENERGY South-East Power ENERGY Framework of Around-the-Clock Technical Support and Emergency Response Children‘s Hwaseong Service infrastructures Emergency response and measures Grand Park Gyeonggi Sangam Satellite transmission E-mail & SMS Dangjin Green Energy POSCO ENERGY (Omni-Metrix) GS EPS Central Region Operation data Operation record/ Repair history outcome Boryeong Technical data Korea Midland Power Fuel cell Technical Daegu Southern Region group Gunsan TCS1 Service infra Pohang 24/7 Technical Support Center Natura POSCO ENERGY & technician in charge Power Alarm Jeonju Work order HS Holdings Ulsan Korea Problem analysis sounding An Opening Ceremony Repair schedule Request for work East-West Power of the Hwaseong Office On-site repair 24/7 Technical Remote diagnosis and emergency Busan technician Support Center response on-site Byucksan For power generation Busan Engineering (Direct operation) BFC For power generation Yeosu Seminars on Fuel Cell for Buildings / As POSCO ENERGY suggests fuel cell for buildings for MPC Measures to Strengthen Product For building use and Customer Safety dispersed power generation as an optimal solution to social conflicts regarding power generation such as the conflict over the transmission cable towers in Miryang, the company has held seminars •Obtained an explosive on fuel cell with officials from applicable industries. In line with the government’s plan to expand Technology Education Tailored to Product Type product safety certification the dispersed power generation of the country up to 15% of the total power generation, as stated As fuel cell systems are more diversified and customers accordingly request different education in the USA in the government‘s second basic energy plan, the seminars are expected to bring fuel cell to the programs, POSCO ENERGY has expanded the customized technology education for its customers. In •Obtained both IEC-Ex center of attention. 2013, a total of nine technical education programs were provided to satisfy the needs of customers (International Certification) and Korean certification (one technical seminar, seven theoretical courses on fuel cell, and one field education program). for each component Seminars with Fuel Cell Safety Managers / POSCO ENERGY has held seminars on fuel cell for The technical seminar not only provided technical training on fuel cell but also allowed attendees to •Obtained an UL certificate the Ministry of Labor‘s Incident Prevention Center and the Korea Occupational Safety and Health share information on industrial trends, improvements of related policies, and future business visions. to expert the EBOP Agency to raise their understanding of fuel cell and prevent safety incidents. The seminars allowed The company is in the process of developing more diversified programs to meet the expectations The Technical Seminar manufactured by POSCO ENERGY to the USA the participants to mutually review each other‘s safety management points of fuel cell and are of customers and is planning to establish a technology education system with founding fuel cell expected to help establish optimized inspection criteria for fuel cell in the near future. technology certifications and a technology education center. 60 2013 POSCO ENERGY Social Value World Best Green Energy Company 61 Shared Growth with Suppliers Establishment of Reliable Trade Relations Win-Win Growth Support Team POSCO ENERGY evaluates and selects suppliers following fair procedures and criteria. The company Since 2010, POSCO ENERGY has operated the Win-Win Growth Support Team to build trust with also strives to build fair trade relations to conclude transparent contracts with suppliers. suppliers and increase the value of the company. Every month, the company selects one executive or a pair of executives to send to SMEs for six months to provide them with columniation and support Adoption of the Four Guidelines of Fair Trade and services from business consultations in personnel and finance to safety and QSS consultations. To Standard Subcontractors Agreement offer practical and effective support, POSCO ENERGY plans to learn more about the areas that POSCO ENERGY has voluntarily signed a fair trade and shared growth agreement with 80 primary suppliers are interested in and expand the targeted beneficiaries to secondary suppliers. suppliers and recommended the primary suppliers to sign the same contract with secondary suppliers, thereby spreading a fair trade culture. Accordingly, the company has adopted and complied with 100% Cash Payment on Purchase the four guidelines of fair trade advised by the Fair Trade Commission while applying the standard POSCO ENERGY pays for the purchases from SMEs in cash, and the payment is made twice a week. subcontractor agreement to protect suppliers from unfair business practices. When an SME submits the documentary evidence in advance, the payment is completed no later Activities of Win-Win Growth Support Team than five days after the products are received. Transparent Contract The company carries out fair electronic bidding processes through its e-Procurement system to ensure transparency in the process of signing contracts. In addition, POSCO ENERGY operates the Subcontracting Evaluation Committee at least once a month to enhance the transparency of the whole process from bidding to contracting, such as evaluating the compliance of prohibited Financial Support behavior, including oral ordering or unfair curtailment of prices, in order to create fair trade relations POSCO ENERGY runs a financial aid program that offers loans with an interest rate to suppliers with suppliers. through the POSCO Family Shared Growth Fund. Participating in the Industrial Innovation 3.0 Campaign of the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy, the company raises funds to support SMEs, Fairness in Selecting and Evaluating Suppliers subcontractors of the primary and secondary suppliers, with business consultations and purchase of POSCO ENERGY applies the supplier selection and evaluation standards, stipulated in the purchasing equipment to improve their productivity. regulation, and carries out the new supplier registration and bidding process without partiality through POSCO Family‘s SRM (Supplier Relationship Management). POSCO ENERGY‘s evaluation Technical Support criteria include supplier‘s codes on human rights or its fulfillment of corporate social responsibility in POSCO ENERGY pays for some of the expenses for SMEs when the company and the suppliers jointly terms of environment and safety. The company will continue ensuring the fairness in the evaluation apply for a patent. Since 2013, the company has supported suppliers with their registration fee for process and developing cooperative relations with suppliers. the technology escrow system which is designed to protect their technology and have paid for five technology escrow cases for the suppliers. In addition, technologically cooperating with SMEs that have new technology has allowed POSCO ENERGY to improve its technology while helping the Various Support Programs for Suppliers SMEs develop new markets. Such endeavors have been recognized by the POSCO group. POSCO POSCO ENERGY Receives an Award on Partners Day POSCO ENERGY operates various support programs for small and medium-sized suppliers such ENERGY and supplier received the best award for technological cooperation at the 2013 POSCO as benefit sharing programs, and purchasing their products with 100% cash. The company also Family Partners Day event. provides shared growth programs in various areas including finance, technology, and manpower. Education and Human Resources Support Benefit Sharing POSCO ENERGY provides suppliers with various collective education and e-learning, free of charge, Benefit Sharing Cost POSCO ENERGY operates the Benefit Sharing system of POSCO Family which allows the company through POSCO Group‘s National Human Resource Development Consortium. In addition, technical 2013 KRW 783 million to cooperate with SMEs to carry out joint tasks such as development and localization of technology education programs are provided to suppliers at the Innovation Support Center of the Incheon 2012 and share financial performance. The company reviews the feasibility of the suggested projects from Plant. The company plans to help suppliers recruit talented individuals by increasing support for their KRW 556 million the suppliers or field employees and takes corresponding actions with the suppliers. It pays the price participation in job fairs. 2011 of the prototype, and after the performance has been proved for a certain period, POSCO ENERGY KRW 345 million shares the benefits with the suppliers in various ways such as cash reward, unit price compensation, or sales compensation through a private contract. 62 2013 POSCO ENERGY Social Value World Best Green Energy Company 63 Social Contribution POSCO ENERGY’s Social Contribution in 2013 at a Glance or a Better Social Contribution Strategy POSCO ENERGY has been active in social contributions especially for local areas to realize the value of ‘Energy for a Better World‘ yf POSCO ENERGY has established a system of social contribution and volunteer activities to accomplish d Ene rg orl W the value of ‘Energy for a Better World‘ With the system established, the company has been active Completion rate of the College Student in contributing to society, especially to local communities. Volunteer Corp (average of the first and second batches) Social Contribution Framework 95 CO2 reduction * Completed when 48,067kgCO The slogan for POSCO ENERGY‘s Communication with Local they attend over % social contribution activities selected Directions Communities Sharing Green Value 2 80% of the 20-week through an employee contest. activities Slogan Energy for a Better World Total hours of talent sharing by the Community Child Center that Brightens the World Tree planting effects Signature Sharing Love with Energy of Hope 8,583 College Student Volunteer Corp Educational support for the areas around Programs Energy welfare project for the energy needy (first and second batches) the power plants 4,600 Employee BEST Volunteering Activities trees Volunteering Sharing Themed Energy Family hours Awarding Companies Contributed Saturday Volunteer Activity Volunteer Activity Volunteer Activity to Raise Green Climate Fund (GCF) B asic E ntertaining S trategic T ogether Energy Reduction Costs •Company’s traditional •Leisure-style •V  olunteer activity •P OSCO Family joint Satisfaction of Community Child volunteer activity with volunteer activity linked to the signature volunteer activity 14,732,000 Centers on the project (average for a long history for employees, CSR programs with the first and second projects) their families, and the management •Joint volunteer KRW per year •“Basic” volunteer stakeholders activities carried out 70% 30% Very satisfied Satisfied Installation of a Solar Powergenerator activity of the company that every employees should participate •“Entertaining” volunteer activity with •“  Strategic” volunteer activity related to the energy industry “together” with the partner companies at a Welfare Center in Gwangyang in by division or group various experimental Performances programs Project of Sharing Love Social contribution Project of Community Child Center with Energy of Hope performances are that Brightens the World described based on Sharing Love with Energy of Hope *based on the support for 40 homes and five facilities projects with the quantitative data Since 2012, the company has carried out the energy-efficiency improvement project for houses in the local communities the power plant. Along with the local government, the company identifies By Area (KRW) By Fund (KRW) the energy-deprived (those who spend over 10% of their income for light and heat expenses) and Environment & International 16,600,000 improve the energy efficiency of their aged houses. In terms of welfare, POSCO ENERGY helps them Input Company’s Contributions 2,184,950,560 Community Development Fund 466,000,000 to reduce energy costs which improves their financial situation and also reduces greenhouse gas Academy and Education 1,566,000,000 1% Sharing Fund 123,183,290 emissions which allows the company to share green values with the local communities. The Sharing Love with Energy of Social Welfare 1,168,593,850 Hope program with the Management Others 22,940,000 Social Contribution Costs Performance in 2013 2,774,133,850 KRW Title Sharing Love with Energy of Hope Volunteer Hour of Employees Target Energy poor (mostly beneficiaries of basic living allowance, households of the near poverty group) Total 27,867 hours (28.9 hours/employee) Region Process Seo-gu, Incheon in 2012 → Expanded to Seo-gu, Incheon, Seoul, and Gwangyang in 2013 •Application receipt (recommendation of beneficiaries by local governments and welfare centers) → On-site inspection → Selection of beneficiaries → Planning for construction/renovation → Pre-energy diagnosis → implementation of project (replacement of A story of change | A thank you letter from a North Korean refugee after being provided windows, insulation work, replacement of aged boilers, etc.) → Employee volunteering (wallpaper work, arranging loads, making with an opportunity to participate in the ‘Sharing Love with Energy of Hope’ program DIY furniture, etc.) → Post-energy diagnosis → Performance report Hello! Thank you so much for creating such beautiful classrooms. Thanks to your help, I can have some good memories and grow Description •Energy efficiency improvement for aged houses: replacement of windows to double pane windows, insulation work, replacement with a positive mind at this school. I know that this school has been built by many of you from POSCO ENERGY through your of boilers, floor construction, wallpaper and floor work, and so forth. ※U  rgent improvement works are included such as water-proof construction or securing storage space if necessary sweat and hard work. I cannot thank you enough for that. Everything in this school has been placed and organized well. The •Replacement of lighting to LED lighting (newly added project in 2013, also applied to the beneficiaries in 2012) classrooms are spacious, beautiful, and bright. I am forever grateful for your support. •Installed a solar power generator of 20kW at a welfare center (newly added project in 2013) Implementation Period All year round (construction in the first and second half years) POSCO ENERGY will continue delivering Achievements •Beneficiaries: 5 welfare centers and 40 energy poor households ‘Energy for a Better World‘ to local communities. •Effects: energy cost reduction (KRW14,732,303/year), CO2 reduction (48,067kg/year, equivalent to planning 8,583 trees) •Satisfaction of the beneficiaries: very satisfied (76%), satisfied (24%) 64 2013 POSCO ENERGY Social Value World Best Green Energy Company 65 Community Child Center that Brightens the World Total Volunteer Hours Participation of Employees POSCO ENERGY launched a new social contribution program to support children of energy-deprived per Employee POSCO ENERGY is providing not only the company itself but also its employees with the households with human and material services. The company sends the College Student Volunteer 2013 opportunities to understand the local communities, and employees are actively participating in the 28.9 hours Corp to Community Child Centers located within 5 km from the power plants so that the college sharing activities. students can help with the children’s studying as mentors. For the centers to have an academic 2012 34.2hours setting, the company also supports air conditioning and heating expenses, educational materials, BEST Volunteer Activities 2011 and renovation of their Community Child Center. In addition, the company’s regional operation 28.5hours POSCO ENERGY operates volunteering programs divided into four categories for employees to supports children of the needy with scholarships and educational materials for schools, actively 2010 return support and love to local communities being engaged in such activities to contribute to local communities by helping the children grow as 24.2hours talented individuals. A Starting Ceremony of the College Wall Painting Volunteering for Improving A Disbanding Ceremony of the College Student Volunteer Corp the Environment of the Community Student Volunteer Corp Sharing Saturday / Employees participate in Saturday Themed Volunteer Activity / It is a leisure-style, Child Center volunteering by division or group working with 30 entertaining volunteer activity for employees, their volunteer organizations near the company‘s operations. families, and stakeholders to partake in together. Performance in 2013 Title Community Child Center that Brightens the World Community Child Center of Warmth Target Community Child Centers (10 centers) and the centers’ children (around 250) in Seo-gu, Incheon Purposes To motivate the children of the centers to study and To improve the physical environment and support improve their learning abilities by setting education contents to create an academic setting the College Student Volunteer Corp as role models at the children centers Period First half year (March-August), All year round second half year (September-February) Description The College Student Volunteer Corp‘s tutoring and Physical resources to create an academic setting guiding of a small group of children at the centers Energy Volunteer Activity / It is a volunteer activity Family Volunteer Activity / It is a POSCO Family 1. Dispatching a batch of college student mentors 1. P roviding support to cover the center‘s air linked to the signature CSR program, Sharing Love with joint volunteer activity which allows interactions with (50 students each time) conditioning and heating expenses Energy of Hope, conducted with the management. other family companies. 2. Tutoring children (at least once a week) along with applicable equipment 3. Guiding children’s special activities 2. P urchase of on-off life educational contents and (once every two months) books 4. Visiting the occupational experience park 3. R enovation work to improve Community for children‘s career exploration Child Center 1% Sharing Fund Roles •Community Child Centers: Protect the children of the needy after school and run educational programs for them •POSCO ENERGY: Project supervision The 1% Sharing Fund Campaign started with the management of POSCO in October 2011 has (planning for the project, implementation of the project, and follow-up management) •Incheon branch of Children Foundation: Recruit and manage college student volunteers, spread to all employees of POSCO Family companies since April 2013. Accordingly, POSCO ENERGY implement the project has combined the Bright World Fund, which was run with donations through salary deductions, with •Incheon Seo-gu office: recommend Community Child Centers the 1% Sharing Fund. More than 90% of the employees of the company are currently partaking in the campaign and the company also donates a matching grant to the 1% Sharing Fund to develop Performances Batch No. of Completion Volunteering Satisfaction of the Community Reputation of the company a donation culture jointly participated by labor and management. The 1% Sharing Fund Committee Volunteers rate hours Child Centers for the college student volunteers A Company-wide Campaign of 1% Sharing Fund consisting of employee councils is run for each operation to discuss and approve the use of the 1st 50 98% 2,252hours Very satisfied (50%) Better than before (92.3%) Satisfied (50%) The same (7.7%) fund. With such fund, the company has successfully realized “1% sharing” by helping those who are in need. 2st 50 92% 2,348hours Very satisfied (90%) Better than before (88.1%) Satisfied (10%) The same (11.9%) World Best Green Energy Company 67 Financial Information Statements of Financial Position (KRW) appendix Classification 15th (December 31, 2013) 14th (December 31, 2012) Assets Current assets 690,606,570,359 803,807,990,034 Quick assets 587,929,091,621 669,550,833,934 Inventory assets 102,677,478,738 134,257,156,100 Non-current assets 3,331,362,364,851 2,511,962,947,247 Invested assets 384,702,471,392 346,643,785,373 Property, plant and equipment 2,837,116,715,385 2,039,430,854,645 Intangible assets 15,800,881,459 22,109,603,786 Other non-current assets 93,742,296,615 103,778,703,443 Total Assets 4,021,968,935,210 3,315,770,937,281 Liabilities Current liabilities 678,983,002,945 691,825,301,303 / Financial Information Non-current liabilities 1,754,837,861,785 1,682,861,657,694 / Sustainability Management Performance Data Total liabilities 2,433,820,864,730 2,374,686,958,997 / Corporate Governance of Affiliates Equity Equity capital 225,974,030,000 225,974,030,000 / GRI G4 & ISO26000 Index / Independent Assurance Report Hybrid capital equity 498,468,200,000 / UN Global Compact Capital surplus 364,627,534,005 364,627,534,005 / Membership in Associations Capital adjustments (3,718,315,057) (3,718,315,057) Other capital components 11,808,384,195 Retained earnings 490,988,237,337 354,200,729,336 Total equity 1,588,148,070,480 941,083,978,284 Total liabilities and equity 4,021,968,935,210 3,315,770,937,281 Statements of Income (KRW) Classification 15th (December 31, 2013) 14th (December 31, 2012) Revenue 2,901,117,427,200 2,805,208,006,510 Cost of sales 2,587,867,176,850 2,452,843,752,945 Gross profit 313,250,250,350 352,364,253,565 Selling, general and administrative expenses 75,078,164,266 77,567,683,380 Operating income 238,172,086,084 274,796,570,185 Financial income (expense) (23,464,908,172) (47,641,832,725) Other net non-operating income (expense) (42,780,605,340) (16,183,481,120) Income before income taxes 171,926,572,572 210,971,256,340 Income tax expenses 27,094,388,057 33,211,703,506 Net income 144,832,184,515 177,759,552,834 Other comprehensive income (expense) 11,980,661,101 (793,040,540) Total comprehensive income (expense) 156,812,845,616 176,966,512,294 Earning per share 3,067 4,257 68 2013 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report World Best Green Energy Company 69 Statement of Changes in Equity (KRW) Statements of Cash Flows (KRW) Classification Equity Capital Hybrid Capital Capital Surplus Capital Other Capital Retained Total Classification 15th (December 31, 2013) 14th (December 31, 2012) Equity Adjustments Components Earnings I. Net cash provided by operating activities 276,475,241,715 387,997,204,736 January 1, 2012 (At the beginning of 200,000,000,000 190,497,007,247 (3,746,987,570) 102,945,337 177,131,271,705 563,984,236,719 the previous period) 1. Net cash provided by operating activities 396,428,072,850 468,238,649,193 Total comprehensive income a. Net income 144,832,184,515 177,759,552,834 Net profit 177,759,552,834 177,759,552,834 b. Adjustments 225,077,008,788 233,289,044,015 Actuarial gain (loss) c. Changes in assets and liabilities resulting from operations 26,518,879,547 57,190,052,344 on post defined (690,095,203) (690,095,203) benefit pension plans 2. Interest received 3,422,322,899 3,803,236,928 Gain and loss on valuation of 3. Dividend received 3,322,554 available-for-sale (102,945,337) (102,945,337) securities 4. Interest paid (73,846,620,438) (70,763,415,879) Total (102,945,337) 177,069,457,631 176,966,512,294 5. Income taxes paid (49,531,856,150) (13,281,265,506) Comprehensive income (expense) II. Net cash used in investing activities (846,542,007,453) (560,285,150,347) Transaction with 1. Cash inflows from investment activities 3,921,149,323 4,498,339,166 25,974,030,000 173,862,848,760 199,836,878,760 shareholders: Paid-in capital 2. Cash outflows for investment activities (850,463,156,776) (564,783,489,513) 267,677,998 (74,308,820) 193,369,178 increase III. Net cash provided by financing activities 567,390,419,328 160,375,019,112 Others 102,981,333 102,981,333 1. Cash inflows from financing activities 1,177,183,884,806 508,746,209,277 December 31, 2012 (At the end of the 225,974,030,000 364,627,534,005 (3,718,315,057) 354,200,729,336 941,083,978,284 previous period) 2. Cash outflows for financing activities (609,793,465,478) (348,371,190,165) January 1, 2013 IV. Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (315,280) (At the beginning 225,974,030,000 364,627,534,005 (3,718,315,057) 354,200,729,336 941,083,978,284 of the period) V. Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (I+II+III+IV) (2,676,661,690) (11,912,926,499) Total comprehensive income VI. Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of year 167,247,781,707 179,160,708,206 Net profit 144,832,184,515 144,832,184,515 VII. Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year 164,571,120,017 167,247,781,707 Actuarial gain (loss) on post defined 172,276,906 172,276,906 benefit pension plans Gain and loss on valuation of 11,808,384,195 11,808,384,195 available-for-sale securities Total comprehensive 11,808,384,195 145,004,461,421 156,812,845,616 income (expense) Transaction with shareholders: Hybrid capital 498,468,200,000 498,468,200,000 equity issued Hybrid capital (8,216,953,420) (8,216,953,420) equity dividends December 1 2013 (At the end of the 225,974,030,000 498,468,200,000 364,627,534,005 (3,718,315,057) 11,808,384,195 490,988,237,337 1,588,148,070,480 period) 70 2013 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report World Best Green Energy Company 71 Sustainability Management Performance Data Economic Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Category 2011 2012 2013 Category 2011 2012 2013 Generation (MWh) Total 12,809,742 15,791,978 16,032,516 Total number of employees 688 861 1,010 Incheon LNG Combined Cycle Power Plant 10,591,310 13,612,486 13,685,136 By region (person) Seoul 138 147 206 Gwangyang Off-Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant 2,184,832 2,138,844 1,993,829 Incheon 266 326 320 Pohang 241 318 361 Pohang Off-Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant 304,002 Gwangyang 30 56 107 Fuel cell and others 33,600 40,648 49,549 Overseas 13 14 16 Transmission (MWh) 12,339,542 15,424,543 15,628,532 By gender (person) Male 633 784 909 Fuel cell production (MW) BOP 25.4 42.0 49.3 Female 55 77 101 Stack 12.6 36.4 38.2 By job category (person) Regular job total 443 577 636 Accumulated supply of 48.5 54.3 115.6 Regular job male 397 501 556 fuel cell (MW) Regular job female 46 76 80 Government subsidy* (KRW million) 6,689 8,675 4,989 Specialized job total 214 252 312 R&D** Manpower status (person) 53 69 65 Specialized job male 213 251 310 Amount (KRW 100 million) 98 183 161 Specialized job female 1 1 2 * Calculated on the basis of the amount of renewable energy development difference funding and government subsidies for national projects By employment type (person) Regular employees 657 829 948 ** Counted on the basis of the business report Contract workers 31 32 62 Environmental Performance Indicators Education (person) Average education hours (hr/employee) 110.0 132.0 81.8 Category 2011 2012 2013 Total education expenses (KRW 100 million) 10.8 10.9 8.9 Fuel consumption (Nm3) LNG 1,967,934,125 2,540,069,749 2,603,784,684 Happiness index (point) 73.4 75.1 81.4 Rate of job return after maternity leave (%) 100 100 100 BFG 5,068,025,525 4,834,404,296 5,091,653,614 Turnover rate (%) 2.5 1.7 2.3 COG 25,103,776 51,319,218 58,652,766 Membership rate of labor union (%) 69 65 57.7 FOG 110,983,038 Employees scheduled to retire Regular job within 5 years 1.4 2.7 5 Energy consumption (TJ) 104,784 128,403 131,819 by job type (%) Regular job within 10 years 3.2 20 Energy consumption intensity (GJ/MWh) 8.18 8.13 8.42 Specialized job within 5 years 3.8 0.4 7 GHG emissions (tCO2) Total 8,895,004 9,863,100 11,048,184 Specialized job within 10 years 6.3 0.4 23 Scope1 8,875,412 9,849,384 11,035,778 Absenteeism rate (%) 0 0.97 0.86 Scope2 19,592 13,716 12,406 Benefit Sharing Cost (KRW million) 345 556 783 Average volunteer hours (hr/employee) 28.5 34.2 28.9 Water consumption (ton) 2,261,989 2,080,858 2,079,558 Water consumption intensity (ton/MWh) 0.18 0.13 0.13 Discharge water discharged (ton) 1,367,166 1,427,948 1,223,459 Corporate Governance of Affiliates Discharge water discharged intensity (ton/MWh) 0.11 0.09 0.08 Affiliated Company Share Affiliated Company Share Waste Waste generated (ton) 721.0 1,126.5 1,202.1 PSC Energy Global Co., Ltd. 100% Fifth Combined Heat and Power Plant LLC 30% Waste recycled (ton) 211.3 427.0 538.0 POSCO E&E 100% Gyeonggi Green Energy 19% Techren Solar, LLC 99.99% Fuel Cell Energy, Inc 14.99% Waste recycled rate (%) 29.3 37.9 44.8 PT. KPE 90% eNtoB Co., Ltd 3.95% Environmental investments (KRW million) 24,122 7,560 12,818 Tamra Offshore Wind Power Plant 64% * The reporting range for the energy and water consumption was expanded to the Incheon, Gwangyang, and Pohang operations and last year‘s data was applied retroactively. ** The reporting range for the energy and water consumption intensity includes the Incheon and Gwangyang operations 72 2013 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report World Best Green Energy Company 73 GRI G4 Guidelines (Comprehensive) & ISO26000 Index GRI G4 ISO26000 Page Remarks GRI G4 ISO26000 Page Remarks 1. General Standard Disclosures e. G4-33 a. Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 77-78 Report b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and a.  G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability 4.7, 6.2, 2, 3 Profile basis of any external assurance provided. Strategy to the organization and its strategy 7.4.2 c. Relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. and Analysis d. E xplanation of whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 32-35, assurance for the organization‘s sustainability report. 38-39 f. G4-34 Governance structure, including committees of the highest governance body. 9, 14 b. G4-3 Name of organization 6.3.10, 6, 7 Governance dentify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts Organization 6.4.1-6.4.5, Profile G4-4 Primary brand, products, and services 6.8.5, 7.8 6, 7 G4-35 Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental, and social topics from the highest 6.2, 7.4.3 9, 14 governance body to senior executives and other employees G4-5 Location of headquarters 6, 7 G4-36 Whether the organization has appointed an executive level position(s) with responsibility for economic, 9, 14 G4-6 Number of countries where the organzation operates, and names of countries where either it has 6, 7 environmental, and social topics and whether post holders report directly to highest governance body significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-37 Process for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, 9, 14 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 71 environmental, and social topics G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 9, 14 G4-8 Markets served 6, 7 G4-39 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 9, 14 G4-9 Scale of the organization 6, 7 Report nomination and selection process for highest governance body and its committees and 9, 14 G4-10 a. Total number of employees by employment contract and gender 71 G4-40 criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members b. Total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender c. Total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender G4-41 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and d. Total workforce by region and gender managed e. Explanation of whether a substantial portion of the organization‘s work is performed -R eport whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders, cross-board membership, by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals cross-shareholding with suppliers and other stakeholders, existence of controlling shareholder, f. Any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment) related party disclosures G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 71 G4-42 The highest governance body‘s and senior executives‘ roles in the development, approval, and 14 updating of the organization‘s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and G4-12 Supply chain 60-61 goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, ownership, or supply chain 6, 7, 71 G4-43 Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body‘s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics G4-14 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed 17 by the organization G4-44 a. Processes for evaluation of the highest governance body‘s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives 79 b. Actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body‘s performance to which the organization subscribes or endorses. G4-45 a. T he highest governance body‘s role in the identification and management of economic, 9, 14 G4-16 Memberships in major associations 80 environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities b. Report whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body‘s c. G4-17 a. All entities included in the organization‘s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. 5.2, 71 identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities Identified b. Explanation of whether any entity included in the organization‘s consolidated financial statements or 7.3.2-7.3.4 Material equivalent documents is not covered by the report. G4-46 The highest governance body‘s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization‘s risk 9, 14 Aspects and management processes for economic, environmental and social topics Boundaries G4-18 a. Process for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries. 12, 13 b. How the reporting principles for defining report content has been implemented G4-47 Report the frequency of the highest governance body‘s review of economic, environmental and social 9, 14 impacts, risks, and opportunities G4-19 List all the material aspects identified in the process for defining report content 13 G4-48 The highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization‘s sustainability 14 G4-20 For each material aspect report the boundary within the organization 1 report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered G4-21 For each material aspect report aspect boundary outside the organization G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body 9 G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons G4-50 The nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance for such restatements body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them G4-51 a. The remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives 9 b. None G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods 38 for the below types of remuneration d. 5.3 b. R eport how performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest governance body‘s G4-24 A list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 10 Stakeholder and senior executives‘ economic, environmental and social objectives Engagement G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 10 G4-52 Process for determining remuneration (whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining 9 remuneration and whether they are independent of management) G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and 10, 12, by stakeholder group 34-35 G4-53 Report how stakeholders‘ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration 9 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and 10 G4-54 Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization‘s highest-paid individual how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting in each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees (key issues by stakeholder type) G4-55 Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization‘s highest-paid e. G4-28 Reporting period 7.5.3, 7.6.2 1 individual in each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total Report compensation for all employees Profile G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 1 g. G4-56 Describe the organization‘s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of con7.7.5, 4.4, 15 G4-30 Reporting cycle 1 Ethics and duct and codes of ethics 6.6.3 Integrity G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 1 G4-57 The internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and 16 matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines G4-32 GRI Index a . ‘In accordance’ option chosen (core or comprehensive) 72-75 b. GRI Content Index for the chosen option G4-58 The internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior 16 c. Reference to the External Assurance Report 74 2013 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report World Best Green Energy Company 75 GRI G4 ISO26000 Page Remarks GRI G4 ISO26000 Page Remarks 2. Specific Standard Disclosures Environmental Effluents and G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly 6.5.3 N/A a. G4-DMA a. Why this is material and the impact that makes it material. 6, 7.3.1, 12-13, Waste affected by the organization‘s discharges of water and runoff DMA b. How organization manages it or its impacts 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 18-19, c. Management approach 7.7.5 36-37, Product and G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 6.5.3, 6.5.4, 32-33, 48-51 Services 6.5.5, 6.7.5 39 b. Indicators by Issue G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category 6.5.3, 6.5.4, N/A 6.7.5 Economic Compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance 4.6 41 Economic G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 6.8.1-6.8.3, 20-21 with environmental laws and regulations Perfor6.8.7, 6.8.9 mance Transport G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials 6.5.4, 6.6.6 47 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization‘s activities due to climate change 6.5.5 38-39 for the organization‘s operations, and transporting members of the workforce G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization‘s defined benefit plan obligations 6.8.7 54 Overall G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 6.5.1-6.5.2 41 G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government 70 Supplier G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 6.3.5, 6.6.6, 60 Market G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage 6.3.7, Environmental 7.3.1 Presence at significant locations of operation 6.3.10, Assessment G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 6.3.5, 6.6.6, 6.4.3-6.4.4, 7.3.1 6.8.1-6.8.2 Environmental G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and 6.3.6 None G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation 6.4.3, Grievance resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 6.8.1-6.8.2, Mechanisms 6.8.5, 6.8.7 Social Indirect G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 6.3.9, 62-65 Economic 6.8.1-6.8.2, Labor Practices and Decent Work Impacts 6.8.7, 6.8.9 Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region 6.4.3 71 G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 6.3.9, 6.6.630-31, 6.6.7, 6.7.8, 39 G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, 6.4.4, 6.8.7 54 6.8.1-6.8.2, by significant locations of operation 6.8.5, 6.8.7, G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 6.4.4 71 6.8.9 Labor/ G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified 6.4.3, 6.4.5 55 Procurement G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation 6.4.3, 6.6.6, 30-31 Management in collective agreements Practices 6.8.1-6.8.2, Relations 6.8.7 Occupational G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and 6.4.6 56 Environmental Health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Materials Safety G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 6.5.4 38, 41 G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and 6.4.6, 6.8.8 total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 6.5.4 43 G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 6.4.6, 6.8.8 Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 6.5.4 38, 41 G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 6.4.6 56 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization 6.5.4 Training and G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 6.4.7 50-52 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 6.5.4 38 Education G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability 6.4.7, 6.8.5 50-52 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 6.5.4-5 38 of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 6.5.4-5 38 G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender 6.4.7 14, 71 All emWater G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 6.5.4 42 and by employee category ployees Diversity and G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category 6.2.3, 6.3.7, 14, 71 G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 6.5.4 42 Equal according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity 6.3.10, 6.4.3 G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 6.5.4 42 Opportunity Biodiversity G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and 6.5.6 41 Equal G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, 6.3.7, areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Remuneration by significant locations of operation 6.3.10, for Women 6.4.3, 6.4.4 G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and Men 6.5.6 N/A and areas of high biowdiversity value outside protected areas Supplier G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria 6.3.5, 6.4.3, G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored 6.5.6 N/A Assessment 6.6.6, 7.3.1 for Labor G4-EN14 Total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats 6.5.6 N/A G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and 6.3.5, 6.4.3, Practices in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk actions taken 6.6.6, 7.3.1 Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 6.5.5 38 Labor G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, 6.3.6 Practices and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 6.5.5 38 Grievance G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 6.5.5 Mechanisms G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 6.5.5 38 Human Rights G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 6.5.5 38 Investment G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human 6.3.3, 6.3.5, None rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening 6.6.6 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 6.5.3, 6.5.5 N/A G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human 6.3.5 16 G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions 6.5.3 42 rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Effluents G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 6.5.3-4 43 NonG4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 6.3.6, 6.3.7, N/A and Waste discrimination 6.3.10, 6.4.3 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 6.5.3 43 Freedom of G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 55 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills 6.5.3 N/A Association collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights 6.3.5, 6.3.8, and Collective 6.3.10, G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the 6.5.3 N/A Bargaining 6.4.5, 6.6.6 Basel Convention (2) Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally 76 2013 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report World Best Green Energy Company 77 GRI G4 ISO26000 Page Remarks GRI G4 ISO26000 Page Remarks Product Responsibility Human Rights Product G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 3.7.1-6.7.2, 58-59 Child Labor G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 55 and Service 6.7.6 measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor 6.3.5, 6.3.7, Labelling 6.3.10, 6.6.6, 6.8.4 Marketing G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products Forced or G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 55 G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning 4.6, 6.7.1-6.7.3 None Compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor 6.3.5, marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Labor 6.3.10, 6.6.6 Customer G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and 6.7.1-6.7.2, None Security G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization‘s human rights policies or procedures 6.3.4, 6.3.5, N/A Privacy losses of customer data 6.7.7 Practices that are relevant to operations 6.6.6 Compliance G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning 4.6, 6.7.1None Indigenous G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and actions taken 6.3.4, 6.3.6, N/A the provision and use of products and services 6.7.2, 6.7.6 Rights 6.3.7, 6.3.8, Forced or G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 55 6.6.7, 6.8.3 Compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor 6.3.5, Labor 6.3.10, 6.6.6 Assessment G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or 6.3.3, 6.3.4, impact assessments 6.3.5 Supplier G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 6.3.3-6.3.6 Human Rights Assessment G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 6.3.3-6.3.6 Electric Utility Sector Specific (EUSS) Page Human Rights G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, 6.3.6 None EU1 Installed capacity 6-7 Grievance and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Mechanisms EU2 Net energy output 70 Society EU3 Number of residential, industrial, institutional and commercial customer accounts N/A EU4 Length of above and underground transmission and distribution lines N/A Local G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, 6.3.9, 6.5.162-65 Communities and development programs 6.5.3, 6.8 EU5 Allocation of CO2e emissions allowances or equivalent, broken down by carbon trading framework N/A G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual or potential negative impacts on local communities 6.3.9, 6.5.3, None EU6 Management approach to ensure short and long-term electricity availability and reliability 26-27 6.8 EU7 Demand-side management programs 27 AntiG4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and 6.6.1-6.6.3 None corruption the significant risks identified EU8 Research and development activity and expenditure aimed at providing reliable electricity and 23 promoting sustainable development G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 6.6.1-6.6.3, 15-16 6.6.6 EU9 Provisions for decommissioning of nuclear power sites N/A G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 6.6.1-6.6.3 15-16 EU10 Planned capacity against projected electricity demand over the long term, broken down by energy source 26-27 Public Policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary 6.6.1-6.6.2, N/A EU11 Average generation efficiency of plants by energy source 27 6.6.4 EU12 Transmission and distribution losses as a percentage of total energy 70 AntiG4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and 6.6.1-6.6.2, None EU13 Biodiversity of offset habitats compared to the biodiversity of the affected areas N/A competitive monopoly practices and their outcomes 6.6.5, 6.6.7 Behavior EU14 Programs and processes to ensure the availability of a skilled workforce 50-52 Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions 4.6 None EU15 Percentage of employees eligible to retire in the next 5 and 10 years broken down by job category and by region 71 for non-compliance with laws and regulations EU16 Policies and requirements regarding health and safety of employees and employees of contractors and subcontractors 56-57 Supplier G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society 6.3.5, 6.6.160 Assessment 6.6.2, 6.6.6, EU17 Days worked by contractor and subcontractor employees involved in construction, Complied with the legal for Impacts 6.8.1-6.8.2, operation & maintenance activities working hours on Society 7.3.1 EU18 Percentage of contractor and subcontractor employees that have undergone relevant health and safety training 57 G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken 6.3.5, 6.6.1EU19 Stakeholder participation in the decision making process related to energy planning and infrastructure development 26-27 6.6.2, 6.6.6, 6.8.1-6.8.2, EU20 Approach to managing the impacts of displacement N/A 7.3.1 EU21 Contingency planning measures, disaster/emergency management plan and training programs, and 40, 56-57 Grievance G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and 6.3.6, 6.6.1None recovery/restoration plans Mechanisms resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 6.6.2, for Impacts 6.8.1-6.8.2 EU22 Number of people physically or economically displaced and compensation, broken down by type of project N/A on Society EU23 Programs, including those in partnership with government, to improve or maintain access to electricity and N/A Product Responsibility customer support services EU24 Practices to address language, cultural, low literacy and disability related barriers to accessing and safely using N/A Customer G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and 6.7.1-6.7.2, electricity and customer support services Health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement 6.7.4-6.7.5, Safety 6.8.8 EU25 Number of injuries and fatalities to the public involving company assets, including legal judgments, settlements and N/A pending legal cases of diseases G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the 4.6, 6.7.1health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes 6.7.2-6.7.4EU26 Percentage of population unserved in licensed distribution or service areas N/A 6.7.5, 6.8.8 EU27 Number of residential disconnections for non-payment, broken down by duration of disconnection and N/A Product G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization‘s procedures for product and 6.7.1-6.7.5, 58-59 by regulatory regime and Service service information and labeling, and percentage of significant products and service categories 6.7.9 Labelling subject to such information requirements EU28 Power outage frequency 27 EU29 Average power outage duration 27 G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning 4.6, 6.7.1None product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes 6.7.5, 6.7.9 EU30 Average plant availability factor by energy source 27 78 2013 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report World Best Green Energy Company 79 Independent Assurance Report Inherent Limitations Non-financial performance information is subject to more inherent limitations than financial information, given the characteristics of the subject matter and the methods used for determining such information. Qualitative interpretations of relevance, materiality and the accuracy of data are subject to individual assumptions and judgments. A limited assurance engagement is less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement under ISAE 3000. Consequently, the nature, timing and extent of procedures for gathering sufficient, To the Management of POSCO ENERGY appropriate evidence are deliberately limited relative to a reasonable assurance engagement. In particular: We have been commissioned to carry out an assurance engagement on the 2013 Sustainability Report (the “Report”) of POSCO •We do not participate in the stakeholder activities of the Company. Our conclusions are based on our discussions with manage ENERGY (the “Company”) and have reviewed the information presented in the Report. ment and staff of the Company and our review of selected documents provided to us by the Company •The scope of our work was restricted to 2013 performance only and information relating to the early periods have not been Scope of Assurance subject to assurance by us. This assurance engagement covered the data ended on December 31, 2013 and provides limited assurance for the following. •The extent to which the principles of Materiality, Inclusivity and Responsiveness are adopted, Conclusions in line with the requirements of the Account Ability Principles Standard 2008 (“AA1000 APS”) Based on the assurance work performed by us and the suggested assessment criteria, we have concluded the following. •Whether the non-financial information stated in the ‘Sustainability Management Performance Data (pp. 71-72) Our conclusions for the Company‘s application of the AA1000APS principles are provided below. (“Sustainability Management Data”) is generated in line with the ‘Report Guidelines’ in ‘About This Report.’ Inclusivity We have reviewed the consistency of the content in this Report with other information and data subject to the assurance engagement. •The Company has collected the major interests and opinions of the customers, customer companies, partner companies, We also considered the impacts of significant errors or inconsistency in this Report that may affect the Assurance Report. However our shareholders, local communities, and employees via stakeholder communication channels. responsibility is limited to the data commissioned to review. •Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that significant stakeholder groups were omitted by the Company in the process of collecting issues via stakeholder communication channels. Assurance Engagement Materiality We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance with the ISAE 3000(1) and AA1000AS (2). The limited assurance of the ISAE •The Company properly selected sustainability issues through an appropriate issue identifying process. 3000 is in accord with the Moderate level of assurance defined in the AA1000AS (2008). Our assurance was based on the Type 2 •Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that significant issues were omitted by the Company during defined in the AA1000AS (2008). the process of selecting the issues. We performed our assurance engagement on the following matters: Responsiveness 1. To find approaches for the three principles of the AA1000APS including Materiality, Inclusivity and Responsiveness, we conducted •The Company included its response activities against the key sustainability issues selected during the issue identifying process and interviews with the staff in charge of internal reporting and collecting of sustainability management report of the Company. sustainability management performances. 2. We visited the headquarters and the Incheon Operation to understand the system and process that manage and report •Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the response activities against the key issues and sustainability management data. sustainability management performances of the company violated the principle of responsiveness. 3. We reviewed documents related to the result of risk assessment processes, policies and criteria related to sustainability Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the sustainability data for the year ended December 31, 2013 are management, materiality matrix for assessing sustainability issues, and stakeholders’ participation. not fairly stated, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting principles. 4. We reviewed the appropriateness of designing and operating the key processes and control activities to manage and report sustainability management data during the report period. Recommendations 5. We performed limited assurance engagement for the given data based on questions and analytical reviews. From our work, we have provided the following recommendations to the management which do not affect the assurance conclusion. 6. We conducted interviews with the management. •The operation system of the annual Stakeholder Committee is advised to improve to reflect the result of the committee to sustainability management of the Company. Responsibilities •The sustainability management strategies, related goals for key indicators, level of achievement goals, and plans to achieve The management of the Company is responsible for managing sustainability data, setting the assessment criteria for the three such goals are advised to be disclosed more actively principles of the AA1000APS, measuring the performance in accordance with such criteria, and stating the result in this Report. Our •The internal management process of sustainability management data, regarding data collection, is advised to be improved responsibility is limited to provide the management with results of our assurance engagement. This Assurance Report is intended for to increase the accuracy of the data so that it can be applied to business decision-making processes. the management of the Company to report the Company‘s sustainability management performances and activities. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the management of the Company for our work or this report save where terms are expressly agreed and with our prior consent in writing. Ahn Kyung-Tae Chairman and CEO (1) International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) – ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’ Samil PricewaterhouseCoopers issued by International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board May 2014 (2) AA1000 Assurance Standard(2008), issued by AccountAbility 80 2013 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report UN Global Compact Membership of Associations •UN GLOBAL COMPACT •Creating Shared Value Forum Classification Principles GRI In This Report •The Korean Society of Mechanical Engineers •The Korea Chamber of Commerce & Industry Human Rights 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of G4-HR2, G4-HR7,G4-HR8, 16, 55, •Korea Electric Association internationally proclaimed human rights; and G4-HR9, G4-HR12, G4-SO1, 60 G4-SO2 •Independent Power Producer Association •Executive Committee for “One Less Nuclear Power Plant” 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. G4-HR1, G4-HR10, G4-HR11 60 campaign by Seoul Metropolitan Government •KSA Energy Management System Forum Labor Standards 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association G4-11, G4-HR4, G4-LA4 55, 71 •Association of Future Strategy Forum on Energy and the effective recognition of the right to collective & Resources Development bargaining; •Energy Policy Council •BEST SM Forum 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsorylabor; G4-HR6 55 •Korea Personnel Improvement Association 5 the effective abolition of child labor; and G4-HR5 55 •Incheon Green Union •Incheon Chamber of commerce and industry 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and G4-10, G4-EC5, G4-EC6, G4-LA1, 50, 52, •Incheon Safety Association occupation. G4-LA3, G4-LA9, G4-LA11, 71 •Korea Federation for Environmental Movement G4-LA12, G4-LA13, G4-HR3 •Green Growth Council under the Federation of Korean Industries •The Federation of Korean Industries Environment 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach G4-E2, G4-EN1, G4-EN3, G4-EN8, 17, 40 •Korea Power Exchange to environmental challenges; G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17, G4-EN20, G4-EN21, G4-EN27, •The Korean Society of Climate Change Research G4-EN31 •Korea Industrial Technology Association •The Korean Society For New And Renewable Energy 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental G4-EN1, G4-EN2, G4-EN3, 38-45 •Korea New & Renewable Energy responsibility; and G4-EN4, G4-EN5, G4-EN6, •Korea Society of Energy & Climate Change G4-EN7, G4-EN8, G4-EN9, •Korea Energy Foundation G4-EN10, G4-EN11, G4-EN12, •The Korean Institute of Resources Recycling G4-EN13, G4-EN14, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17, G4-EN18, •Korea Battery Industry Association G4-EN19, G4-EN20, G4-EN21, •Korea Photovoltaic Industry Association G4-EN22, G4-EN23, G4-EN24, •Korea Wind Energy Industry Association G4-EN24, G4-EN25,G4-EN26, •Korea Chemicals Management Association G4-EN27, G4-EN28 •Korean Environmental Management Association •Korea Environmental Policy and Administration Society 9 encourage the development and diffusion G4-EN29, G4-EN30, G4-EN31, 38-45 •Energy & Mineral Resources Development Association of Kore of environmentally friendly technologies. G4-EN32, G4-EN33, G4-EN34 •Environment Engineers Association Anti-Corruption 10 Businesses should combat corruption in all its forms, G4-EN6, G4-EN7, G4-EN19, 16 •Environmental Preservation Association including extortion and bribery. G4-EN27, G4-EN31 •Climate Change Center Contributors for the Report •Kang Ji-eun •Lee Je-seok •Kwon Gyeong-rok •Lee Han-jin •Kim Dong-min •Im Byeong-dong •Kim Ah-reum •Im Seung-yeol •Kim Jong-cheol •Jeong Seong-min •Kim Jin-ho •Jo Gwang-hee •Kim Hwa-jin •Jon In-sang •No Ho-yun •Choi Seung-yong •Ahn Ji-yeong •Han Su-chang •Ahn Hee-jin •Hong Seong-gyu •Yu Geun-seok •Hong Sun-deok •Lee Dong-eun •Hwang Seong-sik •Lee Jae-eun •Hwang Eun-gyeong This report is printed on FSCTM (Forest Stewardship Council) C111531 Certified paper with Soy ink.
