Sustainability report 2013 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica (Spain and Portugal) Performance Product Created Economic Value +95% of local suppliers € 1,201 million Distributed Economic Value Product development € 1,271 million • Products for the development of € 45.6 million lighter and less contaminating for salaries and social vehicles benefits • Road safety: Manufacturing of € 83.4 million for tributes road guardrails Environment and solidarity Employees Solar energy Local employement creation 6,4 GJ installed on our roofs 1,188 employees (92% men, 8% women) Global Compact 96% of the workforce has a permanent contract Solidarity Initiatives Participation in 13 initiatives 11 Steel Service centers between Spain and Portugal Production capacity 4.2 million tons per year Sustainability report 2013 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica (Spain and Portugal) Index A letter from the President 6 4.2 Our commitment our people 70 Our professionals 70 1. Our organisation 9 Continuing training and career development 72 About us Best practice: GSS at the Job Market Fair organi10 Management and organisation sed by IE 72 12 Balance sheet Employment policy 74 13 Best practice: Equality plan in Ferrodisa 75 Our management framework 14 Best practice: Gonvauto Navarra. Reconciliation of Our activity 17 work and family life 76 Social benefits 80 2. Our sustainability approach 33 Our corporate culture 34 5. Planet 83 Our stakeholders: materiality 37 5.1 Environment 84 Best practice: Leading the Change 40 Our environmental management 84 Best practice: Environmental awareness in 3. Performance 43 Gonvauto Navarra 84 Our field: global context 44 Best practice: Training on environmental issues at Our performance 47 GSS 85 Best practice: Aluminium: an avant-garde material 48 Environmental impact of our products 85 Quality and innovation 48 Environmental sustainability index 87 Best practice: SPG, Road to excellence 51 Our environmental aspects 88 Our clients 52 Best practice: Reasonable purchasing 89 Best practice: Client´s day and commitment to our Best practice: Initiatives in Energy Efficiency. Hiasa 93 clients 52 Climate change and emissions 96 Our suppliers 53 Biodiversity 97 Best practice: Transversal Operational Approach 55 5.2 Value creation 98 4. People 57 Our groups of interest 98 4.1 Health and Safety 58 Our commitment 99 Health and Safety: Our Priorities Association with organisations 102 58 Best practice: Improved safety and health signage Best practice: GSS sponsors the International Iron 61 Our commitment to occupational risk prevenand Steel Symposium 103 tion. One Step Beyond 61 Support of social action 103 Communication and training 62 Awards and recognition 107 Follow-up and measurement 67 Health and safety indicators 68 Annex 109 Recognitions and awards 69 Scope and coverage of the Report 110 Business structure 110 Independent Review Report 112 GRI Statement 113 GRI Index 114 Contents related to the Principles of the UN Global Compact 126 6 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica Sustainability report 2013 A letter from the President A letter from the President In compliance with the goals set in our Sustainability We continue to diversify our activity and we have Plan, and following the 1st Annual Report issued by developed powerful alliances with organisations that Gonvauto Iberia, I am pleased to submit our 2nd Susshare this goal, as well as a large number of actions tainability Report. that enable us to continue growing in a sustainable way. An example of this process is the new division The Report covers 2013 and makes reference to the of Gonvauto Asturias launched at the end of 2013 for production centres that form Gonvarri Steel Services production and sale of welded tube, specialised for the Península Ibérica (hereinafter, GSS Península Ibérica). automotive sector. Reinforcing our commitment towards sustainability, our purpose is to expand the Report’s scope so that We want to be competitive and flexible, so that we can it will reach the entire company throughout the world. adapt to the new global environment. Therefore, we promote innovation and efficiency in our processes. The initiatives shown on the Report are a clear Particularly relevant in 2013 was the awarding of sereflection of the values that guide us, such as honesty, veral R+D certifications for projects developed in our humbleness, effort and hard work, and also show the plants. corporate principles that have been a reference to our company since its beginnings and that are part of our Within our automotive activities we wish to highlight Ethics and Conduct Code: the commitment towards the launching of a new aluminium line in 2013, in our our customers, the enthusiasm of our professionals, Gonvauto Barcelona plant, through which we are starleadership and sustainability. ting our journey in the aluminium cutting market for the automotive industry. The situation in the last years has been complicated. The most relevant markets are currently undergoing We view work in a responsible manner. The “Leading a recession, which results in a lower demand for the Change” programme is framed within this context steel products and an excess of production capacity, and provides us with the channels that are necessary particularly in European Union countries, which are to allow a flowing communication because by listening currently facing strong competition and pressure on and sharing information we are mutually enriched. market prices. We believe that constant learning and training are Iberia has experienced a GDP drop of 1.2% in Spain, essential when it comes to managing our professionals’ and 1.4% in Portugal. The saving measures enforced career. Therefore, in 2013 we launched the “Leading by the public bodies have led to widespread lack of The Change University” Project, with the aim of stimuli in fields such as infrastructures and sale and reinforcing, integrating and coordinating all training purchase operations involving cars. In spite of the activities carried out within the Group. unfavourable macroeconomic situation in Iberia, it is worth highlighting that an increase of the investment In 2014 the foregoing launching will be in capital goods has been noted in comparison to complemented with further initiatives, such as previous years, particularly during the second half of the Development of High Potential Employees the year. and the school for Training Managers and Directors. In 2013, a slight increase of demand for our products was observed which, however has not entailed greater A key aspect of our business is our embenefits on account of the lower sale prices. ployees’ health and safety. Most of our plants have obtained the OHSAS 18001 We have dealt with the ongoing recession by devestandard certification and a highly effecloping different initiatives focused on optimizing our tive corporate prevention plan known as processes, negotiating the collective agreement with “One Step Ahead” has been successfuwage moderation criteria and flexibility measures, so lly implemented, which has significantthat we are able to provide a response to possible ly contributed to enhancing safety, as changes in product demand, trying to maintain stable shown on our frequency and accident employment at all times. rate. Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 7 A letter from the President Sustainability report 2013 During the performance of our activities we are perThis Report reflects the involvement of all those who manently driven by our need to minimize our environwork and collaborate with us. Therefore, I wish to reimental impact. Our management systems have been terate my gratitude to all of them as through their hard certified under the UNE EN ISO 14001 standard and we work and dedication they contribute to reinforcing our measure our improvement through the Environmental commitment towards sustainable growth on a daily Behaviour Index (EBI) in almost all of our plants, thus basis. contributing to achieving continuous improvement. The principles and values that guide us and the initiatives that we have implemented allow us to face the future with the competence gained in our journey and Jon Riberas the ethical contribution that has earned us a reputaExecutive President tion as a reliable company. About us We are part of Corporación Gestamp Productive capacity 4,2 million tons of steel with 11 Steel Services Centers per year between Spain and Portugal Our activity Steel and aluminium products 4 business lines Automotive Road Safety Industry Solar structures Our balance Economic Value Created Economic Value Distributed 1.201 thousands of euros 1.271 thousands of euros Risk identification and management Sustainability Axis 2: Ethics Code of Conduct GSS Península Ibérica • December 2013. Update & development of the new Ethics and Conduct Code. Master Plan • January 2014: Ethics Code of Conduct approval. • Conduct Code Online training through the Welcome pack for all the new recruits. • First quarter 2014: Diffusion, implementation and acceptance by all employees. 1. Our organisation About us Management and organisation Balance sheet Our management framework Our activity 10 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica Sustainability report 2013 1. Our organisation About us Corporación Gestamp Gonvarri Steel Industries We are part of Corporación Gestamp headquarters of Gonvarri Steel Industries is formed by two different buGonvarri Steel Industries and Gestamp Renovables, a siness lines: leading European company in the steel, automobile parts and renewable energies sectors. Gonvarri Steel Services: Steel Service Centres, with 26 factories in 2013. The Corporation has succeeded in becoming a great global company, by implementing the same leadership GRI Renewable Industries: 9 factories that manufacapproach, based on continuous improvement, which ture wind generator spare parts. characterized its beginnings, back in 1958. We are a guarantee of financial solvency and high Gonvarri Steel Services quality production process for execution of major projects based, among others, in steel service centers Gonvarri Steel Services was founded in 1958 and located all around the world. its growth has continued by achieving worldwide expansion and diversification. The company currently operates in 25 countries in Europe, America and Asia, featuring more than 130 The company plays a leading role in the steel processing industrial plants and a total workforce of 36,000 market, placing particular emphasis on sustainable, employees. affordable growth and continuous improvement of products and services, aiming at building stronger relationships both with our customers and our suppliers. At the service centers, steel undergoes a series of top level technological procedures that allow goods to accommodate the customer’s needs. CORPORACIÓN GESTAMP Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 11 1. Our organisation Sustainability report 2013 Global coverage Countries in which we are present in (as to December the 31st 2013) Gonvauto GSS steel service centers Asturias Laser Automotive Barcelona Based on our geographical position and activity, we are grouped into 8 divisions: 1 Gonvauto Iberia 7 TUR Includes Gonvauto’s facilities in Navarra, Barcelona Includes the facilities of Steel & Alloy in Turkey and and Galicia (Spain). United Kingdom, and SG Kaluga (Russia). 2 Gonvarri Iberia 8 Asia Includes the facilities of Ferrodisa, Laser AutomotiGAIPL Pune (India). ve and Gonvarri in Barcelona, Burgos, Portugal and Tarragona. in Steel busin rvice ess 3 Gonvarri Metal Structures als e Close r e Includes the facilities of Hiasa (Spain), Gonvarri Arizogr es lat ion sit rong quality pol Mu I ltip nte na (USA), Çepas (Turkey) and Gonvauto Asturias. t icy S munication id co les f Gonvarr 4 Central Europe so Flu h steel factori of succes teel Servic Includes the facilities of Gonvauto Thüringen, Gonvarri es wit Good finan Poland and AMG Senica (Slovakia). ey iS ip sh 5 NAFTA Includes the facilities of Gonvauto in Puebla (Mexico) ex d K es ad n and South Carolina (US). Bro l sta pe F l ex i b i l i t y ti a in rie nce s e i n s te e l s e r v i c e p e o pl 6 LatAm g Includes the facilities of AMG Campinas and AMG t to C o m m it m e n Paraná (Brazil) and Gonvarri Argentina. Key of success of GSS 12 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica Sustainability report 2013 1. Our organisation Management and organisation Management Our Board of Management is permanently formed by Mr. Jon Riberas Mera as President, Chief Executive OffiThe scope of this Report includes information and cer and representative of Holding Gonvarri, S.L. and Mr. details of all our Iberia factories, such as Ferrodisa, Josu Calvo Moreira, as Secretary of the Board. Gonvarri Barcelona, Gonvarri Burgos, Gonvarri Portugal, Gonvarri Tarragona, Gonvauto Barcelona, Gonvauto Other counselors represent the different Group comGalicia, Gonvauto Navarra and Hiasa (hereinafter, GSS panies, details of which are specified in the annual acPenínsula Ibérica). counts of those companies. The corporate structure of each of our facilities is desThe organisational structure of Gonvarri is defined as cribed in the annex attached hereto. follows: Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 13 1. Our organisation Sustainability report 2013 Balance sheet Following several years of declining sales, the market Below is a summary of our main financial indicators is now experiencing an increase, though profit margins grouped in two sections covering EVC (Economic Vaare now lower. lue Created), and EVD (Economic Value Distributed), respectively. Regarding the latter, no payments were The results obtained in 2013 show a slight made to Governments in 2013. improvement compared to the previous year, which has been possible owing to the hard work and to the Economic Value Created (thousands of euros) many initiatives aimed at savings and improvements implemented in our production centers, struggling to Turnover 1,178,971 maintain stable jobs at all times. Financial income 8,873 Other financial income 13,537 The net assets of the companies on which this report is based are estimated in 566.4M€ and the EBITDA on Total EVC 1,201,381 sales is 3.7%. Economic Value Distributed (thousands of The company is required to produce annual audit euros) reports on its consolidated accounts, due to its assets Payment to providers of capital 18,799 and turnover. No reservations appear in the reports Taxes 83,400 submitted by any of the above mentioned companies. The company complies with its remaining accounting Staff costs 45,626 duties, by filing before the Trade Registry, in due Supply purchases 1,036,954 time and manner, and after each accounting year, Capital expenditure (CAPEX)* 12,108 the legalization of its official accounting books and its annual accounts, following the approval from the Support services (received) 73,737 Shareholders Meeting. Total EVD 1,270,624 Also, the company is up to date with its payments to *Includes Gonvauto Asturias Social Security Treasury and tax-related duties. We have obtained public tax incentives for 749,000 euros, most of them corresponding to Hiasa and Gonvauto Asturias. 14 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica Sustainability report 2013 1. Our organisation Our management framework Our company firmly believes that the principles of hoThe Ethics and Conduct Code is public and available on: nesty and transparency should govern all of our actions, http://www.gonvarristeelservices.com/es/ irrespectively of our position within the company. portal-de-proveedores The main aspects involved in our management framework are shown below: Harassment Prevention Gonvarri Steel Services is a global company that operaCollective Agreements tes in many countries. Therefore, the interpretation and implementation of certain aspects of the Code may All of GSS Península Ibérica facilities have their collecultimately depend on the local customs and culture, tive agreements in force, or undergoing negotiation which might lead to different interpretations. stages, pursuant to the provisions of the National Agreement for the Steel Sector and the specific reThe “Guide for Harassment Prevention and proquirements of the autonomous region where the facitocol of action” was created in order to clarify some lities operate. aspects relating to the Ethics and Conduct Code. The Guide incorporates the measures that may be taken for prevention and denounce of possible harassment Ethics and Conduct Code situations, establishing certain minimum mandatory rules to ensure honest, responsible actions in all counWe believe that today’s company is expected to, not tries where we are present. The guide may be adapted only comply with the law, but also to serve as ethical to comply with the country’s local requirements where reference in every decision that is made, which is also we operate. expected from all of its members, the development of our business is therefore guided by the principles and values covered by our Ethics Code of Conduct. Fight against corruption The Group defined its first Ethics Code in 2008, which Anti-corruption mechanisms have been defined for the in 2013 was updated in order to adapt to the current entire Group at corporate level, and they are based on environment, the new legal requirements and the interthe principle of honesty as corporate value. nationally recognized codes and principles, and to the progress and innovation in the fields of data disseminaThe “Rules of Behaviour in respect of incentives, tion and communication. The new Code was approved gifts and invitations” were developed based on by the Board of Directors on 13 January 2014, effectisuch approach, which reinforces our message “Zero ve as of 20 January 2014. tolerance towards corruption”, mainly focused on purchases, acceptance of gifts and presents and Moreover, the Code contains the guidelines and chanconflicts of interest. nels that are available to employees for denouncing whatsoever behavior that takes place, entailing an The distribution of the guides, available in English and infringement of legal regulations or the Company’s Spanish, takes place through the Welcome Pack site. principles of conduct. The complaint channels available are: email, telephone and through the complaint form. Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 15 1. Our organisation Sustainability report 2013 Risk management Financial risks Processes The activities of the Companies face different financial risks. Our risk management program is focused on mitiRisks related to the manufacturing process are gating the uncertainty of financial markets, seeking to tempered through the performance of an analysis as minimize the potential adverse impact on their finanwell as the annual request for investments the purpose cial profitability. of which is to improve the facilities, and through continuing improvement (SPG). If due to any given Financial risks are identified and assessed at the Correasons (legal changes, incidents, etc.), a relevant, porate Treasury Department, in conformity with the unforeseen, and therefore non-budgeted, investment procedure approved by the Board of Directors. The arises, it will be subject to the pertinent analysis and Board provides policies for management of global risks approval, which will be performed independently. and also for specific areas. Our most significant risks are the following: Before the end of the financial year, each facility’s Manager identifies and determines the investment Market risk, including: requirements at his/her respective production plants, which will ultimately be assessed based on numerous • Exposure to Exchange rate risks: the Companies factors, such as the incidents occurred, new clients operate on an international level, and are therefore demands, production improvements, reduction of exposed to Exchange rate risks due to operations environmental impact, improvements in terms of being conducted in foreign currencies, particularemployees’ safety and health, payback, etc. ly the US Dollar. In order to mitigate this impact, the Companies have a policy for managing such The required investments are reported to the technical exchange rate risk, based on periodical reports lisdirector, who performs a global assessment and, ting all collection and payment flows in a currency later, submits them to the person in charge in order to other than the euro, within a certain deadline and establish their priority. It should be noted that if the based on results. Occasionally, financial hedging investment is requested in order to prevent potential instruments are used in order to allow more flexirisks in terms of safety and health or environment care, bility. it acquires a priority status. • Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk: giAccording to its priority level, investments may be ven that the Companies do not have significant made directly or may require additional information amounts of remunerated assets, the income and or studies so that their feasibility and profitability cash flows resulting from their exploitation activiare properly analysed. The final list of investments is ties tend to be fairly independent from variations approved by the CEO and the President. in market interest rates. Such risk arises from long-term external resources and is mitigated through the simulation of several scenarios, taking into account refinancing, the renewal of current positions, alternative financing and coverage. Credit risk Credit risk is managed in groups. It arises from cash and cash equivalents, financial derivative instruments and deposits with Banks and financial institutions and, primarily, from accounts receivable. 16 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica Sustainability report 2013 1. Our organisation Such risk is mitigated through internal and external ratings in accordance with the limits set by the Board Precautionary principle and the permanent revision of credit limits. Furthermore, GSS Península Ibérica has incorporated the precautioan insurance policy is taken out for collecting payments nary principle through the Ethics and Conduct Code, in those cases that may be considered advisable by which makes reference to our struggle to promote local the risk department. development and our zeal for improving environment for the future generations. Liquidity Risk Likewise, our Environmental Policy includes our comLiquidity risk entails the maintenance of sufficient cash mitment to protect the environment and to continuous and marketable securities, and the availability of finanimprovement, surveillance and measurement of which cing, as well as the capacity to settle market positions. are carried out through the environmental management system. The goal of the Group’s Treasury Department is to maintain flexible financing through the availability of committed credit lines. Also, Management monitors Confidentiality and privacy the projections of the Companies’ liquidity reserves. The company has defined the mechanisms required to preserve confidentiality of the information as well as Other risks customer and supplier data protection, and to manage • Employees’ health and safety risks: in the cerand handle the documents according to their relevance. tainty that this aspect is of paramount importance to GSS Península Ibérica, all facilities have a Health Both the Ethics and Conduct Code and the procedures and Safety Policy and are most of them certified hereby defined provide the instructions required for according to the OHSAS 18001 standard. creating, handling, filing and disposing of all documents that concern our customers and suppliers. • Environmental risk: GSS Península Ibérica, has developed and implemented an ISO 14001 cerThese procedures that regulate information safety tified environmental management system in all apply irrespective of the information format (printed, of its facilities for surveillance and measurement written, electronic, video, voice, etc.), categorization of their impact, compliance with regulations and policies and processing of information and safety other initiatives aimed at achieving energy effiprocedures and regulations that apply and are ciency. accessible through the corporate Intranet. Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 17 1. Our organisation Sustainability report 2013 Our activity In GSS Península Ibérica, we develop our products by using different technologies and skills. In this section, we intend to provide a general overview of our activities, grouped into three areas, as described below: Business Lines and Products As experts in the steel business, Gonvarri Steel Services in Iberia includes the following business areas: Automobile parts This unit is focused on providing global services for manufacturing metal parts for automobiles, with over 25 years of experience as suppliers of the main OEMs. Our basic range of products includes coils, straps, tubes and flat metal sheets from steel and aluminum coils, aimed at our clients’ printing processes. The traditional business was focused on steel products; however, in accordance with the new market trends, we have introduced aluminum in our portfolio. We have implemented strict quality controls in different stages: at the reception of the coils, during their processing and at the end of the procedure, in order to ensure that the product complies with our own quality standards and those set by our customers. Road safety The Road Equipment Division of Gonvarri Steel Services, in its Hiasa and Çepas facilities, is focused on developing, manufacturing and assembling: • Road restraint systems: metal safety guardrails and parapets, wood and steel guardrails, impact absorbers, guardrail terminals and systems for protection of motorcyclists (SPMs). • Devices designed for reducing noise in roads and railways: screens and galleys, sound-absorbing coating of tunnels and walls. The road safety business involves plenty of R&D and as a result, we own some patents of road safety systems. All of our products have successfully overcome the tests established by the relevant European regulations. 18 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica Sustainability report 2013 1. Our organisation Industry Industry is Gonvarri Steel Services’ traditional business. Said business is focused on tubes, shelves, lifts, machinery, industrial equipment and construction, all of them aimed at providing comprehensive solutions for steel application in a wide range of projects. Furthermore, we supply a full range of metal parts intended for use in the domestic appliance industry. Our versatility and size allow us to provide flexibility, fast manufacturing processes, quality and great capacity for fulfilling our processes, thus meeting our customers’ demands. Solar structures We carry out such activity at our Hiasa facilities. Our great engineering skills and organisational strength have led us to be successfully positioned within the solar structure industry. We have an in-depth knowledge of the metal structures used for photovoltaic solar and thermo-solar technologies. Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 19 1. Our organisation Sustainability report 2013 Our facilities This report contains the information and data relevant to GSS Península Ibérica, as set forth below. Gonvarri Portugal The plant began its journey in 1994 and it is located in: Vendas de Azeitão, Municipio de Setúbal Azeitao. Portugal Our activity Gonvarri Produtos Siderúrgicos, SA (Gonvarri Portugal) has a surface of 180,000 m2, including 5 warehouses that occupy 30,000m2. The production process consists of three cut-to-length lines, one of them featuring a swivel head for cutting trapeziums, and three slitting lines, with a cutting Main clients capacity varying from 0,35 mm to 8 mm thick and up OEMs (FORD, GM, PSA, MERCEDES), sheet metal to 2 m wide. The products obtained, that is, flat sheets stampers (FBP, Epedal, Gestamp Aveiro, Gestamp Ven(transversal lines) and strips (longitudinal lines) are das Novas, Gametal-Kirchho, Silchapa, MCG, Inapal, intended for use in a range of applications in the steel Prensometal, SNOP), and the household appliances and aluminium industry. Our production capacity is industry (Bosch, António Meireles, Teka). 180,000 tons/year. Gonvarri Burgos The plant began its journey in 1967 and it is located in: Polígono Gamonal Villimar. C/ La Bureba s/n 09007Burgos. España Our activity Gonvarri Burgos comprises 12 warehouses and outdoor areas with a constructed area of 67,000 m2 over a surface of 110,000m2. Our facilities comprise 10 cut-to-length lines, 5 slitting lines, 3 presses, 1 pickling line, 1 skinpass, 1 rolling mill and 6 annealing furnaces, allowing us a production capacity of 900,000 tons/year. Main clients Our means of production feature, among others, a roOur main customers operate in different fields, such as bot for shear assembly, and a system for dimensional OEMs (Mercedes, Renault, Ford, Peugeot), stampers comparison of formats with regards to the customers’ (Gestamp, G. Antolin, Cie, Viza, Egaña, Inergy, Casple, drawings. etc) and the industry (Bellota, Zardoya, Hijos de Juan de Garay, Mecalux). Among our new lines of work, we highlight the processing of material for hot stamping, as demanded by the automotive sector. 20 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica Sustainability report 2013 1. Our organisation Gonvarri Barcelona The plant began its journey in 1982 and it is located in: Polígono Industrial San Vicente 08755Castellbisbal. Barcelona. España Our activity Gonvarri Barcelona consists of 7 warehouses in a 57,700 m2 surface in an area shared with Gonvauto Barcelona. Our facilities comprise 1 galvanising line for continuous dipping, 1 line for electro-galvanisation, 5 slitting lines, 3 cut-to-length lines, 2 packing lines, 2 manual shears Main clients and 1 skinpass line, which enable us to have a producOur main customers are OEMs (Ford, General Motors, tion capacity of 250,000 tons/year. Seat, Mercedes Benz, etc), stampers (Gestamp, SNOP, Flex-NGate, etc), general industry (Schneider, Goded, Riera i Tutó, Brau, Isopractic, etc.). Laser Automotive The plant began its journey in 2013 and it is located in: C/ Presseguerar s/n Pol. Ind. Roca 08107 Martorelles (Barcelona) Our activity Our activity in LAB consists of using laser technology for cutting hot-stamped parts. Main clients We have 6 TRUMPF laser cutting machines, able to Stampers (Gestamp). machine three-dimensional parts of non-profiled steel plate. The factory has the capacity to cut over one and a half million parts per year. Gonvarri Tarragona The plant began its journey in 2002 and it is located in: Muelle Aragón s/n. Puerto de Tarragona 43004 Tarragona. Our activity Gonvarri Tarragona comprises one warehouse and a total surface of constructed 34,000 m2. Our processes are carried out through 1 continuous pickling line, 2 slitting lines and 1 cut-to-length line. We enjoy a privileged location at the Port of Tarragona, with 2 points of railway access, which allows us to manage shipments for receiving supplies and to arrange Production capacity: 550,000 tons/year. maritime freight dispatching; customs handling of extra-EU goods, storage and Just in Time delivery. Main clients Stampers (Gestamp, SNOP, RECA and INFAC.). Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 21 1. Our organisation Sustainability report 2013 Ferrodisa The plant began its journey in 1978 and it is located in: Autovía Siderúrgica, Partida Villagris s/n 46520Puerto de Sagunto. Valencia. España Our activity Ferrodisa has a total surface of 110,000 m2, of which 52,300 m2 is constructed area and comprises 12 warehouses. Our main activity is focused on processing flat steel materials. As a whole, our facilities feature 2 presses, 8 slitting lines, 7 cut to length lines, 2 plasma cutting machines, 1 PVC-coating line (aesthetic), 1 cleaning/ Main clients degreasing and organic coating line, 4 shears for cold Our main clients are OEMs (Ford), stampers (Gestamp, rolling, 2 shears for hot rolling and 4 circular shears. Ind. Ochoa, Linde Wiemann) and industry (B.S.H., Mac Puar SA, Garcima, Imto). Our production capacity for steel cutting processes is 325,000 tons/year, whereas our capacity for applying PVC or organic sheet is 32,000 tons/year. Ferrodisa is a trusted partner for the European Community Customs. We have also received several awards and recognitions regarding sustainability from local and autonomic Administrations. Gonvauto Navarra The plant was launched by the end of 2000 and it is located in: Polígono Industrial Meseta de Salinas. Ctra de Salinas s/n 31110Noain (Navarra). España Our activity Gonvauto Navarra comprises two warehouses in a surface of 57,000 m2, of which approximately 29,500 m2 is constructed area. Our activities consist of cutting steel materials, obtained from steel coils of different qualities and sizes, for stamping and assembling automobile elements In 2013 we were given awards by the local administraand parts, by means of 1 slitting line, 1 cut-to-length tion, due to our initiatives with regards to sustainability. line and 5 presses. Our current production capacity is 230,000 tons per year. Main clients OEMs (Volkswagen and Seat). We promote the production of renewable energy through the installation of 336 photovoltaic panels placed on the roof, with installed power of 0.5 MWh. 22 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica Sustainability report 2013 1. Our organisation Gonvauto Barcelona The plant began its journey in 1992 and it is located in: Polígono Industrial San Vicente, s/n 08755 – Castellbisbal. Barcelona. España Our activity Gonvauto Barcelona is formed by three warehouses, with a total surface of 27,000 m2, in a plot shared with Gonvarri Barcelona. We provide outsourcing of metal sheet cutting and delivery (rectangles, trapeziums and silhouettes), through 5 cut-to-length lines and 5 presses. We promote the production of renewable energy While we have traditionally used steel, 2013 saw the through the installation of 216 photovoltaic panels introduction of aluminium in the production process, to placed on the roof, with installed power of 0.6 MWh. enable us to supply steel formats for our clients in the automobile industry. Our current production capacity is Main clients 480,000 tons/year. OEMs (Seat and Volkswagen), in addition to an extensive network of local stampers, including Gestamp. Gonvauto Galicia The plant began its journey in 2004 and it is located in: Puerto de Marín, Zona de Expansión 1ªFase 36900 Marín. Pontevedra. España Our activity Gonvauto Galicia has a surface of 21,888 m2, and comprises 2 warehouses occupying an area of 14,764 m2. The activity carried out at our facilities is the production of metal sheet for the automotive industry, through processes based on transversal and longitudinal We currently have 1 cut-to-length line with a swivel cutting, as well as silhouette cutting. head, 1 slitting line and 2 presses. For the first time ever in Spain, in 2004 a robot was Our production capacity is 250,000 tons/year. incorporated to perform the automatic replacement of cutting tools at the slitting lines, thus improving workplace ergonomics and increasing productivity in Main clients the replacement activities. Also, in 2006, the facilities OEMs (PSA Peugeot Citroën), and stampers were expanded, by adding a second silhouette cutting (Gestamp Vigo and Gestamp Portugal). line, or blanking. Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 23 1. Our organisation Sustainability report 2013 Hiasa Founded in 1966, the company was acquired by Gonvarri Steel Services in 1972. We are located in: Polígono Industrial de Cancienes s/n 33470 Corvera de Asturias. Avilés. España Our activity Hiasa has 86,000 m2 covered space, distributed in 3 areas comprising parallel warehouses and a 30,000 m2 park. Our wide range of business comprises obtaining and selling belts, strips, plates or profiles and its derivatives resulting from cutting, shaping or welding processes, Main clients including surface treatment by means of decoating, OEMs (Trw Automotive), stampers (Elay, Gestamp), galvanization or painting. Our production capacity is and the industry (Asthor Agricola, OHL, Agrofilm, Nu650,000 tons/year. cap, Mecalux y Sunedison). Since the end of 2013, Hiasa has a new facility for cutting and welding tubular products aimed at the automotive industry (Gonvauto Asturias, S.L). Gonvauto Asturias The plant started off in 2013 and it is located in: Polígono Industrial de Cancienes s/n 33470 Corvera de Asturias. Avilés. España Our activity Gonvauto Asturias S.L. has a warehouse in a constructed area of 8.250 m2, in a plot shared with Hiasa. The production process consists of 1 line for welded tube production, 1 cut-to-size line and 1 further line for laser cutting and punching. Particularly relevant is the possibility of manufacturing tubes featuring elastic limits over 1,200 mp. Main clients OEMs (SNOP-PSA), and stampers (Gestamp, Inergy, Magna). 24 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica Sustainability report 2013 1. Our organisation Main processes Cutting process Longitudinal cutting In these lines, coils of certain width are cut in order to obtain coils with lower width (strips). The width of these rolls or coils is determined by the position of the blades that do the cutting, and will remain to be uniform at all times and along their entire length. Coil Cut Strip Transversal cutting In these cutting lines, the coils become flat rectangular plates stacked in packages. To achieve this, coils are flattened, cut to the desired shape and stacked in packages for easy handling and transportation. Coil Cut Flat blank Silhouette cutting These cutting lines have been designed to respond to the need for processing specific, irregular shapes for each car model. These shapes are obtained through the use of dies supplied by our clients and assembled in our presses. Flat blank Cut Silhouettes Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 25 1. Our organisation Sustainability report 2013 Trapezoidal cutting It is in these lines where flat formats stacked in packages are obtained. They differ from the transversal cutting in the cutting method, as in this case the tools used are oscillating and rotating, or roto-oscillating shears which may vary the cutting angle. By using these shears, different shapes (rectangles, squares, rhombus or triangles) and formats (curved sides, ribbed, etc.) may be obtained in one sole installation. Coil Cut Silhouettes Laser-plasma cutting This procedure is based on the thermal and mechanic action of a gas stream heated with a direct current electric bow located between an electrode placed on the torch and the workpiece. The plasma jet drills through the part, melting and expelling the material, therefore achieving more accuracy and cleanliness in the cutting area. This is a complementary process for special tasks, such as producing small series and achieving close tolerances or improved finishes. Flat blank Cut Silhouettes 26 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica Sustainability report 2013 1. Our organisation Punching and profiling processes Punching Punching is a mechanical procedure based on the use of tools, especially suited for cutting, for separating two metal parts, thus obtaining a certain shape. A punch drills through the material, supported by a matrix where the hole is made. The punching process allows the production of a variety of products featuring different qualities and high precision materials, such as metal plates and panels (construction), acoustic screens (roads and tunnels) and soundproof panels. Flat blank Stamping Silhouettes Profiling: tubes These are lines designed for production of a wide range of tubes and welded tubular profiles, and are supplemented with two cut-to-size centres and a machining section, which enables us to offer the possibility of manufacturing special tubes both in terms of size and finishing. Flat blank Profiling Tube Profiling: steel sheet These lines are used for production of a wide range of tubes and welded tubular profiles, and are supplemented with two cutting centres. Coil Profiling Profile (unrolling) Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 27 1. Our organisation Sustainability report 2013 Thickness treatment processes Skinpass This process is used for improving the range and quality of the manufactured products, obtaining the required surface roughness and quality and the goods’ metallurgic modification, achieving the subsequent homogenisation of the crystalline grain and the surface finishing, and ensuring the dimensional tolerance of the thickness. Coil Homogenisation Coil (unrolling) (rolling) Sheeting By means of this process, the thickness of the coil band is cold-reduced; at the same time, its resistance and toughness properties, and the micro-structure of steel, become modified. The process features automatic functions, including speed adjustment and thickness control, which allow great accuracy in the whole calibre range. Resulting from micro-structural modification, it is necessary to carry out the annealing process, in order to restore the band’s malleability and ductility properties, once modified by the cold reduction. Coil Reduction and Coil Annealing Coil (unrolling) homogenisation (rolling) in owens 28 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica Sustainability report 2013 1. Our organisation Coating processes PVC-coating This is a continuous process that involves application of heat and pressure, giving rise to a product that brings together the resistance and forming of the base plate and the anti-corrosive power of PVC, and that is applicable to any type of use that may require such features and that, additionally, need to have an aesthetic, decorative finish. This treatment allows all mechanical processes that may be carried out on steel, and may be assembled through any mechanical system, riveting, bolting, screw fitting, stapling, clipping, etc. On the other hand, it is an excellent support for screen printing and a great paint base. Coil Plastification Coil (unrolling) process (rolling) Powder paint In this procedure, the material to be coated is given a degreasing pre-treatment. Next, the powder paint is electrostatically applied, and subsequently polymerised and cured. This is a specific treatment for parts. Given the specific characteristics of our facilities, we are able to process a large variety of parts, both in terms of shape and size. Additionally, our facilities feature an innovative system that allows great flexibility in colour change. Flat blank Electroestatical process Flat blank Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 29 1. Our organisation Sustainability report 2013 Electrogalvanising Through a continuous electrolytic process, the coil band is coated with zinc on one or both of its sides, by means of electrical current. The surface finish comprises a no-rinse application, oiling and passivation. Therefore, the zinc-coated electro-galvanised band enjoys a cathodic protection that is corrosion resistant and provides a surface finish and unique paintability, along with excellent adaptability and weldability. Base material Electrolytic process Electrogalvanising coil Degreasing and pre-painting process The process for degreasing coils aims at eliminating the oils on the band surface through 4 steps: a first stage based on high pressure washing, two stages for alkaline degreasing, and one rinsing stage, which may be used as final treatment, or for preparation of the material which is to be pre-painted, and that takes place subsequently to the degreasing process. Two large groups may be distinguished within the pre-painting process: • Ferroprot: organic – non organic coating, developed for protection of steel and coated steel. • Black-Coat: a film-forming, water soluble treatment, which provides excellent compatibility with epoxy-polyester priming, increasing protection at the edges. Coil Degreasing Distributors Drying Coil (unrolling) process process (rolling) 30 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica Sustainability report 2013 1. Our organisation Pickling and galvanisation processes Pickling The purpose of the pickling process is to remove the metal oxide film on the steel surface. As the oxidized metal enters an aqueous solution of inorganic or hydrochloric acid, the oxide on the steel surface are removed; the steel is later washed with demineralised water and dried using hot air. Next, based on the customer’s needs, the coil may be introduced in the electrostatic oiler, which provides an oil cover that may be light, medium or heavy, in order to prevent oxidation during the handling and transportation. Base coil Acid baths Washing Drying Oiling Galvanized coil Continuous galvanizing process To galvanize means to cover the surface of steel coils with melted zinc, with the aim of protecting them against corrosion. Zinc is the most widely used metal coating, due to its steel protection properties. The coating of the coil is carried out by continuous dipping of the band in a high temperature zinc pot so that the piece is covered on both sides, with a thickness usually lower than ten microns. Our galvanizing lines are fitted with physical and chemical treatment systems in order to ensure maximum cleanliness and perfect coating adherence. Rusty coil Pre Electrolytic Cleaning Pickling Fluxing Galvanizing Skinpass Passivation Galvanized degreasing degrease and or oiling coil brushing Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 31 1. Our organisation Sustainability report 2013 Dip-in galvanization The process consists of hot dipping the parts. The already processed steel parts are dipped in a pot containing the zinc melted at 450ºC. The finishing of the parts features a zinc coating of around 7090 microns. Flat blank Degrease Pickling Fluxing Galvanizing Galvanized blank Ethics Code of Conduct Our Sustainability Master Plan Applies from January Planet 2014 Axis 6 is 7 Ax Ax is 5 “A legal-ethical framework for Environment all employees in all societies Climate Change and Energy Social development and local of the Group” efficiency communities na Axis stai bility Su ility Te s4 8 Axi na um Dialogue with our Client H y Health and P e o ple cit C li e n t s Pe o ple service Safety H o n esty k stakeholders w or Ou s r Va l u e Supply Le Talent Axi Materiality Axi s9 chain a d ers hip development s3 • Energy efficiency Pe rf Innovation and Ethics Code • Human capital development or m communication Dialogue with of Conduct an Ax our stakeholders: materiality ce is 2 is 1 • Branding and reputation 0 Ax • Identification and dialogue with stakeholders Axis 1 • Investment, innovation and industrial development Our stakeholders Clients Employees Shareholders Suppliers Local communities Media Axis 1: Dialogue with our stakeholders: materiality GSS Península Ibérica • 2013. Perform the materiality study corresponding to 2013 (Completed). Sustainability Master Plan Axis 10: Communication and dialogue with Stakeholders GSS Península Ibérica: Publish the 2014 Sustainability Report with information from the 2013 financial year. • 2013-2014: Compile all the required information and data for the Sustainability Report following the requirements established in the Global Reporting Initiative reference guide (Completed). GSS Península Ibérica: Adherence to the UN Global Compact. • 2013–14: Prepare the information for the GSS adherence to the UN Global Compact (Completed). Gonvauto Iberia: Sustainability Report. • 2012–13: Publication of the Gonvauto Iberia Sustainability Report (Completed). Gonvauto Navarra: Collaboration with the Government of Navarra in the InnovaRSE Project. • 2012–13: Participate in the InnovaRSE project with the Government of Navarra and fulfill the objectives established. • 2012: Diagnosis 2013: Action Plan and 2014 Sustainability Report (Completed). 2. Our sustainability approach Our corporate culture Our stakeholders: materiality Best practice: Leading the Change 34 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica Sustainability report 2013 2. Our sustainability approach Our corporate culture “The Company considers that their reputation and public image are their principle assets due to the enormous importance of their relationship with clients, providers, employees, share-holders, public administrations and society.” Extract of the Ethics and Conduct Code Our strategic positioning sets the course that will allow us to achieve our goal, which is to become a sustainable company in each country in which we operate. Planet During 2013, we have carried out a thorough review of our plans, procedures and manuals that are concerned with the different sustainability vectors, in order to adapt their content to the new market reality, the demands of our stakeholders and the new dimensions of a company which is becoming increasingly globalised. We are directing our efforts to ensure that the whole company shares the same corporate culture and that it is conveniently adapted to its environment, in accordance to its local requirements and regulations. This is carried out within the framework provided by the Performance guidelines, principles and values that have been goverPeople ning our actions from the very beginning, and the international principles and guidelines that are commonly accepted. “We must be efficient and profitable in the three lines. That is the only way in which we can guarantee our sustainability, our future.” Our model is based on the Triple Bottom Line: perforJon Riberas Executive President of Gonvarri Steel Industries. mance (economic), people (talent and people) and planet (society and environment). Honesty Humility Tenacity Work Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 35 2. Our sustainability approach Sustainability report 2013 Our values and principles Our values are our benchmark: honesty, humility, tenacity and work, principles that were transmitted to us by the founder of the Company since it commenced its activities. Our values and the Ethics and Conduct Code are the pillars that govern the Company’s Corporate Social Responsibility, from which our corporate principles stem, as set forth below: 1 Clients Commitment with our clients Our clients are at the center of our business. We are dedicated to designing the solutions that they require in collaboration with them and adapting our capabilities to their needs based on terms of quality and variety of demands a product and service. re-thinking of processes and a new focus As a team we seek out new opportunities that will on the chain of values of our consolidate their success because we consider that industry. the success of our clients results in success, for us also. Innovation has formed a part of our DNA since our earIn our efforts to find solutions to the challenges our liest beginnings and characterises our management clients confront us with we have directed our model philosophy. This has helped us to confront the different of internationalisation towards an approximation of and always complex circumstances of the markets in our resources to their operative requirements. This has which we operate. led to us having operations in more than twenty-five countries in which we have insisted on the creation This management philosophy, united with a strong of local networks that ensure that our relationship commitment to the use of new information and comwith the communities in which we are integrated is of munication technologies when working with our mutual enrichment. groups of interest makes us active participants in the Third Industrial Revolution. 2 People We encourage our professionals 4 Sustainability Economic, social and environmental We encourage the advancement of our professionals. Honesty, humility, tenacity and work have characteriWe know that the sustainability of our business dezed our project since its commencement. These values pends on our capacity to offer positive economic, soallow us to establish trust with all those with whom cial and environmental results. we work with. We have designed a development strategy that inteWe are convinced that business in the 21st century is grates environmental management into all our actibased on the advancement of the use of initiative by vities. We consider environmental management as a its professionals. For this reason we promote the ideas basic component of the up and coming industrial adof our collaborators and their capacity to carry them vances of the near future. Responsible progress will be out. We also promote dialogue between our team and the only possible permissible progress. the members of all the implicated communities by sharing objectives, values and beliefs. We believe that constant re-investment and innovation are the key to maintaining competitively in any 3 Leadership business. For this reason we dedicate our resources to Leading the change the continuous improvement of our services, our range of solutions and to our manner of supplying them, We lead the change. We are living in a moment of promaking our suppliers participants in our initiatives and found change in the social and economic contexts that principles. 36 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica Sustainability report 2013 2. Our sustainability approach Organising sustainability The Plan is divided into 10 transversal axes, whose lines of action encompass the different goals and The organisation of sustainability is coordinated throucommitments undertaken by the facilities, striving gh the Corporate Social Responsibility Management always to maintain our values and principles at the (RSC), as part of the Communication, Marketing and core of our progress. Sustainability Corporate Management. For each axis of the Master Plan several lines of action The department’s role is transversal within the orgawere defined, and its development is carried out nisation, as it provides support to the different compathrough the different departments and managers (HR, nies within the Group; also, every action and initiative SPG, H&S, etc.). that may be related to sustainability are reported both internally and externally. These lines of action are not static; instead, they are periodically reviewed through GSS’ strategic plan From the Corporate, we work in close coordination with and the analysis performed by the corporate social each facility’s Human Resources Managers, as they responsibility area in the materiality annual study, have taken on the tasks pertaining to RSC. reflecting the needs and demands of our groups of interest. Our Sustainability Master Plan In order to meet the expectations of our Groups of Interests, and to contribute Planet to the creation of value for all, Axis 6 we have developed the RSC is 7 Ax is Master Plan: Ax 5 Environment Climate Change Social development and Energy and local efficiency communities na Axis 8 ustai bility Axi s4 S ility Ten um a Client H y Health and cit C li e n t s P e o ple Pe o ple service Safety H o n esty k w or Ou s r Va l u e Supply Le Talent a d ers hip Ax s9 chain development is 3 Axi Pe rf Innovation and Ethics Code or m communication Dialogue with of Conduct an Ax our stakeholders: materiality ce is 1 0 Ax is 2 Axis 1 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 37 2. Our sustainability approach Sustainability report 2013 Our stakeholders: materiality Maintaining a two-way communication with our Clients stakeholders is of paramount importance to our company, as it allows us to respond more rapidly, more We have different customers depending efficiently, to those trends and needs that are deemed on their activities (automobiles, domestic to be as high priority in our environment. appliances, road safety, solar structures, etc.), therefore the communication chanIdentifying and selecting our stakeholders has been nels are also different. an internal process that took place after performing a thoughtful analysis of the companies in the sector, Irrespectively of their activities, our cuswhich involved the participation of the corporate area tomers are the core of our business. We and the production centers of GSS Península Ibérica. maintain a close relationship with our customers, enabling us to provide tailor-made The results of the analysis performed have led us services based on what the clients expect to identify the groups and organisations that, as from us, our intention being to pay frequent stakeholders, may have an influence on our company, visits to their facilities and arrange meeor that may be significantly influenced by it. Said tings that take place periodically. groups have been classified in six different categories: Clients, Employees, Shareholders, Suppliers, Local On an annual basis, we conduct a satisfaccommunities and administrations and Media and social tion survey among our customers, in order media channels. to find out the degree of their satisfaction with the service provided. Maintaining the communication channels with the stakeholders is a continuing task, performed through Likewise, we use consultation and improdifferent mechanisms and communication channels. vement resources through: Some of them are common to all groups, such as the • “B2B Platforms” used by some of our main web page, our APP for mobile devices and, particularly, clients, as a tool for communicating with social networks, that enable a direct, fluid dialogue. their suppliers. The incidence and complaint service is processed through said tool. Additionally, specific channels have been established • The satisfaction survey conducted annually and adapted to each group. in order to assess our customers’ satisfaction with the service rendered. Among other media, with the information resulting from both processes, we create our annual plans and programs for improvement. 38 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica Sustainability report 2013 2. Our sustainability approach Employees One further communication channel is the Supplier Portal, an online tool that allows We have established several ways for diasuppliers to have an easy, quick interaction logue with our employees, which allow us with our purchasing department. to become familiar with their expectations. For example: Local communities and administrations • We conduct satisfaction and working atmosphere surveys, in order to gather our emploRelations with the local administration are yees’ opinion and to implement improvement schemes. These surveys do not take place usually made from ​​ the management of homogeneously in all facilities or with the each plant. same periodicity. Regarding the initiatives and projects that • We provide information to our employees on the various administrations establish in a daily basis, mainly through two communitheir respective areas of influence, each cation channels: Our corporate Intranet, “Leaplant decides depending on its needs or ding The Change”, for those who have access expectations, those that they want to deto it through their email accounts; additionavelop. The sponsorship and patronage aclly, notice boards are available on all floors. tions are also defined by the plants as it is • Interdepartmental meetings with Managespecified on Chapter 5.2. ment are periodically conducted, as we consider it to be essential for building synergies, Moreover, the plants belong to different solving problems and obtaining the relevant industrial associations or clusters, in which information on events affecting employees. they participate attending meetings, congress and trainings. • The Workers’ Committee and the Safety and Health Committee collect all relevant aspects concerned with compliance of Collective BarMedia and social media channels gaining and the Safety and Health Plans. On a daily basis, all international and naAll of the foregoing initiatives allow us to tional news that may be relevant to the have information regarding the strengths sector and to our company, are collected and weaknesses of our relationship with and analysed. our employees, allowing us to establish our improvement goals. We have nine social channels and one web site that provide us with the opportunity of Shareholders maintaining a direct line of communication with our groups of interest, so that anyone The facilities, through its General Manager, interested may find out more about our acprovides the CEO of Gonvarri Steel Services tivities and highlights. with periodical information. On a quarterly basis, the company’s results are included on the agenda of the Board of Directors. www Web Flickr LinkedIn You Twitter Suppliers Tube Evaluation surveys of our suppliers are www www annually conducted, and meetings for “delivery planning and complaint management” are periodically held. We also visit their RSS Scribd Face Slide Issuu book share facilities in order to devise, in coordination with them, actions designed to meet our demands. Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 39 2. Our sustainability approach Sustainability report 2013 Materiality • The value placed on each aspect has been determined according to its maturity and releIn order to allow that this report fulfils the expectations vance through an analysis of the sector. We unof its groups of interests, in a manner that is both effiderstand maturity as the significance held by each cient and transparent, we have conducted a materiality matter within the steel-making and automotive study in order to identify and analyse the aspects that industries, whereas relevance, to us, is the attenare more relevant to said groups. tion paid to each aspect on the part of the relevant group. The results obtained are shown at the materiality matrix, which is obtained by crossing the following variaThrough enquiries and communication with the diffebles: rent groups of interests, priorities and goals on sustainability are set out and action plans are designed. • The analysis of each group of interests’ requirements and concerns that relate to society, environment and corporate ethics & government. FG A Necessary 100 J H I B A Energy efficiency M Products 90 B Human capital development N Strategy to counter climate change L K D C C Branding and reputation 80 O Environmental and quality N M management D Stakeholders identification and dialogue P Commitment with local communities 70 O P E Investment, innovation and Q Labor practices (job stability, employee T S RQ E industrial development satisfaction, family and working life balance) 60 Maturity V U General R Relationship with public administraGeneral Necessary tions/lobbing 50 F Equality S Client relationship and management G Ethics Code of conduct, ethical T Human rights 40 behavior, corruption and bribery H Waste management and recycling U Economic impact in local communities 30 I Health & safety V Sustainable supply chain management J Corporate governance 20 Emergents K Risk management No emergent aspects detected 10 L Biodiversity protection programs Urgents No urgent aspects detected Emergents Urgents 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Relevance The matters regarded not only as relevant but a priority issue, as well as the actions and measures set out by our company for the purpose of providing a response to said matters, as set forth below: Chapter Material aspect Chapter 5.1. Environment Energy efficiency Chapter 4.2. Our commitment to people Human capital development Chapter 2. Our corporate culture Branding and reputation Chapter 3. Performance Chapter 5.2. Value creation: Society Chapter 2. Our coporate culture Identification and dialogue with stakeholders Chapter 3. Performance Investment, innovation and industrial development 40 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica Sustainability report 2013 2. Our sustainability approach Best Practice Leading the Change The public information provided by our Mobile APP includes: Leading the Change is a corporate intranet Project that, through communication, sets people at the core of the • Info: This option allows easy access to the comcompany, making their work easier and encouraging pany’s web pages, and to the telephones and adtheir professional career. dresses of the different locations, as well as the company’s social media channels (including preLeading the Change began to take shape in 2010 and sentations, pictures, latest news, etc.). in 2011 the Project started with a pilot phase during which a team formed by 100 employees. The intranet • Video: videos showing our products, processes, was officially launched in June 2012. facilities and our view may be visualised here. In 2013, several improvements of the tool were carried • Maps: the maps that enable access to our offices, out, which resulted in “New Release 1.5”: plants and projects from the telephone navigator. • Profile languages: the Intranet is available in se• Exclusive access to Leading the Change users: veral languages: Spanish, English, German, Turkish, this section is more comprehensive than the forePortuguese and Polish. going and includes many tools for communication and opinion (user directory, groups, news, etc.). • Like: Pressing on this key allows users to show their appreciation of a comment or piece of news. All of the foregoing sections encourage employees’ participation by allowing them to create content, add • Learn: a section providing detailed information on comments or show that certain content is interesting the new Project, Leading The Change University, to them. has been added, in order to encourage, integrate and coordinate the Group’s training activities. Leading the Change is the product of team work, as all employees have been able to contribute to its development and promotion through the submission of suggestions and content. The Leading the Change experience News Leading the Change has a structure and operation that combines the best aspects of professional social networks (Facebook, LinkedIn and Twitter), allowing the creation of a tool for daily use and inviting users to create their profile and “be in touch” with the other users in all divisions. In order to ensure accessibility, Leading the Change is available for use in all computers with an Internet connection or, thanks to the Mobile App, for use in all mobile devices and tablets using the Android o IOS-Apple operating systems. Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 41 2. Our sustainability approach Sustainability report 2013 e ep . k g .. e w owin d an n gr o go s p h ere Blo ts Search en roups Ev C engine Daily press clipping G dir orpor ect ate ging ory Contacts essa M atio n + Acce rm ssib info + closeness ility + Quality and innovation SPG Gonvarri Production System ISO 9001 or ISO TS 16949 100% of our centers certified Employees engagement Number of projects with I+D+i certification Flows Lean Office • Five projects certified as “innovate” efficiency SPG • Two projects certified as “research Excellence and development” Resources Process total efficiency quality Our performance Gonvarri Steel Services Strategic Plan Clients Purchases Management Organisation and Efficiency Product Geographical of knowledge communication and safety Axis 9: Supply chain and human rights GSS Península Ibérica • 2013-2015 Incorporation of all aspects relating to observance of Human Rights in the standardization procedures of local suppliers (currently in progress). Sustainability Master Plan Axis 9: Clients and Quality GSS Península Ibérica • 2013-2015: Performance of an analysis and implementation of measures promoting and improving productivity and efficiency. SPG. Gonvauto Barcelona 2012-2014 • 2012–13: Penetration into the Aluminium market (completed). • 2013-14: Production increase: 2013: 2.500 tons; 2014: 5.500 tons (currently in progress). Gonvarri Tarragona • 2013–15: Completing the IT record of all the materials used (completed). GSS Península Ibérica • 2013–15: Reduction of non-quality related costs (re-procedures, administrative costs, etc.) regarding 2012 (currently in progress). 3. Performance Our field: global context Our performance Best practice: Aluminium: an avant-garde material Quality and innovation Best practice: SPG, Road to excellence Our clients Best practice: Client´s day. Commitment to our clients Our suppliers Best practice: Transversal Operational Approach (MOT) 44 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica Sustainability report 2013 3. Performance Our field: global context Mass production of steel started more than 150 years Just as in other fields, steel production has been affecago and today remains to be essential to modern life. ted by the international recession and the current price volatility and production excess are today’s major Its use strongly contributes to a more sustainable concerns. It should be also noted that the threat posed future, as its unique features make it adaptable to by industrial overcapacity has led steel companies to a large variety of products. We can find steel in our experience significant losses in 2013 (Source: Global automobiles, smart electricity networks, homes, Steel 2014. EY). renewable energy infrastructures, etc. The global average per capita use of steel has been Also, steel is 100% recyclable and may be endlessly constantly increasing, from 150 kilograms in 2001 to recycled. This contributes to saving energy, to 217 kilograms in 2012, and countries such as India, minimising the use of raw materials and to reducing Brazil, South Korea and Turkey have been added to the C02 emissions, as well as generation of waste. Top Ten producers’ list. Furthermore, production of steel is becoming more and more efficient, as the energy required to produce one More than 1.6 million tons of steel are manufactured ton of steel has been reduced by 50% in comparison to annually, and approximately 48% of that amount is the amount of energy required 30 years ago. produced and used in continental China. Production in Latin America, Asia, Africa and India has significantly The steel sector employs directly more than two increased, mainly for use in infrastructures. However, million people throughout the world, in addition to two the demand of steel in Europe and the US has decreamillion contractors and four million people working in sed on account of the economic scenario. the industry depending on steel. China 48,4% Construction 51.2% n per cou tio on per sec cti el prod eel produc ry in 2013 r in 2013 St nt Ste u to 1.607 Mt USA Brazil 5,8% 2,3% Automotive Metal Electrical South Turkey 12% products equipment India Russia Korea 2,5% 12.5% 3% 5,4% 4,7% 4,6% Ukraine Japan Germany 2% Other transports Mechanical Electrical 7,4% 2,9% 4,8% machinery appliances Remaining countries 14.5% 2% 11,3% Steel production per sector in 2013 Steel production per country in 2013 Source: World of SteelJanuary 2014 Source: World of SteelJanuary 2014 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 45 3. Performance Sustainability report 2013 The context in Spain In 2013, the production of steel in Spain reached the figure of 13.7 million tons of raw steel, experiencing an increase of 1.5% if compared to the previous year. (Source: UNESID Unión de Empresas Siderúrgicas). While this result marks a shift in market trends, the figures of 2013 are still at levels similar to the ones obtained in 1997, with a production of 13,683 tons of raw steel. The Spanish steel field exports approximately 71% of its production to more than 120 countries, which amounts to 4% of the overall export of goods in Spain. Production of steel, in addition to the other issues arising from the recession and the situation of the building sector, is very much influenced by the high cost of electricity, which strongly impacts the final product, making it less competitive. 16,288 17,621 17,826 18,391 18,999 18,640 14,355 16,343 15,504 13,639 13,740 20,000 15,000 10,000 2011 2012 2013 2009 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 5,000 2010 0 Evolution of steel demand in Spain (thousand tones). Source: World of SteelJanuary 2014 46 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica Sustainability report 2013 3. Performance The context in Portugal According to the economic forecast, from 2015 onwards Portugal will benefit from an improved doThe production of raw steel increased by 5% in Portumestic demand and export figures, due to the econogal compared to the previous year, reaching 2.1 million mic and labour market reforms carried out, resulting in tons in 2013. lower labour costs and consequently in an improvement of the country’s competitive position in the interProduction figures significantly dropped in 2009, national markets (Source: Economic and Steel Market however growth picked up in 2011 and production Outlook 2014-2015. EUROFER). rates in 2013 were similar to figures previous to the recession (Source: World of Steel). 1,000 1,445 1,408 1,719 1,853 2,017 1,614 1,543 1,942 1,960 2,009 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 2011 2012 2013 2009 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 500 2010 0 Evolution of steel demand in Portugal (thousand tones) Source: World of SteelJanuary 2014 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 47 3. Performance Sustainability report 2013 Our performance 3 In order to make further progress in the most efficient, profitable manner minimising risks in this global environment and maintaining our high quality standards GSS has developed its Strategic Plan 2013-2015, based on the following seven lines of action: Management 1 2 Purchases of knowledge Promoting training through our platform “Leading the Change University”. Clients Designing initiatives to improve our market knowledge Developing programmes of and our internal processes, action in order to reinforce mainly those relating to the bonds with our clients and to supply chain. strengthen our sales teams in the countries where we 6 operate. Product 4 5 Efficiency Diversifying our product portfolio, reinforcing our R+D area. Organisation and safety and communication Continuing to develop labour safety schemes and Reinforcing communication implementing our SPG proin our corporate culture and duction system in all of our values, encouraging dialogue factories. through our intranet “Leading the Change”. 7 Geographical Four steps have been defined for the development of the actions under the Strategic Plan: 1. Definition 2. Impact assessment Strengthening our 3. Development international presence, 4. Implementation based on the proximity approach. By the end of the three year period covered by the Strategic Plan, stages one and two have been completed, stage three having been partially developed. 48 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica Sustainability report 2013 3. Performance Best Practice Aluminium: an avant-garde ces car safety, which is the reason why Gonvauto Barcelona has decided to add this material to its product material portfolio. Aluminium has a combination of properties that make To us, introducing this material was a huge challenge it very useful in materials engineering, such as its high as its malleability is higher than that of steel, therefore resistance to corrosion and its low density. requiring additional safety measures, such as lubrication of blades, strapping with plastic straps or constant Its mechanical strength improves considerably in alloys use of a tablex at the settlement area in order to prewith other metals, which makes its use suitable for the vent it from deteriorating. automotive sector. In 2013 we have successfully cut 2,500 ton of alumiIt is a good conductor of electricity and heat and is num and we foresee that growth of this material will machined easily. Also, it offers low recycling costs, a increase by 200% by 2015. long product life and its weight is two thirds lower than that of steel. In 2013 we commenced aluminium cutting tests in Gonvarri Burgos and Ferrodisa. These properties position this material at the forefront of the latest technology in the automobile industry, as it contributes to reducing fuel consumption and enhanQuality and Innovation Quality We are very strict in terms of product quality control, carrying out rigorous quality controls from the recepAll of our plants have their own Quality Policy and a tion of the first-class quality raw material up to point management system developed and certified in accorwhen the final product is obtained, to ensure that it dance with the ISO/TS 16949 and/or the ISO 9001 meets all the necessary requirements in terms of quastandard. lity and safety. The ISO/TS 16949 standard provides the requireAlso, our parts are all recyclable, which contributes to ments that are specific to the ISO 9001 standard for reducing consumption of natural resources and energy mass production and original spare parts in the autosaving, as it turns waste into raw material. motive industry. As automotive suppliers, it is a mandatory requirement Innovation to certify our management systems based on said norm, given that its goal is to achieve continuous imIn 2012, the Grants and Investment Control Departprovement, with an emphasis on prevention of defects ment conducted a study in cooperation with the techand waste on the supply chain. nical managers of each plant, with the assistance of a specialized third party company, in order to identify Also, it encourages the investigation and development projects potentially eligible to obtain the R+D certificaof new parts, thus contributing to enhancing vehicle tion, and to file the corresponding application in 2013. safety and its environmental impact. Below is a summary of the selected projects that have obtained the corresponding certification: Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 49 3. Performance Sustainability report 2013 Projects certified as “Innovative” in greater efforts in terms of cutting and processing and the available technological means are not suitable for 2013 by an accredited body the new materials. New Corporate Intranet (Leading the Another aspect to consider is the growing relevance of change) environmental criteria in the automobile sector. In particular, the waste generated by Gonvarri Burgos mainly Being aware of the new 2.0 trend and the benefits consists of steel sheet remaining from the sheet coils that may result from its incorporation to the Group, a after performing longitudinal cutting, silhouette and proposal was made to carry out an ambitious Project, sheet cut-outs and, most particularly, from residues “Leading the Change”. This is the great corporate generated from using steels of high elastic limit and Project within the 2011-2014 strategic plan that “Steel Z”. seeks to redirect the Company’s culture (5,000 people) towards the concept of sustainable organisation and Finally, the surface finish of the steel sheet, the procesavant-garde technology through the development of sing of high elastic limit steels and the sustainability an internal collaboration platform. of the activities performed are greatly influenced by the many aspects involved in almost all of the procesTherefore, the new platform will allow more than ses carried out at the plant, from the pickling up to the 5,000 users within the Group to manage and share packaging. This is the main reason behind our project knowledge and information, optimize efficiency and and the current needs for development of new steel sales … those users being distributed among the Group’s processing technologies that will allow the use of high plants throughout the world. It is, in consequence, a elastic limits steel and achieve the features required worldwide pioneering project in view of its significance from automobile steel Z in a sustainable, efficient and with the Corporation. safe manner. New technologies for processing steel New advance system for mixed pressing sheet (Gonvarri Burgos) of aluminium and steel (Gonvauto Barcelona) The need to reduce its energy consumption and C02 emissions is leading the automotive sector to search This Project is associated with production processes for lighter materials and to investigate new geometries for cutting and stacking of steel sheets for the autothat allow a better resistance/weight ratio. mobile industry and the current existing limitations for processing sheets from different materials by using one The search for lighter materials is gradually shifting the single production line, adapting it to current demand. demand, from parts manufactured in conventional steel to steel featuring high elastic limits, including alumiThe main purpose of the Project was to develop an innium and its alloys. novative mixed and flexible line for cutting and stacking steel and aluminium parts, for application in the autoOn the other hand, in the case of “Steel Z”, used on the motive industry. A similar line does not exist anywhere vehicle bodywork, the requirements in terms of surface else and is unique and tailor-made in order to suit the quality established by OEMs are constantly increasing, needs of Gonvauto. Through this new line, Gonvauto as the market demands an impeccable finish of the will now be able to work with aluminium, such material vehicle that is transmitted along the entire value chain not being currently used by any company within the reaching GSS. Group. Issues such as reduction of weight and fuel consumption benefit greatly from such changes; however, they could also be a source of problems as they require 50 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica Sustainability report 2013 3. Performance Mixed crash barriers featuring a Projects certified as “Research protection system for motorcyclists and and Development” in 2013 by an slab-clamped safety barriers (Hiasa) accredited body Within its road safety line, Hiasa proposed this Project as a solution to two on-going problems: New technologies for steel sheet magnetic stacking (Gonvarri Barcelona) • The serious risks faced by the motorcyclists involved in an accident, mainly in mountain areas. This project relates to the stacking systems currently available and the challenge posed by multiple stacking • The clamping of crash barriers in areas where (three or more parts) in several stacks at once, in the posts cannot be clamped. same pallet and in a compact manner, with a minimum stack (or package) separation of 40 mm, according to In order to provide a solution to both problems, Hiasa the current demands of sectors such as automobiles, proposes two different containment systems: household appliances, road safety and industry. • A mixed safety barrier made of wood and steel In these sectors, space is of paramount importance, featuring a new system for motorcyclist protecparticularly in those cases in which daily storage of tion for installation in all types of routes, including a large number of goods is required. Given the high mountain roads or natural environment. costs of industrial warehouses and transportation, companies seek to store their goods and make the • A metal safety barrier with N2 containment level most out of the space and to minimize stocks by using clamped on concrete slab. Just in Time methods. The main goal of this Project was to develop two diThe most simple and profitable way of optimizing fferent containment systems: on the one hand, a new space consists of stacking the biggest possible number containment system designed to enhance the protecof stacks per pallet, thus reducing the space between tion and safety of motorcyclists traveling in all types of stacks as much as possible. In this respect, the fact that routes, including mountain roads and natural environmost orders are for steel sheets smaller than 950 mm, ments and on the other hand, a new system for clamthe stacking required is three or more stacks per pallet. ping metal barriers on concrete slabs, thus providing a solution to the clamping issues traditionally posed by New automobile containment system these systems. based on the triple-way H2 metal barrier (Hiasa). New robot technologies for torque tube welding of solar concentrators (Hiasa) Within its road safety range, Hiasa proposes a project for development of a new containment system for The main purpose of this Project was to develop new automobiles by means of metal barrier. robot technologies for torque tube welding of solar concentrators that allow the full automation of the In this area, Hiasa detected that there was a need process, thus increasing its accuracy, strength, fastfor reducing the number of accidents among road ness and sustainability. users, particularly in the case of trucks and buses, and for providing roads with high containment systems The use of these technologies will result in a fully auspecific to said vehicles, offering resistance, safety, tomated process that ensures the quality of the welds small size and easy assembly, thus rendering them and the torque tube, eliminating the variability expecmore competitive. ted from manual welding processes and significantly increasing the process competitiveness, representing an unprecedented technological leap in the search for a torque tube used in solar concentrators. Despite the hard work and the availability of all the means required to pursue such task, Hiasa and ABB have not fully reached the goals of the project in terms of achieving full automation. Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 51 3. Performance Sustainability report 2013 Other initiatives “Integration of aesthetic and safety containment systems in bridges located in urban environments” • We participated in the 2nd edition of Innovacaduring the 2012-2014 period. rretera 2013, an Exhibition for Technological Demonstration of the Road Infrastructure field. The project was presented by the Road Safety Department in cooperation with the Foundation GSS Península Ibérica demonstrated how important for Research and Development in the automotive it is to conduct impact tests with minimum safety sector (CIDAUT). The project is expected to have guarantees that are also applicable to our roads. a significant impact on the improvement of coThe crash test conducted was TB51, according to llective use infrastructures, both at national and the EN 1317 European norm. international levels, in particular, transportation infrastructures. • Innovation Award. The Spanish State Secretary for Research, Development and Innovation has granted funds to Hiasa for conducting the Project Best Practice SPG, Road to Excellence • Developing communication and cooperation. • Ensuring everyone’s involvement, both at the Gonvarri Production System (SPG) is a comprehensive plant and at the offices. system for continuous improvement based on Lean Manufacturing and the Kaizen philosophy. How does SPG operate? Created in 2008, SPG provides a structured approach SPG starts at the plant, where implementation of its based on continuous improvement that allows for basic principles acquires more visibility. Its functioning achievement of the goals that have been laid down is focused on innovation, improvement and maintenanand to arrange our company in such a way that it creace of standards. It will later be extended to the other tes value for our clients, employees and shareholders. departments. SPG provides tools and techniques that have been Everyone participates, and supports, in the implemenspecifically designed to contribute to achieving emplotation of each tool provided by SPG, encouraging and yees’ progress, as well as the Group’s success. Also, we accelerating the consolidation of the system as a step have based our own philosophy and working culture towards achieving Excellence. on this system. The following activities were carried out in 2013: 315 Why SPG? workshops, 85 groups for incident resolution, 1686 suggestions for improvement, 8010 hours per person in This system helps us reach our goals, improve our comSPG activities (workshops or training). petitiveness and ensure that the improvement of the production system is both continuous and limitless. SPG seeks to remove operational inefficiency (faults, overproduction, useless actions, unnecessary procedures, etc.) through a series of technical improvements that lead to excellence by: • Improving safety levels. • Reinforcing quality. • Achieving productivity growth, with due observance of costs and deadlines. 52 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica Sustainability report 2013 3. Performance Our Clients Designing joint solutions Gonvauto Iberia maintains a very close relationship Best Practice with its clients in order to provide service that accurately responds to their needs. Clients’s day Clients’s day in Gonvarri Portugal was celebrated In most cases, we arrange that members of our firm on 1 October 2013, and its purpose was to devote pay frequent visits to their facilities, and we maintain the entire day to our clients on the Portuguese marperiodical meetings the purpose of which is to create ket, thus reinforcing our bonds with them. innovation and enhance our processes adapting them to our clients’ new requirements, ensuring that high The event was attended by 21 guests representing quality and safety standards are preserved at all times. 70% of the sales of our Portuguese plant. Talks and demonstrations were held that highlighted, among Our priority: Client satisfaction others, our flexibility and capacity to adapt to new situations. We believe it essential to respond to our clients’ orders by providing an efficient service that features high quaSuch day was only possible because we are a strong, lity and flexibility standards as well as responsiveness, committed team, proud to be the leading service cenin order to meet the established deadlines. tre in the Portuguese market, and this is something that we wanted to share with our clients. All of our plants have a specific quality management system that has obtained the certification awarded by the ISO/TS 16949 and/or ISO 9001, such systems covering our methods for receiving, analysing and responding to the incidences and complaints filed by our clients, through the quality department. Every time that an incident occurs, a period of time is established for the decision-making process, resolution and measuring the effectiveness of the actions taken. Every year, each plant conducts a survey among its Commitment to our clients clients in order to know their degree of satisfaction with the service rendered. Ferrodisa pays annual visits to its main clients. To support and complete these procedures, a perioIn 2013, in an attempt to make our staff feel involved dical follow-up of the indicators is performed, relating two visits to important clients were performed. The compliance with the Delivery Plan, Complaints, Returpurpose was to involve the staff, to make them feel ns, Refused Material and/or production shutdowns to as part of the organisation, therefore enabling them client. to comply with the users’ demands by helping to clarify their doubts. Among other procedures, with the information obtained from both procedures, we define our annual plans By putting both ingredients together, we can get the and continuous improvement programs. perfect mix in our company: an “adored company”, to our team, and a “love mark”, to our clients. Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 53 3. Performance Sustainability report 2013 Our suppliers In Gonvarri Steel Services, the purchasing process, the outsourcing hiring, and the corresponding standardizaSuppliers and local purchases tion and management of suppliers are either centrally Local purchases are independently carried out by each arranged by the corporate purchase department or diproduction center. Even if the standardisation criterion rectly from the plants, as local purchases. is different, performance of the supplier selection, standardization and evaluation process is based at all times on the principles of impartiality, rigor and Suppliers and central objectivity. purchases Local purchasing involving goods other than metal products is independently carried out by each plant. Steel is the most commonly used raw good in all our production and use of aluminium is increasing graWe evaluate and select our suppliers in accordance to dually. In both cases, purchases are centralised at the their capacity for supplying products that comply with corporate purchasing department, which is managed in our requirements (price competitiveness, response coordination with the plants. time, quality, etc.). The supplier standardization procedures cover and demand information on several During this process, we adapt to our clients’ requireaspects which will be weighted based on their ments, always maintaining high quality standards. relevance. It should be noted that some clients, particularly those in the automotive sector, provide us with the names of the suppliers that we have to process the purchase with. In these cases, these suppliers have been previously approved by the clients. Purchasing portal The most relevant purchases, based on their cost, are carried out through the Supplier Portal available through our web site. Each supplier is provided with a user code and a password that will allow them to access a private area. At the time of signing the contract, suppliers undertake to comply with the conditions established by the Company. The Ethics and Conduct Code of Gonvarri Steel Services is available at the Supplier Portal. It has been scheduled, as part of the agenda for 2014, to include our suppliers’ acceptance and commitment to undertake the Code as a contracting requirement. 54 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica Sustainability report 2013 3. Performance In terms of sustainability-related selection criteria, all Payment conditions with suppliers and subcontractors of our suppliers are required to comply with the stanhave been properly defined and written down on the dardisation requirements established, which demand basis of pre-set criteria. Such criteria will be periodistrict compliance with the Health and Safety and Encally controlled and reviews both in terms of local and vironment regulation, relating to quality, safety and central purchasing and we comply with the payment health and environment, whereas the existence of conditions established with suppliers and contractors. certifications (ISO/TS 16494 and/or ISO 9001, ISO In order to calculate the percentage of local suppliers, 14001 and OHSAS 18001) is positively valued. Some we have taken into account all of those whose headsuppliers have not been included in the standardizaquarters or business office is located in the reference tion process on account of the low risk entailed in the country. practice of their activities. Based on this criterion, 99% of our suppliers are loThe requirements to be met are covered in the rescated in Spain and/or Portugal. In general terms, the pective procedures in by our Procedure for external suppliers that do not comply with this requirement are supplier standardisation as part of the “Coordination those who supply machinery, equipment and steel maAgreement”. terials. Other additional requirements Subcontractors The Ethics Code of Conduct is currently being dissemiWith regards to external parties that carry out works nated among our main local suppliers. at our facilities, they must comply with our “Procedures We expect that, through their acceptance, they will for Coordination of Entrepreneurial Activities” to ensuundertake to develop an ethical, transparent behare that their employees’ work conditions are the best in viour and to comply with the applicable legislation, to terms of safety and health and do not compromise our adopt adequate practices that ensure a safe working employees’ conditions. environment, and to observe human rights and the environment. In 2013, a average 44 workers/month were subcontracted, whereas 76 workers were supplied from temDuring 2014, this practice will be disseminated in an porary work agencies. orderly way among all of our facilities and incorporated to our requirements for supplier standardization and selection. Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 55 3. Performance Sustainability report 2013 Best Practice Transversal Operational • Meetings, reports and improvement of the process of communication among all parties involved, for Approach (MOT) optimising joint analysis and learning process in the deviations that may be identified, the Gonvarri Steel Services is experiencing continuous correcting actions envisaged, stock and budget growth, and new companies in different countries are monitoring. constantly being added, which requires consolidating and improving our processes and procedures. 2 Price update The goal of MOT is to improve the current purchase As sales prices are directly linked to the price of raw and procurement system by means of updated, reliable goods at the time where the operation is scheduled and consistent sale forecast data, thus: to take place, sale prices are regularly updated on the system, which is consulted and updated for every es• Ensuring efficient purchasing and accurate stoctimate provided. king. • Reducing and avoiding financial costs due to stock excess or shortage. • Ensuring updated, shared prices. • Recording the on-going business activity, including both estimate requests and purchase forecasts from clients. For development purposes, it describes the activities undertaken by the sales departments, thus ensuring that monitoring, control and update of purchase forecasts are being properly conducted for each client reference within the established deadline. MOT was implemented in Gonvarri Iberia in 2013 and will be extended to the remaining companies in the coming years. MOT is divided into the following main stages: 1 Procurement forecast and management The purpose is to ensure procurement through reliable, consistent sales figures, and to that end we review aspects related to: • Consumer consumption data which are updated based on our knowledge and experience and the market’s current scenario. Health and safety Employment OHSAS 18001 1.188 employees 89% of our plants are certified 92% men, 8% women 0 fatal accidents Indefinite contract at work 96% of the workforce Training Training 7,210 hours 33,317 hours Axis 4: Health & Safety: global objectives (2013-2015) Extension of H&S indicators (rates) and monitoring and measuring the investment carried out on those subjects • Improving the qualification of direct labour employees, updating their training at least once every three years and promoting their awareness of H&S actions, organising annual meetings with the plant’s managers and coordinators in order to analyse the most relevant issues on H&S matters. Development of Lock Out Tag Out (LOTO) activities in maintenance tasks. • Identifying activities that require interaction with elements and implementing Dead Man controls for performing such activities. Removing risks from work at heights; soundproofing hydraulic equipment Adjustment to Technical Requirements to: • Ensure an effective closure of 100% of the production lines. Sustainability Master Plan • Place safety signs at working areas. • Improve the storage of coils. Axis 3: Pride of belonging, retaining of talent, no discrimination GSS Península Ibérica • 2013-2015. Implementation of a goal-based Management system (DPO) that will take place in two phases: • 2012-2013: Management (archieved) • 2014-2015: Office staff (currently in progress). Gonvarri Tarragona • 2013-2015. Reducing absenteeism by 0.5% in respect of 2012 (currently in progress). Ferrodisa • 2013-2014. Conducting outdoor training activities; improving training hours to enhance employability (currently in progress). 4. People 4.1 Health and Safety Health and Safety: Our Priorities Best practice: Improved safety and health signage Our commitment to occupational risk prevention. One Step Beyond Communication and training Follow-up and measurement Health and safety indicators Recognitions and awards 4.2 Our commitment to people Our professionals Continuing training and career development Best practice: GSS at the Job Market Fair organised by IE Employment policy Best practice: Equality plan in Ferrodisa Best practice: Gonvauto Navarra: Reconciliation of work and family life Social benefits 58 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 4. People Sustainability report 2013 4.1 Health and safety 4.1 Health and Safety Health and Safety: Our Priorities Preserving our safety is a priority and a strategic goal in Within their staff our factories have employees specifiGonvarri Steel Services. cally appointed to deal with safety and health matters and who have been highly trained in that respect. We are aware, and we know and analyse the risks associated with our activities, and we strive to take the Based on the size and needs of the factories there are necessary corrective measures, in order to eliminate or two different approaches: mitigate such risks to the most possible extent. • Employees appointed to handle occupational Every employee at our plants must do their utmost to safety and health matters on an exclusive develop and encourage safe behaviour and to achieve basis. This approach is being developed at the a healthy work environment that features healthy following facilities: Gonvarri Burgos, Gonvarri y equipment and working conditions. The Health and Gonvauto Barcelona, Ferrodisa, Hiasa and Gonvarri Safety plan is developed within the strategic plan of Portugal. GSS and includes 16 actions applicable to our facilities that are monitored on a monthly basis. • Employees sharing these activities with others in Human Resources and / or Environment maThese include the investment needs of each plant, tters. This approach is being developed in the fowhich will be forwarded to the CEO for his approval. llowing plants: Gonvauto Navarra, Gonvarri Tarragona and Gonvauto Galicia. In order to integrate safety in every decision that is made, the follow-up of safety and health plans and programmes depends directly on each Plant’s Health and Safety Policy Managers. Since December 2007 we have developed, reported and implemented Occupational Safety and Health PoOrganisation and structure in licies that are mandatory and applicable to all of our facilities. terms of prevention The Policy emphasizes the principle of integrating preOur approach is based on Integrated Prevention, in vention among all members of the chain command, and conformity with the safety and health policies defined demands compliance with the relevant safety rules in both on a plant level and on a corporate level by the any activities being carried out or supervised. GSS CEO. The Policy is applicable to our teams and to any third Responsibilities and roles are documented in the techparty companies or subcontractors that carry nical procedures across the organisation of work and out their activities at out facilities. also across the company’s hierarchical structure and we strive to integrate the concept of employees’ health and safety protection in all stages of our decision-making processes. Surveillance and health control relating to workers’ risk exposure in their respective position has been entrusted to medical services in the different countries where we operate. Said services are duly qualified to carry out these activities in conformity with the local regulations. 4. People Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 59 4.1 Health and safety Sustainability report 2013 Health and safety policy Gonvarri Steel Industries knows that the prevention • External workers performing activities in our of the risks we have in our activities is a priority and a plants will develop their works with the same strategic item in the management of our businesses. level of safety and commitment expressed in So, all the members of the Group must take safety in these principles. consideration and make the maximum effort into developing and promoting safety behaviors, achieving • Prevention training must be part of professional a healthy work environment, and provide the safer training of each employee, ensuring that safety equipment, products and production lines for all who is perceived as an integral and internal part of works in our plants. the responsibilities required. In order to direct and manage the performance of the • Systems will be established for the ongoing staff in charge for their plants, this policy is declared identification of risks, hazards and dangers, based on the following principles: mainly in the design stage of each new process, position or production line for the sake of active • Safety must be managed effectively with the control measures in the their origin. same professional rigor and strength as any other of the key areas of management, imple• Plant directors adopted and carried out momenting Management Systems in line with the nitoring program to facilitate not only formal principle of preventive integration. compliance preventive legislation, but the continuous improvement in their performance in our • The members of the organisational chain in way toward the goal of zero injuries and damacommand must consider the Prevention requirege to health. ments in all the activities undertaken or ordered, and in any decision taken. This policy should be appropriately shared and well-known by all employees of the Group and be paid • Oversight and control by supervisors and comand applied by those who have responsibilities in the mands of the activities undertaken by their plants. workers have to include the compliance of the safety rules and their good acts. • Each employee must take in consideration the rules and safety instructions defined, and must take a diligent attitude and safe behavior in his Jon Riberas Mera work. President & CEO Gonvarri Steel Industries 60 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 4. People Sustainability report 2013 4.1 Health and safety Our management systems Golden rules Our plants have been equipped with occupational As great believers of the sentence “All accidents are safety and health management systems under the avoidable”, we work from several perspectives at the OHSAS 18001 standard and have been developed, different plants of Gonvarri Steel Services. implemented and certified by an accredited body at all of our facilities with the sole exception of Hiasa. Unsafe behaviour that may have consequences on the employee’s own safety or that of his/her colleagues Hiasa has developed and implemented the Policy, will by no means be ignored, and the instructions isas well as the procedures arising from the reference sued by the company will be scrupulously observed. norm and has undergone the corresponding auditing; however, completing the adaptation of its equipment Several Golden Rules have been set out, which include prior to obtaining the corresponding certification is still 10 basic milestones whose dissemination and pending. compliance is compulsory in all centres: Also, all of our facilities have identified and defined their potential risks and emergency plans/adaptation according to their activities, size and environment. On an annual basis, we carry out total and partial emergency drills that may be related to different risks, such as fires, spills, hurricanes, etc. 1 10 Access and transit 2 Interventions taking place inside the Order and equipment cleanliness 9 3 Equipment operation den ru Observance of the Safety Gol les instructions 8 4 Risks entailed Express during steel authorisation cutting allowing special tasks 7 5 Advance task planning 6 Responsibility during equipment Occurrence reset reporting 4. People Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 61 4.1 Health and safety Sustainability report 2013 Best Practice Improved health and safety signage Over the last few months, Gonvauto Galicia has significantly improved its safety and health signage at the workplace. These improvements have been carried out in order to adapt the plant to the new “Corporate Technical Specifications for safety and health signage at the workplace” which govern the status, allowance, contents and coverage of signage in conformity with the risks and prevention measures that must be taken into account in the performance of our activities, at our facilities and the risks faced by our employees. This Specification is binding and will be among the aspects to be verified in future corporate auditing. Our commitment to occupational risk prevention. One Step Beyond In 2007, an Overall Assessment of the status of the Through “One Step Beyond”, safety of the centers in Health and Safety indicators was carried out. Spain and Portugal is coordinated according to the following principles: The areas for improvement that were identified included the need for an integrated awareness and prevention culture, which regards safety as an Consistency Proactivity unavoidable requirement, thus contributing to avoiding accidents and incidents arising from any inadequate behaviour on the part of staff members. In response to such need, the program One Step Pre-eminence Immediacy Beyond was established for application in all production centres, which includes a new Health and Safety Corporate Policy that, once the necessary legal Totality requirements are complied with, involves all members of Gonvauto, irrespective of their position within the company. The Programme demands unavoidable It should be noted that, according to the surveys fulfilment of all Health and Safety requirements that conducted on labour climate, a positive aspect is the are applicable to Gonvauto employees, when carrying improved awareness of Health and Safety at the out any activities or when making any decision. Such workplace. demand is also applicable to employees in external companies providing services to Gonvauto. 62 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 4. People Sustainability report 2013 4.1 Health and safety Communication and training To ensure that our company provides a safe work enviPlants Prevention Committee ronment where our employees behave responsibly, we delegates members promote three “One Step Ahead” aspects: communicating, training and monitoring safety and health indicaGonvauto Barcelona 4 8 tors. Gonvauto Galicia 2 4 Gonvauto Navarra 1 2 Communication Gonvarri Barcelona 3 6 Gonvarri Burgos 3 6 Due to its great significance to all of us and our profesGonvarri Tarragona 3 6 sionals and subcontractors, we maintain many different communication channels on the subject of safety Hiasa 3 6 and health matters. Ferrodisa 3 6 Gonvarri Portugal 2 7 Generally speaking, we provide a two-way communication flow, which is coordinated and managed from Total 24 51 the plants through monthly meetings on health and safety, and that allows staff members to be informed Levels of coverage as per the and participative. agreements subscribed with the The person in charge of these matters at each plant Unions is the respective Manager, which enables to expedite bureaucracy and handle any issues that may arise in a The following chart summarises the level of coverage fast, transparent manner. of the most relevant safety and health aspects according to the agreements with the Unions. In addition to direct communication, we have other channels for communication that encourage emploCovered aspects* Presence yees’ consultation and involvement. Some of these Individual Protection Equipment 75% channels are summarised below: Joint Safety and Health Committees 100% Participation of employees’ representati75% Health and Safety Committees ves in inspections, auditing and accident investigation Employees responsible for prevention matters have been allocated in each plant, said people representing Training and education 88% all employees through the Health and Safety CommiComplaint channels 88% ttee. Right to reject dangerous tasks 75% The committee comprises, in equal numbers, both the Periodical inspections 75% workers’ representatives in Prevention matters and the Agreements or structures for problem 75% Managers. The committee holds monthly meetings resolution that cover issues relating to our teams’ Health and SaObjective commitments related to 88% fety and the reduction, and improvement, of all aspects results or the applicable practice level regarding potential risks and labour-related accidents. *Gonvarri Portugal is not included. The workers’ representatives and the members of the Health and Safety Committee at each plant represent 100% of the staff. All our staff has its own collective bargaining and is entitled to vote. The attached chart lists the number of Safety and Health Committee delegates and members at each plant. 4. People Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 63 4.1 Health and safety Sustainability report 2013 Monthly Management Committees • Involvement at the development and review of policies, objectives and Security and Health The Safety Management Committee has been Programmes, by means of the information being appointed as the working committee where the made available to the representation bodies. Prevention Coordinator holds a meeting with the Plant Managers, the Production Managers, the Maintenance, • Suggestions for improvement where space is Logistics and Human Resources departments on a provided for employees to submit their comments monthly basis. The meeting’s goal is to conduct a and ideas for improvement. follow-up on the progress made by the indicators, activities, actions, accidents and incidents in terms of Also, they may submit their enquiries in connection prevention, safety and health. with eventual changes of their working conditions that affect, or might affect, their safety. Corporate Health and Safety forum Participatory meetings At the corporate Intranet, a Health and Safety forum provides all corporate information that may serve Held with a monthly frequency during the working as reference (technical specifications, procedures, groups meeting, Health and Safety matters are handweekly accident and incident reports submitted to led in a participatory manner, gathering suggestions or all Managers), and also provides the opportunity to ideas submitted by employees regarding the manageparticipate in surveys and discussions on related ment of Health and Safety in their respective working matters. environments. Additionally, talks are held to the judgment of turnos TOPS related to safety. Information Points on Health and Safety Others These are areas that have been established in all All employees are invited to collaborate in the different plants, and are located near the employees’ work plaprocedures implemented in terms of occupational risk ces, where updated information can be found, such as: prevention and Health and Safety, through their involvement in different procedures relating to: identifi• Investigation of incidents and accidents: the cation of risks, assessment of risks and elaboration of relevant data that led to the final outcome of the Safety instructions. matter are provided. 64 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 4. People Sustainability report 2013 4.1 Health and safety Training gement system implemented in the company (Policy, plans and procedures). It is a key aspect for H&S and evidences the commitIn order to enable our staff to fulfill their tasks, the trament of the company. We believe that training actiining provided entails a certain level of education acvities help to sensitize and raise awareness among cording to their rank and proportional to their responemployees and middle management of occupational sibilities. safety and contribute to promoting a proactive attitude from which all of us can benefit. Employees performing special tasks (crane bridge operators, those who work at heights or whose work involIn 2013 7,210 hours of health and safety training has ves electrical risks, etc.) receive specific training related been provided, which amounts to an approximate ratio to said task and the risks associated to it. Such training of 6 hours per employee. is conveniently updated and extended based on the needs detected. Before joining a new job or a new poAll members of the GSS Peninsula Iberia staff have resition, each employee receives the required health and ceived the required theoretical and practical training safety training that will enable them to work safely and and qualification on the subject of safe work methods, comfortably, being fully aware of their responsibilities which are inseparable from their professional training, and obligations. and have been trained to consider safety as an integral part of their responsibilities; such training includes During 2013, several workshops devoted to health information regarding the health and safety manaand safety matters have been conducted, as outlined below: Awareness campaigns Workshop: Prevention of risks in the Workshop: how to workplace prevent accidents An interesting workshop aiming at raising awareness In March, a workshop called “How to preof matters of occupational hazard prevention was orvent accidents”, dealing with the subject of ganised in Gonvarri Tarragona and Gonvarri Burgos, driving, was held in Gonvarri Tarragona. The with the purpose of disseminating information on the lecturer was Mikel Bort, a corporal in Mossos precautionary measures that will make it possible to d’Esquadra and author of the book “Com evitar increase safety and prevent all types of work-related un accident de trànsit” (“How to prevent a car acaccidents. cident”), who listed the responsibilities involved in car driving and explained how easily accidents may The workshop, held in Tarragona under the motto “Preoccur. vention with our five senses”, which in Burgos was called “Are you missing any sense?”, served to strenThe purpose of the lecture was to raise awareness of gthen the attendees’ awareness in terms of safety at our responsibilities as drivers and the consequences their work place by using common sense. arising from our behaviour, in particular when it comes to road accidents. The practical side of the training, which highlighted the need to make good use of individual protection equipment, grabbed the attention of employees. Due to its novel, highly participatory approach they were asked to put their 5 senses to the test on spot (smell, taste, touch, sight and hearing). 4. People Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 65 4.1 Health and safety Sustainability report 2013 Workshop: Say no to accidents “We have worked really hard over the last few years to integrate the culture of prevention in our organisaAt Gonvauto Galicia, Gonvarri Tarragona, Gonvarri tion‘s DNA, and to achieve, on the one hand, that all Burgos and Ferrodisa, a campaign in the form of a of our employees regard safety at work as their own competition has been carried out, aiming at reducing responsibility and on the other hand, that employees absenteeism and the number of work-related accidents. appreciate the benefits of safe work. We have better Every time that a certain milestone of days without facilities, we have optimized our processes and minimiaccidents is reached, each plant decides what award or zed our quality incidents, and this has only been made recognition to deliver in each case. possible because our employees have been able to internalize that incorporating Safety to our daily routine The competition ends when an accident leading to is key to succeeding”. medical leave occurs at the plant. Javier Izu, Manager of Gonvauto Galicia This campaign reinforces the spirit of team work and “To achieve 365 days without accidents is the result of encourages employees to pay more attention to the team work and is clearly the reflection of a corporate safety measures they are asked to comply. culture whose central premise is prevention.” Felipe Cuervo Martínez. Manager and Rosa García RiSome of the most remarkable milestones reached by bas Head of Human Resources Gonvarri Tarragona. the company are the 541 days without accidents at Gonvauto Galicia, 365 days without accidents at Gonvarri Tarragona plant, 465 days without accidents at Gonvarri Burgos and 300 days without accidents at Ferrodisa. “The hard and continuous work carried out has finally paid off. Staff awareness, as well as team work and the improved safety measures, have allowed us to celebrate today our compliance with the zero accident target at our Gonvarri Burgos plant” Arturo Sagredo Pampliega, Manager of Gonvarri Burgos Specific campaigns devoted to occupational hazard prevention Welding training In Gonvarri Burgos, an applied welding (coated electrode and MIG) course was held in order to provide training on simple welding to employees working on maintenance and production. Welding is generally used in repair work and the technique has experienced significant progress which has led to it being applicable in all branches of the metal sector. With this course, the maintenance personnel (electronic technicians, electricians and mechanics) and the production personnel (maintenance of dies, coating, among others) have improved their welding skills. 66 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 4. People Sustainability report 2013 4.1 Health and safety Dynamic Days Our factories believe that the celebration of the so-called dynamic days calling for our employees’ direct involvement and in some cases, their families’, contribuWorkshop: Interactuar, tes to reinforcing our message and consequently, our company theatre actions. In Gonvarri Barcelona, in collaboration with We will now make reference to some of these dynamic the company Interactuar a workshop was held days. to raise awareness among participants on the subject that “it is possible to produce safely without affecting production”, taking everyone’s Family activities health and well-being as our priority. In Gonvarri Tarragona a fun day that brought many Theatre applied to the enterprise is a method used families around a karting race event was held on July to recreate reality, grabbing everyone’s attention 19. and ensuring that attendees identify themselves with the story being played on stage. Humour is We seized the opportunity to deliver our recognition the best vehicle to convey a message in a clear, to the participants and the award of the children’s direct and fun way. drawing competition “What does your dad/mum do to prevent accidents at work?” Health, Safety and Environment Day On an annual basis, Gonvarri Portugal organises a day that is entirely focused on safety, health and environment. During the day several activities, such as games, meetings, etc., take place, the celebration culminating with a Christmas dinner to which all employees are invited and the awarding of prizes to the three best teams. 4. People Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 67 4.1 Health and safety Sustainability report 2013 Follow-up and measurement Being able to compare the Health and Safety indicators The results obtained from these audits are published is fundamental to encourage continuous improvement in Leading the Change to allow that the know-how is and to learn from other plants’ experience. passed on to all centres. Below is a summary of the main mechanisms provided for follow-up and control. Certification audits One of the requirements established by the OHSAS Monthly reports 18001 standard is the performance of external audits for monitoring purposes, conducted on an annual basis On a monthly basis, all centres report their labour Health or every three years, in order to obtain the corresponand Safety indicators to the corporate manager to ding certification issued by an accredited body. consolidate that information with the other companies and to have updated information on its evolution. Also, the corresponding regulatory audits are conducted in our plants in Spain, pursuant to the provisions of Act 31/1995 of Occupational Hazard Prevention, with Inspections the sole exception of Hiasa, which is currently undergoing a process of adaptation. The safety inspection procedure conducted on a monthly basis involves the Manager and all supervisors, The conclusions obtained from the audits are as fowho conduct a safety inspection of all of the areas llows: under their responsibility, collaborating in the definition and implementation of the required remedial actions • The Group’s planning in terms of risk assessment (as defined on PDCA’s action plans). has been found to be correct and complying with the applicable regulations on the subject of occuThis enables us to move forward in our safety policy pational hazard prevention. and to disseminate these actions to all employees through the notice board. • Both the prevention organisation approach and the qualifications of Labour Risk prevention speInternal auditing cialist are appropriate; the company has implemented the correct protocols for action and the The health and safety corporate auditors conduct an prevention policy has been integrated at all hierarannual audit which assesses the implementation and chical levels of the company. compliance of the Safety and Health Plan, as well as the methods having been used, the status of the facili• The auditing team expressed positive views on ties and the good practices identified. the integration level of the company’s preventive system and its degree of implementation, docuCorporate auditors in Health and Safety matters permentation and efficiency. form an annual audit in which implementation and compliance with the Health and Safety Plan, the sysNo significant non-compliances have been identified at tematics, the condition of the installations and best any of our plants. practices are assessed. Rates The Corporate management and the plants perform a monthly assessment of the “Frequency and Severity Rate”. 68 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 4. People Sustainability report 2013 4.1 Health and safety Health and safety indicators Balance Accidents 39 accidents leading to medical leave occurred in The number of accidents leading to medical leave per 2013. Among the injured, 97% were male; 33 of them plant in 2013 is shown on the chart below: had been directly hired by the Company and 6 of them were hired by subcontractors. This figure is 5% lower Plant Own staff Subcontractors than in 2012. M W M W Below is a summary of the accidents occurring in 2013: Gonvauto Barcelona 4 0 1 0 Gonvauto Galicia 0 0 0 0 2012 Gonvauto Navarra 3 0 0 0 Accidents with Accidents Gonvarri Barcelona 6 0 2 0 leave without leave Gonvarri Burgos 5 0 0 0 Men Women Men Women Gonvarri Tarragona 0 0 0 0 Own staff 35 2 132 2 Hiasa 9 0 3 0 Subcontrac5 0 12 0 Ferrodisa 4 0 0 0 tors*/ TEA** Gonvarri Portugal 2 1 0 0 Total 40 2 144 2 Total 33 1 6 0 2013 Accidents with Accidents Average rate of accidents leading to medical leave per leave without leave employees directly hired by the Company is 0.03 and 0.01 for men and women, respectively. Men Women Men Women Own staff 33 1 132 3 When an accident occurs, formal communication is Subcontrac6 0 14 0 provided through the mechanisms established by the tors*/ TEA** relevant country’s regulations. In all cases, such practice complies with the current regulations following the Total 39 1 146 3 ILO’s recommendations. *External staff who performs GSS own activities is conWithin the Group, accident rates and reports sidered as subcontractor. are communicated via the corporate **Temporary Employement Agency intranet, through the Safety and Health Group and by email to each plant’s It should be noted that, same as in 2012, no fatal managers. accidents have occurred in 2013. During this year, we had one case of a male employee at Gonvauto Navarra suffering from an occupational disease. In December, Gonvarri Steel Services achieved one of the most significant and rewarding milestones for the first time on record: First month without accidents leading to medical leave at all steel service centres worldwide. This great piece of news is the outcome of the gradual decrease in the accident rate since 2007, the year where our Safety and Health Policy was first published as a Statement of Intent on the subject, and subsequently enhanced with the Global Safety and Health Plan of 2011 “One Step Beyond”, introduced to the Manager of each plant. 4. People Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 69 4.1 Health and safety Sustainability report 2013 Lost days per accident or occupational disease Missed (absentee) days Plant Men Women Total Plant Men Women Total Gonvauto Barcelona 76 0 76 Gonvauto Barcelona 1,410 122 1,532 Gonvauto Galicia 0 0 0 Gonvauto Galicia 297 61 358 Gonvauto Navarra 31 0 31 Gonvauto Navarra 233 0 233 Gonvarri Barcelona 97 0 97 Gonvarri Barcelona 1,453 27 1,480 Gonvarri Burgos 46 0 46 Gonvarri Burgos 1,176 31 1,207 Gonvarri Tarragona 0 0 0 Gonvarri Tarragona 498 6 504 Hiasa 400 0 400 Hiasa 2,828 9 2,837 Ferrodisa 115 0 115 Ferrodisa 875 65 940 Gonvarri Portugal 65 167 232 Gonvarri Portugal 398 89 487 Total 830 167 997 Total 9,168 410 9,578 Average per 0.76 1.69 0.84 Average per 8.42 4.14 8.06 employee employee Recognition and awards Below is a summary of the recognition and awards giproposed in a proactive way, as well as their confidenven to our factories in 2013. ce that such commitment will be duly complied for. Gonvarri Tarragona was awarded by Adecco, due to Gonvarri Tarragona, along with the other award-winits good management practice in labour risk prevention. ning companies, is not only below the reference accident rate of its field but has improved its own rates in a Adecco is a leading company in human resources mavery significant way over the last 5 years. nagement and has been encouraging labour risk prevention management among its clients for years, proGonvauto Navarra was recognised with the Healthy viding due recognition to those who strive to promote Company Blue Seal given by Mutua Navarra on 17 this area beyond mere fulfillment of the rules. December 2013. This recognition is supported by the Navarra Confederation of Entrepreneurs (CEN). To measure this achievement, the first analysis conducted is on whether the existing labour risk prevenThis award was established by Mutua Navarra in ortion regulations are strictly complied with. The next der to raise awareness among step is to make sure that the relevant company shows companies and emploa clear commitment to prevention, both in terms of coryees that maximum porate policy and its facilities and equipments, and in profitability is achieits willingness to implement continuous improvement ved due to healthy actions. companies and happy employees Also, all employees and the different departments that give their must show their commitment to adopt the measures utmost at work. 70 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 4. People Sustainability report 2013 4.2 Our commitment to people 4.2 Our commitment to people Our professionals We, in GSS, are highly committed to our professionals, During 2013, 24 people were hired and 68 (63 men who are the engine of our success and upon whom our and 5 women) left the company or were transferred. continued growth depends. We offer a stable working environment that provides a great deal of possibilities Below is a list of the different reasons giving rise to for promotion and mobility, due to our presence in seemployees leaving the company in 2013: veral countries. Reason Man Woman We tend to choose people who can identify with our Dismissal 6 1 culture and values, who understand what our customers expect from us and who, through their work, conRetirement and anticipate 18 1 tribute to the development and enhancement of the retirement company. Contract expiration 14 1 Death (unrelated to work) 2 0 By 31 December 2013, the staff at GSS PenínsuEmployees receiving welfare 5 0 la Ibérica consisted of 1,188 professionals, 1,089 of benefits due to temporary which are men, whereas 99 are women, and whose incapacity distribution is shown on the chart below: Transferred to corporate / a 7 2 Plant Man Woman Total different plant Gonvauto Barcelona 132 8 140 Voluntary departure 11 0 Gonvauto Galicia 44 14 58 Total 63 5 Gonvauto Navarra 41 8 49 Retirement Anticipate retirement Gonvarri Barcelona 185 10 195 28% Gonvarri Burgos 198 9 207 Gonvarri Tarragona 41 4 45 Hiasa 254 15 269 Ferrodisa 139 13 152 Gonvarri Portugal 55 18 73 ise to emp gr Total 1,089 99 1,188 sons givin ees in 2 ea loy We support our employees’ job stability, because, despite the overall recession situation, we do trust 3 in long term relationships and in our professionals’ R 01 experience which is proven by the fact that 96% of the members of our staff have permanent contracts. Nº of employees per contract Type of contract Man Woman Total Transferred Indefinite 1,047 96 1,143 14% Temporary incapacity 7% Death (unrelated to work) 3% Temporary 42 3 45 Dismissal Voluntary departure Contract expiration 10% 16% 22% 4. People Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 71 4.2 Our commitment to people Sustainability report 2013 Distribution has been rather uneven: all cases involving Managers Men 91% Women 9% early retirement and contract terminations occurred in 1% Gonvarri Burgos, Hiasa and Ferrodisa; those who were transferred to other plants were in most cases employees from Gonvauto Galicia, Gonvarri Burgos and Hiasa, and to a lesser extent, from Gonvarri Tarragona and Gonvarri Portugal. The rest of reasons for leaving the company are distributed among all of the plants, with the exception of Gonvauto Navarra, whose staff has category not experienced any variations in 2013. al es r gender Prof sion pe With regards to the 24 new recruits, six of them were hired to cover positions occupied by employees on medical leave and the contract ended in the same year. The distribution per plant is one person recruited in Ferrodisa, another one recruited in Gonvarri Portugal, both hired in order to cover two vacancies, and four people hired in Hiasa, in order to carry out specific tasks. The rest of new recruits still work at the company. With regards to the work type, according to the level Administrative staff and personal Men 92% employees Women 8% of responsibility allocated to each position, jobs have 88% been grouped into three professional levels or cate88% Men Heads of departments, middle gory, as shown on the chart below: 12% Women management and supervisors 13% Professional category Man Women In terms of the most common type of employment at Managers 10 1 our work centres, 98% of men and 83% of women work on a full time basis. Heads of departments, middle 119 17 management and supervisors 55% of the plant managers are older than 45, 36% are Administrative staff and 960 81 between 36 and 45, whereas 9% are between 25 and personal employees 36. Total 1,089 99 The attached chart shows the distribution of the staff Around 86% of the staff members have an average age based on age and gender: over 36. Within this age range, approximately 47% are older than 46. Age range Man Woman Total Between 18-25 years old 8 0 8 Between 26-35 years old 128 26 154 Between 36-45 years old 484 57 541 More than 46 years old 469 16 485 Total 1,089 99 1,188 We believe that the experience and knowledge gained through the years are major factors of success in our company. We encourage a stable working environment and the sense of belonging, as shown by the low staff turnover that, in 2013, was 6%*, and the seniority of our employees, as most of them have been working at our plants ever since the company started off. *To calculate this rate, we have taken into account the total number of people leaving the company, with the exception of those employees transferred to corporate or another plant, with respect to the total workforce by 31 December 2013. 72 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 4. People Sustainability report 2013 4.2 Our commitment to people Continuing training and career development We believe that the most valuable people are those who work at our company. We strive to improve their Internal job promotion training and qualifications, and to retain talent, always In our experience, a positive measure in order to recruit ensuring that promotion is linked to individual merit, and retain talent is to be able to show to our employees competences and abilities from the recruitment stage that their posts are not static and that their conditions up to the end of the professional career. may be enhanced through the internal recruiting and promotion system. New recruits “Job Posting” is a project developed in order to enhanWe seek to achieve that new employees feel part of ce internal recruiting. the team from the first day. To facilitate their awareness with the company, all employees receive a WelWhen the need arises to cover a specific position or to come Pack, which includes several videos and courses constitute a start-up team, the job offer is internally puunder the motto “Make the company yours!” blished at the notice board located in each plant, and also through the channel on the corporate Intranet that The pack helps us disseminate the messages and eshas been created to such effect. sential information concerning our company that we believe that our collaborators should know in an effecThe job offer is only made public if after a period of time tive way. has elapsed, the length of which will vary depending on the urgency of the situation, the position has failed to be internally covered. Training Beyond our economic data, in Gonvauto Iberia we all GSS at the Job Market share the same objective: continuing improvement. Fair organised by Instituto de Empresa We believe that training is the best way to achieve it, as it contributes to our employee’s personal developGSS’ Human Resources team attended ment and enhances their performance at work. the annual Job Market Fair, organised by Instituto de Empresa and specifically addressed In 2013, a total of 33,317 hours of training in areas to their own students. The purpose of the fair such as health and safety, languages and professional is to introduce students in their final year at IE skills and competences were taught, from which 1,120 the possibilities available for employment and the people benefited. company internships provided by the companies participating at the Fair. The charts below show the distribution of the Training activities conducted. The most prestigious Spanish and international companies usually attend this forum in search of the Annual training hours per talent offered by students at IE. Our Human Resourprofessional category ces team had the opportunity to contact students Professional category Man Woman Total from several fields of Master degree programmes. Managers 353 7 360 Heads of departments, 6,127 880 7,007 middle management and supervisors Administrative staff and 22,623 3,327 25,950 personal employees Total 29,103 4,214 33,317 4. People Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 73 4.2 Our commitment to people Sustainability report 2013 Number of trained employees Our future challenge Professional category Man Woman Total In 2013, we conducted an analysis that would help us Managers 8 1 9 improve our employees’ education, training and promoHeads of departments, 109 14 123 tion. middle management and supervisors Based on the outcome of this analysis, the following Administrative staff and 892 85 977 initiatives have been defined. personal employees Total 1,009 100 1,109 Leadership School We assess the effectiveness of the training performed, Creation of a Managers School focused on the develoas many of the courses provided have greatly contripment and training of leadership skills for those profesbuted, among others, to improving production ratios, sionals with the greatest potential to achieve highest obtaining better results in the audits performed on positions in the future. It is divided in four different promanagement systems and increasing the number of files: improvement initiatives submitted by the employees. • Managers that have been recently recruited Also, our factories have implemented several initiatives • Team leaders aiming at promoting their employees’ training activi• Managers of managers ties. Such is the case of, for example Gonvarri Portugal, • CEOs and Directors that encourages employees by granting paid leave to pursue studies, and Ferrodisa, that provides support Visual Map schemes for employees who have been made redundant, in which two employees have taken part. Its goal is to improve the knowledge and sense of belonging of our employees though a graphic presentaPerformance and Potential tion of the past, present and future of our company in a dynamic and easily understandable manner. Appraisal Managers´ school We are progressively implementing a Performance and Potential Appraisal assessment system among our It aims to achieve the operational excellence, in the fraemployees. mework of SPG guaranteeing the deployment of the manager’s role in the plants. According to this system, the person responsible for each employee performs a periodical, qualitative and This project is framed under the approach of change quantitative appraisal of the effectiveness achieved management, driving the transformation from superduring the employee’s performance of his/her activivisor to team leader in charge, and identifying people ties and his/her compliance with his/her responsibilimanagement skills and equipment necessary to perform ties deriving from his/her work post. the supervisor’s duties, according to the Leading Change University learning model. The employee’s competence is also assessed.This appraisal allows us to identify certain difficulties such as lack of understanding or the employee’s adaptation to a certain activity. Once the results obtained from the appraisals have been analysed, corrective measures have been implemented, which has led to enhancing the quality of the work performed and to achieve more satisfaction among employees. In 2013, 47 men and 12 women (5% of the staff) have participated in this programme and its scope is expected to broaden within the next few years. 74 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 4. People Sustainability report 2013 4.2 Our commitment to people Employment Policy Our values and principles establish our employees’ Likewise, the average seniority of our staff is high, commitment towards “effort and honesty”. In addition most employees being in the over 45 age group, as to this, we believe in personal merit and equal oppormost of them have been working at our plants from tunities, as set out in other Ethics and Conduct Code. the beginning. Through our recruitment procedures we seek the best candidates, irrespectively of their gender, race or religion and we promote local employment. Selection criteria are based on academic and professional merit and respond to the company’s needs, Men 92% Women 8% always prioritizing internal promotion in order to boost our team members´ professional career. We wish to highlight the initiatives implemented by Gonvauto Navarra and Ferrodisa in the shape of EquaEqual opportunities lity Plans, through which they expect to improve the foregoing ratios. 8% of our staff is formed by women and this is clearly an aspect that needs improvement. Below is the gender distribution of our plants, showing that Gonvarri Portugal and Gonvauto Galicia stand out In the current framework of global recession, the numfrom the rest on account of having the highest percenber of staff recruited has been reduced significantly. tage of women workers. Men 84% 76% 94% 75% 94% 95% 91% 91% 96% Women 16% 24% 6% 25% 6% 5% 9% 9% 4% 100 80 60 40 Gonvauto Gonvauto Gonvauto Gonvarri Gonvarri Ferrodisa 20 Gonvarri Gonvarri Navarra Galicia Barcelona Portugal Hiasa Barcelona Tarragona Burgos 0 Employees’ distribution by gender and plant 4. People Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 75 4.2 Our commitment to people Sustainability report 2013 Best Practice Equality plan in Ferrodisa In 2013, Ferrodisa emphasized its willingness to promote and encourage equal opportunities by means of its Policy and Equality Plan that led the company to obtain the “Equality Plan Visa”, issued by the Generalitat Valenciana. This commitment is materialised through the “Commitment of Management towards equal opportunities between men and women” and the Company’s Policy based on the principles of equal treatment and equal opportunities, non-discrimination (direct or indirect) on the basis of sex, and the prohibition of sexual or gender harassment. In addition to this, these measures ensure immunity against the potential retaliation that may arise in connection with a violation of this policy being reported. Also, pursuant to Act 3/2007 of Gender Equality between women and men, Ferrodisa decided to create an Equality Committee formed by the same number of company representatives and employees’ representatives in which gender parity has been achieved. Said Committee conducted an analysis of the diagnosis and following the corresponding negotiations adopted an Equality Plan that came into force in June 2013. Life balance policies working shifts (employees are given the chance to change shifts with their colleagues). Additionally, emThe work culture which we believe in, is based on ployees are allowed to take time off in order to manage achieving balance between production requirements their personal matters, when necessary, and to manaand our employees’ personal needs, as we regard rege their own breaks and rest periods. Given that office conciliation of work and family as an essential element workers do not depend from production requirements to attain a working atmosphere based on support and as much as factory workers do, flexible start and finish collaboration. At our plants the working pace is very times have been implemented in certain office posts, much subject to the client’s needs and most workers and thus employees can adapt their working hours to work in shifts; therefore, applications for reductions in their own personal circumstances. working hours are very few. All employees entitled to maternity / paternity leave in However, although the working hours and the type of 2013 (41 men and 5 women) have exercised their riwork performed are very much influenced by the exisght to use it. All of them returned to work twelve monting demand, informal arrangements have been made ths later, 95% of the men and 100% of the women are in order to encourage flexibility at the time of organizing still working at our company. 76 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 4. People Sustainability report 2013 4.2 Our commitment to people Best Practice Gonvauto Navarra: Therefore, within the social dimension of Corporate Social Responsibility, the following guidelines for acReconciliation of work and tion have been established in order to develop Plan Reconcilia (Work-Life Balance plan): family life • In 2012 a Situational Diagnosis was carried out We, at Gonvauto Navarra, are fully aware of the great by means of interviews and working groups held benefits, internal and external, derived from implemenwith several employees from every professional ting a system that helps to manage the balance of category within the Company. work, Family and Personal life. • In 2013 a Work-Life Balance Plan was designed In collaboration with the Association of Women Enbased on the results of the Diagnosis and the cutrepreneurs and Executives of Navarra, whose goal rrent context. is to encourage the implementation of management systems that help achieve the balance of work and • Communication and implementation of the personal life within the organisation, in order to obtain Work-Life Balance Plan are expected to take place improved productivity rates and an added value from in 2014. which the entire society benefits, Gonvauto Navarra has started its own reconciliation project. 4. People Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 77 4.2 Our commitment to people Sustainability report 2013 No discrimination • The aspects with the lowest ratings are: the recognition given to the work performed, labour Based on the ‘no discrimination’ principle under the stability and the low employee participation in deEthics and Conduct Code, all centres of Gonvauto Iberia cision making processes. comply with the current Spanish regulation for Social Integration of the Disabled, through the several mechaOur plants, based on the results obtained, have develonisms provided by the Law. ped a series of initiatives focused on solving the areas for improvement identified, among which we would like These mechanisms include, among others, the hiring to highlight the following: of professionals with different abilities, as summarised below: In terms of corporate communication Contracts (LISMI) Leading the Change Plant Man Woman Total Gonvauto Barcelona 1 0 1 At the Corporate Department, we are very aware of how important it is to align internal communication to Gonvauto Galicia 3 0 3 our business strategy, in order to improve and promote Gonvauto Navarra 1 0 1 communication and participation among the group’s Gonvarri Barcelona 7 0 7 companies and employees. This is the context in which Gonvarri Burgos 3 0 3 the Intranet known as Leading the Change was born in 2012. Gonvarri Tarragona 0 0 0 Hiasa 8 0 8 This format aims at encouraging the creation of synerFerrodisa 5 1 6 gies among people, divisions and departments, and at facilitating daily work, by incorporating the latest techTotal 28 1 29 nologies. *We have not included Gonvarri Portugal, as LISMI is not applicable. Access to the Intranet is allowed to all employees with a corporate email address. Such access allows employees to find updated information on the company, to Working climate surveys use the online working groups, to share documents and to take an active part by submitting their opinions In our plants, our employees’ opinion is of paramount or participating in surveys, as outlined in chapter 2 of importance in order to improve day to day. the report. Due to this, working climate surveys are conducted and We are currently developing a corporate project known thoroughly analysed, its periodicity being determined as “Leading The Change University”, whose goal is by each centre. What the surveys pursue is to help us to stimulate, integrate and coordinate all training actifind out which our strengths are and identify our weakvities performed within the Group. nesses, so that we can establish the necessary actions to solve the problems, thus enhancing our employees’ satisfaction and, therefore, their performance. The surveys have taken place in all of our centres, with the sole exception of Hiasa, with varying turnout. An analysis conducted on the results obtained from the surveys show the following most relevant aspects. • The most highly rated aspects are: good working environment, communication among colleagues and managers and the importance attached to occupational health and safety. 78 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 4. People Sustainability report 2013 4.2 Our commitment to people In terms of communication among • Some of our plants publish a newsletter on a quarterly basis. The goal of these publications is facilities to give a voice to the concerns, challenges and goals in each plant and at the same time to report In order to achieve communication at all levels within the most relevant initiatives to employees, making the company, and addressed to the plant employees them feel involved. who have not been provided with a corporate email address, a major effort was made to reinforce and These newsletters are published in Gonvarri Tarraimprove internal communication by means of the gona “Tarraco Bobibas”, Ferrodisa “Ferronews” and following actions: Gonvarri Burgos “El Fleje”, which addresses environmental issues or health and safety matters on • A general notice board, and a specific notice a monthly basis. “SER Gonvarri Portugal” was first board for each Autonomous Production Group published by Gonvarri Portugal in 2013. (APG) that contain documents relating to APG members, multi purpose, ideas for improvement, The information is regularly updated to ensure that all customers, suppliers, days without accidents, quaemployees are directly and immediately made aware lity alerts, productivity charts, etc. of all initiatives that may be relevant to their projects, the facilities and the company. • A specific notice board that provides information on Health and Safety matters. In many of our plants, information screens have been strategically located that constantly display • Multidisciplinary work groups that meet perioinformation regarding interesting issues, such as safety, dically in order to analyse and propose ideas for environment, useful telephone numbers, employees’ improvement. benefits, strategies, etc. 4. People Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 79 4.2 Our commitment to people Sustainability report 2013 Ideas for Improvement ing groups Work The Production System of Gonvarri (SPG) in112 cludes their “ideas for improvement” within its improv for communication model. ved ideas ed Recei Award ideas Ideas ent 1,639 em 318 These ideas are, generally speaking, simple, 2012 inexpensive actions that have a significant 1,1 6 6 impact on daily work and that are collected, A chi e ve d i d e a s assessed, and if deemed relevant, carried out either individually or within a working group, ing groups the best ideas being conveniently rewarded. Work Every time that an idea is accepted, a person 148 responsible for the project and a deadline are allocated and employees are permanently inimprov formed of the status through the SPG notice for ved ideas ed Recei Award ideas board placed in each factory. Ideas ent 1,686 em 350 2013 The ideas are documented and once the procedure has ended all of them, whether they have been rejected or accepted, are submitted to the supervisor for them to be signed. 1,2 5 6 The Ideas for Improvement have become a natural indiA chi cator of the staff’s degree of involvement. In 2013 12% e ve d i d e a s more ideas were received than in the previous year. Some of these ideas are set forth below: Gonvauto Barcelona Idea: Tidy up automatically the glue rolling table during the process. Benefit: Achieves greater efficiency and prevents acGonvarri Burgos cidents. Idea: The fact that the coating process is continuous Gonvauto Galicia requires that the start of the incoming coil is linked with the end of the outgoing coil. During this process, Idea: To build a visual panel fitted with a colour code the material gets stopped inside the treatment tanks, showing the load data. which may result in stains. Therefore, the proposal conBenefit: Maintains the staff informed. Avoids mistakes. sists of making the steel move forward at low speed, thus providing sufficient time for the evacuation to take Gonvauto Navarra place without the stoppage. Benefit: Improves speed. Avoids superficial defects. Idea: To change the layout and location of the oil and oily water area. Gonvarri Portugal Benefit: Improved order and cleanliness. Avoids confusion and placement errors. Idea: The testing process is carried out with samples collected from the coils. These samples have the same Ferrodisa curvature as the coil itself. A straightening machine has been installed in order to straighten the samples. Idea: To provide training for authorisation of thermal Benefit: Speeds up the testing process. rearming. Benefit: Reduces down time. Gonvarri Tarragona Gonvarri Barcelona Idea: To place plates under the M1 ramp. Benefit: Avoids mill scale on the straightening machiIdea: To make modifications on the galvanisation bell. ne. The waste is collected from the machine itself, thus Benefit: Improves safety. preventing it from ending in the floor. 80 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 4. People Sustainability report 2013 4.2 Our commitment to people Social benefits Our factories participate in the improvements establiat the different production services and increasing the shed both on a Corporate (Flexible Remuneration Plan number of possible beneficiaries, involving 100% of or the life and accident insurance) and on a local level, the staff members. setting out internal guidelines for enhancing flexibility, work-life balance and in general, the well-being of our employees. Christmas gifts GSS Península Ibérica traditionally delivers to its emSome of these initiatives are summarised below: ployees a corporate Christmas gift consisting of a basket filled with seasonal products to enjoy with their Corporate Initiatives families. Flexible Retribution Plan Life insurance In Spain, a Flexible Retribution Plan (hereinafter, FRP) All employees have been provided with a Life insuhas been defined. It is being progressively implemenrance Policy that covers death, disablement ted in the different centres. Implementation of the plan and professional incapacity, whether due may be performed in each centre by selecting the profito disease or accident. les and actions included in the retribution pack that are more suitable to their requirements. Due to its significance, both to our employees and The Plan provides the opportunity to integrate diffeto their families, the rent products (including assets and services) within the company provides retribution pack, offering both tax-related and labour a coverage that benefits, thus adapting the retribution to the emploexceeds the yee’s personal needs to the extent possible. minimum legal requirements. The services that are currently being offered by the FRP are: child care voucher, restaurant voucher, medical insurance, purchase of IT equipment and in the case of employees working in Madrid a travel pass. In GSS Península Ibérica, the demand for these services is distributed as follows: • Gonvarri Tarragona: 3 restaurant voucher users and 5 medical insurance holders with a total of 6 users. • Gonvauto Galicia: 3 child care voucher user and 1 IT equipment user • Gonvauto Barcelona: 20 medical insurance holders and 34 users. In 2014 the launching of PRF is scheduled at the plants of Ferrodisa, Hiasa, Gonvarri Barcelona, Gonvauto Navarra and Gonvarri Burgos and it is expected to move forward in the development and implementation of these initiatives, by adopting two different approaches: expanding the services provided 4. People Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 81 4.2 Our commitment to people Sustainability report 2013 Local initiatives We Finance 100% of the cost of the canteen service. The plant has a canteen services intended to cover Each center establishes different initiatives that benethe needs of the workers of the first shift (from 8:00 to fit employees based on their needs and the history of 16:00) and we provide with restaurant ticket the emthe plant. ployees of the afternoon and night shift. We would like to further note at this point the initiatiFrom the beginning of our activities, Gonvarri Portugal ves carried on by: subsidizes transportation of all the employees. The access to our facilities in public transport is complicaGonvarri Portugal ted due to the mismatch between the bus schedule and frequency and our work schedules, especially for As established by the Portuguese legislation; we prothe night shift. Proving a company bus services was vide twice a week a medical service which covers all analyzed as a possible option, but it was ruled out due the reviews and necessary requirements for the suitato the number of employees and shifts. Finally, the ble aptitude of the workers in their working place. As transport subsidies for all the employees were the best an improvement, Gonvarri Portugal has increased this choice. service allowing all the employees who request it to receive personal consultation at the plant. This At Christmas, a Christmas Hamper is offered for all the allows them to receive the medical service is employees as well as gifts for the under-12-years-old a more comfortable way, with no need children of employees. And for Easter, all the emploto travel. yees receive an almonds’ bag. Regarding the medical insurance, Gonvarri Portugal has two different methods: • Financing of 100% of the medical insurance for all our employees (except managers) and direct family members (spouse and sons/daughters). • For the managers, medical insurance is voluntary and a percentage is financed. The inclusion of any direct family member is not financed and the complete fee must be paid. Gonvarri Tarragona Gonvarri Tarragona owns eight membership cards of the leisure complex Estival Park available for their employees. Those cards allow any employee and his/her family to enjoy a sport day at the complex (swimming, paddle, tennis, spinning, capoerira, etc.) or just to relax at the spa. The cards are distributed on a first-come-first-served basis. The employee must indicate the dates when they want to access the complex and the number of family members who wish to use it. Our environmental Contribution to society management ISO 14001 Product development 100% of our plants are certified • Development of products resulting in lighter and less pollunting cars Hazardous waste • Road safety guardrails manufacturing 10% less than previous year Energy consumption Promotion of local economy 369,244 GJ 1,188 direct employements CO2 emissions Tributes 31,432 ton 83.4 million euros Axis 6: Environment Waste Gonvauto Galicia • 2012-2013: 10% reduction in the volume of waste of gloves and sleeves used (Completed). Hiasa • 2013-2014: Reduction of hazardous waste: oil with over 10% of water, taladrina and used gloves (in process). Raw materials Gonvarri Tarragona • 2013-2014: Control of water consumption and avoiding of pressure descents in the network (in process). ESI Sustainability Master Plan GSS Península Ibérica • 2013-2015: Improve the ESI referential (in process). Agua Gonvauto Navarra • 2012-2013. Establish corrective actions to prevent flooding in times of heavy rain and resulting damages (completed). Axis 7: Emissions reduction, renewable energy and energy efficiency Ferrodisa • 2013-2014. Reduce our emissions by replacing diesel trucks by electric trucks (in process). Gonvarri Barcelona and Gonvauto Navarra • 2013-2014. Diagnosis of energy efficiency and measures planning based on results (in process). Gonvarri Burgos • 2012-2014. Reduce gas consumption for heating by 20% (in process). 5. Planet 5.1 Environment Our environmental management Best practice: Environmental awareness in Gonvauto Navarra Best practice: Training on environmental issues at GSS Environmental impact of our products Environmental sustainability index Our environmental aspects Best practice: Reasonable purchasing Best practice: Initiatives in Energy Efficiency. Hiasa Climate change and emissions Biodiversity 5.2 Value creation Our groups of interest Our commitment Association with organisations Best practice: GSS sponsors the International Iron and Steel Symposium Support of social action Awards and recognition 84 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 5. Planet Sustainability report 2013 5.1 Environment 5.1 Environment Our environmental management Our commitment in terms of environment protection environment.In 2013, this training has been focused on entails that all procedures must be carried out in an good practice and aspects such as energy efficiency, efficient and responsible way; therefore the goods mawaste management and environmental management nufactured and delivered will be more competitive and indicators. profitable, will have a lower environmental impact and will be environment-friendly. During the present year, no relevant environment-related incidences or spills have occurred at our different All our centres have developed rigorous environmental plants in, to which must be added that we are not involmanagement systems that have been certified under ved in ongoing legal proceedings or litigation relating to the UNE EN ISO 14001 standard. environmental issues. Environment-related training and awareness play a key role in encouraging responsible behaviour towards the Best Practice 5. Planet Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 85 5.1 Environment Sustainability report 2013 Best Practice Environmental impact of our products We perform an analysis of our environmental impact waste, discharges and emissions that result from the during the process stage, by means of periodical production process. We also establish goals that pursue evaluations deriving from our Environmental their minimization. Management Systems. As to our products, we try to comply with our customers’ The indicators available at our centres provide us with demands, by implementing improvement mechanisms information relating to our consumption of natural in our process that will enable us to be more efficient. resources and raw materials, and the production of 86 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 5. Planet Sustainability report 2013 5.1 Environment Some examples of these initiatives are summarised below: Our product by the end of its The automotive sector operational lifetime In the automotive sector work is being done to develop All of our steel and aluminium parts are recyclable, lower weight parts and formats, which will lead to which contributes to reducing consumption of natural reduce consumption and atmosphere emissions resources and to saving energy, by transforming waste without adversely affecting their safety and duration. into raw material. The production of the “A Pillar” is a clear example of these initiatives. The pillar links the roof with the lower Characteristics of steel part of the car and due to the hot stamping process it undergoes it increased its resistance by 2 or 3 times, Steel can be recycled endlessly, its quality never dimithus reducing its weight by half and consequently nishing. As a matter of fact, steel that was manufactureducing C02 emissions from cars. red 150 years ago is still being recycled. Per each ton of steel that is recycled, the Spanish steel Logistics industry saves around a ton and a half of iron mineral, 85% water, 80% energy and 95% coal*. Use of metal platforms instead of wooden pallets for transportation of formats and strips is becoming in*Source: 2013 Report on Steel Recycling in the Spanish Stecreasingly frequent in our plants. el Industry UNESID Unión de Empresa Siderúrgicas. The system allows for the platforms to make many return trips on account of their high resistance, thus Characteristics of aluminium avoiding the use of wood and the generation of waste. Due to its properties, aluminium is particularly suited to recycling, as none of its properties are lost throughout Minimization of acoustic impact the process. In fact, 75% of the aluminium that has been manufactured for the last 100 years is currently Noise is one of the biggest problems resulting from being used in different products, thanks to recycling. road traffic. Citizens and the public administrations are becoming more and more aware of the deteriorating Another great advantage of aluminium recycling is that effect that noise has on our quality of life, mainly in the it leads to saving energy, as manufacturing aluminium case of people who live near roads with heavy traffic. products with recycled aluminium saves around 95% of the energy required for producing it from the mineral. One of the measures that may be taken in order to minimize this impact is the use of acoustic screens/ barriers. Acoustic screens provide a noise reduction in the receiver’s area. The mitigation’s efficiency mainly depends on the size of the screen and the construction material used to build it. The product portfolio of Hiasa includes devices such as anti-noise galleries and screens (made both of metal and methacrylate), and noise-absorbing coating for tunnels, whose characteristics comply with those established under the European UNE-EN 1793 norm. 5. Planet Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 87 5.1 Environment Sustainability report 2013 Environmental sustainability index We monitor the development of our environmental asThe increase in the indicator corresponding to the legal pects through the Environmental Sustainability Index and corporate requirements area is due to the reinfor(ESI). cement of the control exercised on legal requirements and the actions performed in pursuit of compliance The Environmental Sustainability Index has been alwith the corporate requirements. ready implemented in our factories and allows for the standardization of environmental protection elements. The marks awarded to environmental practice have The results obtained at each plant are subject to an also improved, due to the great efforts made to mainobjective assessment and rated between 1 and 100. tain the coil warehouses and the Green Points at the plants clean and tidy. The assessment is focused on three key aspects: As an example of good practice we would like to hi• Legal and corporate environmental ghlight the agreement concluded in September 2012 requirements between Gonvarri Tarragona and APT for obtaining the This section describes the applicable legal requireactivity fee allowance for good environmental practice, ments as well as the corporate requirements. currently in force. • Environmental management By signing this agreement Gonvarri has become one This section is similar to an internal audit as per of the first port community companies to sign this the ISO 14001 standard; however, it also allows agreement and to demonstrate its commitfor the possibility of analysing its degree of comment towards the environment. pliance in order to compare it with those obtained in other centres. • Environmental practice Good environmental practice beyond legal requirements is appreciated, as, they provide economic and environmental improvement, including elements that enable energy efficiency. The table below summarizes the results of the ESI corresponding to 2012 and 2013. Plant ESI (average) ESI (average) 2012 2013 Gonvauto Barcelona 68 71 Gonvauto Galicia 70 74 Gonvauto Navarra 75 80 Gonvarri Barcelona 62 65 Gonvarri Burgos 74 77 Gonvarri Tarragona 73 77 Hiasa 56 58 Ferrodisa 64 68 Gonvarri Portugal 72 86 The Environmental Sustainability Index rating in 2013 has improved at all of our factories, in comparison to the ratings obtained the year before. 88 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 5. Planet Sustainability report 2013 5.1 Environment Our environmental aspects Raw materials Other requirements: Conflict Minerals Our environmental policy and management includes our commitment to monitoring and minimizing, to the In 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Wall extent possible, our consumption of raw materials and Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. Section natural resources. 1502 of the Act binds public companies to submit to the US Securities and Exchange Commission their finIn GSS, 96% of the raw materials used at our processes dings relating to the origin of conflict minerals required relates to steel. We are very aware of how necessary is for manufacturing the products they sell. to preserve this resource, and to such end, we have optimized our processes so that both the machinery and The following are considered as conflict minerals: the cutting designs make the most of the steel plates, promoting efficient consumption and reducing waste • Columbite-tantalite (coltan): refined to make tangeneration. talum. • Cassiterite: refined to make tin. The chart below shows consumption of raw material • Wolframite: refined to make tungsten. during 2012 and 2013: • Gold and its derivatives. Materials (ton) 2012 2013 With regards to the aforementioned minerals, its use is Steel 1,636,502 1,752,514 restricted in those cases in which such use may lead armed groups from the Democratic Republic of the Oil 38,491 54,222 Congo or its neighbouring countries to obtain revenue Wood 7,595 7,790 which would allow them to continue their atrocities Hydrochloric acid 8,192 7,648 against human rights. Aluminium* 21 2,930 This issue is a growing concern to our customers, who Zinc and zinc oxide** 1,666 1,690 are increasingly requesting more information on the Total 1,692,466 1,826,794 principles, actions and values relating to the supply chain, particularly with regards to the automotive field. This sector is committed to the proposals of the Elec*In 2012, the aluminium cutting process was still undergoing tronic Industry Citizenship coalition Project ® (EICC®) tests; therefore, aluminium production started in 2013. and Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) and finds all ** The zinc plating process is solely carried out in Gonvarri mining activities fuelling these conflicts unacceptable. Barcelona. The Project includes the Conflict-Free Smelter Program, and we contribute by submitting information relating to the provenance and characteristics of our steel coils. The steel coils that we use at our plants do not contain any of the materials stated above as their high price makes them better suited to special steel used in other activities. 5. Planet Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 89 5.1 Environment Sustainability report 2013 Best Practice Reasonable purchasing At Gonvarri Tarragona, a tube exchanger and tantalum housing were purchased and installed for replacing similar equipment made of graphite, in order to reduce the team boiler’s consumption of natural gas during the start and operation of the line. At the time of the purchase, consideration was given to the fact that tantalum was a metal included in the conflict mineral list. At the bidding process the supplier who got selected, despite having higher costs than some of its competitors, ensured that the provenance of tantalum complies with the requirements under the Conflict-Free Smelter Program regarding observance of human rights and mineral extraction in conflict-free regions. Also, on an annual basis since 2010, our supplier has passed all independent audits performed for assessing the monitoring of its chain of suppliers and operating system. Additionally, our supplier is a member of the CFSI (Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative) site http://www.conflictfreesourcing.org/about/members-and-collaborations/ Water Reduction of our water consumption is mainly due to the Company’s wider awareness of the need to use water in a rational way and also to the detection of Consumption leaks that took place in 2012. The water consumed at our plants is mainly used for Plant (m3) 2012 2013 sanitary and industrial purposes. In the case of GonGonvauto Barcelona 1,769 1,350 varri Portugal, Gonvarri Burgos and Gonvauto Navarra, water is also used for irrigation of green spaces. The Gonvauto Galicia 744 756 water is supplied by the public network, except in the Gonvauto Navarra 2,432 2,300 case of Gonvarri Portugal, that has two irrigation tanks. Gonvarri Barcelona* 73,873 55,948 Gonvarri Burgos 12,345 11,314 However, given that water is an essential, increasingly limited natural resource, we try to make a sustainable Gonvarri Tarragona 27,553 24,028 use of it by conducting the necessary supervision and Hiasa 35,089 32,682 measurement. Ferrodisa* 8,327 3,783 During 2013, 138,591m of water has been used from 3 Gonvarri Portugal** 5,503 3,417 which 98% comes from the public network, whereas Total 167,635 135,578 the remaining 2% is subterranean water. None of these sources are significantly affected by our activities. *Difference due to the water leaks in 2012. ** Includes tank water. 90 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 5. Planet Sustainability report 2013 5.1 Environment Discharges Electrical consumption Wastewater is generated during the cleaning of instaElectrical consumption at our plants in 2013 was llations and equipment, sanitary use and certain indus190,141 GJ. As shown on the chart provided, electritrial processes such as pickling. cal consumption has remained stable during the two last years. Our processes vary widely, just as the discharges generated, which affects the systems implemented for Electricity consumption (GJ) their treatment, monitoring and measuring. Plant 2012 2013 Gonvauto Barcelona 18,176 20,181 Our Hiasa, Gonvarri Burgos, Ferrodisa, Gonvarri Barcelona, Gonvarri Tarragona and Gonvarri Portugal plants Gonvauto Galicia 4,027 3,914 have systems for wastewater purification. The other Gonvauto Navarra 6,443 5,580 plants have oil and grease separators or manage their Gonvarri Barcelona 94,530 89,895 discharges through authorised third parties. Gonvarri Burgos 16,180 16,273 In terms of discharge volume, except in the case of Gonvarri Tarragona 14,467 14,716 Hiasa and Gonvarri Tarragona, discharge declarations Hiasa 18,882 22,287 make reference to the consumption data available, as Ferrodisa 10,473 10,873 independent meters are not available. Gonvarri Portugal 5,991 6,422 The discharge volume estimated in 2012 and Total 189,169 190,141 2013 is 144,334m3 and 123,247m3 respectively, and its reduction is proportional to the lower consumpFuel consumption tion. Fuel consumption at our plants in 2013 was 16,069 Energy GJ. As shown on the chart provided, fuel consumption has also remained stable during the last two years. Our production process uses large amounts of energy, mainly in the case of Gonvarri Barcelona, due to the Gasoil (GJ)* galvanization process that takes place in the plant. Plant 2012 2013 Therefore, monitoring, reducing and controlling energy Gonvarri Barcelona 4,131 5,054 consumption is one of the main issues that our environmental management system needs to address. Gonvarri Burgos 1,491 1,645 Hiasa 5,688 6,648 Below is shown the energy consumption data of our Ferrodisa 3,824 1,536 plants in 2012 and 2013. Gonvarri Portugal 1,060 1,186 Total 16,194 16,069 *Gonvauto Barcelona, Gonvauto Galicia, Gonvauto Navarra and Gonvarri Tarragona do not apply. 5. Planet Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 91 5.1 Environment Sustainability report 2013 Natural gas consumption Gonvauto Barcelona and Gonvauto Galicia Gas natural consumption at our plants in 2013 was 163,013 GJ. As shown on the chart provided, natural A diagnosis was performed in order to identify the lighgas consumption has slightly decreased in comparison ting requirements of the plant. The actions carried out to the year before. were focused on replacing bulbs by LED technology, with lower consumption and longer lifetime, and ensuNatural gas (GJ) ring a better sectorization of the lighting. Plant 2012 2013 Gonvauto Navarra 9,281 8,280 Gonvauto Navarra Gonvarri Barcelona 30,661 32,950 Resulting from the diagnosis obtained certain engines Gonvarri Burgos 41,602 38,354 and lighting systems were replaced by others with Gonvarri Tarragona 29,367 30,255 lower consumption and the efficiency of air conditioning units was improved. Implementation of these Hiasa 42,622 46,149 measures will lead to an estimated 10% reduction of Ferrodisa 7,764 7,025 energy consumption at the facilities. Total 161,297 163,013 *Gonvauto Barcelona, Gonvauto Galicia y Gonvauto Navarra Gonvarri Tarragona do not apply. The pickling process requires that hydrochloric acid reaches a high temperature and this is achieved throuPropane gas consumption gh the use of five thermal exchangers. This procedure entails high energy expenditure and in order to reduce Most propane gas was consumed in Gonvarri Portugal, it one of the graphite exchangers has been replaced by whereas low quantities of it were consumed in Gonvaone made of tantalum. rri Burgos, consumption in 2013 being 23GJ, and 22GJ in 2012. Given that tantalum is insoluble in hydrochloric acid, irrespective of its concentration, the thickness of the According to the results of the materiality study, which tubes is lower than in the case of those made of grawill be analysed next, energy efficiency is a relevant phite. issue to our groups of interest: This entails higher efficiency and less thermal inertia Energy efficiency and reduces heating time and consequently, the natural gas consumption of the steam boiler. For example, Energy efficiency is currently part of our Master Plan thanks to the new equipment, making the acid solution for Sustainability 2013-2015, and we have underreach 85 ºC from the original 50ºC now takes one hour taken to develop new initiatives that will help us to instead of the original 7 hours. In addition to the enerreduce our energy consumption and consequently, our gy saving benefits this change entails a reduction of carbon footprint. maintenance costs. Below are some of the most relevant actions carried Gonvarri Portugal out in 2013: A preliminary energy audit took place in 2012 and as a result, the quality and control of the indicators are currently being improved. With the information obtained an in-depth diagnosis will be carried out in 2014, in order to implement the most suitable measures to gain efficiency. This objective includes raising our employees’ awareness in terms of making rational use of electrical energy. 92 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 5. Planet Sustainability report 2013 5.1 Environment Gonvarri Barcelona and in the radiant tubes of the roof. The purpose is to ensure fully operative heating systems when In April 2013 the Technical Managers of Gonvarri necessary and to prevent heat loss in the lines and Barcelona and Gestamp Energy Solutions (Gestamp hours in which heat is not necessary. In 2013 a Biomass) embarked on a project whose purpose was follow-up and measurement of the saving achieto save energy. The necessary data and information ved has been carried out, with an estimated 19% were provided to track and measure consumption reduction in said systems. in each process, in order to define and implement improvement measures and energy savings in 2014. • 2012-2014: the Project is aiming at installing compressed air cutting valves in the lines when Gonvarri Burgos production stops, thus avoiding unnecessary losses. Several initiatives were defined, some of which have already become effective, whereas other are pending The Project is developed primarily during the sumfrom initiation, as summarized below: mer season, as it is the time when stopping the lines is more feasible. By 2013, 60% of the lines • 2012-13: the maintenance department carried are expected to be connected. out a campaign for detecting and repairing compressed air leaks which lead to significant energy • 2013: The project for repairing and improving the loss. In 2013 the campaign was in the inspection pickling steam installation is in a proposal stage. and maintenance stage. This project entails significant energy saving, due • 2012-13: Installation of a system for controlling to lower gas consumption, in addition to lower wathe automatic on and off and the operating time ter consumption, thus reducing the CO2 emissions. of the climate control systems, both in the boilers Renewable energy one in Gonvauto Barcelona with 2.5 GJ power and one in Gonvarri Barcelona with 2.0 GJ power. Gonvauto Iberia is aware that climate change is one of the main environmental problems of our planet, These facilities were made over the roofs of the plants we try to reduce this impact through the promotion in collaboration with Gestamp Solar, allowing us to proof renewable energies. Moreover this aspect is also a duce 7312 GJ of clean energy. relevant issue for our stakeholders, so we target our efforts to respond to this demand. In order to contribute Gonvauto Gonvauto Gonvarri Barcelona Navarra Barcelona to reducing such impact, we promote the use of renewable energy, most particularly photovoltaic Power (GJ) 2.5 1.9 2.0 energy. Electricity 2,649.2 2,491.2 2,171.5 production We set in motion a photovoltaic installation in (GJ) Gonvauto Navarra in 2010 with 1.9 GJ installed power CO2 avoided 175.1 164.7 143.6 and in 2011 we launched two further installations: 5. Planet Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 93 5.1 Environment Sustainability report 2013 Best Practice Initiatives in Energy Efficiency. the reductions achieved through the implementation of these measures. Hiasa • Replacement of the luminaries with a magneThrough the Gestamp Energy Solutions division tic induction system, which improves efficiency, (Gestamp Biomass) and in collaboration with Hiasa’s increases service life, allows for a fast flicker-free Engineering department, an energy review of the ignition, acoustic emissions and glare reducing different processes conducted at the plant was carried maintenance costs. out. An average reduction of about 69% is expected The Project was developed in 2012 and 2013 through with this measure. five stages. Once the preliminary analysis was carried out, several initiatives, as shown below, were imple• Installation of a new digital burner in the mented: steam boiler at the pickling line, which allows the electronic regulation of the air-fuel mix, opti• Installation of a remote system for monitoring mal combustion values and lower emissions of and controlling energy consumption in the carbon monoxide. different processes, through the Gridmanager tool. This allows us to obtain accurate information By implementing this initiative we expect to achieof KWh consumed per line and to identify areas for ve an average reduction of 16%. improvement, in a more accurate manner through the web site. Finally, the development of projects for installation of A detailed monthly report showing the different the steam boiler economizer and replacement of the consumptions is drawn up, which allows us to perexterior lighting are under study. form an objective follow-up and measurement of Phase 2 Phase 3 Phase 1 Preliminary Energy Ph ase Previous analysis auditing mo E 4 ons nito nerg co nsiderati ma rizat y nag ion em and ent P h ple as Im of me e 5 me nt as ati ur on es 94 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 5. Planet Sustainability report 2013 5.1 Environment Climate change and emissions Climate change is one of the biggest issues we face toProjections indicate that passenger transport services, day, as it is the most serious environmental challenge particularly the production of cars, will increase within for mankind to address in the 21st century. To alleviate the next few years and this ceteris paribus will result this huge problem worldwide agreements and measuin bigger CO2 emissions. This fact, along with the pures are required for stabilizing the temperature on the blication of EC Ruling CE/443/2008 of the European planet’s surface, thus preventing irreparable harm. Parliament and Council from 23 April 2009, establishing performance standards in terms of emissions of Although our activities are not among the greatest new vehicle, entails increasingly restrictive obligations greenhouse gas emitters, this issue is very relevant regarding vehicle emissions. to our groups of interest, as shown on the materiality matrix. During the last years, the situation has developed by decreasing from 185 g. CO2/km in 1995 to 164 g CO2/ During the last Summit on Climate Change, “COP19”, km in 2005; current forecasts expect to reach 130 g/ held in Warsaw in November 2013, the main challenge km in 2015, and 95 g/km in 2020. was to move towards the conclusion of an agreement in order to reduce the greenhouse gas emission, on the GSS Península Ibérica is aware of the importance of basis of the latest report issued by the IPCC (Intergoreducing its CO2 emissions, for which several initiatives vernmental Panel on Climate Change). have been defined: This report states that since 1850 the temperature of Energy efficiency the Earth’s surface during each one of the past three decades has been warmer than in any of the previous We have a team formed by professionals who decades, thus concluding that the climate system’s inconduct the consumption diagnosis of our creased warming is unequivocal. different processes, in order to subsequently apply the most suitable “Continuing greenhouse gas emissions will give rise correcting measures. to increased heating and new changes in the components of the climate system. In order to fight climate change, it will be necessary to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in a significant and sustainable way”. Mr. Thomas Stocker, Co-President of Work Group I at IPCC. Among the initiatives proposed for mitigating such impact we would like to highlight the proposal made by the European Union, based on an integrated package of measures known as 20/20/20 and that includes the following commitments: • To reduce greenhouse gas emissions (GE) by 20%. • To save 20% of energy consumption by means of achieving better energy efficiency. • To increase the production of renewable energy up to 20%. In terms of the activities performed and the services rendered, for example in connection with the automotive sector, one of the biggest challenges we are facing is to reduce CO2 emissions. 5. Planet Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 95 5.1 Environment Sustainability report 2013 Each plant defines its own initiatives. In some of the Renewable energies cases, these initiatives have the support and assistance of the local administrations. Regarding energy effiIn GSS Península Ibérica we encourage the use of reciency we will now provide a brief description of the newable energies, by placing solar panels at our plants main actions carried out in this field. of Gonvauto Barcelona, Gonvauto Navarra and Gonvarri Barcelona. Automotive field We have a close relationship with the automotive field, Greenhouse gas emissions particularly in the case of Gonvauto centres; thus, alOur future goal is to assess our carbon footprint. We beit indirectly, we have a responsibility towards Climaaim at establishing an indicator that is able to measure te Change. our emissions based on production, which will allow us to minimize and communicate better our impact. We are in permanent contact with our customers and this enables us to adjust our processes to their product We follow the Green House Protocol (GHG) standard, requirements by making lighter goods and maintaining which takes into account: the quality, safety and resistance requirements, which will contribute to reducing vehicle emissions throughout their whole operational life. • Direct emissions (level 1): greenhouse gas emissions resulting from fuel burning during the production process. Replacement of materials • Indirect emissions (level 2): emissions geneThe use of aluminium is increasingly widespread in the rated at the electricity production plants as conseproduction of vehicles. Aluminium is approximately quence of our electric energy consumption. 3 times lighter than steel, thus its lower weight leads to lower fuel consumption and consequently, • Other emissions (level 3): in our case, this fewer emissions. reach is quite limited as we only include those emissions resulting from the transport of our employees to our facilities. This data has been obtained through the estimates provided by the RSC managers at each plant and the anonymous enquiries conducted among employees. The reference source used for this calculation is the emissions factors for electricity provided by the International Energy Agency. Using the consumption data from 2013, the CO2 emissions resulting from our production process are: CO2 direct emissions in tones (level 1) Gasoil 346.7 Natural gas 16,210.65 Propane 5.3 Total 16,562.65 96 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 5. Planet Sustainability report 2013 5.1 Environment CO2 indirect emissions in tones (level 2) Substances damaging the ozone Plant Emissions layer Gonvauto Barcelona 1,334 Refrigerant gas is used in the air conditioning and heaGonvauto Galicia 256 ting equipment installed at the offices and some facGonvauto Navarra 369 tories. Such is the case of, for example Burgos, with Gonvarri Barcelona 5,943 cooling equipment installed at the production lines. No recharges have been made at the plants during 2013. Gonvarri Burgos 1,076 Gonvarri Tarragona 973 Hiasa 1,437 Waste Ferrodisa 719 Our waste is suitably separated, identified, stored and Gonvarri Portugal 455 managed by authorised management agents. Gonvarri Corp Financiera 152 Total 12,714 Non-hazardous waste Our main non-hazardous waste is metal scrap. This reCO2 emissions produced by employee’s sidue consists mainly of steel and to a lesser extent, transport (level 3) aluminium and is the result of the cutting process itself and the use of outdated equipment. Transport 2,392.5 It is recoverable waste that may be sold for reuse, and has a significant market. At GSS Península Ibérica, Other emissions 82,542 tons of scrap were produced in 2013. NOx, SOx and particles Other non-hazardous waste: We regularly conduct a follow-up of our emissions of • Organic waste: this type of waste is mainly geNOx and SOx and particles in those plants that, due to nerated at the rest areas and is managed by the their activities, are subject to the control of an accredicouncil collection services or by an authorized mated body with the frequency established in the corresnaging agent. ponding licenses or other legal requirements. • Paper, cardboard and plastic: packaging waste In 2013, a total of 5.5 Tons of NOx and SOx and 0.87 or office stationery. The waste is separated and is tons of particles, distributed as shown on the attached managed by authorized agents. chart: • Wood residues: it comes from wooden packaging Emissions (ton) NOx and SOx Particles and broken pallets. In the case of Gonvauto Galicia, wood is handled as a by-product that, once used, Gonvarri Barcelona 0.39 0.02 is returned to the supplier for the material to be reGonvarri Burgos 1.85* 0.14 covered or reused. Gonvarri Tarragona 0.02* NA Hiasa 1.05 0.35 • Sludge: classified as non-hazardous, this waste may be the result of our processes or sanitation. Ferrodisa 2.19 0.36 Total 5.5 0.87 Non-hazardous waste Residue (ton) 2013 *Corresponds to measurements of NOx in the boilers. Scrap 82,542 Wood 423 Sewage sludge 195 Organic, paper, cardboard 713 and plastic wast Total 83.873 5. Planet Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 97 5.1 Environment Sustainability report 2013 Biodiversity The income generated from scrap sale amounts to 19 million euros. Hazardous waste Our plants are located in industrial estates, with the exception of Gonvarri Portugal and Hiasa, both in the Processes carried out at our plants are not homogevicinity of protected areas, as outlined below: neous, thus several types of hazardous waste may be generated. We have selected those that are common to almost all plants or that are particularly relevant, such Gonvarri Portugal as the ones summarized below: The plant of Gonvarri Portugal is adjacent to “Parque Hazardous waste Natural da Arrábida”. The Park is a biogenetic reserve and a member of international conservation networks. Residue (ton) 2012 2013 The entire territory is classified as a Site of Special InSolvents 2.2 1.5 terest for Conservation of Nature. Oil 56.6 54.0 Contaminated material 44.8 37.4 The administration has not demanded any specific or particularly restrictive environmental control measures Sewage sludge 304.9 247.9 other than actions relating to visual impact, such as Contaminated packaging 16.8 13.4 planting trees around the plant or requesting that the Batteries and acumulations 0.9 2.5 paint colour of the building was neutral. Fluorescentes 21.4 41.2 Reagents/ 13,745 14,006 Hiasa W.E.E.E.* 3.9 7.5 Hiasa is located in the basin of River Alvares, which Total 14,196 14,411 flows through the reservoirs of Trasona (Corvera) and La Granda (Gozón). Both reservoirs are protected areas *W.E.E.E: waste of electrical and electronic equipment and have been declared as Special Protection Area for Birds (ZEPA), in compliance with European regulations. Handling fees totalled 233,288 euros in 2013, which amounts to expenditure lower by 30% than in the preTherefore, the discharges from the plant are subject to vious year, coinciding with a reduction in the generation rigorous controls carried out by accredited control boof waste. dies, who ensure that the discharge complies with the regulations. Management fees (€) 2012 2013 Residues 288,343 233,288 Environmental expenditure and investment The attached chart provides a summary of the main environmental-related expenditure in 2013: Environmental costs (€) 2013 Maintenance of the 42,110 Management system Waste processing 22,015 Effluent treatment 233,288 Others 34,337 Total 331,750 98 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 5. Planet Sustainability report 2013 5.2 Value creation 5.2 Value creation Our groups of interest This Chapter deals with the commitment of GSS Península Ibérica towards sustainable development from an Shareholders economic, social and environmental perspective, strengthening the bonds with our groups of interest and enEconomic impact forcing our corporate values. ++ We create economic value for our shareholders. Clients ++ We are great investment since we are supported by the Group´s solvency. Economic impact Suppliers ++ We guarantee in every delivery the highest quality possible while fulfilling the required Economic impact deadlines. ++ Our local purchasing policy benefits local SuSocial impact ppliers. ++ We collaborate in the process and participate Social impact in the projects developed by our clients. ++ Generation of indirect employment through Environmental Impact our value chain. -Most of our main raw goods are purchased ++ By locating our plants nearby our clients we centrally. We are currently implementing RSC reduce CO2 emissions from transporting our requirements in the purchasing process. products to our customers. -Indirectly, the automotive industry contribuEnvironmental Impact tes to greenhouse gas emissions. -The purchases of our main raw materials are Employees made at corporate level, without taking into account the carbon footprint resulting from good transportation from their place of origin Economic impact to our centres. ++ The jobs generated at the Group are stable in most of the cases. Local communities and Administrations Social impact Economic impact ++ We promote our employees´ professional development. ++ We contribute to the local economy through ++ We create a safe environment. the taxes we paid due to our business. -We still need to improve our policies related in balancing family and work life as well as Social impact social benefits. ++ Participation in local industry associations Environmental Impact and public administration´s initiatives. ++ Participation in social events locally. -Transportation from the workplace and busi++ Products that contribute to road safety, both ness trips generates CO2 emissions. in the installation of crash barriers and in terms of vehicle safety. 5. Planet Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 99 5.2 Value creation Sustainability report 2013 Social media and social media Channels Social impact ++ Regular updates in our social media channels and corporate websites. ++ Development of the Leading The Change mobile APP that allows our stakeholders to access to this information easily from mobile devices. Our commitment The local economy We contribute to local economy through the generation of wealth, the payment of taxes and contributions, the purchase of goods from local suppliers and the employment that we create and maintain. • 1,271 million euros of economic value distributed. • 1,188 direct jobs. • 96% permanent work contracts. • 45.6 million euros for salaries and other social benefits. Local suppliers A large share of our purchases involves the global acquisition of first-class raw material carried out by the Corporate Purchasing Management at Gonvarri Steel Services. In this process besides the cost attention is also given to other criteria that our suppliers are expected to fulfil, such as quality, safety and environmental care. The rest of the purchases and services are usually carried out locally, thus contributing to generating indirect local employment in our chain of value. Also, early in 2014 we added the Ethics and Conduct Code to the Supplier section on our web site, in order to ensure our suppliers’ acceptance of its content in the next few years, and consequently, their commitment towards responsible behaviour and sustainability. 100 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 5. Planet Sustainability report 2013 5.2 Value creation Local employment Our contribution to minimizing this impact It is our belief that the creation of value also applies to employment, as this is one of the driving forces for In Hiasa we research, design, develop, manufacture, local economy. In 2013, GSS Península Ibérica recruited install and sell products intended for road equipment directly 1,229 employees, 96% of whom have been and designed for improving the protection devices in hired on a permanent basis. our roads, in order to minimize harm in the event of accidents. Products Our vehicle restraint systems include metal safety barriers, metal retainers, wood and steel barriers, Our contribution to road safety impact attenuators and systems for protection of motorcyclists (SPMs). In 2013, the overall situation in Spain in terms of road safety has improved in comparison to 2012. The global All of our products ensure high safety levels and are accident rate has decreased, most of the cases being compliant with the current regulations on safety due related to cars going off the road, both in large capacity to their efficient performance, permanent innovation, and conventional roads. durability and attention to quality. However, the number of motorcyclists deceased on Our metal safety barriers have obtained the approval account of road accidents has increased, as they are of the Directorate-Generate of Roads of the more vulnerable than car drivers. According to DGT Ministry of Development, as per Order 321/95 T and (Spanish Directorate-General for Traffic), the mortality P “Recommendations on vehicle restraining systems”, risks entailed in motorbike accidents are approximately and have been awarded the relevant standardization 17 times higher than those in the case of car accidents. and accreditation by authorized bodies. The EuroRAP review conducted in 2013 shows that in Among these products, we would like to highlight the 3.6% of the Spanish road network drivers are likely or “System for protection of Motorcyclists”, “SPM”, that very likely to suffer an accident. By improving the state ensures protection of the motorcyclist in the event of of the road surface, placing containment systems for a collision against the protection barrier, by preventing motorcyclists (crash barriers), improving road signs and two different types of risk: exercising a better control of speed, the rate of serious or deadly accidents might be reduced, mainly with • Direct impact of the motorcyclist against the regards to motorcyclists. barrier post might lead to serious, even fatal injuries. In connection with protecting, limiting and signalling • During an accident the motorcyclist might go barriers, although great progress has been made in through the clearance between two posts, thus the last few years, there is still a great deal to do with being forced to face the risks that the metal barrier regards to the substitution of the traditional profiles in is intended to protect the motorcyclist from, such the crash barriers, mainly in those areas with a high as slopes, obstacles, etc. rate of motorbike accidents. 5. Planet Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 101 5.2 Value creation Sustainability report 2013 Our contribution to improving car Our Business Technology Manager explained that companies need to focus on new technologies through safety and reducing emissions the implementation of Leading the Change on mobile devices. At GSS Península Ibérica we work hard to develop and improve our products for the automotive sector. The car industry is highly dynamic and makes significant Local collaboration with the investments in terms of research and development, public administrations which compels us to closely observe the innovations regarding materials, such as the use of aluminium or We participate in local projects relating to corporate the improved features and resistance of steel, which responsibility, in coordination with the relevant public contribute to reducing its weight. administrations, as a driving force behind sustainable development. This allows us to reduce the weight of vehicles, maintaining high levels of safety and quality and consequently, reducing CO2 emissions throughout the vehicle’s life span. Also, both steel and aluminium are recyclable, which allows us to reduce consumption of natural resources and the generation of waste. Gonvauto Navarra and Our commitment with the local the InnovaRSE method community InnovaRSE is developed within the Scheme of Aids for Promoting Entrepreneurial GSS Península Ibérica is directly involved with the comSocial Responsibility, through the General munities in which the company operates by contribuDirectorate for Work and Occupational Risk ting to their development through the transmission of Prevention of the Rural, Industry, Employment knowledge, the collaboration with the relevant public and Environment Department of the Navarra administrations in the development of projects focused Government. on raising awareness, membership of industrial associations and social activities. InnovaRSE is a method created by the Navarra Government, which aims at, progressively and voluntarily, implementing the Social ResponsibiTransmission of know-how lity concept in the company world. GSS Península Ibérica believes that collaborating with Gonvauto Navarra has joined this Project, by deuniversities and learning centres and the transmission veloping its RSE Diagnosis in 2012, and based of knowledge are key elements to achieve the techon the conclusions reached, by developing the conological and industrial development that the society rresponding Plan for Action in 2013. In addition requires. to contributing to achieving a more responsible Company management, InnovaRSE also intends In October we launched our intranet, Leading the to create a local network of companies commitChange, during the 5th Conference on Online Corporate ted towards sustainability. Communication held at Universidad Carlos III of Madrid, dedicated to mobile applications. Along these lines, the people responsible for this Project in Gonvauto Navarra participated in a The event was aimed at students and at all series of meetings addressed to suppliers for enthusiasts of corporate communicaVolkswagen Navarra that were integrated in tion interested in the new media. the 2007-2013 Spain – France – Andorra Territorial Cooperation Programme, for developing the economy, thus encouraging the creation of synergies, exchanging experiences and achieving closer relationships. 102 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 5. Planet Sustainability report 2013 5.2 Value creation Environmental care In order to contribute to achieving sustainable development we aim for efficiency in all of our production processes. We also work closely with our customers, which will enable us to apply the most innovative technical developments, thus reducing environmental impact. Furthermore, our commitment towards the environment also leads to a reduction of the impact caused on the environment through our activities, by implementing adequate environmental management and initiatives such as energy efficiency. Association with organisations Our participation in industrial associations and organiGonvarri Tarragona sations is also relevant, as it allows us to be aware of the latest news, trends, advances and developments • Asociación provincial de empresas del metal de concerned with our activity, to participate in consultaTarragona (APEMTA). tions and to contribute to the definition of a sectorial reference framework. Ferrodisa We are members of several organisations, the most relevant of which are the following: • Clúster de Automoción de Valenciana-Asociación Valenciana de la Industria de Automóvil (AVIA). • Asociación Empresarios Camp de Morvedre GSS Península Ibérica (ASECAM). • Federación del Metal de Valencia (FEMEVAL). • Global Compact and Spanish Global Compact Ne• Unión de almacenistas del hierro de España twork. (UAHE). • Spain-China Council Foundation. • Instituto Tecnológico Metalmecánico (AIMME). • Confederación Española de Organizaciones Empresariales del Metal (CONFEMETAL) . • Bureau veritas. Gonvarri Burgos • Unión de Empresas Siderúrgicas (UNESID). • Asociación Española para la Calidad. • Asociación de empresarios propietarios del PolígoGonvauto and Gonvarri Barcelona no Industrial Gamonal-Villimar (ASPIGAVI). • Asociación Plan Estratégico Ciudad de Burgos. • Foment del Treball. • Fundación Universidad de Burgos. • Patronal multisectorial de empresas Catalanas • Federación Empresarial del Metal (FEMEBUR). (CECOT). • Clúster de Automoción de Cataluña. Gonvarri Portugal Gonvauto Galicia • Associação Nacional das Empresas Metalúrgicas e Eletromecânicas (ANEME). • Asociación Patronal del Metal de la Provincia de Pontevedra (ASIME). • Clúster del Automóvil de Galicia (CEAGA). Hiasa • Federación de Empresarios del Metal y Afines del Gonvauto Navarra Principado de Asturias (FEMETAL). • Asociación de Empresarios del Metal (ANEM). • Asociación de la Industria Navarra (AIN). 5. Planet Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 103 5.2 Value creation Sustainability report 2013 Best Practice Gonvarri Steel Services The symposium was divided into three sessions: Science & Technology, Innovation Challenges and Funding sponsors the International Iron Sources, and an Expert Panel with participants from the business, the academic and the innovation areas. and Steel Symposium This event was a meeting between public R + D + i organizations, Spanish steel companies, technological The Association of Iron and Steel Business Orgacenters and universities. nisations (UNESID), the Spanish Technological Platform of Steel (PLATEA) and the Centre for Advanced Scientific Research (CSIC) organised the International Iron and Steel Symposium that was held on 24 and 25 October: 50th Anniversary of the Spanish Centre for Iron and Steel Research. Gonvarri Steel Services, as member of UNESID and sponsor of the event, attended this interesting symposium that was attended by fifteen professionals from different departments of the company. The objectives of the symposium were on the one hand, to learn about the latest developments in iron and steel science and technology and on the other hand, to discuss the challenges that the Spanish iron and steel industry is facing. Support of social action Lo Que De Verdad Importa foundation The main goal of the LQDVI Foundation (which in Spa“Lo Que De Verdad Importa” in nish means “What Really Matters”) is to encourage the development and dissemination of universal human, Barcelona ethic and moral values. Well aware of the importance On 8 November 2013, some employees from Gonof these values that we share, the Company has vauto Barcelona attended a Congress organized by provided a framework for collaboration through the LQDVI Foundation, where they had the chance the Foundation. to listen to the inspirational words of Jorge Font, Alex Corretja and María Belón. Within the communication campaign of the new version of the code of ethics and conduct all plant employees received a letter explaining the link of the sustainability policy and collaboration with the Foundation. The invitations to the event were accompanied by a book published by the Foundation, which consists of a collection of real life testimonials transmitting a motivational message for achieving success. 104 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 5. Planet Sustainability report 2013 5.2 Value creation Juan XXIII Foundation for Intellectual Disability This foundation was born as way to improve the quality of life of intellectual disabled adults and to encourage their social integration. Gonvarri Steel Industries participates in the foundation by hiring the services provided at its special employment centre, including the rental of rooms for celebrating events and the catering service. In addition to it, in the framework of the 3rd International Week of Corporate Volunteer, 32 employees from Gonvarri Steel Industries became corporate volunteers at an amusement park, accompanying intellectually disabled members of the Foundation Project “Caps for Alba” Alba is the daughter of a Ferrodisa employee who suffers from Spinal Muscular Atrophy type 2, one of the so-called “rare diseases”. As for now, no cure has been found for the disease and on account of her reduced mobility, she needed an overhead lift with rails and a stretcher to take her from the dining room to her bedroom. After we became aware of the situation we launched the campaign known as “Caps for Alba”. This campaign consisted of collecting as many tons of plastic caps as possible, in order to help the family buy the lift and the stretcher. All GSS plants in Spain became involved in the project by collecting more than 12,500,000 plastic caps that were sold to a recycling plant for 6,855€. Additionally, several activities and charity events were carried out in Ferrodisa which raised 2,429€. In less than a year and thanks to everyone’s help the goal was achieved and Alba has today a bathroom stretcher and an overhead lift. 5. Planet Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 105 5.2 Value creation Sustainability report 2013 Word Central Kitchen (WCK) Word Central Kitchen (WCK) is an NGO led by the chef José Andrés, whose mission is to find sustainable solutions in order to put an end to unsafe food and malnutrition, thanks to sustainable nutrition and improvement of the local wealth. WCK combines three goals: to contribute to eliminating the chronic food insecurity suffered in certain regions, to encourage the use of new technologies and fuels in order to ensure safer, more sustainable cooking methods, and to ensure a rapid response in the areas that have undergone catastrophes or humanitarian crisis. To achieve these goals, WCK has developed different programmes that seek to encourage healthy, sustainable nutrition (purchases made locally, support of local agriculture, use of traditional recipes that incorporate nutritious ingredients, use of sustainable fuels and technologies, etc.). Aware of the significance of this project, Gonvarri Steel Industries supports it by contributing to its funding Other • Gonvauto Navarra usually sub-hires workers provided from Foundation Varazdín for performanIn 2013 all of the GSS Península Ibérica centres conce of certain tasks that need to be carried out on tributed to social development on a local level through a periodical basis. Varazdín is a foundation that direct investment, the sponsorship of local initiatives focuses on facilitating socio-professional integraand the organization of food collection campaigns. tion of socially excluded people, or those who face the risk of becoming so In 2013, further initiatives were carried out on a local level, such as: • Gonvauto Barcelona sponsors on an annual basis the publishing of the magazine of Castell• Solidarity campaign “Banco de Alimentos” with bibal School. contributions from Gonvauto Galicia that collected 250 kg, 750 kg in the case of Gonvarri Barcelona and another 750 kg from Gonvarri Burgos. • Gonvarri Portugal jointly with the Portuguese association “Meninos de Oiro”, collaborated in a campaign for collection of plastic caps, clothes, schools books, school support material and/or toys. • Gonvarri Tarragona collaborated with Cáritas in different campaigns for collection of food, clothes, toys and books. • Ferrodisa collaborated with the Red Cross in a campaign focused on searching for funds to help the Philippines. • In collaboration with the Red Cross, Gonvarri Barcelona and Gonvarri Burgos celebrated several blood donation drives among their employees. 106 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 5. Planet Sustainability report 2013 5.2 Value creation Promotion of sports The GSS team was formed through the “Runners” group, which exchanges information on running In GSS we like to promote doing sport among our emevents and other similar initiatives through the ployees. Among the events carried out in 2013 we corporate Intranet. would like to highlight the following: • Gonvauto Barcelona sponsored two • Bike Festival cycling and one athletics team This sport event has been held in Madrid for a Aiming at building relations among our employees very long time and some colleagues from GSS and and the values of team sport. other companies within the Group participated in this fun 22 km long tour through the main Madrid • Gonvauto Navarra has participated in routes. the 7th edition of Desafío Empresas, organized by the Sports and Health Department • The launching of GSS parking for bikes of Navarra Government. in Embajadores. The activities included a 5.7 km race through Featuring a mural to encourage use of this means Pamplona with the aim of promoting hard work, of transportation and the cycling ring next to our the spirit of achievement and teamwork. The headquarters. proceeds obtained went to the Medicus Mundi Navarra NGO. • Participation in the 33rd Madrid Marathon. A team formed by 40 runners from GSS and other companies within the Group ran 42 kilometres. 5. Planet Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 107 5.2 Value creation Sustainability report 2013 Awards and recognition Below is a list of the awards and recognition given to Gonvauto Navarra our companies in 2013. • Healthy Company Blue Seal, given by Mutua Corporates Navarra in 2013. • InnovaRSE Seal, given by the Navarra Environ• Silver Stevie Award, given to Leading the Change mental Resources Centre. 2012 and 2013. in recognition of the best practice performed in the area of corporate internal communication. Gonvarri Tarragona • Entrepreneurs & Employment Award for innovation in the area of Human Resources, given to the • Awarded by Adecco, on account of its manageLeading the Change Project by the Expansión Ecoment of occupational risk prevention. nomy Journal and the IE. Ferrodisa Local • Recognition for its contributions on Gender Equality matters, through the “Seal of Ferrodisa’s EquaGonvauto Barcelona lity Plan”, given by the General Directorate of Family and Women. • Finalist for the Atlante Award for Safety and Health Good Practice, given by “Foment del Treball”. November 2012. • Participation in the Study on integration of Occupational Risk Prevention to Social Responsibility Policies and its contribution to entrepreneurial success in 2013. Annex Scope and coverage of the Report Business structure Independent Review Report GRI Statement GRI Index: • Profile disclosures • Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) • Performance indicators Contents related to the Principles of the UN Global Compact 110 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica Sustainability report 2013 Annex Scope and coverage of the Report The Sustainability Report for GSS Península Ibérica has • Hiasa and Gonvauto Asturias, from the Metal been drafted in compliance with the provisions of the Structures Division Global Reporting Initiative (GRI 3.1), both in terms of content determination and quality assurance. Subsequent reports will have an increased scope and coverage, in order to ensure the availability of a full reThe scope of the Report includes all of our factories in port of the Group’s activities by 2015, with regards to Iberia, as summarised below: the information and data gathered in 2014. We intend to publish a sustainability report on an annual basis. • Gonvarri Burgos, Gonvarri Barcelona, Laser Automotive, Gonvarri Tarragona, Gonvarri PorThe Report provides information on our activities and tugal and Ferrodisa all of them members of Gonmain social, financial and environmental impacts in varri Iberia Division. 2013, and significant events that took place in 2014, up to its publishing date. • Gonvauto Barcelona, Gonvauto Navarra and Gonvauto Galicia, members of Gonvarri Iberia Division. Business structure Below is a summary of the business structure of our Also, some information relating to the company Laser factories in Iberia: Automotive Barcelona, S.L., which started its operations in 2013, has been partially included in certain Gonvauto, S.A. : trade name “Gonvauto Barcelona”. sections of the Report. Gonvarri Galicia, S.A.: trade name “Gonvauto Galicia”. Quantitative information on Gonvauto Asturias, S.L., is presented jointly with the data corresponding to Gonvauto Navarra, S.A.: trade name “Gonvauto Hiasa. Navarra”. Gonvauto Asturias, S.L.: trade name “Gonvauto Asturias”. Gonvarri I. Centro de Servicios, S.L., which includes Madrid-based offices, “Gonvarri Burgos” and “Gonvarri Barcelona”. Industrial Ferro Distribuidora, S.A.: trade name “Ferrodisa”. Gonvarri Tarragona, S.L.: trade name “Gonvarri Tarragona”. Gonvarri Productos Siderurgicos S.A.: trade name “Gonvarri Portugal”. Hierros y Aplanaciones, S.A.: trade name “Hiasa”. Laser Automotive Barcelona, S.L.: trade name “Laser Automotive”. Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 111 Annex Sustainability report 2013 Regarding the scope of the • Social and environmental information is summarised in chapter 5. Planet, in sections: 5.1 EnvironReport ment and 5.2 Creation of value: society. Below is an outline of the contents of the Report: The relevant specifications have been made in connection with those cases whose coverage and scope are • Information on the structure and administration of other than those set forth above. the Company; financial information and management framework, as well as a description of our activities and procedures, are summarised in chapContact ter 1. Our organisation. This Report is available on • Information on our corporate culture; dialogue www.gonvarristeelservices.com or in with our interest groups and the conclusions of www.leadingthechange.com/sostenibilidad/ the materiality analysis are summarised in chapter gonvarri-peninsula-iberica/ 2. Our corporate culture. Your opinion will help us to continue improving and we • Information on the current context, our perfordo appreciate your comments. mance and most relevant aspects relating to quality and innovation, are summarised in chapter 3. Please address your comments, suggestions or Performance. clarifications to: rsc@gonvarri.com • Information on the members of our staff is sum+34 913 719 19 00 marised in chapter 4. People, in sub-chapters 4.1 c/ Ombú 3, 6th floor Occupational Health and Safety and 4.2 Our com28045 Madrid. Spain mitment to people. 112 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica Sustainability report 2013 Annex Independent Review Report Ernst & Young, S.L. Tel.: 902 365 456 Torre Picasso Fax: 915 727 300 Plaza Pablo Ruiz Picasso, 1 ey.com 28020 Madrid INDEPENDENT REVIEW REPORT ON GONVARRI STEEL SERVICES (IBERIAN PENINSULA) 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Translation of a Sustainability Report originally issued in Spanish. 3) Analysis of the adaptation of the structure and content of In the event of discrepancy, the Spanish-language version the report as indicated in G3.1 Global Reporting Initiative prevails. (GRI). 4) Review of quantitative and qualitative information through analytical testing and other review procedures To the Management of Gonvarri Steel Services: based on samples of indicators included in the Report Scope and their correct compilation from data supplied. Tests were conducted in various plants such as Gonvarri We have reviewed the contents of Gonvarri Steel Services´ Burgos, Gonvauto Barcelona, Gonvarri Barcelona and 2013 Sustainability Report (the Report). Hiasa (Asturias). The scope determined by the Gonvarri Steel Services for the preparation of this report is defined in the annex Profile and 5) Review of the coverage, relevance, and consistency of scope of the memory of the accompanying Report. the information included in the Report, and of the information reported and published in connection with The Report was prepared based on: other public information: financial statements and press  The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Preparation Guide releases. for Sustainability Reports (version 3.1 G3). This review is considerably less in scope than a reasonable The preparation of the accompanying Report, as well as the assurance report. Therefore, the degree of assurance is information contained therein, is the responsibility of Gonvarri also less extensive. This Report should in no case be Steel Services´ Chief Executive Officer, who is also considered an audit report. responsible for defining, adapting, and maintaining the These procedures were performed on information published management and internal control systems from which the in Gonvarri Steel Services' 2013 Sustainability Report with information is obtained. Our responsibility is to issue an the abovementioned scope. independent report based on the procedures applied in our review. Independence Criteria We have performed our work in accordance with the Our review was carried out based on: standards of independence required by the Code of Ethics  The guidelines for reviewing Corporate Responsibility of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC). Reports, issued by the Official Register of Auditors of Accounts (ICJCE). Conclusions  Standard ISAE 3000, Assurance Engagements Other As a result of our review of Gonvarri Steel Services 2013 than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Sustainability Report, within the previously described scope, Information, issued by the International Auditing and we conclude that: Assurance Standard Board (IAASB) of the International  No matter came to our attention that would lead us to Federation of Accountants (IFAC), with a limited level of believe that the Report was not prepared according to assurance. the guidelines included in the Global Reporting Initiative Applied Procedures Preparation Guide (version G3.1) for Sustainability Reports. Our review consisted in requesting information from Gonvarri  No matter came to our attention that would lead us to Steel Services´ corporate managers and the various believe that the remaining Sustainable Development managers of business units involved in preparing the Report, information and indicators included in the accompanying and applying certain analytical procedures and sampling Report contain significant errors. review tests, including: This report has been prepared solely for the management of 1) Interviews with the Marketing and Communication team Gonvarri Steel Services, in accordance with the terms set in order to gain an understanding of the report process. out in our engagement letter. Interviews with other key management personnel involved in preparing and defining the content of the Report. ERNST & YOUNG, S.L. 2) Understanding the reporting systems used, the (Signed on the original in Spanish) processes for preparing the report, and follow-up of Gonvarri Steel Services´ policies, relationships, and _________________ commitments acquired with stakeholders. José Juan de Frutos Madrid, July 30, 2014 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 113 Annex Sustainability report 2013 GRI Statement 114 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica Sustainability report 2013 Annex Profile disclosures G3.1 Content Index Page Status 1. Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. 6-7 IC 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 15-16, 36, 44-46 IC 2. Organizational profile 2.1 Name of the organization. 12-110 IC 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 17-18, IC 24-31 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures 10-12,110 IC 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters.* IC *S/Embajadores 458, 28053. Madrid. Spain 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the 8, 10-11, report. 19-23 IC 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 110 IC 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 19-23 IC Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 115 Annex Sustainability report 2013 G3.1 Content Index Page Status 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization: 2,8,56,70, 110 IC • Number of employees; • Net sales • Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity and • Quantity of products or services provided 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership:* 110 IC • The location of, or changes in operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions. • Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations. * The most significant changes of the 2013 financial year have been the star-up of Gonvauto Asturias and Laser Automotive. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 107 IC 3. Report parametrers 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided.* *Information and data for the financial period 2013. IC 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any).* *Gonvauto Iberia Sustainability Report 2013. 110 ND Complete information IC Partial information IP Not available ND Not applicable NA 116 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica Sustainability report 2013 Annex G3.1 Content Index Page Status 110 IC 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 111 IC 3.5 Process for defining report content: 37-39 IC • Determining materiality • Prioritizing topics within the report • Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 110-111 IC 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). 110-111 IC 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 110-111 IC 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols.* IC *Explained in each section where it applies. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods).* ND *No previous reports certified by GRI. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report.* ND *No previous reports certified by GRI. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. 5,115-125 IC 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider. 112 IC 4. Governance, commitment and engagements 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 12 IC 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. 12 IC 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members.* 12 IC *The Board of Directors does not include independent Directors. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body.* 14,37-38 IC *Ethics Committee and denunciation channels. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). IC *Being a member of the Board of Directors is an unremunerated duty. The remuneration of the teams depends of the year-end results and the accomplishment of the stated objectives. Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 117 Annex Sustainability report 2013 G3.1 Content Index Page Status 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 12,14 IC *The composition and structure of the government and managing of the group is established by the Company Bylaws and follows the existing legislation about society aspects. 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. IC *The members of the Board of Directors are appointed by the General Meeting of Shareholders 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles 13-16,34relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implemen36, 47-48, tation. 82, 84, 87 IC 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, 14-16, codes of conduct, and principles. 102, 126 IC 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance.* IC *The performance of the members of the Board of Directors are annualy evaluated by the General Meeting of Shareholders. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 16 IC 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses.* 102,126 IC *Adherence of Gonvarri Corporación FInanciera S.L to the UN Global Compact on 8th of January 2014, parent company of all the societies of Gonvarri Iberia. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: 102 IC • Has positions in governance bodies • Participates in projects or committees • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues • Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 37-38 IC 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 37-38 IC 37-38,524.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type 53, 60-61and by stakeholder group. 77-79 IC 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 39 IC Complete information IC Partial information IP Not available ND Not applicable NA 118 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica Sustainability report 2013 Annex Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) Aspects Page/Justification Status Economics Economic performance 13 IC Market presence 8, 10-11, 19-23 IC Indirect economic impacts 82, 98-101 IC Environment Materials 88 IC Energy 90-93 IC Water 89 IC Biodiversity 97 IC Emissions, effluents and waste 90, 94-97 IC Products and services 85, 86 IC Compliance 84 IC Transport 84 IC Overall 82 IC Labour practices Employment 70-77 IC Labor/management relations 72-77 IC Occupational health and safety 58-68 IC Training and education 72-73 IC Diversity and equal opportunity 74-77 IC Equal remuneration for women and men Collective agreement and Ethics Code IC Human rights Investment and procurement practices Ethics Code of Conduct, 14 IC Non-discrimination Ethics Code of Conduct, 14 IC Freedom of association and collective bargaining Ethics Code of Conduct, 14 IC Child labor Ethics Code of Conduct, 14 IC Prevention of forced and compulsory labor Ethics Code of Conduct, 14 IC Security practices Ethics Code of Conduct, 14 IC Indigenous rights We don’t conduct our activities in areas where IC indigenous communities may be affected. This aspect is managed by the Ethics committee. Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 119 Annex Sustainability report 2013 Aspects Page/Justification Status Assessment 88, 99 IC Remediation No incidents related to Human Rights or to the IC freedom of association have been detected by the Ethics Committee Society Local communities 98-101 IC Corruption Public policy Ethics Code of Conduct, Rules of Behaviour in respect of Incentives, Gifts or Invitations, 14 IC Public policies Ethics Code of Conduct, 14 IC Anti-competitive behavior Ethics Code of Conduct, 14 IC Compliance Ethics Code of Conduct, Development Guides, 14 IC Product responsibility Customer health and safety 48-52 IC Product and service labelling 48-51 IC Marketing communications The MARCOM department manages the commuIC nications, ensuring compliance with applicable law Customer privacy 16 IC Compliance Ethics Code of Conduct, 14-16 IC Complete information IC Partial information IP Not available ND Not applicable NA 120 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica Sustainability report 2013 Annex Performance indicators KPI Disclosure of management approach Page Status Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. 8, 13, 82 IC EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. 94-96 IC EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations.* NA *We have no benefits associated to retirement plan. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. 13 IC EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation.* IC *Established in the Collective Bargaining Agreements applicable to each plant. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant 13, 53-54, locations of operation. 99 IC EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local 74, 100community at significant locations of operation.* 101 IC *All the plant’s managers are from the local community. EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, inkind, or pro bono engagement. 98-102 IC Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the EC9 extent of impacts. 98-102 IC Environment EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 88 IC EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. 88 IC EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 90-91 IC EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 90 IC EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 91-93 IC EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. 92-93 IC EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. 91-93 IC EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 89 IC EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water.* IC *No water source has been significantly affected by our activities. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. IC *Not recycled or reused water takes part in our activities. EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. 97 IC Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 121 Annex Sustainability report 2013 KPI Disclosure of management approach Page Status EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. 97 IC EN13 Habitats protected or restored.* IC *There have been no further protection or habitat restoration measures. EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. 97 IC EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk.* IC *We have no record that any habitat of protected species from the IUCN has been affected by our activities. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 95-96 IC EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 96 IC EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 91-93 IC EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. 96 IC EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. 96 IC EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 90 IC EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 96-97 IC EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills.* 84 IC *There has been no significant spills in 2013 at our facilities. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally.* NA *We do not deal with this type of waste. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff.* IC * No habitat has been affected by our discharges. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of 8487 impact mitigation. IC EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. 85-86 IC EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. 84 IC EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. 86-87, 96 IC EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type.. 96-97 IC Complete information IC Partial information IP Not available ND Not applicable NA 122 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica Sustainability report 2013 Annex KPI Disclosure of management approach Page Status Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. 70-71 IC LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. 70-72 IC LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. 80-81 IC LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 14, 62 IC LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements.* IC *The communications on organizational changes are made in accordance with regulations and specified in the “Statute of Workers Right” (Royal Legislative Decree 1/1995) and collective agreements. LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. 62 IC LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender. 68, 69 IC LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. 64-66 IC LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 62 IC LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. 56, 64 IC LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. 64-66, 73 IC LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. 72-73 IC LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. 70-71 IC LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation.* IC * Collective agreements that apply to us are committed to equality of workers regardless of gender, including their compensation, with no more differences than those resulting from the merit and ability of those affected. Therefore, the ratio of wages between men and women for the same professional category, same experience and same performance is 1: 1. LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. 76 IC Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 123 Annex Sustainability report 2013 KPI Disclosure of management approach Page Status Human rights HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening.* 54 IP *The % of agreements and contracts that take into account human rights is not included. We are in the process of acceptance of the Ethics Code by our suppliers. With their agreement, they undertake to comply with the respect human rights. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken.* IC *No analysis has been performed to our suppliers or subcontractors regarding human rights. This is a long-term objective, after the implementation of the homologation process related to human rights. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. IC *Scheduled for the first quarter of 2014. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken.* IC *No incidents have been detected related to this aspect. HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights.* NA * This risk has not been identified in Iberia. HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. NA * This risk has not been identified in Iberia. HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. NA * This risk has not been identified in Iberia. HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations.* IC *The security companies are legally regulated and their staff has enough training to develop their activity. HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. NA * Our activities in Iberia do not involve any impact on the rights of indigenous people. HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. NA *This risk has not been identified in Iberia. HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms.* IC *There are no recorded incidents and complaints related to human rights. Complete information IC Partial information IP Not available ND Not applicable NA 124 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica Sustainability report 2013 Annex KPI Disclosure of management approach Page Status Society S01 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. 98-102 IC S02 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption.* 14 IC *Ethics Code of Conduct, Rules of Behavior in respect of Incentives S03 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures.* IC *Training planned in 2014. S04 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption.* IC *There are no recorded incidents and complaints related to corruption. S05 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying.* IC *There have been no lobbying activities. S06 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country.* IC *According to our Ethics Code of Conduct, the financing of political parties is not allowed. S07 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes.* IC *No incidents or complaints have been detected related to this aspect. S08 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations.* IC *No incidents or complaints have been detected related to this aspect. S09 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. 98-99 IC S10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. 98-99 IC Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica 125 Annex Sustainability report 2013 KPI Disclosure of management approach Page Status Product responsability PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. 48 IC PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes.* IC *No incidents have been detected in 2013. PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements* 48 IC PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. IC *No incidents have been detected in 2013. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 52 IC PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship.* 14 IC * Complete in Ethics Code of Conduct. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes.* IC *No incidents or complaints have been detected related to this aspect. PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data.* IC *No significant penalties or fines have been registered. See implementation of the provisions of the Spanish Organic Law 15/1999 of 13 December on the Protection of Personal Data and RD 994/1999 of 11 June, which approves the Regulation on Mandatory Security Measures for the Computer Files which contain Personal Data. PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services.* IC *No significant penalties or fines have been registered. Complete information IC Partial information IP Not available ND Not applicable NA 126 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica Sustainability report 2013 Annex Contents related to the Principles of the UN Global Compact Principles GRI indicators Millennium Development Goals Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and EC5, LA4, LA6-8, Goal 1: Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger respect the protection of internationally procLA13-14, HR1-9, Goal 2: Achieve universal primary education laimed human rights. SO5, PR1 Goal 3: Promote gender equality and empower women Goal 4: Reduce child mortality rates Goal 5: Improve maternal health Goal 6: Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria, and other Principle 2: Make sure that they are not comHR1-9, SO5 diseases plicit in human rights abuses. Goal 7: Ensure environmental sustainability. Goal 8: Develop a global partnership for development Work Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the LA4-5, HR1-3, HR5, Goal 2: Achieve universal primary education freedom of association and the effective reSO5 Goal 3: Promote gender equality and empower cognition of the right to collective bargaining. women Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of HR1-3, HR7, SO5 Goal 2: Achieve universal primary education forced and compulsory labour. Goal 3: Promote gender equality and empower women Principle 5: The effective abolition of HR1-9, SO5 child labour. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a EC2, EN3-12,EN18, Goal 7: Ensure environmental sustainability precautionary approach to environmental EN26, EN30, SO5, challenges. PR1, PR3 Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote EC2, EN1-30, SO5, greater environmental responsibility. PR3-4 Fight against corruption Principle 9: Encourage the development EN2, EN5-7, EN 10, and diffusion of environmentally EN 18, EN 26-27, friendly technologies. EN30, SO5 Principle 10: Businesses should work against SO2-6 corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Sustainability report 2013 Gonvarri Steel Services Península Ibérica (Spain and Portugal) Gonvarri Steel Services was founded in 1958. Since then the company has diversified its activities and goods, and has expanded globally, with presence in many countries. Our business is steel processing, with a special emphasis on sustainable, profitable growth. We strive to achieve a continuous improvement of our products and services, in order to strengthen our relationship with both customers and suppliers. About this report This report is yet another example of our commitment towards our groups of interest. Our goal is to present a balanced overview of our company from a financial, social and environmental perspective, by providing reliable, transparent information on our activities. We will continue on this path because our future success depends ultimately on our capacity of growing and developing in a sustainable way. The conversation continues at www.leadingthechange.com www.gonvarristeelservices.com
