Safe Host S.A. Communication on Progress (COP) 01.09.2014 31.08.2015 Safe Host S.A. Chemin du Pre-Fleuri 20 CH-1228 Plan-les-Ouates Switzerland 1st September, 2014 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Safe Host S.A. reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Gerard Sikias, CEO Page 1 of 5 Safe Host S.A. Communication on Progress (COP) 01.09.2014 31.08.2015 1. Human Rights Principles a. Assessment, Policy and Goals Safe Host supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948. It fully supports the fundamental freedoms and rights of all humans contained in this Charter. Safe Host’s employee manual ‘Safe Host and You’ clearly defines these rights and each employee is expected to adhere to these rights. Each Safe Host employee has signed a document stating that they do so. b. Implementation An annual employee questionnaire acts as a grievance mechanism. There is a bi-annual employee appraisal to raise awareness to management of any issues. There is a single point-of-contact for employees within company for human rights issues. c. Measurement There has been a periodic review since 2003 through an ISO-9001 quality management review system that occurs in the form of a quarterly meeting. There is an annual external audit of the ISO-9001 Quality Management System. Page 2 of 5 Safe Host S.A. Communication on Progress (COP) 01.09.2014 31.08.2015 2. Labour Principles a. Assessment, Policy and Goals The ‘Safe Host and You’ document and each individual employment contract states the laws, rights and obligations under which both Safe Host and the Employee must conduct themselves. b. Implementation There are written policies that clearly state Employee rights and responsibilities and their compensation and benefits. Safe Host is ISO 9001 certified and there exists an ISO 9001 policy regarding supplier quality. Safe Host abides by Swiss law regarding employment rights. These rights have been audited by the ‘Office Cantonal de l'Inspection et des Relations du Travail’ (OCIRT). There is a SUVA-trained employee for health and safety on-site. c. Measurement There has been a periodic review since 2003 through an ISO-9001 quality management review system that occurs in the form of a quarterly meeting. There is an annual external audit of the ISO-9001 Quality Management System. Page 3 of 5 Safe Host S.A. Communication on Progress (COP) 01.09.2014 31.08.2015 3. Environmental Principles a. Assessment, Policy and Goals Safe Host has a written environmental policy. Safe Host is a member of The Green Grid. Safe Host participates in Negawatt Vision. Safe Host is becoming a participant in the EU Data Center Code of Conduct. b. Implementation Safe Host has a comprehensive recycling program. Safe Host uses advanced building environmental control systems. Safe Host implements energy containment systems and best practice implementation for its customers. Safe Host offers excess heat for local requirements. Safe Host holds and sponsors energy events for customers, suppliers and prospects to endorse environmentally-friendly behavior. c. Measurement Safe Host is external audited by an independent auditor. Safe Host conducts internal audits. Safe Host has an ISO-9001 incident management system. Page 4 of 5 Safe Host S.A. Communication on Progress (COP) 01.09.2014 31.08.2015 4. Anti-Corruption Principles a. Assessment, Policy and Goals The World Economic Forum regularly ranks Switzerland as a leader in anti-corruption in the world. Safe Host supports the UN Convention Against Corruption. Safe Host has a written policy of zero-tolerance for corruption, bribery and extortion. Safe Host requires business partners and suppliers to adhere to ISO-9001 mandated standards are these parties are audited annually for compliance. b. Implementation An annual employee questionnaire acts as a grievance mechanism. There is a bi-annual employee appraisal to raise awareness to management of any issues. c. Measurement Safe Host has an annual external audit of financials by leading international auditor and meets local IFRS accounting standards. There is an annual external audit of the ISO-9001 Quality Management System. Page 5 of 5
