Vasakronan 2013 Global Compact Communication on Progress About Vasakronan Vasakronan is the leading property company in Sweden. Our strategy is to focus on Sweden’s major growth regions: Stockholm, Uppsala, Gothenburg, Malmö and Lund. We own and manage approximately 200 office and retail properties with a total area of around 2,600,000 sqm (as of March 31, 2014). The portfolio is valued at SEK 88 billion. The organization has operations in four regions – Stockholm, Uppsala, Gothenburg and Öresund. The number of employees is 354. Vasakronan is jointly owned by the First, Second, Third and Fourth Swedish National Pension Funds. In order to achieve our vision of future-proof cities, with buildings where both individuals and companies can thrive, we must contribute to a sustainable development of society – financially, environmentally and socially. Together with our employees, tenants and other stakeholders, we strive to ensure that our cities will be good societies over time. Our mandate from the company’s owners is to generate a high, risk-balanced, long-term return from property investments in Sweden. At the same time, we must run our business both ethically and with consideration for the environment. This is why our sustainability efforts are strategically critical to meeting the target return. Sustainability work consists of financial and environmental efforts, along with social responsibility. All of these efforts are based on the ten principals outlined in the UN Global Compact, internal policies/guidelines and Vasakronan’s Code of Conduct. The work is goal-oriented and long-term. It also requires commitment from all employees in the organization. Vasakronan is a carbon neutral company and is ISO 14001 certified. We were also Sweden’s first property company to offer green leases and green offices. In November 2013 Vasakronan was proud to be the first company in the world to issue a green bond. We discourage all forms of corruption and all of Vasakronan’s employees and suppliers are expected to comply with existing laws. There is a Compliance Officer to ensure that there is correct behavior throughout the company and its business. CEO-statement: “We support the Global Compact because sustainability is an integral part of our core business and accordingly, all discussions and decisions consider these aspects. We also support the UN Global Compact initiative because we are committed to taking responsibility in the areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption. With those principals as our starting point, we continually develop our way of working to ensure that we run a responsible business. I am personally very interested in sustainability issues and it is very evident to me that employees working in all parts of Vasakronan’s organization feel the same way.” May 2014 Fredrik Wirdenius, CEO of Vasakronan Reporting documents: Annual report (only available in Swedish): Annual Report 2013 GRI-supplement (only available in Swedish): GRI Supplement 2013 Vasakronan has chosen not to seek external assurance for the report. The main reason for this is that environmental activities are audited within the framework of ISO 14001 certification.
