BRAEMAC LIMITED Communication on Progress Prepared by Sara Houghton (Quality Manager) Period Covered: 23rd April 2013 to 23rd April 2014 Statement of continued support by the Managing Director I am pleased to confirm that Braemac Limited reaffirms its commitment to supporting the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption as part of the organisations day-to-day business activities. In our annual Communication on Progress we describe our actions to ensure continuous integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We remain committed to the submission of our partnership with the Global Compact through the annual renewal of this Communication Of Progress. Sarah Lavelle Managing Director Human Rights Assessment, Policy & Goals Braemac Limited is fully committed to supporting the Universal Declaration of Human Rights working only with businesses which do not condone, support or use any form of human rights abuse. Respecting our employees is vital to the success of daily operations and business activities. Braemac Limited strives to ensure equality to all employees and is committed to zero tolerance of victimisation, bullying or harassment. We have committed to the EICC – Electronics Industry Code of Conduct in recent months and support the ethics of the Code. Implementation The Company Employee Induction Pack has been updated to include details of VDU Operating guidelines and Safe Handling instructions to ensure the welfare of employees in the work place covering all areas office and warehouse. Monthly meetings have been set-up to help communicate various aspects of the current business activities so as to ensure all Braemac Limited employees are informed. The introduction of the meetings will have a positive influence for all employees and for the collective Braemac team. Outcomes We have been working with our manufacturing partners to confirm the products we purchase do not contain any Conflict Minerals such as – Tantalum, Tin, Tungsten, Gold that have been sourced from the Democratic Republic of Congo, an area renowned for human rights abuse. This is a “work in progress” area and all responses are being recorded to build a database of manufacturers who remain approved within the supply chain. In the past year Braemac Limited has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights. Braemac Limited COP Page 1 of 3 Labour Assessment, Policy & Goals Braemac Limited supports the ILO Core Conventions and will not do business with any organisation who uses forced or child labour. Braemac Limited complies with all relevant Health and Safety legislation with regular updates from industry reporting tools. Training needs for employees are identified through regular review of legislative requirements and as is required to fulfil an employee’s job role. Implementation Monthly sales meetings on the progress of the business relating to our strong manufacturing partners are held. Business activities are reviewed as part of the meetings to ensure all employees have an awareness of resource, time and support relating to working processes. Braemac Limited maintains a Health & Safety Policy and continues to develop company safety procedures including the introduction of Personal Protective Clothing (PPE) for warehouse employees. Outcome Personal Development Reviews are held by the Managing Director with employees to identify areas of growth within a role or department a minimum of once every 12 months. Braemac Limited has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other relevant events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Labour principles. In the past year Braemac Limited has not been subject to any health and safety statutory notices or prosecutions. Environment Assessment, Policy & Goals Braemac Limited has an Environmental Purchasing Policy to support our commitment to environmental responsibility. We have continued to reduce the carbon footprint of our company this year through employees choosing to cycle to and from work opposed to using company vehicles. In the coming year our main environmental target is to review and action safe disposal of scrap products including office machinery. Implementation Braemac Limited has introduced the use of secure paper waste shredding in recent months to continue our support of recycling waste for the benefit of the environment. Energy efficiency within the office and warehouse is monitored by switching off lights and electrical equipment when they are not required. Any new office equipment is purchased after review of the energy efficiency rating given by the manufacturer to help support the protection of the environment. Braemac Limited COP Page 2 of 3 Outcomes Braemac Limited uses licensed waste companies for disposal of waste. We are registered with a WEEE compliance company for disposal of waste electrical and electronic equipment and battery disposal. Since the introduction of the secure paper shredding we have recycled the equivalent amount of paper as is produced from 3 trees, which we have previously been unable to document. Braemac Limited has not had any reports of environmental incidents within the last year or been subject to any statutory notices or prosecutions. Anti-Corruption Assessment, Policy & Goals Braemac Limited does not participate in any corruption, bribery or extortion and is compliant with the Bribery Act. We will not carry out business with corrupt countries or with organisations that are corrupt. Implementation Braemac Limited ensures all daily monetary values are checked under the responsibility of the Managing Director with a prior check by the Financial Controller. Employees are given training in each business area to support anti-corruption in our organisation. Braemac Limited only makes payments to businesses listed on our Approved Supplier list to reduce the risk of payments being made to a fraudulent company. Outcomes During the last 12 months Braemac Limited have not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to bribery, corruption or extortion. Anti-spam protection has failed to safely filter fraudulent bank emails and payment requests being received by Braemac employees however the training provided relating to Anti-Corruption has made all employees aware of the risks to the business. Braemac Limited COP Page 3 of 3
