Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 Acting responsibly AHLSTROM Contents Company quick facts 1 CEO Message 2 Highlights and areas for improvement 3 Ahlstrom’s impacts on global sustainability 4 Key targets and achievements 5 Ahlstrom’s business, products and markets 6 Ahlstrom’s global presence 7 Defining our most important sustainability aspects 8 Interacting with our stakeholders 9 Managing for high performance 11 Ethics and integrity 13 Describing our supply chain 14 Economic responsibility 17 EcoDesign 18 Our human capital 20 Health and safety 24 Energy and climate change 26 Water is our most important raw material 30 Certification table 32 GRI table 33 UNGC table 36 Report profile 36 Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 Company quick facts 1 Ahlstrom A high performance fiber-based materials company, partnering with leading businesses around the world 29 Manufacturing plants in 13 countries to help them stay ahead. VISION 25 Sales offices in 23 countries Inspiring people Passionate about new ideas Growing with our customers 3,547 Employees in 24 countries on four continents VALUES Act responsibly Create value 356,571 (for continuing operations) Tons Produced Learn and renew Net sales in 2013 Head office: Helsinki, Finland 1,014.8 (for continuing operations) EUR Million As of january 1, 2014 AHLSTROM HAS five Business areas Founded in Helsinki since 1851 Advanced Filtration Building and Energy Food Medical Transportation Filtration Listed on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki President & CEO: Jan Lång since 2006 2 CEO MESSAGE Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 Message FROM THE CEO Our ambition is to create value for our shareholders, society, environment, and our employees while reducing any adverse impacts. “We aim to grow with a high performance product offering for a clean and healthy ” environment. O ur ambition is to create Based on the dialog with our stakeholdhave reshaped our company to be more value for our shareholders, we have been convinced that our focused. The biggest disappointment ers, society, environment, story is both compelling and strong. Now is our financial performance. That’s and our employees while we need to execute. We have spent a where we clearly fell short of our targets. reducing any adverse good deal of energy in developing and Execution in starting up new production impacts. This is built into our business harmonizing our processes to become lines is one explanation for the poor model with sustainability as the key an agile, trustworthy partner to our performance. It is now time to deliver our driver. According to our new strategy, customers, responding much faster to promises and improve our profitability. we aim to grow with a high performance the challenges they present us. We have product offering for a clean and healthy made good progress in our product We make high performance fiber-based environment. The strategy is built on the development using EcoDesign and the products from responsibly sourced awareness of the global megatrends of creativity and potential of our people renewable fibers, in resource-efficient environmental deterioration, resource across the globe. We also brought severoperations aiming to minimize our own scarcity, shifting demographics, urbanal great products to the market last year, impacts. Overall, we want to do our busiization, and emerging needs in health but our ambition is not only to speed up ness in such a way that it causes no harm care. the time from idea to product, but also to the environment, people, or society. to raise the level of new products to 20% This is well captured in the 10 principles of We believe that with the help of our of net sales. This is where we can and will the UN Global Compact to which we are products we can create shared value for excel. fully committed. The strengthening of society. Our products with their solid susvalue-based behaviors was a clear trend tainability credentials help, for example, Many good things were achieved last in our latest employee survey. That is why to clean air and water, provide safety year. We completed restructuring of our I have even more trust in our organiprotection in medical end uses as well business; we demerged the Label and zation in creating value, learning and as food packaging, help in producing Processing business and combined it renewing, and acting responsibly. cleaner energy and cleaner transportawith the Swedish Munksjö AB, and we tion, and advance people’s well-being. sold the decór and abrasive business in Sincerely yours, Our businesses cater to the basic needs ­Osnabrück, Germany to Perusa. We also of all people; water, food, home, energy sold the West Carrollton plant in the US. and health, touching people every day. The Brazilian wipes plant in Paulinia plant We believe there is a growing need in all was also finally transferred to Suominen these areas. Corporation. All of these transactions Jan Lång Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 Highlights and areas for improvement 3 Highlights and areas for improvement We worked hard and achieved many good things last year, but there are still areas where we need to do better. HIGHLIGHTS Ahlstrom came out with the new strategy stateGreat success in ment: “We will grow with a high perforUNICEF’s Water mance product offering for a clean and ­Sanitation and Hygiene healthy environment.” project in India working with the Eva Ahlström Several new product launches in 2013. We Foundation. are well on track to achieve our long-term target of 20% of net sales from new products, which will read more on page 17 enhance our product mix and margins. Customer satisfaction clearly improved from the previous survey. EcoDesign approach Photo courtesy of UNICEF Finland was implemented across the company in new product development. read more on page 19 AREAS FOR IMPROVEMENT Financial performance Ramp-up of new production lines Ahlstrom values are living in the everyday Introduction of new products on time work according to the employee feedback being far above the benchmark. Elimination of waste to landfill Continually improved safety performance. Employer image Our Due Diligence System for the EU Timber Regulation was externally verified by SGS. 4 Ahlstrom’s impacts on global sustainability Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 Ahlstrom’s impacts on global sustainability Our sustainability promise is to make products for a clean and healthy environment, minimizing our own impacts, and communicating about the sustainability benefits of our products in a clear way. “ We offer products that are creating shared ” societal value. Creating shared societal value Following the major events that took place last year at Ahlstrom – demerger of the Label and Processing business and the creation of the new strategy for a clean and healthy environment, Ahlstrom is now entirely focused on making a positive impact on global sustainability. Our products help to clean air and drinking water, lower emissions in transportation and provide cleaner energy, improve both medical safety and food safety, and contribute to greener buildings with lower impact materials. In all areas, we offer products that are needed by people every day thereby creating shared societal value. A good with our organizational model. Safe– to produce our high performance example of our contribution toward a ty, human rights, and management fiber-based materials for a clean and cleaner and healthier environment for practices equally concern all areas. We healthy environment. We emphasize the millions of people is our participation describe our priorities, targets, perforimportance of having common core in the Beautiful Beijing project, which mance, successes and shortcomings, processes in place to make sure that we combines Finnish expertise under the risks and opportunities in the DMA tables maximize the beneficial outputs from our CleanTech Finland platform to provide on pages 11–12 where we disclose our activity in creating value. The core proquick and tangible solutions mainly for management approach toward sustaincesses are Management processes, Idea improving the air quality first in Beijing ability. All other areas are under Group to Product, Market to Order, Order to and then in other large cities in China. responsibility, but manufacturing and Cash and Key functions processes under It is a real manifestation of our strateproduct management are governed by which there are numerous sub-processes gy in action where the new Ahlstrom the business areas. covering all of the areas of our activity. In ­Flow2Save™ filter media for improved The Ahlstrom Story, we also highlight our indoor air quality can alleviate health key impacts, risks, and opportunities. problems caused by air pollution. Developing our reporting This report is our first step toward the new We are developing our reporting on G4 GRI-framework. The financial figures Our sustainability framework sustainability this year by publishing ‘The and governance statement are pubAhlstrom Story’, which is our first step lished as a third separate report. Internally, we have organized our sustaintoward Integrated Reporting. In the way ability programs in a framework starting that we describe our business model, with product development, extending we derive from the six capitals – finanover sourcing and manufacturing all the cial, manufactured, intellectual, social way to product management aligning and relationship, human and natural Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 Key targets and achievements 5 Key targets and achievements In order to execute our strategy and WE AIM FOR WE AIM FOR ZERO ZERO succeed as a company, we have three WASTE TO Focus Areas where we need to excel. LANDFILL These new Focus Areas aim to help us BY THE END better in the strategy implementation ACCIDENTS OF 2015. by pointing out where to prioritize our efforts. They are: financial KEY FIGURES 2013* 2012* Change, % Winning business Net sales 1,014.8 1,010.8 0.4 Operating profit / loss 10.7 21.8 -50.9 Commercial success with Operating profit excluding non-recurring items 13.4 21.1 -36.7 % of net sales 1.3 2.1 new products Profit / loss before taxes -15.4 -6.4 -139.6 Profit / loss for the period -18.9 -16.4 -15.2 High performance Earnings per share -0.46 -0.44 Return on capital employed 0.9 2.3 Winning new business with our existing Capital expenditure excluding acquisitions 76.1 74.1 2.6 customers and with new customers is Gearing ratio** 85.5 62.5 crucial for us: we aim for more sales Net cash from operative activities** 41.0 78.7 -48.0 through new leads and a better win rate. Dividend per share*** 0.3 0.63 -52.4 We have already improved our customer engagement and service, but we also * Continuing operations need to continue the work. The more ** Including discontinued operations loyal our customers are, the more often *** The Board of Directors’ proposal to the Annual General Meeting. The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting that a dividend consisting of they turn to us with their unmet needs. Munksjö Oyj shares and cash be paid for the financial year that ended on December 31, 2013. When we understand what our cusAccording to the proposal, Ahlstrom shareholders will receive one Munksjö share for each 26 tomers need, we can offer world-class shares held in Ahlstrom and a cash dividend of EUR 0.09 per share. The aggregate maximum products and service so that they keep amount of the total dividend is EUR 14.0 million, or EUR 0.30 per share. coming back. Long-term We also target on bringing new products SOCIAL KEY FIGURES 2013* 2012* goal to the market faster. Our differentiatLTA Lost Time Accidents 17 19 Zero ed products for a clean and healthy TRIFR Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate 54 n/a Zero environment will capture value. We are Code of Conduct e-learning completion for creating clear value propositions that we white-collar employees 82% 49% 100% can communicate well. Supplier Code of Conduct 85% >70% 100% Engagement Index 64.1 65.2 68 We want to nourish an environment Customer satisfaction measured as NPI**** 10 3 17 where people set their targets high and Goal and development discussion keep their promises. A high performance for all employees 72% 71% 100% culture will improve our profitability and growth with personal accountability. * Continuing operations **** Net promoter index This will help us improve our product and service quality, cost efficiency, as well Long-term as ultimately the customer experience. ENVIRONMENTAL KEY FIGURES 2013* 2012* goal As our high performing employees are Electricity consumption, MWh/ton 1.29 1.29 20% driving for Ahlstrom’s success, they are of Fuel usage, GJ/ton 13.87 13.79 reduction course rewarded for good performance. CO2 emissions, kg/ton 730 723 by 2020 The performance management and leadership development are fundamenWaste to landfill, tons 6,614 6,475 Zero tal in this. To reach our ambitious targets Environmental management system (ISO14001) in each plant 94% 99% 100% we need people who excel in their jobs EcoDesign approach implemented for all new and a company that succeeds regardproduct developments n/a n/a 100 % less of the market situation. *Continuing operations We find it crucial to link our target setting to our Focus Areas. 6 Ahlstrom’s business, products and markets Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 Ahlstrom’s business, products and markets Our five business areas serve markets where we create value by using our unique knowhow in fibers and materials technology to make differentiated products with sustainability as a driver. Advanced Building and Food Medical Transportation Filtration Energy Filtration Is a global supplier of Is one of the leading Is one of the leading Is one of the leading Is the global leader in air and liquid filtration players globally for players globally for maplayers globally for transportation filtration materials, with a leading materials used in wallterials used in tea bags, materials used in medical materials. market position in life coverings, floorings and food packaging and gowns and drapes, apscience and gas turbine windmill blades. masking tape. parel and sterile barrier filtration. systems. 10% of Group net sales 27% of Group net sales 33% of Group net sales (combined) 30% of Group net sales Customer industries Water, Energy, HealthBuilding and construcFood processing and Medical and healthcare Automotive, heavy-duty care, Food and bevtion, Energy, Fabric care, packaging, Building vehicles, aviation, erage, Environmental Marine, Transportation marine control Manufacturing platform Finland Belgium China India Brazil France China Finland USA China Germany Finland France Italy Italy France UK South Korea Sweden Russia USA USA Sweden Products by markets Energy & Building & Food, Beverage & Medical care & Environment Decoration Household Life science Transportation -Air and water filtration -Wallcoverings -Tea bags -Medical drapes and -Oil and fuel filtration -Wind turbine blades -Floorings -Food and beverages gowns -Gas turbine Filtration -Building panels packaging -Sterilization wraps and pouches -Boat hulls -Face masks -Substrates for masking tape -Laboratory -Life science Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 Ahlstrom’s global presence 7 Ahlstrom’s global presence We are a global company operating on four continents to serve customers everywhere in the world. Our approximately 3,500 employees serve customerS on SIX continents FROM 29 manufacturing plants and 25 sales offices “ Our worldwide product offering is customized to local market needs with quality customer and technical service. We have a global presence with unique and unrivalled supply platform in the industry. Our worldwide presence as at the end of 2013 Manufacturing plants Average annual and monthly Water Scarcity 0 –25% 25–50% 50 –100% 100 –150% ” 150 –200% >200% No data AMERICAS EUROPE ASIA–PACIFIC Manufacturing plants: 6 Manufacturing plants: 19 Manufacturing plants: 4 Employees: 962 Employees: 1,964 Employees: 621 Number of sales offices: 3 Number of sales offices: 7 Number of sales offices: 13 Metric tons produced (net): 83,177 Metric tons produced (net): 274,370 Metric tons produced (net): 33,622 Total water intake, m3: 4,292,661 Total water intake, m3: 19,946,940 Total water intake, m3: 516,026 CO2 emissions, tons: 53,074 CO2 emissions, tons: 244,226 CO2 emissions, tons: 16,580 Waste to landfill, tons: 4,068 Waste to landfill, tons: 2,546 Waste to landfill, tons: 0 Description Source Annual average of the twelve monthly blue water scarcity values per basin, Hoekstra, A.Y., Mekonnen, M.M., Chapagain, A.K., Mathews, equally weighted. Blue water scarcity is defined as the ratio of blue water footprint R.E. and Richter, B.D. (2012) Global monthly water scarcity: Blue (based on consumption rather than withdrawal) to blue water availability – where water footprints versus blue water availability, PLoS ONE 7(2) the latter is taken as natural runoff minus environmental flow. Blue water resources http://www.waterfootprint.org/Reports/Hoekstra-et-al-2012are surface water and ground water. 1996-2005. GlobalMonthlyWaterScarcity.pdf 8 Defining our most important sustainability aspects Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 Defining our most important sustainability aspects In 2013, we carried out our materiality review defining the most important sustainability aspects by seeking for the input of our strategic global key accounts as well as our key employees. In 2013, we carried out our materiality The relative importance of the aspects is unless otherwise mentioned in the review, defining the most important suspresented in the materiality matrix where GRI-table. The environmental indicators tainability aspects by seeking the input the blue balls reflect all the opinions, and are material for the operating plants, of our strategic global key accounts as the green balls show matters of internal the other matters for the entire organizawell as our key employees. importance to Ahlstrom. The company’s tion. The aspects that are material also executive management team reviewed outside the organization are our main The survey was sent electronically during and approved the matrix. raw material sources, such as water and the second quarter to our strategic certified fiber sources. global key accounts of which 67% reIn addition to the most material aspects sponded. The respondents represented that came out in the survey, in the all the business areas and geographies. current report scope matters related to This questionnaire was augmented by the social expectations as well as GRI internal questions related to our organirequirements are also included. We zation and sent electronically to 153 key report on the matters for the continuing managers of Ahlstrom with one out of operations, aligned with our financial three responding. reporting, and within our organization, MATERIALITY MATRIX Our most important sustainability topics in 2014 1 high ETHICS Values Human rights Code of Conduct 1 Anti-corruption 2 2 ECO-DESIGN APPROACH 4 3 Renewable raw materials 5 Recycled raw materials 3 SAFETY 6 4 RESOURCE EFFICIENCY & MINIMIZED EMISSIONS IMPORTANCE TO CUSTOMERS Energy use Raw materials / waste CO2 8 7 5 CERTIFIED FIBER SOURCES 6 medium COMMUNICATION OF THE SUSTAINABILITY 11 9 BENEFITS OF OUR PRODUCTS 10 7 TALENT ATTRACTION AND RETENTION 8 ECONOMIC RESULTS 9 WATER SCARCITY & WATER USE 10 COMPETENCE DEVELOPMENT 12 11 RENEWABLE ENERGY 14 12 WELL-BEING AT WORK 13 13 OPEN COMMUNICATION 14 GOOD GOVERNANCE low 16 15 15 COMMUNITY RELATIONS 16 DIVERSITY low medium high IMPACT ON AHLSTROM’S BUSINESS Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 Interacting with our stakeholders 9 Interacting with our stakeholders We invite all our stakeholders to tell us their feedback to continually improve our performance. We also like to hear where we have done well. A stakeholder is anyone who is interested in what the company is doing. We want to build productive relationships with our main stakeholder groups, both inside and outside Ahlstrom. We want to understand their expectations, engage in an open and constructive dialogue, and develop “ Open innovation and co-creation of new technology platforms with external technology providers is an our activities and management according to what we hear. integral part of Ahlstrom’s strategy ” The table below sets out our most important stakeholders, for product development. and how we have engaged with them: Examples of dialogue Assessments Key issues raised Our responses CUSTOMERS -Face-to-face meetings and other contacts -Customer loyalty -Customer satisfaction and loyalty survey results -Improvement and via the sales force surveys improved for the third consecutive year. Good harmonization of -www.ahlstrom.com -Customer quality and customer service were main pos­Ahlstrom core pro-Joint product development projects sustainability itives. Main things to improve were response cesses. surveys times and accuracy of deliveries. -Sales force training -Sustainability report -Feedback -Sustainability survey – see materiality matrix. -Sustainability matters e-newsletter EMPLOYEES -Daily contacts -Employee -Great commitment shown by high 85% re-Responding by new -Performance management process surveys sponse rate. strategy and updated -Ahlstrom Academy training program -Positives were standing behind Ahlstrom values Focus Areas. -InSite intranet pages and managerial work, development orientation and perceptions of fairness. -Inside Ahlstrom magazine -Negatives relate to Ahlstrom’s financial -Ahlstrom’s European Dialogue (AED) success. -Internal information meetings -Local cooperation with unions and employee representatives SUPPLIERS -Face-to-face meetings and other contacts via -Supplier -Dialogue with suppliers based on their perfor-Highest risk and lowthe Global Sourcing organization Performance mance rating (categories from A to D). est scoring (D) sup-Joint seminars Evaluations (the pliers are eliminated -Joint product development projects Vendor Evaluaunless improvement tion Tool) shown. -Joint cost reduction projects -Due Diligence -Our EUTR DDS system -Joint sustainability projects System for wood was externally verified pulps by SGS. SHARE-Annual General Meeting -Media moni-Strategic transformation process noted -A growth strategy HOLDERS -Capital Markets Day toring -Concern about falling short of financial targets extending to the year -www.ahlstrom.com -Bi-annual media -Energy and climate targets and action plan 2020 on how Ahlstrom visibility report will reach its long-term -Quarterly conference calls and webcasts financial targets. -Annual and Sustainability Reports -CDP Reports -Rightsizing program -Interim reports -New energy efficien-Stock exchange and press releases cy program -Road shows -Face-to-face meetings -Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) ACADEMIA -Practical training and degree theses -Preferred em-Employer image -Open innovation -Research and development projects ployer surveys in with our research -Recruitment fairs Finland partners to advance ­Ahlstrom’s new -Student visits in our plants strategy -www.ahlstrom.com SOCIETY -Local level cooperation with the authorities -Noise from the operation in Taylorville, USA. The -Develop a solution -Open house events at production sites new RTO started in December 2013. to reduce the noise -Public hearings level, e.g. a silencer. INDUSTRY -Participation in trade associations: -Main Edana activities were abaca certificaPEERS -WBCSD and its Forest Solutions Working Group tion project with the Rainforest Alliance and -EDANA; Laura Raitio in the Board ‘The World with nonwovens’ -project for a sustainability assessment of several nonwoven -Several national as well as sector specific products organizations -FIBS Corporate Responsibility Network -CleanTech Finland -Lobbying and joint projects in environmental matters 10 Interacting with our stakeholders Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 Customers The most notable positive changes relate Academia especially to managerial work, develCustomers are our most important opment orientation, and perceptions of Open innovation or co-creation of new stakeholders and their satisfaction is fairness, especially concerning recognitechnology platforms with external vital for the success of the company. We tion and rewards. In addition, colleagues technology providers is an integral part measure their satisfaction and loyalty trust each other more, and employees of Ahlstrom’s strategy for product develusing the net promoter index (NPI). The find their job more challenging and interopment. Co-creation with these external results improved for the third consecutive esting than before. technology partners and successfully year. The positives were the good quality embedding these promising new platof our products and good customer The most notable negative changes forms into our internal product develservice. The negatives were the response relate to matters related to the financial opment programs enable us to deliver times and the accuracy of deliveries. results of the business as well as the very new products for a clean and healthy Action plans are developed in order to significant changes in the structure of environment faster to our customers. We address the issues focusing on makthe company. Our employees also felt collaborate with external technology ing customer service excellent and a that the operative culture is an area for partners for basic technology platform strategic advantage as well as to ensure improvement. development. Current examples in the continuously improving response times area of fibers are especially nanofiber and service attitudes. On the other hand, the respondents and nanocellulose that support develfeel that the values and objectives of opments in all of our selected market Our performance and customers’ expecAhlstrom are worth aiming for, the results areas – Food, Beverage and Household, tation related especially to sustainability being clearly above the benchmark. ReMedical Care and Life Science, Transmatters was queried in the additional spondents are also willing to go beyond portation, Energy and Environment and survey targeted to our Strategic Global their normal work duties when needed, Building and Decoration. Key Accounts. Nearly all key customers and the commitment to the employer is were interested and willing to cooperate higher than in organizations, in general. We also have more specific market foin our EcoDesign, strengthening the vacused co-creation programs with exterlidity of our approach. Clearer articulaAfter the sharing of the results, workshops nal technology providers in Transportation and communication of the sustainawith teams will be organized to discuss tion Filtration, Life Sciences and Medical bility benefits of our products were noted the results and to plan improvement where we develop new chemistry based as an opportunity for improvement. actions together. on our EcoDesign principles to deliver new solutions for flame-retardancy, diagAhlstrom’s European Dialog (AED) is a nostics, and other “smart“ functionalities way for employee representatives from for our high-performance fiber-based each European country to give feedmaterials. In the area of wallcover we back to Group management about have external collaborations to deliver topics of current interest, and hear about new functionalities in the areas of printdevelopments within the company. The ing and design. AED did not meet in 2013, but five working group meetings were held instead. Along with our state-of-the-art analytical Regular meetings will resume in 2014. and testing facilities, we also engage the extensive analytical global testing Collective bargaining is a form of dialog capabilities of our external partners between the employees and the comwith specific programs supporting our pany. We do not collect information on new product developments in the the number of organized employees, but areas of Water, Transportation Filtration, we estimate that approximately 30% of ­Advanced Filtration and Food and the permanent blue-collar employees ­Medical businesses. Employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements, some 40% in the EU, and Our external technology providers are We gauge the engagement of our approx. 20% elsewhere in the world. global accredited research institutes, employees in annual Employee surveys academic partners and contract as the main way to assess progress. By research organizations. We are bringing engagement we mean the extent to Suppliers new products to the market for a clean which employees hold a positive attitude and healthy environment with improved toward their work, the organization, and Our supplier base is described in the Valspeed based on our successful collaboits values, and are willing to apply discreue Chain chapter, where we talk about rations with our chosen external technoltionary effort to contribute to the success our approach to the supplier relationship ogy providers. of the organization. The global survey is management. A good example of posialready well established. It was conducttive joint sustainability collaboration with ed in October 2013 in 16 languages. The a supplier was a pilot project working response rate was high at 85% showing with DSM, a Dutch chemical supplier, great commitment. A solid response and their sustainability specialists to rate provides confidence that the results define social impacts for our medical represent the opinions of all Ahlstrom fabrics, where a DSM product is used as employees and gives a good basis for one of the components. the action planning. Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 Managing for high performance 11 Managing for high performance Our management approach in product development, supply chain including sourcing and manufacturing, as well as product management. Product development and sourcing are Group responsibility. PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT SOURCING MANUFACTURING PRODUCT MANAGEMENT GROUP BUSINESS AREA LONG-TERM VISION Turning our unique know-how and new Driving a world-class Growing with customers and winning business anticipating ideas into innovative high performance supply chain customers’ needs fiber-based materials for a clean and healthy environment Commercial success with new products STRATEGY Growing through differSourcing policy Operational efficiency Offer differentiated products for a AND entiation and ensuring Purchase payment terms policy supported by: clean and healthy environment. POLICIES EcoDesign in all new Aggressive targets set through Ahlstrom core processes ‘Idea to products Supplier Request for Price Increase Policy and Process 2020 for Key environmental and product’, ‘Market to order and ‘Idea to product’ core safety Performance Indicators ‘Order to cash’. process Supplier Code of Conduct (KPIs) Intellectual property Certified fiber sources Targeted investments policy and guidelines Lean Manufacturing Initiative (see page 29) Global extension of best practice through the supply chain and HSE networks Anticipatory regulatory posture KEY TARGETS Speed up the process Cost reductions OTAPIF measure (= On Time As Sales from new products: target AND from idea to successful Continuous improvement with key Promised In Full); for delivery qual20%, 2013 13% PERFORmarket launch suppliers ity, is continuously improving. Customer satisfaction –measured MANCE Sales from new prodReduce the cost of quality annually and systematically for Key innovation projects with strateucts: target 20%, gic suppliers in each business area Reduce energy consumption the entire organization, improve2013 13% (electricity and fuel) ment over previous year. MeasRisk mitigation (identification of ured as ‘Net Promoter Index’. 12 new inventions were backup suppliers) Minimize emissions to the air, filed during 2013 water, and soil Increase the usage of renewable fibers KEY Successes Successes Successes Successes SUCCESSES EcoDesign training and EU Timber Regulation DDS externalLean successfully implemented Several new product launchAND implementation across ly verified in 4 pilot plants yielding good es, e.g. Ahlstrom Captimax™, SHORT­ all business areas results Ahlstrom FlexFuel, Ahlstrom COMINGS Supplier Code of Conduct impleSeveral new product mentation exceeding targets, 85% Shortcomings AceBlade™, Ahlstrom Reliance ® launches vs target of 80% of supplies now Tandem, Ahlstrom ReliaFlow™ Ramp-up of new production lines and Ahlstrom Flow2Save™ Open innovation covered that are behind schedule Abaca certification project realShortcomings Waste to landfill still far from zero ized with the Rainforest Alliance Delays in commercialization of in the Philippines together with new products. EDANA RISKS Progress not Supply shortages. Water scarcity especially in Inability to renew our offering into fast enough No immediate back-up suppliers China a higher value solution business. for new products OPPORTUNIReady to fully exploit Innovation in partnership with Lean methodology for continuStrategy and offering is focused TIES the opportunities given chosen key suppliers ous improvement on growth markets. by new systems in place Demand for products that help New technology to create a healthy and clean expertise environment. Know-how for creating products from renewable and recycled raw materials. TRAINING Ahlstrom Academy 12 Managing for high performance Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 Our management approach to health and safety, human rights, and leadership and management practices. All are under Group responsibility. HEALTH and SAFETY HUMAN RIGHTS LEADERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT PRACTICES GROUP LONG-TERM Accident free work places Human rights are respected in the Ahlstrom is a great and inspiring place to work. VISION Employee well-being whole value chain. Leaders enable Ahlstrom vision and live up to Ahlstrom values. One Ahlstrom. High performance culture to enable strategy execution. STRATEGY 23 company standards, 4 guidance Human rights policy, Ahlstrom Code Reaching high performance with personal acAND POLInotes, 6 best practices of Conduct, Ahlstrom Supplier Code countability. CIES of Conduct, Compliance policies, Donation policy KEY TARGETS 2013 TARGETS: 2013 TARGETS: 2013 TARGETS: AND PERFewer than 7 Lost Time Accidents Code of Conduct e-learning Achieve an Engagement Index target of 63 – long FORMANCE completed for 100% of white-collar term target is minimum 68 Total Recordable Incidents 72 employees Goal and development discussions for all employ2013 PERFORMANCE: No human rights violations ees 17 Lost Time Accidents, Accident Frequency Rate 2,45 2013 PERFORMANCE: 2013 PERFORMANCE: Total Recordable Incidents 54 -82.2% of white collar employees Engagement Index 60,1 achieved have completed The Code of Con90% of white collar employees had performance duct e-learning reviews Zero human rights violations were 59% of blue collars reported KEY SUC+ Fewer accidents, 18 plants without Clear improvement in behaviors High commitment shown in Employee survey. It CESSES AND LTAs in 2013 based on Ahlstrom Values (found in revealed SHORTCOM+ Behavior-based safety program Employee survey) + clear improvement in behaviors based on AhlINGS expanded strom Values + Safety awards given to Taylorville, + managerial work, development orientation and Louveira and Bousbecque plants perceptions of fairness + 11 HSE audits done Operational culture. Shortcomings: A lean global organization with a limited succesAccidents still happen sor pool RISKS Inherent safety risks in our manufacturValue chain risks in global operating Failure in reaching high performance ing processes environment OPPORTUNIValue-based leadership; acting reStrengthening value-based behavCreating strong learning environment TIES sponsibly, creating value and learning iors and renewing, will ultimately lead to accident prevention Behavioral based safety program TRAINING Safety training programs at plant level Code of Conduct e-learning, Ahlstrom Academy, includes an Ahlstrom Leader Compliance training; anti-corruption program training JUMP Junior Manager training program The member of Executive Management Team for Sustainability and Human Resources is reporting to the CEO. The Ahlstrom board in its entirety oversees sustainability. Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 Ethics and integrity 13 Ethics and integrity “Acting responsibly” is the first of our values meaning ethical business conduct and integrity in everything we do. Our frameworks for ethics Acting responsibly is the first of our values. Ahlstrom is committed to conducting all of its business in an honest and ethical manner. To achieve this, we have established a comprehensive Compliance program that is continually updated. The Ahlstrom Code of Conduct was updated in 2011 and we launched an e-learning program for all white-collar employees in 2012. After the second year at the end of 2013, 82.2% of the white-collar employees had completed the e-learning program. The Code is available on our website in 8 languages, and during 2013 we introduced the e-learning program in German and ­Chinese in addition to English. The e-learning program is now part of the induction process for all new employees. The Ahlstrom Supplier Code of Conduct is aligned with the Code, and was donations. In 2013, we conducted 10 havior and matters of integrity from the launched in 2012. It has been successfully Compliance training sessions in Europe, company’s legal department. implemented with our main raw material USA and Asia, with targeted face-tosuppliers. Both the main code and the face trainings. Our training plans for 2014 We also subscribe to the Thomson supplier code cover human rights issues. include expansion of the Anti-corruption ­Reuters Accelus World-Check complitraining to wider audiences via virtual ance risk screening service. This checks A separate Ahlstrom Human Rights Policy training modules. the potential business partners and from 2012 is aligned with the principles counterparties for anti-bribery purposof the ISO 26000 social responsibilies. We evaluate the risks first by country ty standard, which derives from the Monitoring using the Transparency International Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Corruption Perception Index, and then Our policy commits us to support human We have a channel that employees and on a business by business basis. We also rights throughout our whole value chain other stakeholders can use to report any respect the international embargos in and not only in our own operations and suspected misconduct and compliance place, such as is the case in Iran. supply chain but also with our customers. violations to our Compliance officer. We do not make or sell products that The number of grievances reported in could be used for human rights abuses. 2013 was three, and all those cases were Rewarding fairly All of the above policies can be seen at duly investigated. There were no fines or www.ahlstrom.com. non-monetary sanctions for non-comAhlstrom is committed to compensating pliance with laws and regulations. There its employees at a rate that is competiOur Anti-Bribery Policy further clarifies were zero incidents for human rights tive in its industry as well as to establish the rules that we follow in relation to violations in 2013. In 2014, we aim to deand maintain a fair and equitable salary bribery and other corrupt practices such velop this channel further to make it an structure internally. The lowest wages alas facilitation payments, “kickbacks” external hotline. Employees can always ways exceed the local minimum wages. and secret rebates, gifts, expenses and seek advice on ethical and lawful be14 supply chain Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 Describing our supply chain 64% 83% Ahlstrom’s high performance fiber-based materials are sold to converters that are for example filter manufacturers, wallpaper producers, medical converters and so on. Their customers are again of the raw materials of the fibers were from brand owners who then sell to consumers were fibers renewable sources often via distributors and retailers. There are many variations to the overall value chain depending on the business. Primary PULP AND Ahlstrom Converters Brand owners End users producERS CHEMICAL Industrial customers MAnufactures Raw material extraction 77% of the renewable fibers were wood pulp from forests 79% of the wood pulp was purchased as certified Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 supply chain 15 Managing supplier relationships The vast majority, 77% of the renewatowards value networks ble fibers, is wood pulp from forests. We source pulp from approx. 30 pulp supWe see our supply chains evolving from pliers principally located in the Nordic traditional sequential, rigid, slow, and countries and South and North America. static to value networks that are aligned Viscose fiber used in some specialties is G4-EN1, EN2 2013 RAW MATERIALS, to customers, collaborative and systemalso made from forest fiber. 600 K TONS ic, quick, and dynamic. Typical benefits from the supply chain evolution include Other natural fibers that we use include driving incremental savings by effecannual fibers (3%) such as abaca, cotton tively managing supply chain risks and linters, jute and some sisal and flax. 2% 1% challenges. The focus is on innovation Abaca, which is used in our food grades, 12% 2% and value creation maximizing the relais clearly the most important of them. tionship value, and gaining a competiAbaca is sourced from the Philippines 48% tive advantage by effectively managing as well as Ecuador. Our cotton linters all truly strategic partners. Collaborative come from the United States. 35% programs with suppliers consist of creating real accountability and incentives We buy our synthetic fiber from 60 for suppliers to deliver business value as producers that are located in Europe, well as streamlining relationships and Asia, and Americas (North and South). processes to eliminate non-value-added 80% of the volumes of synthetic fibers Pulp Annual fibers work. In 2013, we have completed our come from 12 suppliers, and 90% from 18 Chemicals Packaging Synthetic fibers Recycled fibers supplier classification process, set up suppliers. the governance and organization to manage the relationships, have assessed Our main chemical suppliers are very the service level and performance large companies, but chemicals are also management requirements, while in 2014 purchased from medium-sized specialty we will focus on supplier development producers, generally based in Europe and the full deployment of the Supplier and North America. The total chemical Relationship Management Systems for all spending in 2013 was about EUR 130 strategic suppliers. million from a total of approx. 200 sup2013 FIBER RAW MATERIALS, pliers. In Transport, Indirects, and Utilities 380 TONS category we have global, regional, and Supplier Code of Conduct country based suppliers. In some major subcategories, Group-based contracts 1% We abide by “the Ruggie Rules” so that have been signed. 3% production of the raw materials for our 17% 2% high-performance products for a clean Recycled polyester fiber (rPET) made up and healthy environment will cause no 21% of our total polyester fiber purchases. harm to people, the environment, or Recycled paper was used in two plants, society. We have incorporated these Osnabrück and Windsor Locks, and principles to the Ahlstrom Supplier Code comprised two percent of our total wood 77% of Conduct. At 2013 year end, 100% of pulp purchases. the annual fiber, 92% of the natural fiber, 89% of the synthetic fiber, 81% of the Overall, we have approximately 360 raw Forest fiber Recycled fiber chemical, and 61% of the packaging material suppliers for a total expenditure Nonrenewable Renewable supplies were covered by a signed Code of approximately EUR 450 million. synthetic fiber synthetic fiber Annual fiber of Conduct. Signing the code is part of our sourcing KPIs and all new suppliers For Utilities we have approximately 40 must sign the Code before conducting suppliers with an expenditure of EUR 75 business with Ahlstrom. million for energy and EUR 5 million for the rest, such as wastewater etc. Our spending on Logistics is approx. EUR 60 Our raw materials million, with approximately 30 main suppliers in the road and ocean transport. For making high-performance fiber We have expenditures on all the rest, based materials, by far the most imporwhich is MRO (Maintenance, Repair and tant raw material for us is fiber with 64% Operations), Packaging, and Indirects, of of the total raw materials. In 2013, 83% of approximately EUR 110 million with more our fibers came from renewable sources, than 6,000 suppliers. compared with 91% in 2012. This decrease was due to the divestment of six specialty paper plants using exclusively wood fiber. 16 supply chain Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 “ Forests are home to 80% ” of terrestrial biodiversity. Sourcing our wood fiber responsibly We purchase our forest fibers from responsible sources and have an extensive company verification program for it. Natural and plantation forests are keys to global sustainability. All forest types, from primary to plantation forests must be sustainably managed, which means reducing climate change risks, providing critical ecosystem services that make life on earth possible, generating industrial wood and fiber for a very wide range of traditional products and innovative bio-product solutions, providing food and renewable energy, sustaining livelihoods, and delivering recreational benefits. Forests are home to 80% of terrestrial biodiversity. As part of well-planned landscapes, forest plantations play a er share of the pulp usage. The inputs are with greatly improved score compared key role in reducing pressures on natural covered, however, by our own verificato the first disclosure. The CDP Global forests, connect fragmented ecosystems tion program. ­Forests Report 2013 is available at to intact land use mosaics, and make a https://www.cdp.net/CDPResults/ meaningful contribution to conserving Chain of Custody certification is a way CDP-global-forests-report-2013.pdf. biodiversity. of tracking wood-based raw materials from the forest to the consumer, at Sustainable forest management and each change in ownership. We use SGS Conflict minerals responsible product use present the most (­Sociéte Général de Surveillance SA) effective and cost competitive natural to audit this for us. We have currently According to the U.S. Dodd-Frank carbon capture and storage system. 10 plants that are Chain-of-Custody ­Financial Reform Law of 2010, U.S. publicSustainably managed forests provide the certified (see table on page 32); allowing ly traded companies must disclose their raw material for products that are renewthem to sell FSC and PEFC-certified “conflict minerals” that are necessary to able, widely recyclable, and have a low products. We continue to find, however, the functionality of products they mancarbon profile (Source: WBCSD). that many, even large, customers are ufacture or contract to manufacture. reluctant to obtain Chain-of-Custody The conflict minerals are tin, tungsten, Forestry certification is a mechanism certification, limiting our potential to tantalum, and gold. Companies must using independent third-party assurance demonstrate our responsible sourcing by also disclose their supply chains to that the forest in question is managed selling certified products to them. verify whether these minerals originate according to internationally recognized in the Democratic Republic of Congo sustainability criteria. There are two Our Due Diligence System for the EU or adjoining countries. Ahlstrom does major international systems for forest ­T imber Regulation was also externalnot purchase these above-mentioned certification: the Forest Stewardship ly verified by SGS. The Ahlstrom Due conflict minerals for any of our products. Council (FSC™) and the Program for Diligence System covers wood pulps Should we need them, the necessary the Endorsement of Forest Certification that are purchased from outside the EU. due diligence would be applied. (PEFC™). All of Ahlstrom’s pulp suppliers The purpose of the system is to prevent in 2013 were certified according to FSC™ Ahlstrom as an ‘operator’ to place illegal or PEFC™, or both. 79% (81% in 2012) of timber products on the EU market. It the pulp was purchased as FSC or PEFC includes as the main elements measures certified or FSC Controlled Wood. As and procedures providing access to the certified pulp can be purchased by or required information, risk assessment sold to certified plants only, the wood procedures, and risk mitigation procepulp used by our plants that do not have dures. The risk assessments are updated Chain-of-Custody certification comprises annually. the remaining 21%. With the exception of Turin, the Filtration plants are uncertified Ahlstrom participated in the CDP Forest and now comprise a proportionally largdisclosure for the second time in 2013 PEFC/02-31-180 Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 Economic responsibility 17 Economic responsibility As a listed company, Ahlstrom is comG4-EC1 DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED, IN 1,000 EUR mitted to increasing shareholder value 2013 2012 2011 in the long term. We are determined to DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED deliver on this commitment by developRevenues (including financial income) 1,016,071 1,012,554 1,026,205 ing and making products that provide shared value to society in competitive, ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED resource efficient, and profitable operOperating costs (excluding depreciations and impairations. We do this in an ethical manner. ments) -730,894 -723,327 -727,007 Ahlstrom applies the principles of good governance and transparent accountEmployee wages and benefits -219,185 -213,287 -228,361 ing. We follow the International Financial Payments to providers of capital (including interest income, Reporting Standards (IFRS) and abide by other financing income, dividends and interest paid on all applicable legislation. hybrid bond) -56,650 -89,096 -67,632 Ahlstrom’s management practices Community investments -143 -164 -449 related to finance are governed by our Payments to government (only current taxes) -4,367 -5,012 -8,224 Compliance program, which includes our Code of Conduct, Credit Policy, ECONOMIC VALUE RETAINED Group Treasury Policy, Tax guidelines, Risk Economic value retained 4,833 -18,333 -5,467 Management Policy, Purchase invoice approval process, Guideline for foreign exchange risk management, Investment manual, Supplier Code of Conduct, agencies, medical facilities and condiIn addition to paid corporate income Sourcing policy, and Purchase Payment tions, environmental protection, senior taxes, there are tax type payments to Term Policy. citizens’ and fraternal organizations as governments such as customs duties, well as team sports. property taxes, employer payments, tax deductions from payroll and withholding Community investments Ahlstrom does not give political contritaxes as well as other tax type paybutions. ments depending on the country. More Our community investments in 2013 detailed information regarding taxes totaled EUR 143 million. has been given in the notes to the 2013 Tax matters annual consolidated financial statements The Group continued its support of the of Ahlstrom. Eva Ahlström Foundation with a EUR The biggest local impact Ahlstrom makes 70,000 donation. The money donatin communities is by employing people ed thus far has been very successfully who pay their taxes and act as active used in a 3-year UNICEF WASH (Water neighbors. Sanitation and Hygiene) project in India, where close to 20 million schoolchildren, Each Ahlstrom group company aims especially girls, have been helped. A at complying with local legislation and new project will be started with UNICEF in regulations and pays the required taxes the neighboring Rajasthan state. accordingly. A EUR 5,000 donation was made to Ahlstrom acts according to the interest of UNICEF Finland to support the victims of its shareholders and considers taxation typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines, which viewpoints in the overall strategy execuis an important area of supply for the tion; we make sure at all times that tax abaca fiber for our Food business. matters are handled in compliance with the prevailing laws and regulations and The remaining EUR 68,161 was local comby providing open, correct, and timely munity support all over the world in sevinformation to tax authorities. eral locations where we have operating plants. Many plants hosted student visits It is Ahlstrom’s goal to take care of tax and some arranged open houses. For matters in a prudent way. Tax matters are example, the types of activities the seven taken into account in decision making very active American plants did for their and they can, for example, have an community outreach in 2013 include supimpact on choosing manufacturing port for children’s activities, emergency locations. 18 EcoDesign Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 EcoDesign With EcoDesign, Ahlstrom has the ambition to provide new high performance products for a clean and healthy environment that have been designed to minimize their environmental impacts over the whole life cycle. At the beginning of the year, we have 1. Removal of Hazardous Chemicals: Life Cycle Assessment identified our own EcoDesign principles Reduce or eliminate hazardous chemibased on the Green chemistry principles cals from our product supply-chain. We have been using internally Life Cycle and on the biggest contributors to our Assessment (LCA) methodology since products’ environmental impacts. These 2. Low-impacts Materials: Encourage 2011 as the reference tool to assess the four principles are Ahlstrom objectives the use of lower impacts materials, i.e. environmental impacts of products. This toward more sustainable products. biobased materials, recycled materials comprehensive environmental assessor low energy content materials. ment methodology covers raw material extraction and manufacturing, our own 3. Energy Efficiency: Reduce energy manufacturing, conversion and packagconsumption in our manufacturing plants ing, product use, all the way to end-ofbut also at customer and user levels. life disposal. LCA methodology helps us to evaluate the environmental perfor4. Optimization of the Product mances of the products that we offer End-of-life: Encourage the use of recyand to identify priorities toward greener clable or biodegradable materials, as products. Up to now, we have already well as clean incineration. evaluated some of the key products in each business area with an LCA, and In addition of these principles, dedicated will continue to do so within our broader tools are implemented internally to folEcoDesign approach. low all along the product development “ project the environmental performance of the new product and to evaluate its positioning as compared to the current solution. Two different and complemenLCA methodology helps us tary tools are now available: the e-DEA* to evaluate the environmental software, a simplified Life Cycle Assessperformances of the products ment (LCA) tool and the internally dethat we offer and to identify veloped Ahlstrom EcoDesign Scorecard. Within 2013, all product development priorities toward greener ” engineers and managers of Ahlstrom products. Business Areas and at our Group Product & Technology Development Center were trained on the principles of EcoDesign and on corresponding tools. Our EcoDesign targets for next year are to ensure that EcoDesign principles and tools are used in all new product development projects and also to collaborate with our customers towards more sustainable products. * Everybody can Design with Environmental Awareness Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 EcoDesign 19 CASE: Energy savings in use phase with the new Ahlstrom Flow2Save™ filter media more than environment by improving Indoor Air Quality (IAQ) in 30% public buildings. In addition, Ahlstrom Flow2Save™ demonstrates better pressure drop characteristics as compared to energy savings compared typical commercial microglass filters which relate to to typical microglass more than 30% energy savings and lower operation costs for the air treatment system. The environmental A hlstrom Flow2Save™ is a new filtration media assessment with Ahlstrom EcoDesign tools highlighted launched in October 2013 for High Efficiency as well that this better energy efficiency reduces sigAir (HEA) filtration applications. Thanks to its nificantly the environmental footprint of the high effihigh filtration efficiency properties, this innovative ciency filter media since that more than 98% of the life media contributes to provide a cleaner and healthier cycle impacts are determined during its use phase. 200x270_Fow2S TR.indd 1 25/02/14 15.01 Simplified LCA comparison with e-DEA EcoDesign tool ACIDIFICATION NEW PRODUCT 100% REFERENCE PRODUCT 80% EUTROPHICATION WATER CONSUMPTION 60% 40% 20% 0% RESOURCE SCARCITY GLOBAL WARMING PHOTOCHEMICAL OXIDATION NON-RENEWABLE ENERGY The environmental impacts, i.e. impacts to air, water, global warming and so on, as determined in a simplified LCA performed with the eDEA tool were all clearly better for Ahlstrom Flow2Save™ than the conventional microglass media. CASe: Low-Impact materials with natural fibers in reinforcement products O ur product development teams are working on a new generation of reinforcement products using natural fibers for transportation and construction composites. The new bio-composites products have been identified as a strategic growth opportunity meeting the demand for lightweight and more sustainable materials. The natural flax fibers have already demonstrated good properties from a technical standpoint bringing also promising environmental benefits compared to conventional glassfiber products. 20 Our human capital Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 Our human capital We recognize that a diverse, engaged workforce is able to deliver successful business results that are critical to our success. In one of our Focus Areas we have estabAs a globally operating company, Restructuring responsibly lished the targets for high performance. Ahlstrom employs 3547 people in 24 They are to: countries. 90% of the employees work The company has executed in the past outside of Finland. The highly internathree years a significant transformaReach and exceed targets tional character and diversity call for a tion, as our business portfolio has been shared vision and living values that unite reshaped through major transactions, us worldwide. including the divestment of Home and Keep promises and high Personal to Suominen Corporation and quality The foundations are established in the combination of Label and Processing our Code of Conduct; we treat all our with Munksjö AB. The personnel reducCreate a learning employees with respect, and give all of tion of 1,565 employees in 2013, from environment them equal opportunities for personal 5,112 employees to 3,547, has been the growth and professional development, result of primarily the Label and Processregardless of their gender, age, race, ing personnel transferred to Munksjö Oyj ethnicity, disabilities, nationality, sexual in May 2013 reducing the headcounts orientation, religious beliefs, political mainly in France, Italy, and Brazil. The affiliations, marital or economic status, or sale of the decór and abrasive base position within the company. There were paper businesses on PM3 and PM4 in no reported incidents of any type of disOsnabrück to Perusa in Germany as well crimination in 2013, nor any grievances as West Carrollton’s employees transferconcerning labor practices. ring to West Carrollton Parchment and Converting in the USA formed another approx. 350 employees. As a result of the refocusing of the business, our net sales have been reduced by approximately EUR 800 million to approximately EUR 1 billion in the past Our personnel figures As of Dec 31, 2013 G4-10 Employees at year end 2013 2012 2011 Number of employees 3,547 5,112 5,185 Temporary, % 2.9% 2.5% 2.2% Permanent, % 97.1% 97.5% 97.8% White collar, % 41% 40% 39% Blue collar, % 59% 60% 61% Performance dialog completion of white collar, %* 90 89 89 Performance dialog completion of blue collar, % 59 59 61 * based on employee survey results Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 Our human capital 21 “ We treat all our employees with G4-LA1 Employee turnover total and by region The Americas EMEA 2013 7.9% 6.6% 2012 15.1% 10.6% 2011 10.3% 4.4% ” respect. Asia-Pacific 15.0% 15.0% 11.6% Total turnover rate 8.2% 12.1% 6.6% New whitecollar hires' total number and as a share of total 80/5.5% n/a n/a Turnover consists of employments terminated by the employee as well as employments that have been terminated by the company e.g. due to closing units. two years. Reducing our cost base is funAGE DISTRIBUTION FOR THE TOTAL HEADCOUNT BY EDUCATIONAL LEVEL damental in achieving the required imWORKFORCE provement in our financial performance % % and securing the long-term sustainability 100 100 of the company. Bringing the organization to a level that can sustain our current 80 80 business is not possible without personnel reductions. Ahlstrom initiated in summer 60 60 2013 a rightsizing program which was expanded in January 2014 targeting an40 40 nual cost savings of EUR 50 million in 2015. Key actions to achieve the cost savings include the completion of the demerger 20 20 related transfers to Munksjö, consolidation and streamlining functional activities 0 0 11 12 13 11 12 13 to reduce selling, general and admin<30 <50 >60 Basic BSc istration (SGA) costs and productivity <40 <60 Professional MSc or PhD improvements in the supply chain. The total Group wide turnover rate measuring the total number of employees leaving the company – voluntarily or involuntarily was 8.2% last year, which is much higher than in the previous years. In Asia, the turnover rate is the highest. The amount of white collar new hires was 80, which is 5.5% of the total white collar employees, and in China the corresponding numbers were 47 and 13%. 22 Our human capital Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 Diversity G4-LA12 Diversity by groups 2013 2012 2011 We define diversity as the hiring, developing, retaining and promoting Board of Directors talented individuals from many races Total count 7 6 7 and cultures. It includes race, gender, Women, % 14 17 14 age, religion, marital status, disability, Men, % 86 83 86 <30, % 0 0 0 sexual orientation, national origin and veteran status, but goes beyond that by 30-50, % 43 50 57 focusing on creating an environment >50, % 57 50 43 that leverages the talents and diverse number of nationalities 4 3 3 thinking of all the employees that will improve ­Ahlstrom’s competitive position. Executive management team We believe that a diverse business is a Total count 10 11 10 more creative business. Women, % 20 18 20 Men, % 80 82 80 Companies wanting to maintain their <30, % 0 0 0 competitive advantage must be aware 30-50, % 40 55 60 of the changing demographics and >50, % 60 45 40 strive to maximize the contributions of number of nationalities 4 5 5 every employee. Valuing and encouraging diversity of thought, experience, Senior management backgrounds, and talents in our emTotal count 35 ployees will translate into a competitive Women, % 20 advantage. We recognize that a diverse, Men, % 80 engaged workforce is able to deliver <30, % 0 successful business results that are critical 30-50, % 63 to our success. >50, % 37 number of nationalities 9 The age distribution of our employees is well balanced. Middle management Total count 244 Women, % 21 We have employees in 24 countries, with Men, % 79 57% in EMEA (Europe, Middle East, and <30, % 1 Africa), 27% in the Americas, and 16% in 30-50, % 54 Asia. Overall, 21% of the workforce is fe>50, % 45 male, as in the previous year. The largest number of nationalities 10 share of females is in EMEA with 23%, and the lowest in the Americas with 18%. as Global Sales Network the share bemotivation and wellbeing of employees. Total Female Male tween men and women is equal, while in In practice, this means clear roles and The Americas 962 18% 82% traditional manufacturing environments responsibilities, manageable workload, EMEA 1,966 23% 77% the gender distribution is heavily shifted continuous and open communication Asia-Pacific 619 20% 80% toward male dominance. along with active collaboration. Total 3,547 21% 79% In terms of educational background, We believe that leadership is the most The level of diversity is gradually increas24% of the workforce has a minimum of a important driver for performance and ing when going to the lower levels of bachelor’s degree. This can be conculture, where engaged and capable management; among senior managers, trasted with the number of white collar employees are crucial in creating a high the gender diversity is still the same as employees, which is 41%. performance culture. This year, the annuin executive management, but the naal employee engagement survey results tional origin is already more diversified. declined from the previous year, yet at Most senior managers (43%) still come Competence Development the same time people showed increased from Finland, which is explained by the commitment through the excellent 85% location of the head office, but they are In times of uncertainties when organresponse rate. followed by Americans at 29%. In early izations are reorganizing businesses talents coming from all parts of the world and reprioritizing focus areas it is of the We continue developing the competenthere are already 33% females. utmost importance to continue investcies and skills we need to implement our ing in competence development and strategy and drive sustainable growth In our Group administrative functions having an active dialog with all employfor the future. Inspiring, coaching, and Helsinki head office, Group Product ees enforcing their engagement. Extra consistent leadership is a vital factor Development and Technology as well efforts need to be invested to ensure the – without it, none of this will happen. Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 Our human capital 23 Management and leadership development continued with three Ahlstrom Leader programs and with our early-talent program JUMP being successfully run in 2013. Development focus is also being put on our ways of working, be it in the renewed Ahlstrom processes or the way we are expected to work efficiently in a virtual and matrix organization. Code of Conduct e-learning was completed by 82.2% of all whitecollars globally. This is an improvement from the previous year and we continue ensuring that all our newcomers will complete this important training when joining the company. In the compliance trainings held face to face we had 157 of participants We continued our partnership with IMD Fair and motivating compensation is in 7 different locations. Ethical behavior in Lausanne, Switzerland for the specific achieved through a salary that is in line is expected from all employees and we development of key executives. On the with the requirements of the job and the continue taking strides to ensure good other end, we had apprenticeships in our performance and competences of the compliance also going forward. plant locations and several Masters or employee. The employee survey results Doctors thesis workers. again confirmed that employees are The Group level trainings delivered satisfied with their compensation, good through our internal Ahlstrom ­Academy work is being rewarded and employees we organized 80 training sessions Performance-based are willing to go the extra mile. combining different methods; webinars, compensation virtual training sessions, e-learning, face to face programs and also longer, more The performance management process Talent management comprehensive programs. In total, we has become a well-established process had 2,170 participants in our training throughout Ahlstrom. Our target is that To achieve our strategic goals, we need programs. all employees have a performance productive managers, employees and discussion during the year and have their teams. Going forward we need to focus The input for the focus areas of Ahlstrom targets defined and documented in our on providing good learning and growth Academy is twofold; the areas we as a global Performance Management Tool. opportunities for our pool of existing company need to improve on are the In the employee survey, 72% of all our talents to retain them in the company. strategic competencies identified as employees reported that they have had Attracting and retaining world-class part of the strategy process. This gives us the performance discussion during the professionals is crucial to further grow the frame to which we get more detailed year. This breaks down to 90% of white both our intellectual and human capital. input from the individual development collars and 59% of blue collars reporting To execute our strategy, we need to plans. that the discussion has been held. have the right people with the right skills, behaviors and mindset in the right place We also continue fostering diversity in a Not only the company’s financial perat the right time. very broad view, meaning that we value formance, but also success-related indiand support the growth of people with vidual performance assessments have Competence development, talent different cultural backgrounds, people an influence on an employee’s bonus management, and succession planning from different age groups, people with payment. Individual targets also include are all key processes to managing our different strengths and skill sets and sustainability related goals that are human capital. people with different genders. In JUMP, linked to the annual bonus. The bonus is this becomes very concrete as the linked to the HPI (Human Potential Index) participants are practically forming a for any manager having direct reports, fully diverse group. This year, we had 15 safety goals, as well as waste in operaparticipants from 10 different countries tions for any manager having production from all over the world, representing all plant responsibility. In a mid-year review, our business areas and functions, being the employee and manager are expectAhlstrom Academy: 80 both males and females. Mentoring is a ed to discuss and review progress of the key element of the JUMP program after agreed goals and development actions, the actual course; tacit knowledge is workload and motivation, and future transferred from experienced colleagues career aspirations as well as willingness to JUMPees to further support their cato relocate. training sessions reer development. During last year 24 Health and Safety Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 Health and Safety We are making good progress with our behavior based safety programs. Behavior Based Safety CASE: Behavior Based Safety at Brignoud, France, helps Back in 2012, we decided to further driving safety performance to World-Class Level develop our safety performance by focusing more on behavior based safety (BBS). We noticed that most of our plants had reached a plateau in safety performance, while the procedures needed to manage safety well were implemented. We needed to shift our focus from implementing procedures to influencing behavior. In the end, people’s behavior is what leads to whether there are accidents or not. We gave our plants the freedom to choose themselves the BBS partner they preferred to work with. Seven plants implemented a behavior based safety program in its entirety during 2013 while two plants started to implement their BBS program. Common elements in these BBS programs are creating awareness for the possible consequences of our behavior, carrying out observations and giving constructive feedback, reporting and follow up W of observations requiring actions other e started co-operation Managers are required to do two than direct feedback. The results of these programs have become already with a local French consafety visits per month, in teams of visible in the form of a reduced amount sultant, Esso Technologie two persons. Giving feedback is of occupational accidents in those nine Securite Conseil Audit Formation, one of the challenges. The obserplants. ETSCAF, in France. In Brignoud, 80 vations are written down in a form, employees of the total 140 employand the forms are evaluated by ees received training on behavior the safety manager in daily and and safety. Next to that, 24 manweekly meetings of the safety agers and supervisors received committee. Corrective actions training in how to observe and are followed up on. These safety recognize safe and unsafe behavvisits added work not only to the ior, and how to give constructive Safety manager but also to the feedback to the person being obline managers; safety is part of served. The training included obtheir responsibility and this is one servation and feedback exercises. of the key tools for accountability. Managers were trained on how to The important thing is that the risks “ give constructive feedback when are identified in the first place. noticing unsafe behavior and how The French Pont-Audemer and to give positive feedback for safe Saint-Severin plants also started We needed to shift our behavior. the BBS program with the help of focus from implementing ETSCAF in December 2013. After the observation and feedprocedures to influencing back training in Brignoud in June, ” behavior. the BBS program was started. Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 Health and Safety 25 CASE: Behavior Based Safety program based on DuPont STOP for Everyone ® at Mount Holly Springs, PA and Bethune, SC, USA 2013 Safety Performance Our Lost Time Accident rate continues to decrease, and 18 of our 29 plants had a zero LTA rate in 2013. Our safety targets for 2013 were very ambitious: We aimed for fewer than 7 Lost Time Accidents and fewer than 72 Recordable Injuries. We had 17 Lost Time Accidents, equaling an Accident Frequency Rate of 2.45, a reduction of 11% compared to 2.76 in 2012. The Accident Severity Rate dropped from 0.14 in 2012 to 0.085 in 2013. We had Steve Hammond and Mark Cassel. 54 Recordable Injuries, considerably betT ter than our target for 2013, seventy-two. Our Total Recordable Injury Frequency he Ahlstrom plants in Mount increase in reporting has affected Rate was 8.1 in 2013. Holly Springs and Bethune improvements in safety in areas (USA) decided to work tofrom the office to the plant floor. Our plants are audited by an external gether with DuPont Sustainability The type of improvements have body, SGS. Fourteen plants have the Resources and implement the been from employee behavior ­Occupational Health and Safety AdvisoDuPont Safety Training Observation and practices to physical changes ry Services, OHSAS 18001 certificate (see Certification status table on page 32). Program, or STOP for Everyone ® in locations and equipment. All our plants are also subject to internal Program. A team was formed conHealth, Safety and Environmental audits sisting of Mark Cassel, Engineering Feedback and communication performed by our own highly experiand HSE Manager Mount Holly around safety is one of the keys to enced internal HSE Assessment team. Springs, Steve Hammond, Process creating a cultural change where We did totally eleven internal HSE audits, Engineer Mount Holly Springs and people can make a conscious of which three initial HSE audits. Christi Mills, HR Specialist, Bethune choice to perform their job safely. Converting. They were trained by The strength of positive feedback DuPont to be able to deliver the when a job is performed well canDuPont STOP training in-house. The not be underestimated. By having STOP Program was then cascaded these visible safety observations G4-LA6 ACCIDENT FREQUENCY RATE, to the 80 employees at the Mount with positive feedback in the plant, AFR people come and speak out Holly Springs Plant and the 72 employees at the Bethune Converting about the possible safety issues. 6 Plant using the work books and 5 videos supplied by DuPont. People “By creating awareness about saw value in the training and safe and unsafe behavior among 4 started to do safety observations the employees, delivered by and and give constructive feedback to given to their peers, we are able to 3 peers. Safety has become a subtake the next step on our quest to 2 ject that is recognized and apprezero accidents,” says Mark Cassel, ciated. Any employee can issue “I couldn’t have done this on my 1 a work order request for items reown; safety is the responsibility of quiring actions from maintenance everyone!” 0 09 10 11 12 13 or other personnel. The amount of safety observations and near miss reports is rapidly rising. The 26 Energy and climate change Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 Energy and climate change Environmental awareness and resource Responsibility for HSEA risks machines. The West Carrollton plant was scarcity are two of the megatrends that sold to West Carrollton Parchment and Ahlstrom is basing its strategy on. When The principal responsibility for ­Ahlstrom’s Converting Inc. in December 2013, and making products for a clean and healthy Health, Safety, and Environmental this transaction was closed on December environment, we need to take extra care performance is undertaken by the 31, 2013. All of these changes resulted that we minimize our own impacts on Executive Vice President of HR and in changes in Ahlstrom’s environmental ecosystems and their biodiversity and ­Sustainability. As a member of the profile and are apparent in the accomrespect the ecological limits or planetary ­Executive M ­ anagement Team, this panying graphs. We have recalculated boundaries. Whatever we do, we need position reports directly to the President all the data for the continuing operations to do things right the first time to save & CEO on all health, safety, and envito have a more meaningful comparison resources. ronmental issues. The Vice President of to previous years. Health, Safety, Environment, and Assets (HSEA) reports directly to the EVP of HR Energy use Managing adverse impacts and Sustainability, and directs a regional organization focused on the Americas, We continue to preferentially burn All human activity has an impact on the Europe and Asia. Policies and standards natural gas as the cleanest burning fuel environment. All of our operations could are communicated through networks representing 69% of the fuels used. The potentially have negative impacts if within each region to the operating sites. Osnabrück boiler burns a mixture of not managed well. They consume large A Group assessment team conducts site energy waste from external sources and amounts of energy and raw materials audits, targeting each operating site on coal. In addition, all own waste that canand generate emissions and waste. In a three-year cycle, to monitor complinot be recycled otherwise is recovered response to such issues, all of our operaance with Ahlstrom’s HSEA standards. there for energy. The boiler is now owned tions have implemented precautionary Recommendations are developed in by the joint venture where Ahlstrom owns actions to minimize any harm they would conjunction with specific actions and 50% of it and Perusa the other half. do to the environment. The precauschedules, which are tracked via a webtionary approach means that where based tracking system. The ‘other’ fuel in the following table there are threats of serious or irreversible consists of hydropower in Turin. We are damage, a lack of full scientific certainty including the study of renewable energy is not used as a reason for postponing Restructuring in manufacturing in each energy survey done. cost-effective measures to prevent envioperations ronmental degradation. It is one of our The total energy used by Ahlstrom last key objectives to have an environmental In 2013, as in 2012, Ahlstrom continyear was 2,382 GWh. management system in place in each ued to streamline its operations. These plant. In 2013, 94% of the production changes have affected, in a significant had an ISO14001 certification. The plants way, A­ hlstrom’s environmental profile Energy efficiency program to be that do not yet have the certification and footprint. The Label and Processing reinforced from 2014 are the two Chinese plants, Binzhou and business was demerged to Munksjö on ­Longkou, as well as Mundra in India. May 27, 2013. The plants in Rottersac, Ahlstrom is launching a new phase in its Stenay, and La Gere in France, J­ acarei energy efficiency program. The focus on The plants that are located in biodiversity in Brazil and a big part of the Turin reducing energy consumption and emishotspot areas as defined in the WBCSD plant in Italy transferred to Munksjö. The sions has been increasing since the early Global Water Tool are Louveira in Brazil Osnabrück, Germany plant except one 2000’s, when the energy cost saving (Atlantic Forest) and Brignoud, France, paper machine was sold to Perusa, a investment funds have been introduced as well as Fabriano and Turin, Italy German-based private equity group in and a number of energy surveys have (­Mediterranean basin). This makes it even the end of 2013, while a common service been promoted in several plants. Since more important to have a robust environcompany was formed to serve ­Perusa 2011 there has been in place an internal mental management system in place. and Ahlstrom operating the paper Energy Expert Network to promote the Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 Energy and climate change 27 G4-EN3 ENERGY USAGE IN 2013 2013 % 2012 % FUELS Coal TJ 471 8% 516 9% Oil TJ 200 4% 67 1% Gas TJ 3,928 69% 3,651 67% Solid Waste TJ 755 13% 899 16% Other TJ 343 6% 341 6% 5,697 5,474 ELECTRICITY Purchased TJ 1,785 90% 1,682 90% Own production TJ 190 10% 195 10% 1,975 PROCESS HEAT Steam, own production TJ 3,269 54% 4,132 74% Steam, purchased TJ 1,093 18.1% incl. in own production Gas (IR) TJ 1,674 27.7% 1,438 26% Electric energy (IR) TJ 13 0.2% 24 0.4% 6,049 5,594 sharing of the best practices that have Union has been promoting actively a 2020 • A solid wide base, which includes the emerged over the years. These efforts agenda, in which energy efficiency plays definition of energy management have allowed to maintain an average rea paramount role in a world of scarce systems at plant levels. The systems turn of less than 2 years on an investment and expensive resources. In line with the include both the management proamount over EUR 10 million in energy efEU agenda, Ahlstrom has an ambition to cess and procedures to continuously ficiency since 2004, excluding the major aim at a reduction of 20% by 2020 in both improve energy efficiency, as well energy investment activities. specific energy consumption as well as as the measurement methods and carbon emissions per ton of product, using tools. Within Ahlstrom there is already The targets for an energy efficiency pro2012 as a baseline. Starting in 2014, we will experience of these systems at plant gram need now to be revamped, both be defining the targets and actions plans level (e.g. in Ställdalen, Sweden and in terms of definition of Key ­Performance based on this ambition. Osnabrück, Germany which are both Indicators and targets, and in terms certified for energy efficiency under of time horizon. If year 2015 has been The new cross-functional energy efficiency ISO standards) and at Group level in until today the declared horizon, the program is being launched with a view the form of a central database includnext logical step is to extend the time over different layers of a pyramid: ing energy consumption and emission horizon of the targets. The European data updated monthly. • A good follow-up and continuation of G4-EN19 ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAM the experience in the investments on energy efficiency, which have been generating reliable savings in terms of energy consumption, emissions and cost. • Planning and prioritization of higher LONG TERM cost capital investment items. For exTARGETS ample, Ahlstrom has recently invested in two new Regenerative Thermal Oxidizers, one in Taylorville, IL, USA which started in December 2013, and MAJOR CAPITAL PROJECTS one in Binzhou, China planned to start in 2014, to replace in both cases less Examples: efficient Thermal Oxidizers. RTO in Taylorville, USA and Binzhou, China with -30% natural gas consumption • Continuous monitoring of results vs. the long term targets. This includes also continuing to conduct and analyze energy surveys to define continuous improvement projects and improve LOW COST INVESTMENTS OR PRODUCTION PROJECTS the visibility of energy consumption and emissions as key parameters at the operations level. ENERGY EFFICIENCY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM, ENERGY SURVEYS, MAPPING 28 Energy and climate change Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 The new phase in the energy efficienCarbon Disclosure Project G4-EN18 ENERGY EFFICIENCY cy program therefore includes two MWh/ton GJ/ton elements: a Group wide cross functional The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is 1.6 16 team with a dedicated resource to allow an independent non-profit organiza1.4 14 detailing how to maintain a sustainable tion working to reduce the greenhouse pace of energy savings, and detailed gases emitted by organizations around 1.2 12 plant audits, focusing first on the plants the world, and promote sustainable 1 10 with relatively high energy consumption, water use. Ahlstrom participated for the 0.8 8 to identify the priorities where the return sixth time in the CDP Carbon Disclosure on efforts and investments can generate in 2013, and for the second time in the 0.6 6 better efficiencies from an overall comSupply Chain CDP and Forest Disclosure 0.4 4 pany point of view. Looking at the 2014 CDP. The results are available at pipeline of energy savings projects, for http://www.cdproject.net. 0.2 2 example, a reduction in specific energy 0 0 09 10 11 12 13 consumption and CO2 emissions over 3% is reachable. The structure of the energy Zero Waste to Landfill Electrical efficiency MWh/gross ton efficiency program will address the Process heat efficiency GJ/gross ton question of ensuring that the pipeline of In 2013, our waste to landfill increased projects can be kept full to maintain the slightly from 6,475 tons to 6,614 tons while pace of generating opportunities. our waste to landfill per gross ton product slightly decreased from 16.0 kg/gross ton to 15.4 kg/gross ton. G4-EN15 DIRECT CO2 EMISSIONS Emissions to the air (SCOPE 1) Our quest to zero waste to landfill reton CO2/year kg CO2/ton of product The main source of Ahlstrom’s air emisquires innovation, co-operation, looking 500,000 1,000 sions is the burning of fossil fuels (natural for new local solutions, learning from gas, oil, and coal) to generate process others, not giving up, and keeping an steam and to dry our products. Our stratopen mind. Our focus is in the first place 400,000 800 egy for emissions reductions focuses on on preventing formation of waste in improved energy efficiency, and cleaner the process; if we cannot reach further 300,000 600 burning fuels. Natural gas is the preferred prevention of waste, we try to recycle and dominant source of fuel accounting the waste inside the plant. If this is not 200,000 400 for 69% of the total, as it delivers the most possible, we look for recycling options in energy per emitted carbon dioxide. another company, and for reuse in other 100,000 200 products. If recycling is not possible, In 2013, our absolute overall emissions we evaluate the possibility to use it as 0 0 of CO2, NOx, SO2 and particles for our energy waste. As waste has a low or 09 10 11 12 13 continuing business slightly increased sometimes even negative value, also ton CO2/year compared to 2012, and so did our gross transport distances and transport costs kg CO2/gross ton production. In 2013, direct CO2 emissions are important. One of the key issues for (Scope I) raised from 291,991 tons in 2012 proper recycling is the separation of the to 313,769 tons in 2013, or 7.5%. The CO2 different waste streams at the source to intensity increased by 0.8% from 720 to avoid contamination. 726 kg/gross ton. NOx raised slightly from 271.7 tons in 2012 to 273.9 tons in 2013, or In countries such as Germany, Belgium, 0.8%, and SO2 reduced from 112 tons in India, and China we have already G4-EN21 NOX, SO2 AND OTHER 2012 to 84 tons in 2013 or -25%.The absoachieved zero waste to landfill; partly beEMISSIONS INTO THE AIR tons CO2 /year tons/year lute increase in CO2 emissions was mainly cause the legislation requires recycling, caused by an average increase in gross partly because the recycled material 400,000 800 and net production of the ­Ahlstrom has value and means business and, plants that remained in Ahlstrom’s postherefore, also the infrastructure and 300,000 600 session. service companies making full recycling possible exist. The CO2 emissions from Ahlstrom’s 200,000 400 corporate business air travel (Scope III) With the change in business portfolio, decreased in 2013 by 17% compared we have slightly fewer possibilities for to previous year. A concentrated effort internal recycling, as in many cases 100,000 200 has been made to increase internal our end product is a mix of different communication by video conferences, materials that cannot be recovered. This webinars, conference calls, etc. utilizing stresses even more the importance of 0 0 09 10 11 12 13 modern technology. This continues with waste reduction at the source, by the even more vigor in 2014. reduction of trims and off-spec material CO2 (Scope 1) SO2 tons produced during start-up, shutdown and NOX tons change over. We successfully reduced Particles Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 Energy and climate change 29 the trim and off-spec waste in Tver, Russia, a change in legislation in the bordering G4-EN23 LANDFILLED SOLID WASTE and Fabriano, Italy. We found a new state of Massachusetts. Toward the end of tons/year kg/gross ton recycle outlet, where part of our glassfiber 2013, we found a nearby power plant that 20,000 40 containing waste from Karhula, Finland, is is willing to take our energy waste, and recycled for use in construction materials thereby it looks like we may have solved in Germany. this issue. 15,000 30 We have changed over to another While the overall picture of our waste to 10,000 20 recycling company in Chirnside, UK, that landfill is very similar to 2012, we have provides us better reuse and energy use made progress at several plants, which of our waste flows. We worked together was offset by the setback in Windsor Locks 5,000 10 with our recycling company in Turin, Italy, in 2013. As we have resolved this issue, and to reduce our waste to landfill stream and we have solutions and plans to reduce our recover more. We reached zero waste to waste to landfill further in 2014 at many of 0 0 09 10 11 12 13 landfill in Tampere, Finland, by tackling our plants, the outlook for 2014 to reduce and solving the problems we had with the waste to landfill considerably is good. tons/year different waste streams to make recycling kg/gross ton possible. We did not incur any spills into the environment in 2013, nor did we pay any fines for We have had a setback with our waste non-compliance to environmental laws management in Windsor Locks in 2013: our and regulations. handler of energy waste shut down their energy pellets plant immediately due to CASE: Progress with Lean manufacturing initiative “For that, we start by identifying improvements in priorities for each plant, before on-time delivery 5–10% moving into plant specific improvement actions”, says Grégory Machet, Lean Manager for the Ahlstrom Group. In 2013, Lean was launched at four L pilot plants (Bousbecque, France, ean is a continuous improveHuyn Poong, South Korea, Mikkeli, ment methodology that supFinland and Windsor Locks, CT, ports improvements in safety, USA). The activities are showing delivery performance and lead encouraging results, with improvetime, quality and cost across the ments in on-time delivery in the complete process flow. Lean goes range of 5 to 10%, with customer beyond being a tool set; it is an claims reduction up to 50% and approach to working that involves waste reduction by 1% unit in some everyone in reducing inefficiencies plants. Lean has also contributed and thus delivering great results for to productivity improvements in the customers. identified areas. To support these results, defined processes have “Lean helps us focusing on acbeen implemented in the plants, tivities that create value for the with a strong focus set on process customer and on reducing the standardization, visual managenon-value-added activities, by ment, process confirmation and involving all people in the plants”. structured communication. 30 Water is our most important raw material Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 Water is our most important raw material Water is the source of life, yet only 1% of water for industrial use. We prioritize of the world’s water resources are fresh water savings based on scarcity. Case: Great advances water. Over 40% of the world’s populain resource efficiencytion lives in areas of severe water stress, Water and energy are interrelated. The recycling nonwoven and over 1.1 billion people lack access more water we use in our processes, the process waste to safe drinking water, as evident on more energy it takes to pump it, also I the water scarcity map on page seven. additional wet processes like various n the past, there has been no This trend is to increase due to three surface treatments increase the energy simple technical solution for megatrends; population increase, demand for drying. Our energy efficienrecycling nonwoven process temperature increase, and urbanization. cy surveys are helping us to find ways to waste, which consists of side trim What companies can do about this is to preserve water in our processes. assess the risks with regard to their water and reject rolls. They have been use and be good stewards of the water Ahlstrom’s water balance in 2013 detailsent to landfill or in the best case they use. ing the sources and destinations for the incinerated for energy recovery. effluent is shown in the graph below. We have assessed water scarcity at our In October 2011, a pair of recylocations using the WBCSD Global Water The total water intake for 2013 increased cling extruders was installed on Tool that takes into account available compared to 2012, partly because the the Windsor Locks, CT, USA, spunfresh water per person on a watershed Turin Transportation Filtration water bond machine producing nonlevel but lacks the time dimension, i.e. consumption is for the first time included wovens for medical fabrics. The even if there seems to be abundant in the figures. purpose of the installation was water resources, in dry summers there still to recycle waste trim and rolls can be water risks with the availability directly back into the process without first transforming them into pellets. This allows for less degradation of the material and G4-EN8, EN22 WATER BALANCE a higher recycling rate as well as less overall processing of the material. The system is capable Evaporation of recycling all of the polypropylene waste trim and side rolls that ~1.6 million m3 the process generates. Half a year later, a similar instalSurface Surface lation was made in the state-ofwater water the-art SMS nonwoven machine 20.2 million m3 20.5 million m3 in Mundra, India. The machine AHLSTROM also makes fabrics for medical Municipal Municipal end use. The online recyclers water NET WATER USE water directly recycle trims and reject 2.6 million m3 2.1 million m3 fabric into the spunbond beams. 4.0 million m3 In both cases, the material Groundwater efficiency has been improved 1.9 million m3 by 7-10%. The integrity of the raw Moisture material is maintained and no in products negative effect is shown on the 13,000 m3 product quality or performance. To soil 0.5 million m3 The end result in both cases is not only greatly improved resource efficiency, but also a reduced Our net water use is calculated as the sum all of the water that cannot be returned to environmental footprint of both its source: groundwater use, evaporation and water drained to the soil plus the water the operations and the products. shipped out as moisture in the products. Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 Water is our most important raw material 31 G4-EN8, EN22 TOTAL WATER INTAKE G4-EN22 TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS Emissions to water AND DISCHARGE IN THE EFFLUENTS Million m3/year tons TSS / year All releases to water have been calcu35 250 lated taking into account that we only calculate the COD (Cationic Oxygen 30 200 Demand), TSS (Total Suspended Solids), Total Nitrogen and Total Phosphorus of 25 plants that treat the wastewater them150 20 selves. All other plants send their wastewater to a municipal water treatment 15 100 plant and, therefore, their releases after 10 treatment are not known. Therefore, we 50 used as denominator the tons of product 5 of those plants that do treat their water, 0 0 not the whole Ahlstrom. Due to the di09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 vestments, the percentage of Ahlstrom’s Total water intake wastewater treated at municipal plants Cooling water went up to 9%. All discharge figures and Total water discharge gross tons production relate to the 91% of wastewater treated at Ahlstrom owned and operated wastewater treatment G4-EN22 CATIONIC OXYGEN G4-EN22 NITROGEN AND facilities. Discharge figures and gross tons DEMAND IN THE EFFLUENTS PHOSPHORUS IN THE EFFLUENTS kg/ton tons/year of plants whose wastewater is treated by municipal or third party wastewater 3.0 40 treatment plants, and black liquor waste2.5 water spread on the fields as fertilizer are 30 excluded. 2.0 The Transportation Filtration plant in Turin, 20 1.5 where environmental data used to be allocated to Label and Processing, is since 1.0 May 2013 allocated to ­Transportation 10 Filtration. This resulted in a raise in COD, 0.5 ­Total N, Total P and Total Suspended ­Solids in the continuing business of 0 0 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 Ahlstrom. The Chirnside plant saw an increase in the release of Total N and Total Nitrogen tons Total Phosphorous tons Total P and the Windsor Locks plant an increase in TSS. The changes can be partly attributed to the river water intake quality at the times of the sampling, affecting the effluent. The effluent figures are on a similar level as in the years 2009-2011. One of our 2014 sustainability focus areas will be to define the best water metrics, gaps for best performance, and action plans for improvement. 32 Certification table Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 Certification table HEALTH& PLANT COUNTRY FSC PEFC QUALITY ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY OTHERS Ahlstrom Group FINLAND X X N/A N/A N/A Bärenstein GERMANY ISO9001 ISO14001 Binzhou CHINA Bousbecque FRANCE X X ISO9001 ISO14001 OHSAS18001 Brignoud FRANCE X X ISO9001 ISO14001 OHSAS18001 IPPC Chirnside UK X X ISO9001 ISO14001 IPPC Fabriano ITALY N/A N/A ISO9001 ISO14001 OHSAS18001 Grycksbo&Falun SWEDEN ISO9001 ISO14001 Hyun Poong KOREA ISO9001, TS16949 ISO14001 OHSAS18001 Ingres FRANCE ISO9001 Karhula FINLAND N/A N/A ISO9001 ISO14001 OHSAS18001 Kauttua PM4 FINLAND ISO9001 ISO14001 OHSAS18001 Longkou CHINA Louveira BRAZIL ISO9001, TS16949 ISO14001 OHSAS18001 Madisonville USA ISO9001 ISO14001 Malmédy BELGIUM X X ISO9001 ISO14001 IPPC Mikkeli FINLAND N/A N/A ISO9001 ISO14001 OHSAS18001 Mount Holly Springs&Bethune USA ISO9001 ISO14001 Mundra INDIA N/A N/A ISO9001 Osnabrück GERMANY X X ISO9001 ISO14001 OHSAS18001 EEG, ISO50001 Pont Audemer FRANCE X X ISO9001 ISO14001 OHSAS18001 Radcliffe UK ISO9001 ISO14001 IPPC Saint Séverin FRANCE X X ISO9001 ISO14001 OHSAS18001 Ställdalen SWEDEN X X ISO9001 ISO14001 OHSAS18001 EN16001 Tampere FINLAND ISO9001 ISO14001 OHSAS18001 Taylorville USA ISO9001 ISO14001 Turin ITALY X X ISO9001, TS16949 ISO14001 OHSAS18001 EMAS Tver RUSSIA N/A N/A ISO9001 ISO14001 Windsor Locks USA X X ISO9001 ISO14001 EEG = Erneuerbare-Energien-Gesetz EN = Energy Management System EMAS = Eco-Management and Audit Scheme IPPC = International Plant Protection Convention ISO = International Standardization Organization ISO/TS = ISO Technical Specification (for automotive quality systems) OHSAS = Occupational Health and Safety Advisory Services Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 GRI 33 GRI table GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS page G4-1 Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior posi2 tion) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. G4-2 4, 11–12 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE page G4-3 Report the name of the organization. 1 G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services. 6 G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. 1 G4-6 Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has 1, 7 significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. 1 G4-8 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). 6 G4-9 Report the scale of the organization, including: 1, 7, Financial -Total number of employees statements -Total number of operations -Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations) -Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) -Quantity of products or services provided G4-10 a. Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender. 20–23 b. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. d. Report the total workforce by region and gender. e. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. f. Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 10 G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. 14–16 G4-13 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure,ownership, or its sup3, 20–23, ply chain, including: 26, 36 -Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions -Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alterationoperations (for private sector organizations) -Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers,including selection and termination G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 26 G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organiza9 tion subscribes or which it endorses. G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in 9 which the organization: -Holds a position on the governance bod -Participates in projects or committees -Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues -Views membership as strategic This refers primarily to memberships maintained at the organizational level. IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES page G4-17 a. List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. 36, Financial b. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is statements not covered by the report. The organization can report on this Standard Disclosure by referencing the information in publicly available consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. G4-18 a. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. 8 b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. 8 G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization, as follows: 8 -Report whether the Aspect is material within the organization -If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in G4-17), select one of the following two approaches and report either: ––The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not material or ––The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspects is material -Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization, as follows: 8 -Report whether the Aspect is material outside of the organization -If the Aspect is material outside of the organization, identify the entities, groups of entities or elements for which the Aspect is material. In addition, describe the geographical location where the Aspect is material for the entities identified -Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. 26 G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. 26 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT page G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 9 G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 9 34 GRI Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 G4-26 Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by 9 stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has 9–10 responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. REPORT PROFILE page G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. 36 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 36 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). 36 G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 36 G4-32 a. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. 36 b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below). c. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. G4-33 a. Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. c. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. d. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. GOVERNANCE page G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. 11–12 Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY page G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of 1 ethics. SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES MATERIAL ASPECTS DMA AND INDICATORS Ethics p. 12; G4-HR2, HR3, HR8, HR10, HR12, SO4, SO5 EcoDesign approach p. 11, 18–19 Safety p. 12; G4-LA6 Resource efficiency & Minimized emissions p. 11; G4-EN15-24 Certified fiber sources p. 11, 16 Communication of the sustainability benefits of our products p. 11, 18–19 Talent attraction and retention p. 12, 20-23; G4-LA1 Economic results p. 17, 5 Water scarcity & Water use p. 12; G4-EN8, 22 Competence development p. 12, 20–23 Renewable energy p. 11; G4-EN3 Well-being at work p. 12, 20–23 Open communication p. 12, 20–23 Good governance p. 13, 17 Community relations p. 12, 17 Diversity p. 12, 20-23, G4-LA12 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE page G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distrubuted 17 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE MATERIALS page G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 15 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 15 ENERGY G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 27 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 28 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 27 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 18–19 WATER G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 30 BIODIVERSITY G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value 26 outside protected areas EMISSIONS G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 1) 28 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 28 Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 GRI 35 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 27 G4-EN21 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions 28 EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 30 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 29 (partly) G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills 29 PRODUCTS AND SERVICES G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 4, 18–19 COMPLIANCE G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental 29 laws and regulations OVERALL G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 27 SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 15 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK EMPLOYMENT page G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region 21 (partly) OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and total number of work related 25 (partly) fatalities, by region and by gender TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employ23 (partly) ee category DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age 22 group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity LABOR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 20 HUMAN RIGHTS INVESTMENT page G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to 23 operations, including the percentage of employees trained (partly) NON-DISCRIMINATION G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 20 INDIGENOUS RIGHTS G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples actions taken 13 SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 15 HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 13 SOCIETY LOCAL COMMUNITIES page G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 17 (partly) ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 13 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 13 PUBLIC POLICY G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary 17 ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes 13 COMPLIANCE G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations 13 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY page G4-PR1 Percentage of signifant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement 18–19, (partly) PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 9–10 36 Report profile Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT TABLE Adherence to the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact page HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 13 PRINCIPLE 2 Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 13 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 3 collective bargaining; 10,13 PRINCIPLE 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; 13 PRINCIPLE 5 the effective abolition of child labor; and 13 PRINCIPLE 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 13,20 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 26 PRINCIPLE 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 26–31 PRINCIPLE 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 26–31 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 13 Report profile This is our fourth stand-alone Sustainability Report Ahlraw material data. In the financial data, they are separated strom has published and it covers the calendar year 2013. and reported as ‘discontinuing operations’ and reported The 2012 report was published in March 2013. We have according to IFRS5. All environmental data for previous developed our reporting toward compliance with the G4 years has been recalculated to include only the continuing guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative. Based on our operations. own assessment, our reporting complies with the GRI G4 guidelines ‘core’ level. Our joint ventures include Longkou, China where Ahlstrom owns 60% of it and it is included in the financial and headThis year the report is not assured per the decision of the count figures for all of 2013, on the basis what was detailed senior executive in charge of sustainability. As the certifihereinabove. Group safety and environmental data as well cation table on page 32 shows, the plants are subject to as raw materials include Longkou at 100%. multiple audits per year thanks to the robust certification coverage throughout the company. In addition, we have a Data collection and internal controls for the HSE and well-functioning internal HSE audit system. headcount data are carried out centrally by the Group. We welcome any feedback on this report or on our sustainabiliIf not stated otherwise, this report covers all the functions ty performance. under Ahlstrom’s control, including all subsidiaries. Joint ventures are accounted to the level that corresponds with our ownership. Possible deviations are reported in conjunction with the GRI indicators. In addition, the bases of calculations including assumptions are reported in conjunction with Please contact for questions: the indicators. Anna Maija Wessman Ahlstrom completed the demerger of its Label and VP Sustainability ­Processing business area where altogether six plants – Stenay, Rottersac, La Gère, part of Turin, Osnabrück, and anna.wessman@ahlstrom.com Jacarei -formed the divested operations. These plants are excluded from the annual safety and environmental statistics with the exception of Osnabrück. The former Label and Processing plants are not included in the headcount or Photography: Susanna Aarnio, Paavo Hamunen, Anna Maija Wessman, Mika-Pekka Markkanen, Anna Honkanen, Janne Lehtinen, Susa Junnola, Tuomas Harjumaaskola, UNICEF This year our annual reporting is divided into three separate parts: Ahlstrom Story 2013, Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 and Ahlstrom Financials 2013. All three documents are available in PDF form on our website www.ahlstrom.com and can also be ordered Ahlstrom Group as printed versions. Ahlstrom Story 2013 P.O. Box 329, FI-00101 Helsinki Learning and Ahlstrom Financials 2013 Alvar Aallon katu 3 C, FI-00100 Helsinki Acting Ahlstrom Sustainability 2013 Creating Learning and responsibly Acting value renewing Finland renewing responsibly Tel. +358 (0) 10 888 0 Fax. +358 (0) 10 888 4709 firstname.lastname@ahlstrom.com www.ahlstrom.com AHLSTROM AHLSTROM AHLSTROM AHLSTROM AHLSTROM
