Hanoi EPC Co., Ltd Plot 6, Block 2, collective zone of economic police bureau Xuan La ward, Tay Ho dist., Hanoi city, Vietnam huyld@hanoiepc.com To our Stakeholders Date: 28 August 2014 Subject: Statement of continued support Dear Sir, I am pleased to confirm that Hanoi EPC Co., Ltd reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Your faithfully, Le Duc Huy Director of Hanoi EPC Co., Ltd COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Date: 29 August 2014 Human Rights  Assessment, policy and goals Respect for the human rights principles is in the core of our activity, this being confirmed through the written commitment: The Company’s Human Resources Policy – which is based on the principles of Safety, Healthy, Creativity, Transparency and Humanism with a view to consult professional careers that serve not only the company interests but also the personal and professional goals of our employees. Continued support to the promotion of the social benefits of our intervention is a major goal for Hanoi EPC. We plan to promote specific measure to favor the protection of our staff facing complex family situation, particularly in the cases of serious sickness.  Implementation Hanoi EPC respects and protects human rights in her daily operations. We focus our attention on the protection of our employees. The actions were implemented:  Family Assistance: We provide flexible labour regime, without any loss of benefits, to our employees that need to assist family members in sickness  Training Assistance: We usually appoint our employees to join the training courses in order to improve the skills and professionals.  Measurement of outcomes For more than 5 years of operation, Hanoi EPC has received no complaints from employees, business partners or clients in relation to (potential) human rights violations, nor was the organization involved in any human rights incidences. Because of the scope of our activities and the limited number of employees (10), an external audit on human rights performance is not required. Labour Principles  Assessment, policy and goals Human Resources Policy of Hanoi EPC describes all required labour rights, including nondiscrimination and equal opportunities. Cultural differences are of increased awareness within Hanoi EPC as well as the freedom of association and right to collective bargaining, workplace health and safety, as well as conditions of employment and work (wages, working hours, leave, benefits, etc.)  Implementation Besides the active measures to promote assistance to employees and their family, we are particularly committed to protect health and safety of our employees. Furthermore, Hanoi EPC has formalized the possibilities for the annual bonus procedures allowing employees to share in the positive results of the organization. As our consultants are our most important asset, we invest in our employees by providing on-the-job training and offering them opportunities to participate in training activities.  Measurement of outcomes Hanoi EPC has received no grievances or complaints from employees or others in relation to (potential) labor rights violations, nor was the organization involved in any labor rights incidences before or during the reporting period. Because of the scope of our activities and the limited number of employees (10), an external audit on labor rights performance is not required. Environment principles  Assessment, policy and goals Hanoi EPC is consulting company on environment and social safeguards. Therefore we supports a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and encourages the diffusion of environmental friendly technologies. We prepared the environmental management plan to reduce the negative impacts of our organizations’ actions on the environment. Here, we promoted to use only recycled papers and save power as well as described the conditions of a safe working environment. The environmental management is part of Hanoi EPC’s daily practice.  Implementation Waste is prevented through recycling efforts, while paper, water and energy is saved through raising the awareness of the employees. Furthermore, the organization stimulates the use of public transport and/or bicycles.  Measurement of outcomes The elimination of using power and papers represented through reducing cost at our office. Furthermore, awareness of our employees has being improved. Anti-Corruption Principles  Assessment, policy and goals There are strict guidelines for personnel on how to act in case of bribery or extortion. Integrity is a vital part in the Human Resource policy as well as the Code of Conduct of Hanoi EPC. The personnel of Hanoi EPC cannot accept any form of corruption. Therefore, neither employees nor members of the management team accept remuneration outside of the agreed quotation unless it is formally agreed upon. On the other hand, we make sure that all employees, partners, business associates and contractors haven’t been involved in any corruption activities. Any suspicion of involvement in corruption or fraudulent activities must be reported to the Board.  Implementation The Board is directly responsible for the anti-corruption policy of the company. Furthermore, employees are not permitted to accept payment for recommending the services of third parties to a client.  Measurement of outcomes Hanoi EPC has no track record with incidents of corruption or bribery.
