Making Better Business 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Ping Zhou DISCLOSURES The information in this report may contain forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect management’s current expectations. Although management believes such statements to be reasonable, no assurance can be given that such expectations will prove correct. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and such future events could differ materially from those set out in the forward-looking statements as a result of, among other factors, changes in economic, market or competitive conditions, success of business and operating initiatives, changes in the regulatory environment and other governmental actions and business risk management. Any forward-looking statement made in this report relates only to events as of the date on which the statement is made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect new information, except as required by law. Contents Welcome 5 Supply Chain 36 How We Manage Our Workforce 63 Our Supplier Network 39 Little Bird 64 CEO Message 7 Sustainability in our Supply Chain 40 MicroBenefits 65 About PCH 9 Stability of Supplier Relationships 41 Employment Conditions and Labor Turnover 66 What We Do 11 Key Supplier Program 41 Pay, Benefits and Overtime 68 PCH in 2013 13 Supplier Practices 41 Employee Overtime 69 Where We Operate 14 Audit Outcomes 44 Parental Leave 70 Compliance and Integrity 16 Supplier Upgrades 46 Health and Safety 71 Child Labor 46 Training and Development 72 About this Report 17 Production Ramp and Dispatch System 47 Grievances 75 What This Report Covers 19 Sample Employee Grievances from Little Bird Hotline 77 Our Reporting Guidelines 20 Manufacturing 51 Our Environmental Impact 52 Looking Ahead 78 Sustainability at PCH 21 How We Are Managing Our Impact 54 Our Sustainability Origins 23 GRI Index 80 Energy and Air Emissions 55 Sustainability Governance and Management 24 Transportation and Inventory Management 56 Our Stakeholders 25 Materials and Chemicals 57 Stakeholder Engagement 26 Water 59 What our stakeholders want from PCH 28 Waste 59 Material Issues 29 Our Progress 32 Workforce 60 Collaboration and Partnerships 33 About Our Workforce 61 Our Goals for 2014 and Beyond 34 The Migrant Experience 62 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE WELCOME At PCH, we are Making Better Business. What does that mean? It means we are in business for the long haul. It means that when we see something can be done better, we don’t see boundaries. It doesn’t mean we are perfect, but it does mean we are guided by doing things better. No detail is too small. As a company that designs custom manufacturing solutions for electronics products, we have a “make it happen” culture and work in close collaboration with our partners to turn ideas into reality. Sustainability at PCH follows the same approach. We are driven to create products with the most sustainable processes in mind, from employee-driven programs to recyclable packaging. We also believe that true sustainability delivers not only a social, environmental and economic return but is financially viable as well. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 5 To integrate sustainability into everything we do, we ask ourselves key questions. How does PCH support the development of our communities? How can we address the challenges of condensed production schedules that require a short increased production capacity? Most importantly, how do we develop manufacturing to ensure sustainable processes and practices that address the changing needs of our industry and workers? Making Better Business starts with asking the right questions. We’ve been asking, and answering, these questions for a while now. We’re sharing what we’ve learned so that others can ask questions and make changes too. This report – our first comprehensive sustainability report – pushes us even further to continue to track our progress in our Chinese operations, and improve our efforts across the board. Libi Tan Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 6 CEO MESSAGE MESSAGE FROM CEO LIAM CASEY Message from LIAM CASEY Founder and Chief Executive Officer “ Dear readers, PCH employees, customers, suppliers, investors, partners, and interested parties everywhere. Since I started PCH in 1996, I’ve been committed to sustainability and Making Better Business. This 2013 Sustainability Report represents that commitment. It’s a transparent account of our sustainability ethos, impacts, challenges and goals. It’s a starting point from which we can measure progress. At PCH, we’re in the business of customer service: we help our customers make and get their products to market in a timely, efficient manner. To get the best results, we constantly balance the needs of our customers with those of our suppliers. In maintaining this balance, we face many sustainability challenges, notably those related to production ramp cycles, reliance on temporary dispatch workers, and the short-term nature of product lifecycles. While our own direct operations are not energy intensive, one of our main challenges is monitoring and optimizing manufacturing processes to improve the efficiency of our suppliers. PCH is unique in that we manage almost every step of the supply chain, which brings a distinct opportunity and responsibility to address these challenges the best way we can. For us, integrating sustainable practices across the organization is a core PCH business strategy, and aligns with our entrepreneurial “make it happen” culture. When we see an opportunity to do something better, we don’t see boundaries. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 7 Instead, we enable everyone in our organization Bird; by the end of 2013, the hotline was also focused our sustainability efforts on our Chinese to address challenges and pursue opportunities in operating in five supplier factories. operations, but to have the most significant impact, their respective areas. • Since its launch, the hotline has logged 11,829 we need to look at all areas of our business. Our strategy takes a pilot project approach. We correspondences across our network and is Our next step in 2014 and beyond is to expand our identify the areas with the most pressing need for helping us understand what is important to initiatives and then scale them across the entire improvement or change, and based on data and our workforce. During this period, we have supply chain. Since one of our greatest sustainability insights, we target the issues identified. We then experienced an increase in employee length opportunities is influencing companies at the measure our success before rolling the initiative out of service. In 2013, over half of our factory beginning of their product design phase, we will be across the organization and amongst our supplier workforce (51%) have worked with us for over working with our customers to reduce packaging, partners. This ensures that the solutions we a year compared to just 15% in 2012. hazardous materials and chemicals in their invest in are socially, environmentally and fiscally products, as well as implementing smart, just-in• Our partnerships with Little Bird and responsible. At nearly one billion dollars in revenue, time manufacturing that reduces inventory, and MicroBenefits (a training and education PCH has hit a major milestone in our history; we see a potential waste. partner) have both a social and financial clear financial link between profit and sustainability, When we committed to issuing this report, our key benefit; the return on our investment in these so a key part of our approach is tracking the return focus was to find ways to gather purposeful data to partnerships has been 5:1 and has resulted on investment of our sustainability practices. measure year-over-year progress. This report is our in a $1.38M saving associated with reduced Consumers show increased interest in the factories benchmark. We’re not perfect. We have a lot to learn. labor turnover. used to make their products, and clients are more But we have made a commitment to improve areas aware than ever that the majority of the energy used • On the energy front, our initial energy we control and to try to empower our customers in their supply chain is in upstream manufacturing monitoring and improvement projects in and suppliers by making recommendations and facilities. These broader trends affect our factories have been successful, and we’ve adopting best practices in our own operations. own sustainability priorities. Partnerships and seen significant energy and financial savings I want to thank the PCH community who are helping collaboration are essential to attain our collective at some factory sites. us Make Better Business. Thank you for taking sustainability goals. Our partnerships include However, we’ve also encountered obstacles along the time to read our 2013 Sustainability Report. I the way. To address core sustainability issues, we “ Sustainable Packaging Initiative, United Nations welcome your suggestions and feedback. Please Global Compact, Electronic Industry Citizenship need to gather better data. We have less actionable contact us at sustainability@pchintl.com Coalition, and participation in the IDH Sustainable data on environmental sustainability than we do on Trade Initiative. our workforce, particularly relating to upstream supplier energy use. We also need to ensure we Liam Casey To maximize progress, we’ve undertaken some develop our suppliers, not just manage them. We Founder and CEO key initiatives since 2012: must maintain a flexible supply base while proving • In August 2012, we piloted a hotline in our own our commitment to our suppliers, engaging with factory facilities with China based NGO Little them to build on their capacities. To date, we’ve Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 8 ABOUT PCH ABOUT PCH We Make. PCH creates, develops and delivers the world’s best products for the world’s best brands. We provide product development and supply chain services, specifically the development, manufacturing, packaging and distribution of electronic goods and their accessories. We are proud to be responsible for some of the most successful consumer electronics accessories launches. We turn ideas into physical consumer products, while optimizing quality, cost, and time-to-market for our clients. Our clients are located all over the world, from the technology giants of Silicon Valley to startup companies looking to bring their ideas to the world. Xiaolin Wang Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 10 What We Do We turn product ideas into product realities for both seasoned global brand leaders as well as ambitious startups in need of supply chain support. Our services span all stages of the consumer product development and supply chain, from concept to delivery, and all critical steps in between. We offer our clients a diverse range of services to best fulfill their needs. We combine our end-to-end services with a unique understanding of China to deliver peace of mind to our clients. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 11 PCH services in China include: Manufacturing Services Postponement Services Fulfillment Services • creative (packaging and graphics) • fulfilling orders • delivery direct to store/consumer • engineering (design for manufacture, • creative • order management electrical, and mechanical design) • retail packaging • forward logistics • tooling and quality testing • configuring to order • manufacturing (factory selection, • building quality control, manufacturing processes) • compliance management Packaging Design Engineering Product Development (in partnership with PCH Lime Lab) • ideation/creation • technical research and development • design and development of • materials technology packaging solutions that resonate • design for manufacture with our client’s values and maximizes brand engagement • regulatory and compliance management • tool design • process development • prototyping and testing Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 12 PCH in 2013 821,063,892 $ UNITS SOLD GLOBAL ESTIMATE ANNUAL WORKFORCE OF WHICH GROSS MERCHANDISE VALUE SERVICES AND 2,683 2,512 $8BN PRODUCTS ARE IN SQUARE FEET OF $919M CHINA OPERATIONS: (see Workforce) 1.2M SQUARE FEET SUPPLIER NETWORK OF OVER TRANSACTIONS WITH 1,000 149 factories 40M 1.4M FACTORIES (see Our Supplier Network) 2013 BUSINESS TO BUSINESS SHIPMENT TRANSACTIONS BUSINESS-TO-CONSUMER SHIPMENTS 1 All monetary amounts expressed in this report are in United States Dollars. Where a currency conversion was calculated from Chinese RMB, a rate of 1RMB=$0.16 USD was applied (rate of 31 December 2013) Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 13 Where We Operate PCH International2 is a private company founded in 1996, and has group headquarters located in Cork, Ireland. PCH has a presence in nine countries: Australia, China, Hong Kong, Ireland, Japan, South Korea, South Africa, Taiwan, and the United States. The total PCH global workforce as of December 2013 was 2,683. Ireland South China Korea United States Japan Hong Kong Taiwan South Africa Australia 2 Refers to the PCH International global group of companies and is referred to as ‘PCH’ Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 14 China Turnkey Solutions (‘CTS’)4, are based in the Futian Free Trade Zone in PCH is an ecosystem of product making divisions. Shenzhen5, Southern China, with retail distribution channels through our Key Senior Management are based in Ireland and make strategic decisions subsidiary, TNS Distribution based in Dublin, Ireland. There were no significant in relation to the management of our cash and resources and the future changes to operations in PCH China in 2013. strategic direction of the company. Members of our Finance, Information Technology, Client Services, Human Resources (‘HR’), Sales, Legal, Incubator and Our facilities in Shenzhen in the Guangdong province of Southern China include e-commerce teams are based in Ireland. an operations office (PCH Shenzhen), a facility in Gongming (PCHD), and our two CTS operational facilities in the Futian Free Trade Zone in Shenzhen (CTS 1 and PCH Lime Lab (a product design and engineering firm), Highway1 (a hardware CTS 2). We also have a corporate office in Hong Kong, which is included in our incubator), and PCH Accelerator3 (which reduces barriers to market entry consolidation of PCH China. CTS 1, CTS 2, and PCHD are three factory facilities for hardware startup companies) primary programs are run in San Francisco, where packing, kitting, and warehouse operations are carried out. California. PCH’s significant manufacturing, packing, and fulfillment operations, Dingding Guan 3 Renamed PCH Access in June 2014 and is referred to as PCH Access in this report 4 CTS consists of two separate buildings, CTS 1 and CTS 2. CTS 2 opened in August 2012 due to the expansion of our business and so, all 2012 CTS 2 data is for five months. All CTS data refers to both CTS 2 and CTS 1 unless otherwise stated. 5 A free trade zone is a Chinese government designated industrial zone endowed with special economic policies. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 15 Compliance and Integrity PCH operates across various jurisdictions and will always comply with, or exceed, all country or state laws in each relevant jurisdiction. PCH periodically reviews and evaluates best practices in line with local compliance and regulations. No fines or sanctions were incurred by PCH for environment or labor practices or any other infractions during 2013. At PCH, our core values are teamwork, integrity, and passion. These values are shared across our workforce from our Senior Leadership team down, and are integrated into all of our decisions. In our 2012 report we recognized the need to formalize these values and ethics currently applied in PCH operations on a day-to-day basis. Across the PCH platform, we are implementing an employee code of conduct. At PCH China, we expect to finalize this in early 2015. Our factories also operate an ethics management procedure, which guides the workforce on business integrity, anti-corruption, disclosure of information, intellectual property, fair business and competition, and community engagement. Seventy eight percent of our PCH China employees (all of our factory employees) are covered by a collective bargaining and trade union agreement. Yueliang He / Shelia Shen Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 16 ABOUT THIS REPORT IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES ABOUT THIS REPORT We Make Better Business. This is PCH’s second annual sustainability report, and covers the year 2013. This report is for all of the people that PCH touches: our employees, suppliers, clients, communities and the broader electronics industry. In committing to publishing an annual sustainability report, and by measuring our social, environmental and economic impact (along with their financial implications), we are pushing ourselves even further to be transparent about our operations CHINA and communicate our initiatives – both the successes and the areas for improvement. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 18 What This Report Covers This report covers our operations in China only, as it is here that we have the majority of our workforce as well as our greatest social, economic and environmental impact. Unless otherwise stated, data in this report refers to PCH China, which consists The aim of this report is to publicize our sustainability findings to date, and relay of PCH Shenzhen (office), PCH Hong Kong (office), CTS Shenzhen (two factory our experience finding ways to gather meaningful data on our operations and facility buildings: packing, kitting, warehouse, and office), and PCHD Shenzhen those of our suppliers. This report acts as an important benchmark. Furthermore, (factory facility: packing, kitting, and warehouse). All data is as of December 31, we want to make public both our successes and shortcomings for our own and 2013. our partners collective benefit. We plan to measure and identify areas needing improvement each year. While our biggest sustainability impacts are in China, we recognize a need to incorporate sustainability into our entire end-to-end platform to maximize our impact. A next step for us will be to report on the entire company. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 19 Our Reporting Guidelines This report meets our Communication on Progress commitment to the United As PCH is a private company, we do not disclose certain financial information, Nations Global Compact. It was written in accordance with GRI G4 guidelines at capitalization structure of the organization, or details of the share capital and the Core level. In compiling this report we have identified that our most material Executive Board structure of the organization in this report or in any public impacts happen outside the boundary of our directly owned offices and factory forum. Certain financial and operational information cannot be included due to facilities. We report on our management approach for each material aspect commercial reasons, as we cannot disclose this information to our competitors, identified, but we do not yet have data for certain GRI indicators. In some cases customers, suppliers, or the media. we need to develop our own indicators to measure our real impact – the extent to which we can influence impacts beyond our immediate control. We believe Mutual non-disclosure agreements prevent us from naming suppliers and that our transparent reporting of the challenges and successes we have had clients, unless they name us. We respect this and are working with our partners fulfills the spirit of GRI. This report, and our 2012 report, are available on our towards a transparent future when they will be eager to communicate their company website. We have not sought independent assurance of this report. association with our brand. Many suppliers and clients do not wish to be named to protect trade secrets and maintain a competitive advantage. This report documents our sustainability performance (i.e., our social, environmental, and economic impact). This is not a report on the financial PCH reports on all material aspects identified for PCH China. Where PCH is condition of the organization. unable to make a full disclosure of a GRI indicator, we aim to be transparent and state this fact, and have indicated the reason in the GRI Index. Yanrong Xie Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 20 SUSTAINABILITY AT PCH SUSTAINABILITY AT PCH We Make Sustainability our Business. Our triple bottom line approach puts people, planet and profit at the core of PCH’s sustainability initiative: positive economic, environmental, and social impacts of our operations are key to driving long-term financial performance. Beyond that, we believe this is the right way to do business. At PCH better business means a commitment to sustainability, including a commitment to overcoming the challenges it presents. We acknowledge that when it comes to sustainability, there is often a gap between intention and reality and we are committed to working towards closing this gap. “This is my 10th year in China How do we make sustainability a core part of our business? with PCH, and it’s a more exciting We apply two key criteria to our sustainability programs: they must be a core competency company today than it ever has been. Our unique vantage point helps us to of our business and they must add value to our business. Through our social and understand and tackle the complex environmental initiatives we strive to continually measure and improve our performance, issues in any global supply network, engaging with our people and partners to make a difference in the world. For us, our biggest and the company is genuinely committed to finding progressive impact lies in the early stages of a product, where we are able to collaborate with factories ways to integrate sustainability into and clients in the design phase so that we may minimize negative social, economic, and daily operations. We have learned environmental impacts. a lot over the years on the ground and in the factories, but of course we don’t have all the answers. PCH bridges the design and manufacturing bases to bring people together and drive progress.” Alan Cuddihy Head of Sustainability Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 22 Our Sustainability Origins We began to really think about the term ‘sustainability’ back in 2003 when, despite rising costs, PCH decided to commit to Shenzhen and open our own factory and develop our supply base there. We were a fraction of the size we are now, but we knew that in order to succeed long-term, we had to look beyond short-term financial gain and towards sustainable social, economic, and environmental values. A direct request from our CEO to find out whether the workers in our factories were content, and whether they had any issues – essentially a call to communicate – is what started this engagement. It wasn’t a demand from an external source; we decided it was the right thing to do. By 2010, we understood that we needed to develop an infrastructure that would allow us to continuously engage with our workforce as we grew. Since then, we have taken a bottom up as well as a top down approach to sustainability – ideas and direction come from all angles. Our attitude has always been to go directly to the source, our employees, suppliers, and customers partnering with them to make better business. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 23 Sustainability Governance and Management At PCH, sustainability governance starts at the While we do not have a formalized sustainability the world of manufacturing better, less wasteful, top. We have a Board of Directors that governs strategy for all of our operations, our approach is fairer to employees and more transparent across the company, and the responsibility for steering to integrate sustainable thinking across as many all of our operations. From an engineer who sees sustainability across PCH has been delegated facets of PCH as possible, particularly at the early too much waste on a factory line, to a factory to the Senior Leadership team6 of PCH. This design and material selection stage. We have made worker who organizes social activities to foster team consists of the Chief Executive Officer, progress over the past few years, and there are community development – ‘We Make’, also means Chief Financial Officer (CFO), President of Global many opportunities for us to go further. Integrating we make platforms for everyone in our organization Operations and Sales, Chief Operations Officer, sustainable practices across the organization is a to champion sustainability. Chief Information Officer, Vice President of Global core company strategy and a key contribution to HR, Vice President of Corporate Development the value of our service offering. We work with our supplier partners to enable and Legal Affairs, Chief Technology Officer, Vice them to do the same. Legal and regulatory President/General Manager of Highway1 & PCH At PCH, our approach is to gather meaningful requirements are reviewed every three months to Access, and Head of Corporate Communications. data upon which our decisions are based. We determine what is applicable to us. We also comply More specifically, the Chief Financial Officer start by trying projects out in our own factories, with our clients’ social responsibility standards (CFO) holds the responsibility of overseeing our where we have access to our own workforce where applicable. In 2013, one client audited sustainability initiatives. and production facilities. We believe that best our operations for labor, environmental, health, practice always starts at home. Once economic and safety practices, and all items that required The Greentech team, which is helmed by the feasibility has been proven, we roll out the project corrective action were closed within one month. Head of Sustainability and the Head of Supplier in key supplier partners. In our factory facilities, Our facilities are audited for compliance with Development, reports directly to the CFO and the Labor & Environment and Health & Safety various ISO guidelines. Full certification details and manages sustainability programs across PCH. committees manage day-to-day compliance with all our current company policies can be found on The Greentech team presents initiatives to the legislation on labor and environmental matters. our website. Leadership Team and PCH International Board This is supplemented by programs rolled out by the that focus on enhancing business through Greentech team across the PCH platform. potential return on investment from social and environmental programs. Greentech team members All members of our team at PCH have the power “At PCH, anything is possible” are based in Shenzhen and the team has been and influence to impact their sphere of the Erin O’Malley focused on integration within the Operations team. business. We collaborate across teams to make Engineering Program Manager, Greentech 6 All GRI references to the ‘Highest Governance body’ are read as the Senior Leadership team of PCH in this report. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 24 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Our Stakeholders PCH Stakeholders: We define our stakeholders as those who are affected • Our workforce: by our operations or who affect us. We have the greatest -Operator employees (i.e. all factory operators at our factory facilities who work in production, quality control potential social, economic, and environmental impact and in our warehouse) -Office employees (or non-operator employees) are those amongst our workforce and suppliers. This is where based in our factory offices or in PCH offices we focus our primary stakeholder engagement efforts. -Supervised or dispatch workers (temporary operators who are hired through a dispatch agency and work as factory These stakeholders have not changed significantly over operators in our facilities or those of our suppliers) • Suppliers and their employees the years, but our access to people in those categories • Clients continues to open up, and the pool of new partners that • End product consumers we work with continues to diversify. • Dispatch agencies • Investors • Little Bird • MicroBenefits • Landlord of our factory facilities • Non-governmental organisations • Academic partners • Industrial service providers • Trade unions at our factories • Local communities • Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition • United Nations Global Compact • Industry peers • End of lifecycle recycling and disposal plants • Media Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 25 Stakeholder Engagement We formally identified our stakeholders in 2011. In 2013, we didn’t conduct a formal stakeholder assessment. However, we are very aware of the needs of our stakeholders and we engage with our network through a variety of means, tailoring the mode of communications to each individual group. Employees Operators at our factory facilities Through the Little Bird hotline service, we monitored 11,829 For us, day-to-day integration is the most important dialogue; if correspondences in our own and supplier partners’ workforce employees have any suggestions or concerns regarding the social since August 2012. This helps us understand and develop social and environmental efforts of our operations, they can go directly programs for our factory workforce (see also Workforce). Our to our Greentech or the Senior Leadership Team. employee trade union and collective bargaining agreements also provide a means for employees to voice their opinion. Non-operators (all office based staff) Across the PCH workforce, we use email, social media, town hall meetings, monthly newsletters, employee surveys, and an employee benefits committee to measure, analyze, and respond to the needs of our workforce. PCH (excluding CTS) participated in the Great Place to Work® survey in October 2013 to understand our employees’ trust in the company and how we can improve our working environment and career development programs. From a sustainability perspective, we need to engage with the non-operator portion of our workforce even more in the future, particularly with our design and material selection teams at PCH Lime Lab, Highway1, and PCH Access. Yingqi Chen Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 26 Suppliers Our Clients Haitao Wang Yueliang He Our Greentech, quality, supplier management and client teams listen We distribute an annual client survey to gather feedback on our clients to and learn from our suppliers through on the ground factory visits, requirements. We also engage with our clients on a regular basis to audits, assessments, and supplier development programs. Engagement ensure we deliver on their needs. Our clients show increasing interest begins with audits and we endeavor to go beyond audits to regular open and awareness about exploring opportunities for improved sustainability communication (see also Our Supplier Network). performance in their supply chain. For example, in 2013, certain PCH client team members spent up to 100% of their total work time at our supplier facilities. One team spent over 220,000 hours in one facility alone. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 27 What our stakeholders A Supply Base that is Transparent, with Collaborative Product Design want from PCH How do we balance the needs of all our stakeholders? When it comes to making a product, no Supply Chain Academics single aspect of designing hardware Investment Make the connection should be isolated– we need everyone panies & Brands between responsible Com Access to lower risk from the factory owner, to the industrial investment want low risk supply Fac supply chains and chains, better business performance engineer, to the designer to contribute opportunities services and faster oyees so the most suitable choices are Cons development cycles mpl made. At PCH, we are asking questions um want quality ers want career yE products, beautifully development and tor of ourselves and our partners to designed and enhancement help overcome barriers that may be responsibly sourced opportunities preventing us from getting where we collectively need to go in relation to PCH nt Produc want cleaner, want longer term sustainability. sustainable material contract and to ge m e alternatives unleash their competitive an a t De advantage yM si g want safe, efficient, er modern processes and or t s n Industrial NGOs enhanced productivity Fa c Addressing social Service M f g. En gin e er s and environmental Providers performance Access to aggregated demand challenges in a realfor their solutions world setting Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 28 Material Issues Our material, social, environmental, and economic included: enhancement of factory community Because of our unique position in the supply chain, we issues are those that are vital to our business goals engagement practices, the adoption of corporate understand many of the issues faced by our network or highly important to our people and partners. In this social responsibility (CSR) practices in our factory of suppliers and customers. report, we apply the most analysis and discussion to facilities, expansion of existing employee antiareas of greatest priority. corruption training, and increased focus on We feel we have a responsibility to improve developing sustainable packaging for clients. We did processes (e.g., transport, product design, and PCH carried out materiality assessments in not conduct a formal materiality assessment in 2013, material selection) and gradually integrate 2011-12, as well as a gap analysis for ISO 26000 relying instead on our original assessment from 2011 ourselves even further into the tiers of our Guidance on Social Responsibility, which informed combined with ongoing feedback from our workforce, supply chain. our early approach to materiality. Areas for suppliers, and clients. In 2014 we will reconsider our improvement identified in these engagements approach to identification of material issues. OUR MATERIAL ISSUES Material Topics and Why it Matters Where it’s Most Material Page Subtopics Supply Chain We are in the business of customer service, enabling our clients to get their products to market in a timely and 37 efficient manner. We rely on our relationships with our unique network of suppliers. We constantly balance the needs of our clients and the needs of our suppliers to get the best results. Stability of Supplier The more stable the relationships with suppliers, the more incentive they Our own operations and our suppliers 41 Relationships have to invest in upgrading their manufacturing processes. Supplier Practices Clients and consumers want to know that their products were made in a Our suppliers 41 way that treats workers fairly and respects human rights. PCH and our suppliers share these goals. Production Ramp and To make, package, and deliver products to international markets in the Our own operations and our suppliers 47 Dispatch System fastest time possible, production is often condensed into a few months. This has implications for everything we do, from workforce management to logistics. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 29 Material Topics and Why it Matters Where it’s Most Material Page Subtopics Environmental Impacts We operate in consumer electronics, which is resource intensive and generates considerable waste. We do not 52 of Manufacturing manufacture products ourselves; our suppliers manufacture components and the pieces come to us for packaging, kitting, or fulfillment. However, we are in a position to influence manufacturing processes and resource use. Energy and Air Emissions Manufacturing uses a lot of energy and much of it is wasted. Our own Our suppliers and our clients 55 energy use is limited to electricity for light and production line power. We need to understand where our suppliers’ energy is going, monitor it, and find out what machines can be optimized to improve energy use. Transportation and Transporting products to their final destination uses lots of energy, Our suppliers and our clients 56 Inventory Management especially air shipments. But stockpiling products to compensate for slower shipping methods can lead to waste. We need to balance this through inventory management, ensuring our clients receive the right volume of products at the right time. Materials and Chemicals The materials and chemicals used in hardware products and packaging have Our suppliers and our clients 57 upstream impacts on resource use and manufacturing, and eventually end up as waste for consumers. Good design and material selection can reduce material waste and harmful chemical use. Water Chemical pollutants that result from manufacturing processes can be Our suppliers and our clients 59 released in factory wastewater discharges. We must work to remove the need for harmful chemicals from any product we are associated with and help our suppliers ensure effective treatment of any wastewater generated in manufacturing. Waste Waste is generated at all stages of the product lifecycle; from Our suppliers and our clients 59 manufacturing processes to the eventual end-of-life of a product. We can have the greatest impact on waste through engagement at the design stage of a product or through packaging. We can also reduce the amount of waste that is generated in supplier factories through our influence on manufacturing processes. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 30 Material Topics and Why it Matters Where it’s Most Material Page Subtopics Workforce Workers in China have more options and ambitions than ever before. Maintaining a skilled and motivated workforce is 61 critical to our success. Employment Conditions High turnover levels are a fact of life in China, but by creating a sense of Our own operations and our suppliers 66 and Labor Turnover community and addressing labor issues we can improve retention. Pay, Benefits and We need to remain competitive to address the issue of high labor turnover. Our own operations and our suppliers 68 Overtime We must comply with legal requirements but workers also want overtime to earn more money. Health & Safety While our operations don’t involve heavy machinery or dangerous chemicals, Our own operations and our suppliers 71 health and safety is always a priority. Training and An educated and well-trained workforce is a productive workforce. Our Our own operations and our suppliers 72 Development workforce is motivated to enhance their skills and explore development opportunities. Grievances Providing a grievance process for workers enables them to express Our own operations and our suppliers 75 concerns and shows us where we can focus our efforts to make a better workplace. Our suppliers may benefit from similar processes. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 31 Our Progress The PCH group embarked on our first formalized sustainability steps in 2011, establishing our Greentech team and assessing our areas of impact and priority. We then began to implement programs from 2012 onward. The results so far have been largely positive and we are beginning to collect and gather real measurable data. PCH was established, with sustainable practices integrated into our 1996 business from the beginning 2000 Operational center established in Shenzhen, China China Turnkey Solutions (CTS) was established, which is based in the 2004 Futian Free Trade Zone, Shenzhen, China PCH conducted assessments and began to identify areas of focus for 2011 sustainability programs Greentech began testing projects in our operations and with select supplier partners PCH joins EICC, Sustainable Packaging Initiative, IDH and UN Global Compact 2012 PCH partners with Little Bird PCH partners with MicroBenefits PCH published first annual sustainability report on PCH Shenzhen, with some data on our CTS operation and short-term targets on employee practices PCH announces plans to open new US headquarters in San Francisco Tyndall National Institute and PCH sign memorandum of understanding PCH begins supplier energy monitoring programs in key supplier partner 2013 facilities PCH begins to formalize the measurement and analysis of data to understand the financial impact of our social, environmental, and Yangjie Wu economic programs Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 32 Collaboration and Partnerships The value of collaboration cannot be underestimated. United Nations Global Compact (2012) Member companies commit to publish an annual communication on progress We collaborate externally with our partners to with particular focus on the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and understand trends in our industry and to create new Anti-Corruption (i.e. this sustainability report). solutions to old problems. Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) (2012) PCH is a member of EICC and uses EICC templates and standards in our CSR Our pool of external partners at PCH consists of social enterprises audits and supplier code of conduct. (MicroBenefits), leaders in the engineering community, non-governmental organizations (NGOs such as Little Bird), and academic institutions. IDH Sustainable Trade Initiative (2012) PCH participates in supplier improvement programs that aim to improve factory Throughout 2013, our industry partners included: performance on critical areas such as worker-management communication, Sustainable Packaging Initiative/GreenBlue (2012) occupational health and safety, human resource practices and environmental PCH is a member of GreenBlue®, a non-profit that equips business with the issues. science and resources to make products more sustainable. The Sustainable Packaging Coalition® (SPC) is a GreenBlue® industry working group dedicated Partnership with the Tyndall Institute (2013) to a more robust environmental vision for packaging. PCH and Tyndall National Institute, Ireland, signed a memorandum of understanding to support the generation and scaling of new high tech startup companies in Ireland targeting the global market. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 33 Our Goals for 2014 and Beyond To date we have focused our energies on a few initiatives. We want our decisions to be data driven, measurable and linked to their financial return. But first we must find accurate ways to gather purposeful data. We have commenced the process of recording and measuring data in relation to our sustainability programs. Our next step is to go beyond this to decide and define what exactly we should measure and target within those areas. Once we achieve this, we want to scale that beyond PCH across the entire supply chain. Then using that data, we will ensure continued progression on social and environmental initiatives in the supply chain. In the interim, our short-term 2014 focus is outlined as follows (see also individual chapters for further details): • Increase integration of the Greentech • Implement an employee code of team across the PCH platform with conduct (PCH Ireland, 2014; PCH China, particular focus on early stage startups 2015), continue communication and that come through our Highway1 education of our ethics and values incubator and PCH Access platforms across the PCH platform focusing on improving the design and • Establish measurement structures material selection phase of products to assess the company’s impact, • Increase industry collaboration in particularly in relation to transport order to tackle supply chain issues in (focusing on areas where we have partnership with industry colleagues the greatest impact, e.g. energy and • Publish annual sustainability reports on emissions) the PCH global platform • Establish suitable means of measuring our inventory management model to understand the impact of our operations Xiaohong Peng Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 34 Supply Chain: Manufacturing: Workforce: • Continue conducting quarterly business reviews • Continue to build tools that will allow us • Open two additional Little Bird libraries and commence monthly business reviews with to monitor real-time energy use in our own • Launch Company IQ and Company Link (a social select suppliers within our active supplier operations and in our supply chain, and use of media platform that delivers company news, network other materials such as compressed air, water employer polls, promotion opportunities, and HR • Continue to develop a network of flexible key and critical raw materials support) in a supplier partner facility supplier partners • Gather and record data on manufacturing energy • Bring new partners on board to expand education • Work with clients to showcase how long-term use, processes and materials going beyond Tier 1 and training programs in our facilities contracts can provide the opportunity for suppliers, deep into upstream suppliers • Conduct additional surveys and interviews to technological advancement at a manufacturing • Create a controlled substances list that tailor social program content to meet operator facility, and how that in turn can lead to ongoing incorporates progressive health and safety needs cost competitiveness standards educate all internal, Highway1, and • Increase tailored education and training • Involve the Greentech team in the supplier PCH Access teams to ensure harmful materials programs for our factory workforce (ongoing) selection and qualification process are eradicated in design and manufacturing • Relaunch the MicroBenefits discount network • Expand on our current supplier collaboration • Increase integration of materials specialists at and company IQ app in our facilities approach focusing on accurate data gathering the early stages of product development and (full integration into current supplier qualification design (both packaging and manufacturing) process in 2015) • Assist our clients’ compliance, where we have • Continue HR support to our supplier partners in influence, with incoming laws relating to conflict order to plan and manage recruitment needs free minerals while identifying our own role in the supply chain in relation to these minerals • Continue working with dispatch companies to ensure commitment and adherence to fair • Develop proposed terms for financial agreements practices in worker management to fund factory-level process upgrades with repayment based on shared savings • Continue improvement of factory efficiency to reduce labor shortages • Eventually, through the use of SourceFlo™, monitor and understand water use, waste and • Automate certain dangerous positions where the pollution in our supplier facilities. machine will provide a return on investment and increase product quality, this will also lead to a reduction in labor requirements • Help our supplier partners to improve their worker retention abilities Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 35 SUPPLY CHAIN SUPPLY CHAIN We Make the Complex Seem Easy. What does it mean to manage a supply chain? It’s managing all stages of How can PCH remove technical and financial barriers to enable our clients consumer product development, from concept to delivery, as well as all and suppliers to use sustainability for their competitive advantage? Tackling the critical steps in between. At PCH, we are involved in all stages of the issues in upstream suppliers can be a daunting task; the body of work grows supply chain working on the ground in China and across global markets. Our as we move up the supply tiers. At PCH we aim to design practical, scalable gatekeeper business model means we are asset light; we keep on the staff we sustainability projects that will engage upstream suppliers. A healthy supply need and develop a network of suppliers to fulfill our clients’ requirements. chain requires commitment from all parties: PCH, our clients, and our suppliers. To make the supply chain better and more cost efficient, we must focus on We realize that for our business to succeed, we need the creation of financial reward through long-term minimization of social, to go beyond supply chain management to supply chain environmental, and economic risks. development. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 37 Product A PCH Cable Audio Case Others Plug Raw Cable Cable Assembly Zip Lining Fabric Printing Plug Cover Spring Shrink tube Jack plug Slider Stringer Stoppers Pull tab The above diagram is a simplified representation of the complexities and tiers within a supply chain. The diagram depicts only two parts of a product, and each of their components, though it’s common for a product to have several more tier 1 parts. Often each of these components would be sourced from separate suppliers. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 38 Our Supplier Network PCH has access to a diverse network of suppliers, the majority of which are based in China. In 2013, 90.34% of PCH spend was in China and 9.66% was outside of China. For more information on the types of factories in our network, please see Manufacturing. PCH has engaged with over 1,000 factories since we came to China in 1996 and in turn, thousands of workers form part of our network. Our level of engagement varies on an annual basis depending on the number of active projects that we have each year. In 2013, we engaged with 149 suppliers, and grew our active supplier base by 45% (in 2012 we engaged with 103 approved suppliers). This expansion was due to the changing manufacturing needs of our clients and a need to increase our expertise and flexibility amongst our supplier pool (we needed to add more soft goods suppliers to adapt to changing marketplace requirements). We have access to two distinct categories of supplier: • Suppliers selected by our clients (In 2013, 50% were client-selected vendors) • Suppliers selected by PCH (In 2013, 50% were PCH-selected vendors) Our material issues related to managing our supplier network are: • Stability of Supplier Relationships • Supplier Practices -Our Supplier Code of Conduct -Supplier Assessments and Upgrades • Production Ramp and Dispatch System -Dispatch Agencies Zhirong Lin Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 39 Sustainability in our Supply Chain We Make Sustainability our Business. Sourcing from suppliers in the Guangdong region provides PCH with access to our suppliers and allows our teams to work on site with them. We have access to over 1,000 suppliers globally and we have been working with certain factories for up to ten years, which reflects the trusting relationships we have built in this region. How do we encourage supplier participation in our sustainability initiatives when their chief concern is cost, quality and speed? We see the benefit of departing from short-term supplier relationships to the development of a network of stable, local suppliers. This will ensure that our clients gain access to the right “I joined PCH because it is the best platform for doing what needs to be product and materials as and when required. This takes work on our part, as we need to show done: integrate sustainable value with our suppliers and clients that sustainability is financially feasible to get their commitment. ongoing business decision-making Improving how a factory “makes” provides a multitude of benefits, including risk management, and practices. As a factory guy, I especially appreciate that owners and increased process and product quality, flexibility, optimized labor, and reductions in health risks, managers of our partner factories can safety risks, energy, material, and water use. We tailor our choice of supplier to suit the client’s tell that our incentives are aligned. We want to make it easy to do the right product. We see a window of opportunity to decrease cost and improve quality by focusing on thing.” improving manufacturing processes. Terry Foecke We have to keep our clients happy; our business is to make operating in China easy for them. Head of Supplier Development, But we also have a reliance and duty towards our suppliers, they rely on us and we work in Greentech Team partnership with them to create positive long-term relationships. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 40 Stability of Supplier Key Supplier Program Supplier Practices Relationships Our Quarterly Business Review (QBR) program, which There has been a lot of public focus on labor commenced in 2010, was set up to develop a network conditions in China. Consumers want to be able to Making it Long-Term of key strategic, flexible suppliers. Suppliers are trust that their electronic devices have been ‘made Building a strong relationship with our core group chosen for the QBR based on PCH spend (33% of all in China’ without the use of child or forced labor PCH supplier spend in 2013 was on QBR suppliers) and under safe and fair working conditions. Good of suppliers is essential to gaining their trust. We and we had seven suppliers in this program during intentions are not enough so we have put in place cannot ask a supplier to commit to an investment 2013. At the QBR, suppliers and PCH teams meet to a number of measures to ensure that everyone and improvement plan if we are only going to use review operational performance, quality metrics and involved can have peace of mind. These include a that supplier for six months. To gain this trust, we Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). In 2013, our top supplier code of conduct, supplier assessment and need to concentrate our spend in a few factories, seven suppliers had relationships of up to 9.4 years as giving them a substantial amount of business will deeper levels of support for suppliers. with PCH, with an average relationship length of 3 encourage those suppliers to engage with PCH. If years. we are not a supplier’s primary client, they are not Our Supplier Code of Conduct always willing to work with us and take our advice. NEXT STEPS: Stability of Supplier Relationships Our supplier code of conduct covers labor, human rights, ethics, and our environment and • We recognize that doing a QBR with a few We believe that anything over three years is a management system expectations of our suppliers. suppliers once a quarter is not enough. In 2014, long-term relationship. In 2013, the average length All PCH selected suppliers sign our Supplier Code of we will commence a Monthly Business Review of relationships with our actively engaged suppliers (MBR) with a larger pool of suppliers. This will Conduct. The Code is monitored through an annual was 2.5 years. A long-term relationship with a client help us enhance communication and work in even audit and through constant PCH engagement with allows a supplier to plan and invest in their factories closer partnership with our suppliers. Regardless suppliers year-round. Suppliers must sign the Code with greater reward. Suppliers want to improve of the scale of the relationship, we want to be of Conduct to conduct business with PCH. While we their processes and upgrade their equipment, but consistently aware of a supplier’s capabilities engaged with 149 suppliers in 2013, 122 signed they will not commit if they only have short-term and performance. our code because in some instances, suppliers who purchase orders and no guarantee of continued • We will continue to develop a network of key already have equivalent legal agreements in place business. While some factory equipment upgrade flexible long-term supplier partners, focusing on with our clients do not sign our Code of Conduct investments pay for themselves within a few working with them to improve manufacturing (suppliers in the client chosen category). months, many take up to two years. A long-term processes and resource use. commitment might not eradicate the need for these • In 2014, we will focus on working with clients to busy production periods, but it can also allow a showcase how long-term contracts can provide manufacturer to plan and put systems in place to the opportunity for technological advancement manage their busiest time. at a manufacturing facility, and how that, in turn, can lead to ongoing cost competitiveness. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 41 Supplier Assessments and Upgrades 1. Full audit is conducted where: The standard practice in our industry is to assess • The supplier works as PCH’s final assembly house suppliers based on factory audits. In our experience • The supplier supplies for PCH’s top 10 clients these audits are of limited value because our • They are safety part suppliers (depending on the observations show that they fail to remove the component and potential issues) underlying risks that cause health and safety issues, • Their business is projected to be greater than pollution and waste. While audits have their place $100K USD/year in any rigorous labor and human rights program, we must treat audits as the beginning, not the end of our 2. Simplified Audit is conducted where: engagement with suppliers. • business projected is less than $100K USD/year Hongyun Bin Besides annual audits, we consistently work with our 3. Where client/PCH deem an audit is necessary before conducting business suppliers to help them upgrade their facilities and supplier ratings (see Supplier Upgrades). The PCH Making better business In 2013 we actively engaged with 149 suppliers. Of way has always been to encourage an open, trusting those, 72 qualified for an audit (39 new, 33 existing) means getting to the relationship with our suppliers and work with them to improve and fix problems rather than ignoring them. and we audited 100% of these suppliers. This included 39 potential new suppliers (full and simplified audits). root of the problem. Our aim for next year is to look into alternative ways of measuring our relationships with suppliers. We recognize an opportunity to go beyond paperwork to How We Audit We must treat audits as the real time data about the manufacturing environment. Our supplier qualification process consists of three beginning, not the end of our assessments: engagement with suppliers. We apply four different grades (A-D) based on the 1. The supplier’s quality systems capabilities of the supplier or based on the service they are providing us. The frequency and degree of 2. Security and environmental substances auditing depends on the supplier’s category. management 3. Corporate social responsibility (CSR) practices Client quality managers carry out initial supplier visits (covering labor and environment, health and safety and evaluation screenings to assess the potential [EHS] practices) of the supplier’s capabilities. If the suppiler scores 60% or more in their initial screening, the appropriate Suppliers must get over 60% in each assessment and supplier qualification process is determined based on must obtain a combined score of over 65% to pass. the following criteria: They are then graded based on the outcome of this process. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 42 CSR Audit The Labor audit assesses: The EHS audit assesses: • Child Labor and Youth Workers7 • General EHS Management • Forced Labor • Environment • Disciplinary Practices • Emergency Protection • Working Hours • Hazardous Materials (Chemical Materials) Management • Wages and Benefits • Occupational Health and Safety • Freedom of Association • Electrical Facilities Usage Safety • Discrimination • Dormitory and Canteen • Ethics and Management System • Medical Emergency • Special Operation/Hazardous Area • Ergonomics Supplier labor and environmental health & safety practices are graded in accordance with the following criteria: Zero Tolerance (ZT) Serious breach of laws, regulations and PCH requirements, resulting in a severe impact to individual rights, life, safety and/or PCH’s corporate reputation Immediate Action (IA) Breach of laws, regulations and PCH requirements that result in negative impact to individual rights and life safety and/or PCH’s corporate reputation Continuous Labor, health & safety, and environmental issues that can be improved in the Improvement (CI) factory for the well being of workers and/or betterment of its reputation or management practice Compliance Full compliance to requirements, laws and regulations (EICC standard and local regulation) Yanrong Dong 7 Child workers refer to workers under the age of 16. Youth workers refer to workers between the ages of 16 and 18. Youth workers are not allowed to perform hazardous work and may be restricted from night work with consideration given to educational needs. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 43 Our audit programs were developed using Electronic We terminate relationships only when it is absolutely pass a CSR audit is 60%. Industry Citizenship Coalition guidance and client necessary, and will disqualify a supplier when: & industry standards. We consider the categories • They fail their first/annual audit and two A total of 15 supplier assessments were failed by of zero tolerance and immediate action as well as consecutive audits existing (4) and potential (11) suppliers during an overall result of less than 60% to be “significant • Their three-month grace period expires 2013. Ten suppliers failed due to the results of their actual and potential negative impacts” for purposes (determined by the client team) CSR audit, and five failed due to an overall score of of GRI reporting. Ten suppliers failed their CSR audit less than 65 due to quality reasons. Business was • They are consistently unable to meet the PCH for these reasons in 2013. terminated or did not commence with 8 of these standard in two consecutive quarters suppliers (53%). The remaining 7 (47%) committed to Zero tolerance practices include child labor. Other • They are unable to provide corrective actions to an improvement program, were re-audited and passed practices that are not tolerated include: fines or critical issues within six months (1), re-classified to a different supplier grade (2), or restrictions that would prevent leaving employment, • They are unable to improve their cost/quality/ are working with their supply base team to improve falsification of time or pay records, underpayment of delivery/service within six months their insufficient practices and prepare for another wages, or any type of mental or physical punishment. audit (4). • Suppliers may also be disqualified on a case-byA simplified audit addresses all ‘zero tolerance’ case basis for other unforeseen reasons (e.g., practices, including: child labor and youth worker, business credit, ethics, and disasters) The results between existing and new suppliers are forced labor, disciplinary practices, working hours, generally similar. From our labor audits, the areas of wages and benefits, environment, emergency most concern among potential and existing suppliers Our preference is to work with a supplier who is are freedom of association, ethics and management preparedness and protection, hazardous materials having difficulty passing their assessment to help (chemical materials) management, occupational systems, and working hours. For environment, them reach an adequate standard to work with PCH. health and safety audits, the lowest overall scores health and safety, management systems. This involves client teams working in partnership with were in safety in high-risk zones within the factory, Audits are conducted by at least two PCH auditors the supplier to help them prepare for a subsequent ergonomics and general environment, and health and who spend at least one day with the suppliers. A audit. PCH supply base teams work with the individual safety management. meeting is held after the audit with the supplier and supplier to improve the relevant practice, and we PCH Client Quality Manager to explain the findings provide guidance on what needs to be improved. In one example, a supplier failed its labor audit. and any requests for follow up. If an existing supplier This can take a number of forms, depending on the However, we wanted to work with them as a is found to have engaged in any ‘zero tolerance’ supplier: we may provide simple advice, offer help supplier, so we rolled out the Little Bird hotline and practices, or if their overall score does not reach the on record keeping, require that workers are issued MicroBenefits in their operations to help understand minimum required, we give them up to three months protection equipment, or ask a supplier to implement and improve their employee practices. We also have to rectify the situation. an EHS policy. a PCH human resources presence in their factory (see Dispatch work) to help with their HR practices. Following the audit, PCH client, quality, and supply base management teams tailor management Audit Outcomes Making better business means working with our suppliers to implement sustainable practices, because strategies to each supplier depending on their In 2013, PCH audited all suppliers that qualified for it is something we will all collectively benefit from. contribution to our business. an audit (72 of 149). The minimum score required to Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 44 2013 Audits • 15 suppliers failed their supplier qualification Simplified Number that process in 2013 Number of Audits Full Audits Total Audits Audits failed Audit • 10 failed due to the results of their CSR audit Top 7 suppliers 10 0 10 2 • 5 passed their CSR audit but failed due to Annual audits on existing suppliers 23 5 28 2 quality/overall score of less than 65 • 4 were existing suppliers, 11 were potential new New suppliers8 33 6 39 11 suppliers Total audits 66 11 779 1510 • No suppliers failed due to child labour, forced labour or disciplinary practices Total active suppliers in 2013 149 % of active suppliers audited for Labor Labor areas for improvement identified: 48% and Environment, Health & Safety • Working hours management Number of suppliers terminated 4 • Ethics and Management Systems • Freedom of Association Number of suppliers business did not 4 commence with Continuous improvement program/ Environment areas for improvement identified: 7 • High risk zone management re-audited • Ergonomic Management • General Environment Health and Safety 8 All 39 potential new suppliers who qualified for an audit were screened for Labor, Environment, Health & Safety Practices. management systems 9 72 suppliers were audited. The number of audits is 77 because 5 suppliers were audited twice. 10 4 simplified and 11 full audits. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 45 Supplier Upgrades “The way to make factories better is As noted, when we work with a supplier, the annual audit is just the beginning of the process. However, we to focus on key suppliers and work cannot assume that auditing alone can drive improvements in supplier performance. While we will continue with them to improve their practices. to conduct audits at a minimum, we advocate towards constant engagement. Our client team conducts For suppliers who become approved regular reviews and communicates day-to-day with suppliers to help them continuously improve their suppliers but do not receive any overall equipment effectiveness and social programs. contracts within six months to one year (and become inactive), how can we help them improve? With a longerterm partnership, improvements can be made over time. The key to getting Child Labor customer commitment on factory improvement programs is to show Child labor is a risk in the manufacturing industry. We operate a zero tolerance policy and if child labor is them the potential economic return.” found in a factory, management are obliged to remove the child from their facility and put a remediation plan in place to support the child’s education and provide financial assistance until they turn 18. The same Chris Yang applies to forced (prison, indenture, or bonded) or compulsory labor. Quality Technical Administrator Our qualified HR staff employ age verification measures on potential employees and use a ‘double check’ system whereby two staff members check employee ID when an employee is hired through a dispatch agency. In 2013, the youngest employee in our PCH facilities was 18 years old. CTS employed no youth or student workers in 2013. In our supplier factories, our annual audits found no incidences of child forced/ compulsory labor in our supplier network. We never knowingly accept underage workers in our own factories. It must be acknowledged, however, that it is difficult to verify this and there could be incidences of child labor in some factories in the region. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 46 Production Ramp and Dispatch System “Production ramp drives the requirement for increased operators for a short period of time. During this time, factories For us, our biggest challenge occurs during production ramp: the busiest production period in our factories where become stretched – dorms are full, food customer orders require us to increase our workforce by up to 133%11, to get products to market in the fastest quality goes down, human resources are time possible. Typically, production ramp can commence any time between June and September, and usually runs stretched. Longer-term stable contracts until December (pre-Christmas). Production output (number of units produced) was 105% higher in December 2013 with factories would allow a supplier compared to July 2013. to invest in the resources and labor requirements necessary to fulfill client orders. A stable contract means the Short, seasonal production demand puts a strain on all resources: workers are required to work long hours (see supplier knows where their next payment also Employee overtime) quality can slide, and inefficiencies in production can occur. is coming from and so they will invest in improvements if they have this security.” How can we balance the seasonal demands of consumer markets while trying to lengthen and stabilise our relationships with our suppliers? Sanno Lee Sustainability Program Manager, Greentech team A long-term contract will not necessarily eradicate production ramp periods, but it will allow a factory to plan and manage recruitment needs carefully, and reduce any overreliance on dispatch workers during short peak periods. Dispatch Agencies The availability of labor has decreased in Shenzhen since we began operations here in 1996. Recruitment is a challenge during busy production periods when most factories in the region compete to fulfill their client’s orders. We do not have the human resources capability to hire and manage the volume of workers required within a short period of time, so we use dispatch labor agencies to fill labor needs during production ramp periods. Chinese New Year Chinese New Year, also known as the Dispatch agencies employ and manage temporary workers dispatching them to factories that require labor. They Spring Festival, is an important traditional are only used to provide extra labor, and we never replace permanent workers with dispatch staff. Agencies also Chinese holiday celebrated at the turn of manage living quarters, day-to-day management of workers and any employee disputes that cannot be handled on the Chinese calendar. It generally falls in site. To reduce the risk of delay in payment, it is CTS policy to pay salary directly to all dispatch workers instead January/February with the festival lasting of paying the agency and relying on it to pay the workers. Social insurance12 is paid directly by the agency but is fifteen days. regularly monitored by CTS HR. Dispatch workers are legally entitled to receive the same salary as our employees. Often workers will resign from their position before Chinese New Year, return home and take a long leave and, if returning to Shenzhen after the holiday, will look for a new job in a different factory. In January 11 Our factory workforce grew by 133% between May and June 2012. The greatest monthly growth in 2013 was 16% (between July and August). 2013, the turnover rate in our factories was 12 Social insurance is a mandatory employee contribution to a Chinese government fund that covers medical, accident, maternity, pension and unemployment for all Chinese employees. 61%, which can be attributed to both the Chinese New Year holiday and a reduction in production demand. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 47 There is an inherent risk in using an indirect service provider for the provision of labor, particularly regarding legal violations of contract law and worker payment delays. If a dispatch operator works at one of our facilities for three months, they can apply to become an employee of our factory (in 2013, 1% of dispatch workers chose this option). We find that if they are offered employment in the first half of the year, before production ramp, they are more likely to accept; however, at the end of year, they are less likely to accept as they are often planning to return to their home town for the Spring Festival (see Chinese New Year). Dispatch workers need to provide three days’ notice when leaving their position whereas fulltime operators must give one month. We believe many dispatch workers prefer the nature of dispatch work because when a factory requires dispatch workers, it usually correlates with an availability of overtime (for more see Employee Overtime). As with all of our supplier partnerships, we build long-term trusted relationships in sourcing labor for our CTS operations. Our relationship with these locally based Shenzhen suppliers dates back to 2008 and 2012. % of Dispatch Workers in the Workforce Dispatch Workers 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 Dispatch workers as percentage of factory workforce Low Low High High Annual Average Annual Average PCH factory (CTS) 10% 0% 53% 22% 34% 8% Supplier partner 0% 0% 3% 23% 1% 6% While our supplier partner facility has a lower percentage of dispatch workers, the overall workforce reached over 6,500 during production ramp which means there can be up to 1,200 dispatch workers in a month. New regulations for dispatch operators will come into effect in China in 2014 whereby the total population of dispatch operators can only be 10% of the factory population. In 2014, we will conduct a full assessment of the new legal requirement to ensure compliance. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 48 Selecting Dispatch Agencies We vet potential dispatch agencies by audit, for improvement included high turnover of workers, reputation and background checks, as well as onward transfer of workers after they finished at day-to-day engagement. Our HR, supply base, our facility, the agency’s speed and adequacy of internal audit and quality teams interview agency response to any worker issues that arise, their representatives and verify their labor practices and ability to meet factory hiring requirements, and abilities to meet PCH supplier standards and our improvement of general management systems. labor requirements. If a dispatch worker has any grievances, they can While we are not responsible for workers once contact their employee representative, HR, Little they have finished at our facility, we do look at the Bird hotline, or their production line leader. In 2013, agency’s ability to find future positions for workers. over 10% of our hotline calls related to dispatch Unfortunately, it is extremely difficult to fully ensure work, the majority from our supplier partner facility. agencies are complying with their legal and social responsibilities. The only way to eradicate this risk NEXT STEPS: Production Ramp is to bring all worker management in-house. This is • Continued HR support to our supplier partners in a challenge that factories face as any investment order to plan and manage recruitment needs in HR might not pay off if production ramp is for a • Continued assessment of dispatch company limited period only. performance, continued communication to Dispatch agencies are audited for labor and human monitor and understand CSR compliance status, rights practices on an annual basis as well as commitment status, etc. monthly ongoing monitoring of salary payment • Continued improvement of factory efficiency to records, contributions to social insurance and reduce labor requirements housing funds, and any other issues that arise. When • Automation of certain dangerous positions the agency signs a contract with a new worker, the where the machine will provide a return on worker’s contract and ID documents are checked investment and increase product quality, by the agency and again by factory HR before the employee can commence work. this will also lead to a reduction in labor requirements (see Manufacturing) In 2013, our dispatch agencies attained an average • Help our supplier partners to improve their audit score of 82% (70% required to pass). Areas worker retention abilities (see Workforce) Yuhui Peng Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 49 Helping a Supplier Partner Choose a Dispatch Agency Our supplier partners have a greater need for dispatch labor in their was docked when dispatch workers gave less than one-month notice, facilities. Since 2013, we have been working with one of our top seven even though they are only required to give three days’ notice. There supplier partners to put best practices in place to manage the risks are also challenges related to dorm crowding, with limited space to inherent in using dispatch agencies. store personal belongings. Since the dorms are not utilized year-round, factories are not in a position to invest in additional dorm space. We made our selection based on a number of factors, including an agency’s ability to supply the most workers, and how the agency treats In 2013, we based a PCH HR representative in this factory to liaise its workers. Our engagement with supplier HR, constant communication, with the supplier’s HR staff to prevent non-compliance with labor law. and the availability of the Little Bird hotline in these facilities helps us We continue to work with our supplier to encourage them to invest in gauge which agencies treat people the best. their labor management practices and bring dispatch management responsibility in house. In particular, it is hoped that in 2014, the In this particular instance, the factory population was high (during supplier will begin to pay dispatch operators salary directly to prevent production ramp it grew by 119% between June and July 2013), the any interference with worker pay. Any reduction in an agent’s role in work carried out in the factory was physically demanding, and the HR managing workers, results in a corresponding increase in their service department was not adequately resourced. Because production ramp fee (to make up the potential loss) so this can be difficult to negotiate. lasted for a limited time period (and was subject to delay), the supplier would not invest in additional HR staff to carry out hiring and training The challenge with this case is that there is no major indication of during this time. overall improved practices. In 2013, factory management reacted to individual complaints once they were reported by Little Bird hotline During production ramp the Little Bird hotline received complaints in staff or PCH HR. Often, in the case of dispatch workers, they leave by relation to food, dorms and payment practices. The quality of food was the time an issue can be resolved. Whether the same issues will arise sometimes insufficient, or there were extra charges for meals. Workers again in 2014 remains to be seen. signed contracts that did not align with their verbal agreement. Pay Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 50 MANUFACTURING MANUFACTURING PCH Supplier Categories Service Items and Making Manufacturing Better. Consulting 5% Other At PCH, we design, develop and manufacture products including both electronics Industrial Equipment 5% and Supplies and the packaging they come in. This has an impact on the environment, from 9% the energy used to make a product, to the waste created from packaging. We want to modernize our manufacturing partners – to change the way things are Consumer Appliances Electronics Production and Supplies and Assembly made – and help our clients do the same. This will take more work on our part 23% 3% and that of our suppliers. We need to assess everything that’s happening in our factories, including materials, energy, resources and people. Our approach Final Assembly, Test, and Pack is always to go to the root cause of any problem, in this way we can begin to 1% Printing and Packaging create meaningful change that affects the entire life cycle of a product. 10% Hard Goods Our Environmental Impact Soft Goods Engineering 30% 12% The greatest environmental impact at PCH is not in our own offices or facilities: it lies in design (packaging, product design and material selection) and manufacturing (manufacturing processes and material use). When we work with our suppliers in assembly, component manufacture or even raw material Adhesives extraction, it is clear that this is where the greatest environmental impact 2% occurs. Within our own facilities, we do not use any raw materials, chemicals, heat, fuel, While we work with our clients to encourage responsible material selection and steam or cooling processes, nor do we have significant amounts of industrial disposal, the final products do not belong to PCH. Therefore, we are currently or hazardous waste in our operations. Electricity is the only significant form unable to monitor weight or volume and whether products or materials are of energy consumed in our factories (lighting and machinery associated with renewable or non-renewable. packaging and fulfillment). We must take collective responsibility for these indirect impacts. We are The relatively short lifecycle of consumer electronics products is a major in a useful position to enable progress in upstream supply chain sites. sustainability challenge for PCH. The cyclical nature of production schedules, combined with ever-evolving technologies, requires PCH as an organization We must always work with clients and supplier factories to minimize to ensure that to manage our environmental impact, we have on-the-ground environmental impacts at their level in manufacturing processes, material choice expertise in many different manufacturing disciplines located across many and design decisions. different manufacturing sites. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 52 Factory Improvements What we Typically See in Factories What we do in Partnership with our Suppliers to Fix this Energy waste in production equipment • Improve motor use in manufacturing equipment • Optimize use of support systems like air compressors and ventilation • Implement real time energy monitoring systems Toxic and hazardous chemicals used to make plastics, process paper, coatings • Identify materials used and seek alternatives and adhesives • Improve efficiency of processing equipment to reduce unnecessary chemical use • Provide information to designers about the impact of their design decisions on the manufacturing process Water pollution (particularly from heavy metals) Optimize chemical processing of metal parts to prevent wastewater contamination Heavy metal waste from rejected/poor quality products Reduce excess waste by improving manufacturing processes, especially manual processes with better design and processing equipment OHS danger for workers: • Automate or partially automate soldering operations • Hand soldering: dangerous for workers and can affect product quality • Reduce contamination that causes the need for cleaning and use safer • Solvent cleaning of finished part alternative cleaning materials Water and paper waste causing unnecessary use of timber, water and energy • Improve production processes with better product design and processing equipment operation • Improve storage of raw materials and finished products Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 53 Whilst the devices being made in Chinese factories are constantly evolving, many of the factories in which they are made are primed for industrial upgrade, allowing them to become modern, safer and more productive environments. Our supply base is varied and so the environmental impact of each factory also varies. How can we overcome the technical and financial barriers that accelerate industrial upgrades? Solving this is a key sustainability goal for us. We find that often the missing critical component of this upgrade process is factory data, which would allow us to improve energy intensity, material use intensity, water use intensity as well as proving the economic feasibility of the improvement bringing financial benefits to clients, suppliers and ourselves. How We Are Managing Our Impact At both our PCH office in Shenzhen and our CTS facilities, we monitor consumption of water, paper, electricity, hazardous waste, and employee transport spend. At CTS we remodeled our operations between 2012 and 2013 to reduce aging stock, the amount of space used and the defect rate in our packaging and fulfilment centre. We carry out an annual Environment Risk Assessment on the PCH Shenzhen business and our CTS facilities. This is carried out by our Quality and Internal Audit teams in compliance with ISO 14001 standards. Through this process we have identified the areas of greatest environmental risks to be: the supplier selection process, material selection, energy and water use, and waste and air emissions. Our material issues related to Manufacturing are: • Energy and Air Emissions • Transportation and Inventory Management • Materials and Chemicals • Water • Waste Sanmei Hao Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 54 Energy and Air Emissions Source The majority of Chinese energy consumption – 72% – is used in manufacturing. 13 Software Solution Most of air emissions arise upstream in factory production and downstream in transportation. Our clients have made great progress downstream in managing In late 2013, we began to pilot our own technology, SourceFlo™, which will the environmental impacts of what they can control in their supply chain (e.g. allow us to compare our factories with others in the region as well as global inventory management and encouraging consumer recycling). However, they best practices. In turn, this will help us not only evaluate factory environmental tell us that they struggle to have meaningful impact on manufacturing facilities performance, but also improve our data management and supply chain because they do not have adequate access at all stages of the process. PCH acts transparency credentials. as a key link between our global network of clients and suppliers throughout China. Energy Use in Our Operations Energy consumption in our factories is minimal compared with upstream supplier In late 2013, we began developing and testing detection technologies to monitor factories – we just carry out packaging, kitting, and fulfillment. Our aim is to energy consumption in our network of supplier factories. Collecting accurate enable our suppliers to reduce energy consumption in their manufacturing data on factories’ energy use (e.g. air compression, lighting, HVAC and machines) facilities. enables us to set realistic performance indicators and helps us to identify areas for improvement. In 2013, we piloted equipment in select supplier factories. The increase in electricity use is the result of two offsetting forces. Our CTS 2 In one supplier partner factory, we adjusted air pressure in 22 plastic injection factory facility energy use increased as it was operating for a full 12 months machines, saving our supplier over $4,000 in electricity costs and 26 tons of C02. in 2013, compared to five months in 2012. Our CTS 1 factory’s energy use decreased by 21% on the production lines and in the office, mainly through Energy and Emissions improved operational efficiencies. Percentage Increase/ Resource 201214 2013 NEXT STEPS: Energy and Air Emissions Decrease Electricity15 • In 2014, we will test detection technologies in our CTS facilities and 3,671,189 3,938,043 supplier facilities that will allow us to identify areas for energy consumption Total use 7% increase improvement and emission reduction. KWH KWH GHG emissions 2812 tons 3017 tons 7% increase (Scope 2)16 13 http://china.lbl.gov/sites/all/files/key-china-energy-statistics-2012-june-2012.pdf 14 Total at December 31 in PCH China (excluding PCHD). 15 No fuel use as all heat, light and power come from purchased electricity. 16 International Energy Association (IEA) uses 0.766 as a conversion factor. GHG emissions result from the generation of electricity purchased from other organizations for our own consumption. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 55 Transportation and Inventory become obsolete/lose value and have to be disposed of. This is both economically and environmentally wasteful. “As a company whose core business is getting a product to market, Management transport should be an area of focus and we should analyze the footprint We work with our clients to manage production and of our business model. We have a Since we don’t ship product through our own means, inventory to reduce excess waste and resulting real opportunity to lead here.” we are not directly responsible for transportation landfill. From our distribution hub in China, we arrange emissions. How a product gets from our factory to the John Garvey the shipment of our clients’ products to market in customer is a decision made by our customers and is Chief Technology Officer record time. While this reduces waste, it increases not always within our sphere of influence. Reducing air transportation emissions. This is an unfortunate transportation emissions (e.g., using ships instead of trade-off. We can eradicate the need for excessive planes) is difficult to alter, as speed to market is key to manufacturing by managing inventory in the most our business. We recognize this is a place where we can specific manner possible – by replacing it with real data. leverage our unique position in the supply chain to begin The factory-level data we are collecting on materials asking key questions that will lead to better business. use, energy and labor makes it possible to meet real Our unique position in the supply chain demand without the need for excess inventory. We 24% want to eradicate the current practice of reliance on Truck Freighter allows us to ask key questions that will forecasts and replace it with real knowledge of what 5% lead to better business. products need to be made. In working towards this, we 1% will reduce the waste that comes from oversupply of 70% Courier We also use energy to transport employees, including inventory. Air air travel, buses to move workforce to and from dorms, and car travel from offices to factories or suppliers. We NEXT STEPS: Transport and Inventory Management have not tracked the GHG emissions associated with • Our current practice in assessing our business How our products are delivered transportation. We do not expect the need to transport our people will reduce over the coming years and performance considers service, quality, cost, etc. Between 2012 and 2013, we reduced We do not yet formally include the environmental the number of days our stock stayed while we have not measured the impact of employee impacts associated with our business in these in warehouses by 9% and reduced transport, we believe it will be minor in comparison the value of aging stock in our to the transport emissions associated with moving assessments, but feel this is a natural next step for warehouse by 6%. inventory. That is why we chose to assess this area of us in order to integrate sustainable thinking into our business over the coming years to establish how we our business decisions. can make this better. • In 2014 we will begin to assess how to incorporate environmental indicators into our business Inventory refers to the raw material, components indicators to measure and understand the impact and finished goods that PCH manages on behalf of of, amongst others, our inventory management our clients. The longer time inventory remains in a model. warehouse or in transit, the greater the chance it will Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 56 Materials and Chemicals “Material waste starts with design. Materials used in products and packaging pose environmental risks, including emissions and pollutants. At PCH, When it comes to material selection we are working with our clients and internal teams to focus on design and material selection; in this way, we for hardware, technology is still hope to mitigate as many environmental risks as possible. underdeveloped. At this time, we can have a greater impact on packaging as we have influence with our It starts with awareness. We must question the components, colors and coatings used in manufacturing and customer, but we need to become consider better alternatives. In 2013, we recognized a need to develop a materials library, so that our engineers more proactive in getting involved in can track alternative materials for use in manufacturing. Our SourceFlo™ technology will enable us to gather material selection with our clients.” this data. Johnson Qi Materials Director Materials & Chemicals in Products Our clients are increasingly interested in using alternative materials in their hardware products. However, they are generally not willing to pay more for this service. We need to get behind this trend and show our clients their options and our capabilities. We want to show them that better material can be cheaper. We have the expertise to do this while keeping short lead times, quality and cost in check. For example, it is possible to get more use out of a piece of leather and reduce scrap by automating cutting or altering patterns. Saving on materials can improve quality too: • With one product, we switched from a nylon fabric with PU coating, to a polyester alternative. Not only did this provide a 41% cost saving, but the polyester option is more likely to be recycled. • By using alternative biodegradable LD-PE resin in plastic packaging, our client made a 20% cost saving per ton, it’s recyclable, and the can is biodegradable under the right conditions. Our next steps are to integrate our material teams’ expertise at the early development stage of a client project to reduce, prevent or even eliminate supply chain risk. In 2014, we will create a list of restricted chemicals to be deployed across the organization with particular focus on startup companies. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 57 Conflict Minerals input recycling plant with a sorting floor and end up The use of conflict minerals in our clients’ products in a marketable bale designated for a new product. – minerals mined in conditions of armed conflict and human rights abuses – is of great concern Our design specialists concentrate on creating to us. We are not currently required by law to packaging that saves on environmental and disclose the minerals in our supply chain. However, transport impacts, while enhancing what the as a responsible company, we will update our consumer sees on the shelf. We consider the use management procedures under the guidance of of non-hazardous materials, waste reduction within processes, optimizing packaging for transport, In 2013, we overhauled a client’s the OECD guidance for responsible supply chain of and end-of-life recycling programs. Packaging packaging to make it more recyclable minerals from conflict-affected and high-risk areas. and eliminate excess packaging. PCH is working on new ways to improve robustness is designed to save space, use the best choice Our lifecycle modeling indicates of existing material qualification procedures. materials that can withstand overseas transit, substantial potential improvements source surface materials and finishes from in fossil fuel consumption (80% responsible manufacturers, and include components less), water use (39% less) and GHG Through the introduction of SourceFlo™ we will emissions (79% less) over the course begin to identify the use of gold, tin, tantalum and that are truly recyclable and labeled to encourage of the next decade. The resulting tungsten in our supply chain. We will also explore consumer recycling. lighter packaging will also save the client 19% on ocean transportation solutions for the best ways of managing this issue. NEXT STEPS: Materials and 20% on air freight transportation costs. Materials & Chemicals in Packaging • Gather and record data on manufacturing We believe that packaging that can be recycled isn’t energy use, processes, and materials going good enough. Instead, when we design packaging beyond Tier 1 suppliers deep into upstream and select materials, we ask ourselves whether an suppliers item is likely to be recycled. • Increased integration of materials specialists at the early stages of product development and To have the greatest potential impact on design (both packaging and manufacturing) packaging, we need to take an all-inclusive • Assist our clients’ compliance with incoming approach to design. laws relating to Conflict Free Minerals while We consider and review all aspects and attributes identifying our own role in the supply chain in that go into product packaging, with a goal of relation to these minerals developing products and processes that abide by our • Create a list of restricted chemicals to be own definition of recyclable: An item is recyclable deployed across the organization when it can pass through a conventional, mixedContents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 58 Water Waste Water is used for domestic purposes only in the Shenzhen office and at The local authorities in the free trade zone control domestic waste our facilities (e.g., toilet flushing, dish cleaning). Our water comes from the management in our factories. For this reason we do not have data on the Donjuang River in Shenzhen and is not recycled after use (we don’t know where quantities of waste picked up from our facilities. Domestic waste and it goes). Our landlord fees at our facilities cover water disposal charges. We production related waste (e.g., cartons, pallets, stretch film, and plastic achieved a 22% reduction in water use during 2013, even though we included bags that package incoming raw material) are part of our client’s bill of CTS 2 water use for the full year (compared to five months in 2012). material and are collected by a qualified recycling company that disposes of the waste in the Chinese domestic market. Hazardous waste (e.g., batteries Water Use in PCH Operations and fluorescent lights) is disposed of by a qualified disposal company in the Chinese domestic market (159.1kg in 2013). Any raw material from the Resource 201217 201318 Change client’s bill of material is shipped directly to a qualified disposal company in Hong Kong. Water19 43,296 tons 33,987 tons 22% decrease Waste is of greater significance in our network of supplier factories. Waste Water use in supplier manufacturing facilities is of greater concern to can mean energy, water, materials, even time. Our supplier sustainability us. Chemical pollutants are released in water, particularly in hard goods program is essentially about minimizing all waste, and reducing costs, which manufacturing facilities, as well as in printing and packaging suppliers. We leads to positive environmental and social impacts. In terms of reducing waste recognize a need to evaluate the rate of discharge at factories as well as at factories, we need to continue to pursue manufacturing modernization and ongoing monitoring and improvement of wastewater treatment technologies in overcome technical and financial barriers which leads to more efficient and supplier factories. less wasteful manufacturing. NEXT STEPS: Water NEXT STEPS: Waste • Through the use of SourceFlo™ we will eventually be able to monitor and • We will continue to focus on eliminating waste through improved understand water use, waste and pollution in our supplier facilities. manufacturing processes and design. 17 One factory (CTS 2) commenced operations in August 2012, so 2012 includes only five months of data. 18 Total at December 31 in PCH China (excluding PCHD). 19 All data comes from bills and factory meters. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 59 WORKFORCE WORKFORCE We Make Communities. A successful company is one with a motivated workforce. How can we assemble the best team at every stage of the supply chain? We believe that when we apply best practices, and they are carried out by a team of people living our values, we have a recipe for a successful business -anywhere in the world. We also want to create a sustainable company where our employees make a life – not just a living. About Our Workforce Since 2012, we have invested in programs that enhance our workforce communities, particularly in our At PCH, our workforce includes both factories, helping operators build networks and thrive in new communities. our employees and dispatch workers, those workers hired through agencies PCH Global Workforce but supervised by us (see also Dispatch Supervised Total % of Total Agencies). Country Employees21 Workers22 Workforce Workforce Operators Non-operators 23 The majority of our global workforce Ireland 98 0 98 4% is located in China: 75% of our China China24 1,536 648 328 2,512 94% workforce work in our factory facilities while the remaining 25% are office based Australia 1 1 0% staff. In China, 62% of our workforce are Japan 1 1 0% female and 38% are male20. Twenty-two Korea 5 5 0% percent of the PCH Senior Leadership team are female. South Africa 5 5 0% Taiwan 2 2 0% USA 59 59 2% Total 1,536 819 328 2,683 100% 20 PCH China excluding PCHD (60 people) 23 Refers to office based staff 21 All employees are full-time. No part-time employees were employed by PCH China in 2013. 24 PCH China consists of CTS 1 (49% of workforce), CTS 2 (31%), PCHD (2%) (total in factories is 82%), PCH Shenzhen office (17%), PCH Hong Kong (1%) as at December 2013. 22 Supervised worker refers to non-employees i.e. operators hired through a dispatch agency or contractors. PCH employed 7 contractors and 321 dispatch staff at December 2013. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 61 The Migrant Experience Our material issues related to Workforce are: Shenzhen is home to one of the largest migrant communities in China. At PCH, we are a company of migrants represented by 14 different nationalities and 97% of • Employment conditions and labor turnover our factory workforce are migrants. The majority of our workforce have migrated • Pay, benefits and overtime to Shenzhen from other parts of China, and face many issues: they are often alone, • Health & safety are separated from their communities and families, and have no local hukou rights • Training and development or local knowledge. We need to consistently ensure these workers are treated and paid fairly, and receive opportunities for training and education that provides • Grievances them with long-term benefits beyond their time with PCH. Most workers stay at factories for less than a year, so they’re not committing to us for the long-term. As a result, high labor turnover is important for us. About Hukou The term Chinese ‘migrant worker’ refers to the Hukou Chinese household operators, the employee must complete at least three years’ service and registration system (not applicable to Hong Kong). If a person is born in a rural have management approval to transfer their hukou. There is no specific policy area, their hukou (meaning household record) is registered there. Full access on who will be supported in their application for transfer of hukou. Transfer to social services (e.g., schools, hospitals) is determined by a person’s hukou. is only available for CTS permanent employees and excludes dispatch staff. Any dispatch staff who wish to transfer need to do so through their direct China is home to over 262 million migrant workers who have moved from their employer, the dispatch agency. home province to another for work. Shenzhen is home to one of the largest migrant communities in China with just 25% of residents (2.68m) holding Generally factory operators do not apply to transfer their hukou because it local hukou (2011). ties them to that city and often workers plan to return home at Chinese New Year, they do not plan to retire in Shenzhen, they wish to remain flexible in In 2013, 11% of the PCH China workforce had Shenzhen hukou. PCH abides order to move to a new location for a higher salary and transferring hukou by the minimum local legal requirements on transfer of hukou to Shenzhen. In results in an increase in social insurance contributions which would impact addition, we have our own minimum requirements when an employee wishes net pay. to transfer their hukou. PCH and CTS employees made approximately 10 hukou transfer applications PCH policy requires a certain period of service by an employee prior to in 2013. supporting an application for transfer to Shenzhen hukou. For factory Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 62 How We Manage Our Workforce PCH and CTS have separate human resources divisions and practices. We monitor To help us address high labor turnover and provide opportunities for workers, we performance and job satisfaction in the following ways: have turned to two partner organizations: Little Bird and MicroBenefits, who have been key partners in reforming the Shenzhen factory floor. In October 2013, PCH (excluding CTS) participated in the Great Place to Work® survey to understand our employees’ trust in the company and how we can improve our working environment and career development programs. The survey was distributed to 580 PCH office staff globally; 464 people responded (PCH In our 2012 report, we set targets in relation to our employee practices: overall response rate 80%). The results were positive: 79% of PCH Shenzhen and Hong Kong said that, “Taking everything into account, I would say this is a great • To include Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) training at induction place to work,” and say they value our company culture, ethics and fairness. and have all current employees attend CSR training. Status: CTS Areas for improvement include training and development, communications in carries out CSR training at induction and PCH Greentech team relation to compensation and benefits, and recognition/career development. In conducts a sustainability overview and induction for new joiners. 2014, we will develop a response plan, and conduct the survey again in 2015. • To set a formal procedure around minimum notice periods regarding PCH employees receive regular performance and career development reviews, significant operational changes. Status: A four-week notice period which focus on goal setting, coaching, and areas for further development. New is now incorporated in all PCH employee contracts. At CTS, a formal employees receive a formal probation review after six months, in addition to procedure is not in place, but our practice is to consult with the ongoing dialogue and coaching throughout their probationary period. employee and upon their agreement with the proposed change, one week’s notice is provided in the event of a change in their role. In 2013, factory staff also received regular performance and career development review. Factory worker satisfaction is gauged through the Little Bird hotline. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 63 Little Bird Little Bird is an independently owned and operated non-governmental Little Bird runs an independent confidential operator hotline that we use to gather organization (NGO) that provides advisory services for factory operators. feedback from operators, provide guidance and We were the first company to partner with Little Bird, and have been develop social activities. Through Little Bird, working with them since August 2012 beginning in two of our own factories approximately 4,500 workers in our network reaching seven by December 2013 (two at PCH and five suppliers). have access to the hotline each month. Little Bird liaises with a dedicated PCH program Contract, 1 manager and factory management to respond Sanitary mgmt, 5 to the needs of the workforce. Social Insurance, 5 In 2013, 59% of all hotline correspondences Personnel, 7 came from our supplier partner facilities. Dorms, 7 Little Bird received 1,643 phone calls and 8,456 correspondences25 on QQ talk (instant OHS/Security, 8 messaging system). In September 2013 alone Card making, 8 (production ramp) 3,125 correspondences were Overtime, 9 received. Attendance system, 10 People call the hotline for a variety of reasons. Transfer positions, 10 At our larger supplier partner facility (where Food, 11 there are a lot of dispatch workers), queries Finance, 13 largely related to the challenges of Dispatch Management, 16 Agencies26. In smaller supplier partners, the chief concerns related to legal knowledge. At Work environment, 18 our own facilities, the primary topics raised Legal, 19 were welfare, transfer positions, management Dispatch work, 20 and social insurance. Welfare, 24 25 A correspondence is calculated as one call or one full 0 05 10 15 20 25 30 engagement through QQ (number of correspondences back and forth are not counted, rather the entire engagement). Topics raised through Little Bird hotline, 2013 26 Analysis of sample data of 191 correspondence with the Little Bird hotline across seven facilities during 2013. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 64 MicroBenefits MicroBenefits is a social enterprise committed to enhancing frontline workers’ livelihoods while enabling employers to generate cost savings. It partners with employers to customize worker engagement programs, using technology-related initiatives to increase employee satisfaction and loyalty, reduce turnover rates, and improve productivity. From listening to our workforce (through the Little Bird hotline), we understood the need for social and educational platforms. In January 2013, we began partnering with MicroBenefits to launch a loyalty program in our facilities. This includes a welcome pack for new joiners, participation in a retail discount network and a Company IQ education and training application for smartphones. In November 2013, we expanded the MicroBenefits program to our partner supplier facility. On average, 2,840 operators had access to the MicroBenefits program each month from March to December 2013. Huaying Chen Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 65 Employment Conditions and Labor Turnover For companies operating in Shenzhen, managing turnover is critical to business success. This is why so many of our workplace programs are oriented towards employee loyalty/satisfaction and building a sense of community. PCH China 2013 Rate Total employees at Jan 1, 2013 2,551 New hires27 2,094 88%28 Leavers (voluntary and involuntary) 2,461 104%29 Total employees at Dec 31, 2013 2,184 In 2012, we had to replace on average 21% of our communities while readying operators for life beyond factory workforce each month. Not only is it costly to the factory. Since that time, we have experienced a hire and train a new operator, it also interferes with drop in replacement hire rates (those hired to replace our productivity, quality, and profitability. someone who has left) and their associated costs, specifically a $1.38m saving on labor costs in 12 We launched the Little Bird hotline and gathered months with a return on investment of 5:1. The insight initial data from over 500 calls with our employees, and learning into factory worker’s perspectives and an additional 973 with our supplier employees. provided by our partnerships with Little Bird and We noticed that while wage was a consistent reason MicroBenefits allows us to develop and tailor these in deciding whether to stay or leave a factory, initiatives to the needs of our workforce. promotion and learning opportunity, as well as a sense of belonging and community and a good work During 2013, the need for replacement workers environment were also considered important. We decreased significantly, compared to 2012. Changes recognized that in addition to competing on pay were implemented in our factories that reduced and benefits, we also needed to do more to reduce the need for operators including increased overall turnover by creating programs to encourage workers factory efficiency and a decrease in peak monthly to stay longer. volume. However, as well as a reduction in the need for employees, it is also possible that our social As a result, we invested more in programs (e.g., Little programs were a contributing factor in the reduction Bird library and MicroBenefits) to enhance our factory in turnover. 27 Those hired to fulfill business needs as well as those hired to replace someone who left 28 Calculated as new hires who commenced during 2013 as a percentage of average total employees in 2013 Xiaohong Peng 29 Attrition rate calculated as all those who left during 2013 as a percentage of average total employees in 2013 Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 66 Financial Benefits of a Healthy Workforce: Case study on PCH CTS 1 facility30 In addition to health and work benefits, having an educated, trained and productive workforce has financial benefits. The cost of one replacement hire is $32031 USD. In 2012, we had to replace operators in our CTS 1 facility 5,214 times, for a total cost of $1.6M (on average 21% of factory workers were replaced each month). In 2012, just 12% of the CTS 1 factory workforce had stayed for more than one year. In 2013, the average monthly replacement hire rate in the same facility dropped to six percent, creating a $1.3M saving between 2012 and 2013. In 2013, 53% of our staff were working at the facility for one year or longer. Being more efficient in our operations affected our factory floor operations as well: • 3% increase in annual volume (units shipped) • 10% reduction in space used for lines, raw materials and warehouse • 29% growth in operator efficiency • 68% increase in units per hour per person • 3% decrease in average inventory turnover 30 Case study refers only to our CTS 1 factory facility as we have two full years of employee data available 31 We use a conservative calculation in defining on the cost of replacing an employee. We referred to market research (Hay report), our social enterprise partners and our own payroll calculations in determining this Zhifang Yulin Zhou / Wulin ZhouLi//Xiaojiang Qiaofen Liang Tang value, opting for a median amount of $320. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 67 NEXT STEPS: Employment and Turnover Replacement hire32 rate CTS 1 facility 2012-2013 • Continued investment in social 59% programs including the introduction of new partners in order to maintain low turnover in our factory facilities 37% • Continued introduction of social 29% 29% programs to supplier partner facilities 22% 21% 20% 22% 19% 12% 11% 9% 8% 7% 6% 8% 9% 3% 2% 1% 0% 1% 5% 2% 32 An operator hired to replace somebody who has left. Jan Ma Fe b Jul g Sep Oc t De c Jan Ma Fe b Jul g Oc t c De Aprch Maril y y Au No v Aprch Maril y y Au Se p No v Jun e Jun e Replacement Hire Rate CTS 1 Facility 2012-2013 Rise in Shenzhen Minimum Wage 1992 201333 Pay, Benefits and Overtime Over the past decade, the minimum wage Minimum wage in Shenzhen has increased by over 167%. Like most factories in the region, we pay the minimum wage, and compete on the basis of benefits. In a salary analysis of compensation and benefits offered by companies in the Shenzhen Futian Free Trade Zone in 2012, CTS ranked fifth from thirteen companies. 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 33 Salaries as set by the local Shenzhen government, basic salary for a 40-hour week excluding any Year additional benefits or overtime. Free trade zone and Free Trade Zone Salary Non-free trade zone salary non-free trade zone salaries differed until 2011. Shenzhen minimum wage 1992 2013 Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 68 PCH Shenzhen and HK CTS Employee Overtime Permanent PCH employees receive All factory employees receive at a Working overtime is a common per week, including overtime, except base salary, Chinese new year minimum, the local minimum wage occurrence both in our own facility in emergency or unusual situations. bonus (Chinese/HK nationals only), as set by the Shenzhen government, and those of our suppliers. Ensuring Workers shall be allowed at least one performance based bonus, life and and are paid legally required overtime overtime hours are not excessive is a day off per seven-day week and all health care insurance, disability rates. All staff (including dispatch) key focus at PCH. Through the Little overtime must be entirely voluntary. and invalidity coverage, retirement receive base pay, Chinese new-year Bird hotline and surveys, we have We constantly engage with employees provision, social insurance (Chinese bonus, meals, dormitory/housing observed that workers are usually to understand the level of overtime employees), and leave entitlements allowance (discontinued for those eager to work overtime. In fact, they are comfortable with. PCH (i.e., annual, public holidays, parental, who joined after the first of March, none of them say that overtime is achieved 99% compliance with our and marriage leave). Expats, interns 2013), high temperature allowance, unacceptable and 28% accept overtime code of conduct in 2013 and the and consultants also get a housing night shift/on call allowance (where with pleasure. Fifty-six percent of average factory operator working week allowance; travel allowances are applicable), transportation (buses workers say they work overtime for in Q4 2013 during production ramp was provided to some staff. for employees in certain remote pay, and their optimal amount of 53 hours per week. dormitories), mandatory social overtime is two to three hours per day. Base pay is based on market value for insurance and housing fund (Chinese During production ramp, only 16% of Ultimately, achieving a workweek that that role in a particular geography. nationals only), leave entitlements workers do not want to work voluntary is well planned, balanced and meets The PCH policy around our annual (i.e., annual, public holidays, parental, overtime. employees’ requirements (but is not compensation review process is to and marriage leave), company excessive) is our goal. During seasonal compare all positions with market uniforms, vending machine cards, A standard working week in China is production ramp we offer working median data. One hundred percent and red pocket for Chinese New 40 hours per week with no more than weeks of up to 60 hours, always of our workforce receives social Year. Operator employees receive a 36 overtime hours per month. Workers ensuring this is voluntary overtime, accident insurance and social monthly bonus for attendance of one are entitled to at least one day off per compliant with our code of conduct and health insurance (where applicable). full month’s work. seven-day week. aligned with information collected from Permanent employees at PCH China our ongoing worker engagements. receive an annual performance based Dispatch workers receive the same Working weeks exceeding 60 hours bonus, based on their individual pay as our employee operators (social are deemed excessive by industry performance rating. insurance payments are administered associations, and our supplier code by the dispatch agency, all other of conduct requires that no employee benefits are paid by factory HR). should work for more than 60 hours Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 69 Parental Leave We abide by all parental leave entitlements in accordance with local laws. In 2013, 40 PCH China employees took parental leave. We estimate that at a minimum 63 people were entitled to parental leave, but some (approximately 23 factory operators) did not avail of their leave entitlements and chose to leave work instead, probably to return to their hometown. 2013 Total Female Male Employees entitled to parental leave34 63 52 11 Employees who took parental leave 40 29 11 Employees who returned to work after parental 34 23 11 leave Employees still employed 12 months after 20 10 10 returning from parental leave Return to work rate as a percentage of those 85% 79% 100% who claimed parental leave Return to work rate as a percentage of those 54% 44% 100% entitled to parental leave NEXT STEPS: Pay and Benefits • Maintain competitive employee benefits packages to prevent high turnover • Continue to monitor factory worker overtime 34 Data excludes PCHD Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 70 Health and Safety At our directly owned factory facilities at CTS, where we carry out fulfillment and packaging, our operations at PCH China are not as hazardous as other areas of our supply chain. We carry out annual internal and government mandated risk assessments at our facilities to identify areas of priority. In 2013, one station at our CTS facility was deemed hazardous and the 27 operators who work on this are issued with personal protection equipment and undergo a health check before being assigned this station. Injuries are reported to the local social security bureau. In 2013, one female was injured in a traffic accident on the way to work (a 20 day scheduled workday absence). The employee was still employed by CTS at the time of reporting. Health and Safety Performance PCH China Number of incidents Incident rate Fatalities 0 0% Injury rate35 136 0% Occupational disease rate37 0 0% Lost day rate38 34 0% Absentee rate39 13,466 3% NEXT STEPS: Health and Safety • Continue to maintain high standards in our facilities while enabling our Wei Zhou / Xiaomei Hu / Hedong Zhang supplier partners to do the same 35 Injury rate is calculated as number of injuries as a percentage of average number of CTS factory employees in 2013 36 We do not include minor injuries in this data and use a government-mandated definition on what is deemed an injury. 37 Occupational disease rate is calculated as frequency of occupational diseases relative to the total time worked by factory employees in 2013. 38 Lost day rate is calculated as total lost days due to minor injuries/occupational injury/disease as a percentage of total days scheduled to be worked by factory employees in 2013. 39 Absentee rate is calculated as total absent days as a percentage of total days scheduled to be worked by factory employees in 2013. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 71 Training and Development We want to encourage our workers to engage with our factories and benefit from their time working at PCH. This is why we constantly implement, monitor and adapt our training and education programs. Our workforce tends to be young (51% of operators are under 30 years old, 49% are 30-50 years old), are in Shenzhen to earn money, and don’t want to complete extensive training courses. Workers also don’t want to participate in courses if it interferes with their ability to earn overtime. How can we encourage participation in education for our factory workforce? In surveys, many of our operators tell us they have aspirations of running their own businesses when they leave the factory. The majority of our factory workforce (50%) has attained middle school education. With this in mind, we focus on short-term practical courses that help workers move up the ranks within our operations while also equipping them for future career change. In 2013, 19 operators (warehouse keepers/leaders) were promoted to supervisor positions. PCH • In July 2013, 134 participants began a worker management communication In 2013 PCH created a learning and development program called Envision. program. The 25-hour course for direct staff leaders helped improve Envision incorporates professional development, soft skills training, technical management skills through communication. training, orientation training, leadership college, English language training, • In 2013, CTS began a program to prepare internal trainers to develop and Chinese language training and continuing education. deliver training to other employees. The monthly course, which runs until May 2014, trains 32 employees across CTS in skills such as presentation, CTS PowerPoint training and course design. At CTS, all new employees receive orientation training to equip them We are currently designing a training program for over 100 CTS employees, for their individual position. An annual training plan is created for each which will cover topics such as personal finance, starting a small business, and department at CTS. The training plan depends on the person’s role (and living skills. Participants in the program will focus on operators who are not business requirements). All line leaders and supervisors also undergo monthly currently engaged in skilled labor. management skills training conducted by HR. Throughout 2013, the following At PCH China, we do not currently have data on individual annual training plans. training programs ran in our factory facilities (see also MicroBenefits): A records management system is expected to be rolled out in June 2014, which • Business English training program for CTS employees: In 2013, we held will allow us to monitor training participation initially at CTS. courses for over 80 non-operator employees. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 72 Little Bird Activities In January 2013, Little Bird opened a library at our partner supplier facility to provide a learning and listening resource for workers, and a multi-functional platform for employees to relax and learn. In 2014, the number of library staff will be increased to service the needs of even more workers. We will also open up two additional libraries in the dorms of our CTS facilities. Throughout 2013, Little Bird held various activities (13) across the workforce (all facilities). These were attended by 363 people: (66% male and 33% female). In 2014, Little Bird will continue to organize relevant activities as requested by employees. Activities Held By Little Bird in 2012 MicroBenefits • Women’s Day In 2013, we used three of MicroBenefit’s products to engage with staff: a Welcome Pack, the company IQ • Mooncake making smartphone application and discount network cards. • Urban integration training • PCH Little Bird party MicroBenefits Welcome Pack – This pack is provided to all new workers, and provides details about MicroBenefits and Little Bird, as well as a discount network card, a postcard to send to families, a list of • Mid-Autumn day retailers, and details of career progression opportunities. In 2013, 2,500 Welcome Packs were distributed in • Cantonese lecture PCH facilities, and 14,000 were distributed in our supplier facilities. • Picnic Company IQ Application – In April 2013, MicroBenefits piloted ‘Company IQ’ in our CTS facilities. This mobile • Shenzhen cultural tour app turns corporate training and personal development courses into a game to help workers learn in a fun • Psychological health lecture and motivating environment. There was a low adoption rate, because of lack of relevant content. We must • Singles party ensure that we maximize the use of this platform by tailoring content towards the needs of our workforce. MicroBenefits estimate that 70-80% of workers own a smartphone so for those who do not have access to the • Talent contest app, we are looking into making computers/smartphones available for use in the libraries. • Cultural and outdoor activities Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 73 Zhirong Lin Discount Network – In June 2013, we launched the MicroBenefits discount NEXT STEPS: Training and Education network at PCH, and expanded to our supplier partner in November 2013. Each • Open two additional Little Bird libraries in 2014 month, the network gives over 3,750 employees access to up to 153 retailers, • Launch of Company IQ and Company Link (a social media platform that who offer a 19% discount (on average) on daily services such as clothing, delivers company news, employer polls, promotion opportunities, HR support) restaurants, hairdressers and pharmacies. In seven months, workers spent over in a supplier partner facility $35,000 and saved over $5,600 at local retailers, through the discount network. • Relaunch of MicroBenefits discount network and company IQ app in our own Eighty-six percent of spend was from workers in our supplier facility in November factories and December alone. • Introduce new social partners to expand education and training programs in The program was not very successful in our own employee network. MicroBenefits factories are working to resolve this by building relationships with local retailers. When the • Conduct additional surveys and interviews in order to tailor social program discount network was launched at our supplier partner facility in November, it was content to meet operator needs far more successful as MicroBenefits learned from the CTS experience and had an • Increase tailored education and training programs for our factory workforce aggressive 90-day plan to get the program off the ground. Line leaders surveyed following the launch of the network noted that it boosted employee morale during peak season because it showed the employees that the company cared. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 74 Grievances PCH Factory Labour Grievances Should any employee have concerns about our labor, human rights or 30 environmental practices (grievances), they can approach their direct 25 managers, any member of management and any member of HR to share their concerns. In 2013, PCH appointed an employee relations manager 20 to provide a point of contact for all employees to discuss anything 15 of concern to them. We currently do not have any official grievance 27 mechanism in the PCH office, however we endeavor to continually 10 monitor this and if the risk should arise, we will take corrective action. 15 5 12 8 1 1 1 3 0 2 0 0 2 CTS Work Human Rights Salary Living Food Total The risk of grievances is greater in our network of factory facilities. Environment conditions At CTS, the Ethics Management Procedure provides a whistleblowing 2012 CTS 2013 CTS procedure. The general manager and HR’s phone number are available for all staff. Little Bird can escalate any grievances to their PCH program manager or facility management (see also Little Bird). A suggestion box is available in the dining hall at our CTS facilities, which is checked monthly. Any grievances are addressed within 15 working days with the results posted on a public bulletin board. In 2013, all grievances were closed within fifteen days. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 75 We are noticing a trend that with the opening Dormitory Standards of communication channels and improvements Local regulations in Shenzhen require that all in factory conditions comes an increase in dorm facilities carry an Environment Impact grievances. While the number of grievances Assessment Permit and a fire protection received in 2013 increased by 440%, this could verification permit. There is no local law regarding be because of a number of factors: the number of people or amount of space to be provided per person in dormitories. PCH applies 1. An actual increase in labor rights abuses at our own standard to our CTS dorms: our facilities • 100% of grievances were resolved 2. Increased awareness of practices that are CTS dorm standards within 15 working days acceptable in our factories Between 41.69sqm – 62.01sqm • 59% of grievances were reported via 3. Increased expectations amongst our No more than 8 people in any one dorm Little Bird hotline workforce One toilet per room, one locker per person • 30% of grievances related to human 4. Increased awareness of how to communicate Dorms are separated by gender rights and 70% related to labor issues that arise Double bunk beds in each dorm room practices 5. Increased employee trust of the independence of Little Bird and having NEXT STEPS: Grievances confidence that their employer wants to • Continue to work with factory management engage with them and is seeking to improve and HR to ensure labor and human rights standards and practices are upheld in our The accessibility of the Little Bird hotline brings own and supplier factories our workforce closer to PCH allowing us to react to any employee concerns. CTS employees accounted for over 525 correspondences with the Little Bird hotline during 2013. Little Bird escalated 16 complaints through CTS’s formal grievance procedure; in other words, approximately three percent of calls from CTS facilities merited formal grievance procedure escalation to factory managment. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 76 Junwei Yang Sample Employee Grievances from Little Bird Hotline PCH: Supplier: Supplier: Social Insurance: In 2013, 16% of calls to Little Allowance for certain skilled operator positions: Operator Sick Leave: Operators complained that Bird at one factory facility related to wages and Workers complained via the Little Bird hotline that they did not receive sick leave benefits. social insurance. On further investigation it was they had not received their allowance. determined that the calls related to workers Outcome: Little Bird and HR explained the being unaware that their social insurance card Outcome: HR checked this and where a complaint requirement for a doctor’s certificate. When must be transferred from their previous employer was valid, the allowance was paid in cash in the employees are sick, they require a sick certificate in order to have contributions paid by the factory. same month. from a doctor. All operators have access to a doctor through their social insurance benefits. No Outcome: All employees received social insurance violation had occurred. contributions and employees are made aware of how to transfer their account from a prior employer by HR/Little Bird staff. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 77 LOOKING AHEAD LOOKING AHEAD This report has dealt mainly with projects that have been successfully implemented. However, there are additional projects that require our focus. There remain instances where suppliers are not managing materials and processes as safely as we require. We are working with designers to eliminate the need for some of these harmful substances, and we are building our suppliers’ capacity to process remaining materials safely and efficiently. We will be working with a number of factories in 2014 to prove the value of realtime energy monitoring and management, but beyond that we must reduce the cost of installation to encourage uptake of this technology amongst our suppliers. More education opportunities for factory employees is a key objective in 2014. We will expand our online training platform to enhance career opportunities and provide customized educational content. We are committed to Making Better Business, and in 2014 we will continue to focus on implementing projects that yield real data upon which we will base our decisions. We are always ready to share information on our approach and of course constantly looking for new ideas and approaches to sustainability. Please contact Alan Cuddihy, Head of Sustainability, sustainability@pchintl.com Haitao Wang Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 79 GRI INDEX GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES40 Page Number Information related to Standard Disclosures required by the ‘in accordance’ options may already be included in other reports prepared by the organization. (or Link) In these circumstances, the organization may elect to add a specific reference to where the relevant information can be found. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Message from CEO Liam Casey ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Welcome G4-4 About PCH G4-5 Where We Operate G4-6 Where We Operate G4-7 Where We Operate G4-8 About PCH G4-9 What We Do G4-10 About Our Workforce G4-11 Compliance and Integrity G4-12 Our Supplier Network G4-13 Where We Operate G4-14 The precautionary principle has not been specifically addressed. G4-15 Collaboration and Partnerships G4-16 Collaboration and Partnerships 40 This report has not been reviewed or assured by a third party. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 80 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 What This Report Covers G4-18 Material Issues G4-19 Material Issues G4-20 Material Issues G4-21 Material Issues G4-22 No material restatements G4-23 First GRI G4 Core report so aspect boundaries were not previously reported STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Stakeholder Engagement G4-25 Stakeholder Engagement G4-26 Stakeholder Engagement – no engagement was done specifically for this report G4-27 Stakeholder Engagement REPORT PROFILE G4-28 About This Report G4-29 Our Reporting Guidelines G4-30 About This Report G4-31 Looking Ahead G4-32 Our Reporting Guidelines G4-33 Our Reporting Guidelines GOVERNANCE G4-34 Sustainability Governance and Management ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Compliance and Integrity Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 81 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and Indicators Information related to Standard Disclosures required by the ‘in accordance’ Identified Omission(s) Reason(s) for Omission(s) Explanation for options may already be included in other reports prepared by the organization. In exceptional cases, In exceptional cases, Omission(s) In these circumstances, the organization may elect to add a specific reference if it is not possible to if it is not possible to In exceptional cases, to where the relevant information can be found. disclose certain required disclose certain required if it is not possible to information, identify the information, provide the disclose certain required information that has been reason for omission. information, explain omitted. the reasons why the information has been omitted. CATEGORY: ECONOMIC MATERIAL ASPECT: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES G4-DMA Our Supplier Network G4-EC9 Proportion of spend on Chinese Suppliers NON-GRI MATERIAL ASPECT41: STABILITY OF SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIP G4-DMA Stability of Supplier Relationships PCH-1 Length of Supplier Relationship NON-GRI MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCTION RAMP G4-DMA Production Ramp and Dispatch System PCH-2 Dispatch Workers as Percentage of Factory Workforce CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL MATERIAL ASPECT: ENERGY G4-DMA Energy and Air Emissions G4-EN3 Energy Use in Our Operations 41 PCH has several material aspects that are not addressed by GRI so we have identified these and are working to develop the best indicators of performance. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 82 MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS G4-DMA Energy and Air Emissions G4-EN16 Energy indirect Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions (Scope 2): Energy Use in Our Operations MATERIAL ASPECT: MATERIALS AND CHEMICALS G4-DMA Materials and Chemicals PCH-3 Indicator to be developed 2014 Quantitative data is not Data not available We have not yet reported established systems for tracking impacts MATERIAL ASPECT: TRANSPORT G4-DMA Transportation and Inventory Management PCH-4 Indicator to be developed in 2014 Quantitative data is not Data not available We have not yet reported established systems for tracking impacts MATERIAL ASPECT: WATER42 G4-DMA Water G4-EN8 Water MATERIAL ASPECT: WASTE G4-DMA Waste PCH-5 Indicator to be developed in 2014 Quantitative data is not Data not available We have not yet reported established systems for tracking impacts MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL, LABOR AND HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT (Note: the same process covers environmental, labor and human rights supplier assessments so it is only reported once here.) G4-DMA Supplier Assessments and Upgrades G4-EN32, G4-LA14, Audit Outcomes Supplier Assessments and Upgrades G4-HR10 G4-EN33, G4-LA15, Audit Outcomes Supplier Assessments and Upgrades G4-HR11 42 Water is not material in our own operations, but since it can be material for our suppliers, we are reporting on our own use to develop insight into our suppliers’ situation. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 83 CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK MATERIAL ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT G4-DMA Workforce – Employment and Turnover G4-LA1 Employment Conditions and Labor Turnoverpartial Turnover by age and Data not available Turnover calculations have gender not reported not been linked to gender or age G4-LA2 Pay, Benefits and Overtime G4-LA3 Pay, Benefits and Overtime MATERIAL ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Health and Safety G4-LA6 Health and Safety MATERIAL ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-DMA Training and Development G4-LA9 Average hours of training by employees Quantitative data is not Data not available We have not yet established a reported tracking system MATERIAL ASPECT: LABOR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-DMA Grievances G4-LA16, G4-HR3 Factory Labor Grievances SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS MATERIAL ASPECT: CHILD LABOR G4-DMA Child Labor G4-HR5 All operations in China have some risk of child labor. SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY NON-MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE43 G4-DMA Compliance and Integrity G4-SO8, G4-EN29, Significant Fines and Sanctions – all kinds PR9 43 Compliance was not identified as a material aspect for PCH, but as our approach is compliance as a minimum in all we do, we have reported on this indicator. Contents | CEO Message | About PCH | About This Report | Sustainability at PCH | Supply Chain | Manufacturing | Workforce | Looking Ahead PCH International Sustainability Report 2013 84
