HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2013 1 Content CEO’s statement of support for the UN Global Compact................................................ 3 The Global Compact’s 10 Universally Accepted Principles: Human Rights Principle One................................................................................................................. 5 Principle Two................................................................................................................. 8 Labour Standards Principle Three............................................................................................................. 12 Principle Four............................................................................................................... 15 Principle Five................................................................................................................ 15 Principle Six.................................................................................................................. 18 Environment Principle Seven ............................................................................................................ 21 Principle Eight.............................................................................................................. 24 Principle Nine............................................................................................................... 27 Anti-Corruption Principle Ten................................................................................................................. 30 2 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2013 This is Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC’s Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. It covers January 1st until December 31st 2013 and includes a reiteration of commitment from Hikma’s CEO to the principles and incorporates sections of Hikma’s Corporate Responsibility Report, Hikma’s policies, Code of Conduct, and GRI indicators. The report will demonstrate how Hikma is addressing each of the UNGC’s 10 universally accepted principles and continues to actively engage in and improve these practices over the years. We welcome feedback on its contents. Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2013 3 CEO’s statement of support for the UN Global Compact It is my pleasure to present to you Hikma Pharmaceuticals’ 2013 Communication on Progress report. Hikma Pharmaceuticals has been an avid member of the United Nations Global Compact since 2007. We continue to support the ten principles and to align our operations with the Global Compact in all our locations. As Chairman and CEO of Hikma, I am proud to confirm our continued commitment and support to this paramount initiative. Hikma has continued to grow strongly in 2013, as a multinational pharmaceutical group publicly listed in the LSE. I am proud to say that Hikma now has 27 manufacturing facilities in 11 countries across four continents. As Hikma progresses so does our responsibility towards our people, the communities where Hikma is, and the environment. As we grow and expand our locations we also grow our personal culture. Our multi-cultural workforce enables us to experience rich and diverse cultures and understand their intricacies, which in return allows us to better understand the needs of our patients in differing communities. Our locations are spread over different geographies, climates and environments. Our responsibility has had to deepen and develop to adapt to the needs and requirements of these various ecologies. As a pharmaceutical manufacturer we strive to reduce our impact on the environment and adopt environmentally friendly technologies. Hikma’s Communication on Progress shows how we are adopting the ten universally accepted principles into the foundations of our business, in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Our mission, simply put, is improving people’s lives. We will remain diligent in moving towards a more sustainable business by continuously supporting the UNGC and implementing its principles in all aspects of our business. Said Darwazah CEO of Hikma Pharmaceuticals 4 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2013 THE GLOBAL COMPACT 10 UNIVERSALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2013 5 Principle One: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 6 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2013 Commitment “Hikma respects the dignity environmentally conscious as and human rights of its well as active members of the Employee welfare and education employees and others… Hikma community wherever a branch of are some of the main principles is not discriminatory and offers the company is. that have been guiding Hikma equal opportunities to all.” for the past 35 years; the In 2013 Hikma streamlined its preservation and respect of The employees’ right to health corporate values by involving the human rights is taken seriously and safety is a fundamental part stakeholders of the company. This in Hikma and embedded of the company’s responsibility started from top management throughout the whole company, towards them. Hikma has a in Hikma and was administered strong health and safety mandate from the top level down. All the from the board of directors with health and safety policies corporate values became unified. to the operational functions. enforced in all levels, as seen in The values were communicated Hikma has always been devoted the Code of Conduct: to all employees and posters to upholding high standards of were placed in the all the offices ethical conduct. ‘Improving lives’ “Hikma is committed to in Hikma Corporate. In 2014 all is the main mission of Hikma and providing for its employees the corporate values will be rolled is implemented by providing high a safe and secure working out in all of Hikma’s worldwide quality affordable medication to environment.” locations. patients and improving the lives of its local communities and its Proclaimed human rights are Four corporate values were employees. upheld across the group and identified: propagated to employees of Hikma’s corporate strategy different levels and functions in Integrity Acting with centers around two themes – the Group’s entities. This covers honesty and honour without wellbeing and education, and the entire workforce through the compromising the truth four key platforms – Hikma’s Employees Human Resources Bylaws. Drive for Excellence-Quality people, community, environment Holding people accountable and global welfare and ethics. Hikma applies Human Rights to the highest standards of These platforms reflect Hikma’s standards along its supply chain. performance commitment to its employees and Hikma does not deal with any community, which in turn reflects partner or supplier who does Respect Showing Hikma’s alignment with the not honour international labour consideration for one another, Compact’s principles. standards, as stated in the Code recognizing each other’s of Conduct: differences, needs and The company has manufacturing expectations facilities in 11 countries, sales in “Hikma seeks to engage with over 50 markets, more than 7,000 customers and suppliers whose Transparency Implying employees and worldwide offices. employment practices respect openness, communication and In each area Hikma endorses human rights and whose accountability. Operating clearly the internationally proclaimed ethical standards meet the and openly, making it easy for human rights by applying uniform standards set by Hikma.” others to observe performance ethical standards in all its different locations, in compliance with The company’s corporate values Systems, Processes and local laws, thereby maintaining a were also revisited in 2013. Hikma has been running on ethical pillars Programs unified global Hikma culture. since the day of its establishment; the company’s founder is a strong Administration Programs Hikma’s support of Human advocate of ethics in business, Rights Protection is reflected on a and has instilled a humanitarian Hikma recognizes that one of strategic level through the Code its most important assets is its approach in the way employees of Conduct.1 conduct their business at Hikma. employees, and therefore strives This began with providing high to provide the upmost care for The Dignity and Respect Principle quality affordable medications to its personnel and their families. from Hikma’s Code states the patients in need, and had later Some of Hikma’s advantages following: spread to the company becoming that make the company unique 1 The Code is available on the corporate website: http://www.hikma.com/en/corporate-responsibility/code-of-conduct Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2013 7 are providing ample income rights and for employees to have Performance and numerous benefits to its a strong voice. staff, as well as special child care In 2013 the company streamlined assistance programs to working The committee was created by election; employees voted for its auditing procedure by mothers and the employment of identifying its major suppliers and handicapped persons. their preferred representative members in accordance to a doing a more extensive audit of set of guidelines. In order to their supply procedures. 70% Education is also a key element of the significant suppliers have ensure that communication was in Hikma; there are numerous undergone screenings on human productive between employees programs available for employees rights. and the company an initiative to who are interested in advancing educate the members of Zamaleh their education. Programmes such In 2013 employee training took place. as Hikma’s Continuing Education continued across the group, with Scheme offer full funding for In order to ensure employee 972 training sessions conducted eligible qualified employees to personal rights are being upheld in Hikma’s main sites that include pursue their higher education. and there is no dissatisfaction in manufacturing operations: There are also internal company the company, the Hikma CREC Hikma Corporate, Jordan, APM, programs which center on the (Compliance, Responsibility and Portugal, Morocco, Algeria, theme of continuous education, Ethics Committee) created a Sudan, Egypt and the US; with a such as management rotation system in order to make sure budget of $ 1,811,732 spent on plans, in which employees are employees have a confidential, training in these sites. encouraged to spend some time anonymous outlet to report to, if in other departments in order to the need ever arises. Anonymous Our Code of Conduct was signed become exposed to different parts reporting “speak-up” hotlines by 100% of senior management of business and obtain a fresh are currently in place in the U.S during the year. thinking perspective, as well as and Europe. These hotlines go the opportunity to build a diverse directly to the compliance team, range of skills and experience. Hikma measures the following the VP of Corporate HR and the GRI indicators: General Counsel. Hikma has plans The company respects employees’ to expand this system globally LA7: rates of injury, disease, lost rights in line with the UNGC in the coming year. Hikma is days, absenteeism human rights principle. Hikma also working on a web based upholds the employees’ right to compliance reporting system LA10: average hours of training privacy, and protects confidential where employees can report their per employee per category employee information within a concerns in a confidential and HR2: percentage of suppliers/ legal and regulatory framework. anonymous manner, which will be contractors undergone human Employment security is also launched in January 2014. rights screening protected through safeguarding employment and employability. The CREC also ensured that employees confirmed that they understand and abide by the Actions Code by signing it. In Hikma Jordan a new employee committee known as Zamaleh In 2013 Hikma continued to (Arabic for colleagues) was train its employees regularly. established through transparent The company focuses on annual and democratic measures, to worldwide training in order ensure that the company and to continuously advance and the employees’ best interests challenge its employees. Factory are served in a healthy and operators took mandatory open way. Zamaleh serves as a technical training sessions in order gateway between operations and to ensure their health and safety management, and was created while at work. in order to safeguard employees’ 8 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2013 Principle Two: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2013 9 Commitment Safety to ensure the utmost any violations that may occur. If wellbeing of its employees. the employee does not wish to Hikma has a very strict no report to line management, he/ We ensure that Hikma she can report in a confidential tolerance policy when it comes to complies with and exceeds, human rights abuse; Hikma will manner to the Compliance where possible… all the Department, any member of the not work with any company that labour laws and regulations has any kind of negative relation Hikma legal department, Hikma with regards to workplace Corporate HR, or Hikma’s speakin terms of abuse. Health and Safety. up reporting service. Hikma applies Human Rights We aim to prevent accidents standards along its supply chain. and cases of work-related ill People The company will not deal with health at Hikma. any supplier or partner who does Human Resources Bylaws have We require our contractors always been a part of the not honour the international and visitors to also comply employees’ responsibility at Hikma labour standards, as mentioned in with all site health, safety and takes up a large portion of the Code of Conduct: requirements. their work contract. The Bylaws “Hikma seeks to engage with and supporting policies meet customers and suppliers whose Systems, Processes and and surpass labour laws and employment practices respect Programs regulations in the countries where human rights and whose Hikma operates. ethical standards meet the Code of Conduct standards set by Hikma.” Hikma takes great precaution with employee’s health and Hikma applies Human Rights Hikma’s Code of Conduct clearly safety; employees are trained standards in all levels of the states the principles of business to operate in a safe and company and with all its conduct, criteria and ethical secure manner in their work businesses. Hikma does not deal behaviours that are expected environments. The company with any partner or supplier who of each employee as well as takes every available precaution does not honour international any related business party. in order to diminish if not labour standards. Every employee has a clear eliminate all risks this is done by understanding of the principles ensuring that all health and safety that are stated in the Code and Health and Safety regulations are both properly abides as such. understood and complied in order One of Hikma’s main priorities to protect the employee. Implementation of the Code is its employees; in order to maintain a successful business the The Compliance, Responsibility At Hikma employees enjoy a employees of the organization and Ethics Committee (CREC) is work environment that is free should be happy. Hikma is responsible for overseeing the from substance abuse, including committed to its employees’ development of the group’s Code smoking. Hikma has a strict health and safety. of Conduct. The CREC consists of no-smoking policy worldwide. several board members including Unofficially Hikma has advocated The company has a an anti-smoking environment the Executive Vice Chairman. comprehensive Health, Safety since its establishment in 1978; and Environment (HSE) Each year Hikma employees officially Hikma became a Policy that is validated by upper as well as new employees are completely smoke free company management. The policy is on required to confirm that they have since 1994. Hikma is a member a global scale which applies to read the Code, have understood of the Global Smoke free all Hikma units worldwide. The it and will abide by its terms. Partnership in all its facilities, from policy states the following in New employees are required to the company offices to Hikma’s regards to Health and Safety: sign that they have read and transportation cars. Hikma is understood the Code and have also certified as a non-smoking Hikma expects all its units agreed to fully comply with the company from the King Hussein to comply with its high standards contained in it. Hikma Cancer Center. standards of Health and employees are obligated to report 10 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2013 Ethical Suppliers be provided with Health should immediately report Insurance for themselves and the injury, where it should Each year Hikma audits the their immediate family, with be forwarded to the Human companies it is in partnership the option of adding some Resource department, the with in regards to company members of the extended family HSE supervisor and General employment practices, through for a small fee. Manager and dealt with the supplier audit procedure. accordingly. Some additional health The practice was initiated in insurance benefits include Through collaboration with HR, 2007 whereby all suppliers adding on cancer insurance for CR responsibilities are a part and contractors that deal the employee with the option of CR champions’ KPIs. These with the company underwent of adding some immediate responsibilities now represent human rights screening. Hikma family members for a small fee, 30% of their overall job also utilises Suppliers Audit depending on the different responsibilities. Questionnaires that relates to all countries in which the company the UNGC principles to help with is located. Learning and Development: measuring the suppliers’ practices while also increasing awareness It is the responsibility of the Hikma is a company that for responsible operations and employee to inform his or believes in continuous learning ethics practices. her superior of any health and education. If an employee conditions or illnesses which expresses a desire for higher Health and Safety may affect employee job education and fits the profile performance. the company provides higher The company accedes with education scholarships. workplace safety standards Accident Prevention: OHSAS 18001 standards or The company creates In order to ensure continuous their counterparts – in our employment opportunities that employee protection is manufacturing facilities. OHSAS enhance human development. maintained the safety rules and 18001 was aligned with ISO procedures are posted in all 14001 management systems. Monitoring Health and Safety Hikma plants and administration Hikma’s corporate Healthy, Safety at Hikma buildings. Managers and and Environment department supervisors are expected administers the environment Health and safety of employees to administer those rules; management requirements are monitored at every level of employees who not comply from ISO 14001 and oversees Hikma across its businesses. with the safety procedures will the health and safety risks by be dealt with sternly. continuing to comply with the VP of Operations: If any accident does occur standard requests for maintaining The VP of Operations sets the the OHSAS 18001 certification by Hikma has clear company strategic goals for the groupannually renewing it. exits for the employees to use; wide overall Health and Safety employees have been trained on Implementation of Hikma HSE functions of every company how to respond to emergency Policy with assistance from the situations. General Managers. The global HSE policy is further Health and Safety Training: enhanced into comprehensive General Manager: health and safety processes for Training is provided regularly to all employees. It is provided The Health and Safety each unit and function. The to new employees at the instruction is overseen by the management of each unit is beginning of their employment. General Manager of each unit, responsible for implementing Specialized training for specific who takes responsibility for these policies into their units. equipment is mandatory ensuring the implementation of These policies are constantly for operators whose work the Health and Safety Policy. updated and strongly enforced in order to protect employees from necessitates using specific equipment. Health and Safety Supervisor: any unnecessary injuries. Monitoring, Reporting and An HS Supervisor is allotted in The health and safety Communicating: each manufacturing unit to take processes are: responsibility for confirming Employee Health: If any injury occurs during policy implementation in working hours for employees All Hikma employees will addition to compliance with the the managers of the division local regulations. Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2013 11 If needed, the HS supervisor Hikma employees periodically. compliance with the Code. The allocates the appropriate Code was signed by 100% of the resources at all levels of the The CR Champions carried senior management during the organization to certify the out several campaigns such as year. required compliance. This may the “You are Hikma” general include roles for a Fire Officer employee health day, first aid In 2013 the company streamlined and a First Aid officer. training, fire drill practice, its auditing procedure by anti-obesity campaign within identifying its major suppliers and HSE Committee doing a more extensive audit of the company and in the local All manufacturing units have community, breast cancer day their supply procedures. 70% a devoted HSE Committee to in line with the world breast of the significant supplies have oversee that operations are in cancer initiative and world undergone screenings on human line with the HSE policy. heart day. We now have 16 rights. Corporate Responsibility champions across the group, Health and Safety Champions: following the appointment of new champion in Morocco. In 2013 Hikma JPI, KSA & Egypt A CR champion in each unit The company holds annual HR works with the representatives were renewed for the OHSAS and CR training workshops in 18001 and the ISO 14001. Hikma appointed to confirm the day October for employees globally to day implementation and Jordan remains valid till 2014. to renew communication on Hikma Jordan passed the last communication of the HSE main issues and introduce the policy. surveillance visit of the ISO14001 latest global trends in sustainable with zero nonconformity; The requirements of health and development and further train our safety such as GRI are reported CR champions in GRI. In 2013 Hikma Jordan received by the HS supervisor to the CR the CH11/2016 certificate champion. Employee Benefits for the OHSAS 18001: 2007 certification till December 2014, Actions Hikma’s full time employees for meeting the requirements of are offered several benefits, the Design and Manufacturing of Hikma’s updated Code of including class A medical Pharmaceutical Products. Conduct was published in the insurance, maternity leave that fourth quarter of 2012. It has in some countries is stronger Hikma Jordan also received the been translated into five main and more extended than the CH08/0686 certificate for the languages of Hikma’s locations: official government maternity ISO 14001: 2004 certification English, Arabic, Portuguese, leave regulations, retirement till May 2014, for meeting the French and German. It was provisions through social security, requirements of the Design and circulated to all of Hikma’s and a provident fund. There are Manufacturing of Pharmaceutical employees and been published different benefits provided to Products. on the corporate website. In 2013 employees of different countries employees continued signing according to local regulations and The company also passed the the Code in their respective job requirements, such as cancer surveillance visit of the OHSAS languages. insurance for the employee as with zero nonconformity as well. well as his immediate family. Both the OHSAS and the ISO In 2013, mandatory occupational were renewed to 2014. training occurred for all The Health and Safety of our sales manufacturing operators, as well divisions are covered by training, Hikma measures the following as corporate training for all Hikma the employees are provided with GRI indicators: employees in order to ensure class A medical insurance. The LA7: rates of injury, disease, lost their career advancement and company offers high quality safe days, absenteeism individual growth. cars to medical representatives, since the medical representative LA10: average hours of training As part of the induction for per employee per category new employees, the Health and teams require a lot of trips to doctors. HR2: percentage of suppliers/ Safety Policy was included in the contractors undergone human induction process. Performance rights screening An awareness session on healthy Employees also confirm that they living and stress reduction understand their obligations to continues to be conducted to report events of suspected non12 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2013 Principle Three: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2013 13 Commitment Systems, Processes and place with the unions in 2013. Lots of negotiations relating to The more the company expands Programs labour rights occurred. Pursuant the more effort Hikma puts to The company has always to these negotiations in Jordan, ensure that all employees’ basic strived to have clear, concise employees’ reasonable demands needs are met and enhanced as and transparent means of were met, including: per requirements of the different communication, be it with country locations. Therefore it Overall improvement of insurance its employees, stakeholders, is vital that Hikma upholds the benefits a wider network or outside sources. Internally freedom of association needed of doctors and hospitals was all the different levels of for a fair representation of its introduced. Coverage was Hikma employees have clear employees wherever they may be. improved and treatments for communication channels. In the additional diseases were included The employment matters MENA region Hikma corporate in the insurance plan as well standard in the Code of Conduct HR, supervisors and union as a larger circle of treatments. states the following: representatives have open means Further consideration was given of communication to ensure that for extended coverage if the “Employees’ right to free employee benefits are equivalent employee’s health required it so, association and collective throughout Hikma. Externally the or for family members. bargaining are recognised company works hard to ensure and respected. There is a that employee benefits and Financial demands were clear, transparent process compensation are higher than the reconciled by adding a ‘cost of for receiving employee industry average. living’ expense to employees’ suggestions, requests and monthly salaries. complaints. In every country where the company union is represented, Hikma encourages unions work employees are covered by to provide a voice to employees. Effective communication with collective negotiation agreements In Egypt, a lot of change was employees is promoted, so that signed by the General Manager of experienced by people after the issues arising from business that site and the Union Leader. revolution; this was reflected on decisions are addressed appropriately and in a timely the work force, and accordingly, The management sector in the fashion.” some disturbances were felt. company constantly continues Hikma was in tune with these to improve its relationship with The Code of Conduct includes a changes and in 2013 an the unions by educating them Public Affairs and governmental official union was established on their rights, establishing fair interaction policy which covers after following a democratic negotiations and improving their lobbying practices: and transparent election. benefits. The subjects covered Representatives were elected by All public affairs activities by collective bargaining with voting as per constitutional laws. undertaken by or on trade unions and employee These representatives improved behalf of Hikma must be representatives include health and relations between management conducted ethically; must safety; payment compensation and labourers, and the union align with relevant local law plans which include salary proved to be a beneficial tool to requirements and applicable enhancements and bonuses; opening up channels of direct industry codes of practice and medical insurance in terms of communication through the be approved in accordance increasing the scope of hospitals union. with internal policies. and doctors, making the insurance more readily available The new union in Egypt Hikma employees will: for family members and persons absorbed the high demands who are chronically ill and need of the employees, and built Have the right to be involved constant visits, in addition to stronger ties and more favourable in political and lobbying training sessions if required. relations with the employees. processes in their own time as private citizens, but must be A new agreement was set that clear at all times that these Actions had a stronger consideration for activities are not undertaken labourer rights, such as giving the In Jordan, some changes took temporary factory operators the on behalf of Hikma. 14 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2013 option of becoming permanent directives that are fully enforced employees, which would in by specialized company staff. return cover more benefits and guarantee full employee rights. Performance This led to the establishment of trust between employees, The company has union labour especially factory workers and representations in all of Hikma’s management. European sites: Portugal, Italy and Germany; as well as in the Improved employee education US facility. In the MENA, union was also vital for the employees representations are present in in Egypt to deepen their Morocco, Egypt, Tunisia and understanding of the benefits Jordan. This is a total of 8 available to them; some locations out of 11 countries, employees were unaware of equivalent to 73% of Hikma the full extent of their already Pharmaceuticals worldwide. In the available insurance. Orientations remaining sites, employees are were given specifically in relation represented by members of the to the medical insurance to HR department. ensure that all employees were aware of their full rights and The average employee wages, benefits. Awareness lectures in salaries and bonuses in 2013 was specific to the financial aspects 221 million, which is an increase were given to employees such of 11 million from 2012. as salary structures, overtime calculations and salary increase The total remuneration of staff in guidelines. 2013 was 319 million, which is an increase of 25 million from 2012. In 2011 Hikma entered the Moroccan market by acquiring The company focuses on annual the company Promopharm, worldwide training in order shortly afterwards a formal to continuously advance and agreement became established challenge its employees. In 2013 between management and training continued across the the union. This agreement group, with 972 training sessions is annually revised to ensure conducted Hikma’s main sites smooth affiliations with the that include manufacturing employees. In 2012, employee operations: Hikma Corporate, relations continued smoothly after Jordan, APM, Portugal, Morocco, enhancing the agreement that Algeria, Sudan, Egypt and the US; had been set. In 2013 the union with a budget of $ 1,811,732 agreement with Hikma become spent on training in these sites. more formalised with significant improvements in the salary scale Hikma measures the following and an increase in employee GRI indicators: benefits were added. EC1: direct economic value, As for Europe and the U.S, including employee wages and no changes were made to the benefits unions, and no incidents were reported. The unions are treated LA7: rates of injury, disease, lost in a just manner and are reported days, absenteeism satisfied with no complaints. The unions abide by labour laws LA10: average hours of training which are presented in a coherent per employee per category manner, and have clear union Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2013 15 Principle Four: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle Five: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour 16 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2013 Commitment accepted by any means. Hikma HR then takes measurements to prides itself in abiding by the local solve the issues in a timely and Labour Standards labour laws in each of its localities responsible manner. Hikma prides and in some cases, exceeding itself on having an ‘open door Hikma Pharmaceuticals prides them. The company has zero policy’ whereby employees can itself on possessing high labour tolerance policy in conducting any go up to upper management or standards that are consistent kind of business either with or in the CEO of the company and with globally accepted labour affiliation with companies that inform them of their grievances; requirements. Ensuring our employ child labour. The labour measurements have also been employees are properly taken care laws in all the countries Hikma taken for employees who wish of is one of the core values and operates in clearly prohibit the to anonymously report any principles that Hikma was built employment of minors under the complaints. The company created on; this is shown in all of Hikma’s age of eighteen. a system where employees can divisions as well as with all of the call a hotline anonymously if Hikma’s Code of Conduct states they ever need to report any company that Hikma affiliates and the following: does business with. grievances. The hotlines go “Hikma is opposed to all directly to the CREC compliance Hikma’s Code of Conduct forms of forced or child team, the VP of Corporate HR specifically states that: labour.” and the General Counsel. “Employee rights are This is strongly enforced in all Suppliers safeguarded and employment Hikma companies through the laws and regulations are HR departments for both full The company, in specific the complied with.” and part time employees. This is supply chain process at Hikma’s also ingrained in Hikma’s guiding manufacturing facilities goes to Employment matters standard in principles and its ethical conducts. great lengths to ensure that it the Code of Conduct states the chooses suppliers that uphold following: Hikma applies ethical labour high ethical practices and do “Effective communication with standards along its supply chain. not break with internationally employees is promoted, so that The company does not do proclaimed integrity measures. issues arising from business business with any supplier who The supply companies that decisions are addressed does not honour the international work with Hikma follow Good appropriately and in a timely labour standards. Manufacturing Practices (GMP) fashion.” as well as being ISO 14001 and As mentioned in the Code of OHSAS 18001 certified or their Hikma applies ethical labour Conduct: equivalent. standards along its supply chain. “Hikma seeks to engage with Hikma will not deal with any In order to safeguard that all customers and suppliers whose supplier who does not honour Hikma employees globally are employment practices respect international labour standards. aware of these standards and human rights and whose comply with them, working with As mentioned in the Code of ethical standards meet the preferred suppliers is incorporated Conduct: standards set by Hikma.” in the company’s Code. Hikma utilises the Suppliers Audit “Hikma seeks to engage with Systems, Processes and procedure to ensure that customers and suppliers whose employment practices respect Programs suppliers follow international labour laws, including the human rights and whose The company follows rigid nonparticipation of child labour. ethical standards meet the accountability procedures that The significant suppliers in standards set by Hikma.” require immediate action of addition to the contractors that In line with international labour reporting to any labour neglect. have dealings with Hikma were standards and the ethical conduct These actions entail a Grievance identified and have undergone that the company is committed Procedure that permits human rights screening as part of to, the employment of minors employees to notify HR of any the supplier audit procedure. under the legal age is not labour grievances they experience; Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2013 17 Actions Performance Our updated Code of Conduct, The Human Resources which was published in the fourth department in all Hikma quarter of 2013, was signed companies confirm that employee by all Hikma employees. Every bylaws, which abide with local year employees are required to labour laws, are firmly followed confirm that they have read the by all Hikma employees. Code, have understood it and Orientation and training is also will abide by its terms. Employees done for new employees in also confirm in writing that they regards to the company legalities; understand their obligations to new employees are also required report events of suspected nonto sign upon entrance that they compliance with Code. In 2013, have read and acknowledge we achieved 100% signatures the company’s Code. Employee from all senior managers across bylaws are circulated to the new Hikma world-wide. employees and clarified during the induction process. In 2013 the company streamlined its auditing procedure by identifying its major suppliers and The labour laws of the countries doing a more extensive audit of that Hikma facilities are located their supply procedures. 70% in are put into effect and of the significant supplies have communicated to managers undergone screenings on human within their anti-corruption rights. training to ensure fair dealings among employees. Any Recognition grievances received by managers were processed to HR and dealt In 2013 Hikma was nominated with in a timely manner, and for “Transparency in Governance appropriate measures were taken. Award” by ICSA for the category “Best Board Disclosure” for the Our updated Code of Conduct FTSE 250 companies, which was published in the fourth relates to Hikma’s governance quarter of 2013. The Code and disclosures in the annual report supporting policies require that and accounts. Hikma’s employees uphold the highest ethical standards of In 2013 Hikma was granted the “Building Public Trust Award” by employment and reflect our PriceWaterhouseCoopers (PwC) commitment to human rights. for the category “Best Executive The Code of Conduct was Remuneration Reporting” among sent out across the Group and the FTSE 250 companies for best was translated into five main practices in reporting. languages of Hikma’s locations: English, Arabic, Portuguese, Hikma measures the following French and German and has been GRI indicators: uploaded to the website. SO3: percentage of employees trained in anti-corruption The supplier audit procedure policies continued with the Corporate API and Strategic Sourcing HR2: percentage of suppliers/ department auditing the contractors undergone human significant suppliers that they rights screening deal with and processing the results back to the Corporate Responsibility department. 18 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2013 Principle Six: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2013 19 Commitment work environment; Hikma seeks are taken, with the understanding to maintain a work atmosphere that there are no repercussions Hikma strives to ensure a that has no favouritism or whatsoever to the employee in work environment that has inequality among the ranks of the question. no employee discrimination in staff, an environment that is free any form; this is emphasized from discrimination or any kind of The labour laws that are in in the company principles. inequality. place in the Hikma US facility As mentioned in the Code of are in agreement with the Conduct, the company upholds Americans with Disabilities The company believes in itself to certain ethical standards Act of 1990 (ADA). This act providing equal opportunities as stated below: ensures that it is against the law for all employees and potential to discriminate in employing “Hikma operates a candidates, as stated in The a qualified individual with a discrimination-free working Equal Treatment of Employees disability. The ADA also outlaws environment and is committed and Harassments Policy and discrimination against individuals to promoting a culture Procedure: with disabilities in State and of respect, dignity and local government services, public equal opportunity in which [At Hikma we believe in] accommodations, transportation employees’ individual rights “equal treatment of employees and telecommunications. This are protected. Hikma believes and do not condone law is enforced by the U.S. that the diversity of its favouritism or inequality in Equal Employment Opportunity workforce is highly valuable. any shape or form. Hikma does Commission and State and the Hikma is committed to not discriminate based on a local civil rights enforcement providing an environment in person’s race, colour, religious agencies that work with the which individuals can flourish creed, age, sex, marital status, Commission. based on talent, experience, national origin, present or past and performance and where history of mental or physical Implementation of Equal potential is recognised and disability and any other factors Treatment of Employees encouraged. not related to a person’s ability to perform a job.” At Hikma: The CREC committee implements the principles of good corporate Discrimination is not tolerated Hikma also verifies that the governance and ensures the and equal employment companies it partners, does completion of compliance opportunities are provided to business or affiliates with also requirements in all areas of the all upholds and enforces the antiGroup’s business, including discrimination laws. eliminating discrimination in No forms of violence, bullying terms of of employment and or harassment are tolerated. Systems, Processes and occupation. Employee rights are Programs safeguarded and employment Hikma strives to enforce an laws and regulations are Hikma enforces a worldwide “Equal Treatment of Employees complied with. recruitment policy that states & Harassment” policy. In order the necessity for “equal to confirm that all employees are The need for training and employment opportunity in aware of this policy the company development is recognised hiring” in the globally recognised enforces management to circulate as central to the onstandards of equal opportunity. the policy to their staff and going development of our update their policies manual. people, and their skills and The Human Resource department knowledge.” has an outlet for the staff to During the hiring process, confer any grievances that they recruiters are instructed and Equal opportunities may have through a Grievance trained to eradicate any kind of Procedure, which has an open discrimination and abide by the One of the company’s main door policy where it is ensured equal treatment of employees priorities is to ensure that its that the employees’ issues are policy. The company also affirms employees have a comfortable heard and the appropriate actions 20 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2013 that employees are well-informed required from time to time, which Hikma measures the following of the laws and rules that protect are also provided by the company. GRI indicators: them. Hikma also gives out annual flu shots to all employees who EC1: direct economic value, choose to take the shot also at including employee wages and Actions benefits the expense of the company. In 2013 some changes in LA7: rates of injury, disease, lost orientation were made in Hikma Performance days, absenteeism Corporate, where the orientation was completely redrafted and LA10: average hours of training The company prides itself on became more systemized, taking per employee per category being an equal opportunity place every two months. provider. In a politically unstable region that is characterized by In 2012 Hikma Corporate high unemployment, Hikma systemized the training system employs more than 7,067 in the company by creating the employees, 78% of which are in Hikma Training and development the MENA countries. A quarter department. In 2013 the Hikma of our employees are female. Induction Program for medical Females also make up 77% of representatives was developed Portugal’s workforce, and they and launched. The program occupy strategic top managerial entails the framework in which all positions across the Group. the activities involved in the initial training for any new medical The company strives to boost representatives to join Hikma and improve the communities are organized, which include the in which it is located, as well as best delivery of the company invest in the community’s youth. basic information, required In 2013 60% of employees were basic selling skills, medical and below the age of 30. product knowledge. The training The average employee wages, program is aimed at medical salaries and bonuses in 2013 was representatives as well as field 221 million, which is an increase managers, which are conducted of 11 million from 2012. on a four year basis. The total remuneration of staff in The company focuses on 2013 was 319 million, which is an education and wellbeing in its increase of 25 million from 2012. corporate responsibility themes. Hikma grants scholarships The company focuses on annual for higher education to its worldwide training in order employees, providing they fit to continuously advance and a certain criteria. In 2013 the challenge its employees. In 2013 company sent eight employees training continued across the from different departments to group, with over 972 training different universities to continue sessions were conducted in their higher education, in both BA Hikma’s main sites that include and MA degrees. manufacturing operations: Hikma Corporate, Jordan, APM, All new employees before Portugal, Morocco, Algeria, entering the company take a Sudan, Egypt and the US; with a medical exam which is covered by budget of $ 1,811,732 spent on the company in order to enhance training in these sites. employees’ health. Additional periodic examinations may be Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2013 21 Principle Seven: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 22 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2013 Commitment change impacts associated channels of communication for with our activities. an effective dialogue. Contractors As our role in the community and visitors on any of Hikma’s As a Pharmaceutical Company, sites are required to follow our develops and we become further we recognize that our integrated in society, Hikma environmental standards. operations have an effect recognizes its role as an agent on the local and global of change. In the Code, the Moreover, this is an active process environment and we actively Citizenship Principle states the whereby Hikma ensures the encourage the engagement of following: continuous improvement of its our staff at all levels to ensure Environmental Management “Hikma recognises the role implementing and maintaining System, including all the related it can play in its communities the standards we set. Standard Operating Procedures and believes in giving back (SOPs), and environmental to those communities. Hikma Systems, Processes and programs. will promote economic Programs and social development, Along these lines, Hikma is environmental responsibility, Our supply chain integrates committed to fulfilling the and supports diversity and environmental and social International Organization of social integration.” elements guided by the Standardization (ISO) 14001 framework of Hikma’s HSE requirements or its equivalent Hikma adopts a preventive policy. The management of approach towards the at all its manufacturing sites Hikma’s supply chain ensures worldwide. environment within its operations, that manufacturing processes as stated in the Code’s comply with and exceed where environmental principle: The ISO 14001 management possible, the relevant local and systems are steered by Hikma’s Hikma strives to protect international environmental Health, Safety and Environment the natural environment in legislations. department, which fulfil the which it operates, and sees The HSE policy is endorsed by environmental requirements sustainable development as the Vice Chairman of Hikma from ISO 14001 in addition to a key element of its role as a Pharmaceuticals, Mr. Mazen managing health and safety responsible business. Darwazah. The HSE function risks according to the OHSAS is governed by the General 18001 (the international Hikma continues to work standard for Occupational to reduce its impact on the Manager in each unit and each business unit is responsible for Health and Safety management environment, focusing in systems). The standards related particular on minimising implementing the company’s HSE policy at its location. Training to environmental management waste, analysing carbon help Hikma (a) minimize how emissions, monitoring and sessions and awareness material are given about the policy to the operations (processes etc.) reducing energy usage, and negatively affect the environment minimising demands for water communicate it to the entire staff. (i.e. cause adverse changes to air, consumption. Hikma monitors, sets goals and water, or land); (b) comply with Health, Safety and targets, and strives to achieve applicable laws, regulations, and Environment policy them annually; pertaining to our other environmentally oriented impact on climate change, water requirements, and (c) continually Hikma’s Health, Safety and pollution, land contamination improve its practices to achieve Environment policy (“HSE”) and energy use. Resources and annual re-certification. commits us to environmental programs are provided to reduce standards from the top strategic carbon emissions due to our As a manufacturing company, level to the operational level at operations. Our environmental Hikma is keen to do its every unit: standards are reflected across our utmost for the prevention and supply chain and we will interact management of environmental Hikma expects all its units with our key stakeholders to accidents. There are Standards to … maintain an operation resolve issues and help improve Operating Procedures (SOPs) for that minimizes all adverse our performance and open prevention and management environmental and climate Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2013 23 of environmental accidents As part of local legislative Performance within the Health, Safety and requirements, Hikma is required Environment Management to submit reports and data to Hikma measures its direct energy function. In addition the environmental associations consumption and total water Environmental accidents due to such as ministry of environment withdrawal through the Global production that may be harmful and ministry of labour and Civil Reporting Initiative, and aims to to operators are minimised and Defence in Jordan. publicly disclose these figures in mitigated by the HSE department. the coming year. Internally we Actions taken to ensure the have assessed and monitored our Actions optimal results for Hikma’s environmental performance and environmental standards and seen considerable improvements We monitor, set percentage policies include: and reduction in our negative targets and encourage sites to externalities. achieve them. Actions are taken Communicating the HSE in the relevant areas of the EMS, policy to employees through We have continued to achieve which are: awareness sessions, team the targets of ISO 14001 that meetings, newsletters and I. Energy Consumption and are required for re-certification, posters. Reduction: or its equivalent, to reduce the Encouraging employees environmental impact produced To minimize our impact on to participate in Hikma’s by energy consumption, Climate Change, we will environmental activities. hazardous waste, water usage commit to reducing the amount and electrical consumption. of energy we use, in relation to Training employees on the sales, and will develop monitors environmental policies and We continued to monitor for energy usage. We will set all the related SOPs, to our performance against demonstrate the impact of the environmental Key Performance specific percentage target business on the environment Indicators (KPIs). These KPIs reductions. and ways to minimise this are aligned with the Carbon We will report regularly on our impact. Disclosure Project (CDP) and energy usage and incorporate the GRI reporting guidelines, figures in public reporting Periodic internal audits which we have been reporting against for four years. Carbon II.Water Usage: Management review meetings emissions were analysed in our Promoting sustainable operations and this year we We will carefully assess and development through on-going supplied information on the six look to monitor the impact initiatives to reduce waste, greenhouse gases. of our water withdrawal on the environment. We will take increase recycling and reduce care to avoid cases where the energy consumption. Hikma measures the following GRI indicators: impact of a specific withdrawal Continuity for the ISO 14001 can significantly affect the EN3: direct energy consumption certification or its equivalent environment and have wider impacts on the quality of life in Interacting with key EN8: total water withdrawal the area. stakeholders to resolve issues and help improve environmental We are upholding the performance. ISO14001 as we passed the surveillance visit with zero A precautionary approach is nonconformity in addition to the taken towards environmental OHSAS 18001. Hikma’s main accidents due to production operations in Jordan, the Jazeera through awareness and training Pharmaceuticals Industries (JPI) of employees, especially of facility in Saudi Arabia and Hikma operators. Egypt facility are ISO 14001 and OHSAS18001 certified. 24 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2013 Principle Eight: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2013 25 Commitment committed to doing business in Public initiatives which we an environmentally responsible undertake come in many forms We recognise that human health manner. We continuously such as: is linked to the wider environment monitor and review our in which we live and that climate performance to meet current Advancing communities change is one of the greatest environmental legislation.” wellness through environmental challenges facing nations, education governments, businesses and Disaster relief support citizens over future decades. Systems, Processes and Programs Contributing to scientific and Hikma’s commitment to policy developments environmental responsibility As a pharmaceutical company, surpasses its employees and our primary objective is to Partnering with government reaches their families and provide patients with high quality, agencies, academia and other the community at large, by affordable medicines tailored to stakeholders undertaking initiatives that their needs. We aim to do this in promote greater environmental a sustainable way, by working to Philanthropic programs with responsibility. ensure our products deliver the environmentally related maximum benefit to patients in as outcomes “Hikma strives to protect many markets as possible whilst the natural environment in managing the impact of our The Supplier Audit which it operates, and sees operations. At the same time, we Questionnaire sustainable development as are continuously preparing for the a key element of its role as a We make sure that our strategic future, and work hard to maintain suppliers are aware of and responsible business,” is stated a healthy environment. Our in the Environmental Principle of conform to the environmental manufacturing facilities are found provision of our policies. the Code of Conduct. in 11 countries in 4 continents Hikma utilises Suppliers Audit Hikma’s environmental efforts with unique environments and Questionnaires that relate to within the community are the ecologies. We need to cater for the environment to help with indicated in the Community these diverse environments and assessing the suppliers’ practices Impact and Support principle of this is within our responsibility as and increase their awareness the Code of Conduct, “[Hikma a multinational pharmaceutical of responsible operations and is] committed to benefitting group. business ethics. the communities in which Hikma is a leading healthcare it works through charitable company in the MENA, and With regards to environmental donations, volunteering and therefore we take a leading matters, the questionnaire asks the operation of its social and role in environmental issues in whether suppliers have: environmental policies.” the communities in which we Obtained certification The Environmental Management operate. As a key industry player, for environmental, social System at Hikma vows to we influence the communities and or health and safety promote greater environmental and do promote environmental management system(s). responsibility, beginning with responsibility in the industry when employees: we undertake initiatives. Published an environment/ sustainability or a corporate We will spread the message The oversight of these initiatives social responsibility report that every employee can play a lays with the CREC committee role in reducing energy usage. which reports to the Board of Established formal and We will establish a high profile Directors and is responsible for regular consultation with employee energy conservation sustainable development of local community and other awareness scheme, giving healthcare systems within its stakeholders guidance on minimizing Corporate Responsibility function, and the implementation takes Decreased use of resources, energy use for operating increased emission controls, purposes, whilst at the same place through a network of CR champions across the group. or increased by-product time maintaining a high recycling quality product. The Health, Safety and Environment department are Marketing of products or Hikma’s Corporate Responsibility services that are specifically Strategy states that, “We are also involved with employee and public initiatives. environmentally friendly 26 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2013 Worked to improve local We promote anti-smoking and the Jazeera Pharmaceuticals supplier relationships or healthy workplaces. Hikma is Industries (JPI) facility in Saudi provided technical assistance completely smoke-free in all of its Arabia and Hikma Egypt facility to suppliers premises, and have placed strong are ISO 14001 and OHSAS18001 repercussions for anyone who certified. Programs to benefit the local smokes in the buildings. Hikma’s community offices and factories worldwide Our annual employee welfare have been smoke-free since 1994. week, “You Are Hikma”, was Employee programs held across our global locations. training, health, safety Hikma is a proud member of the It provides positive and valuable Global Smoke-free Partnership educational activities to raise Sustainability Reporting (GSP). It is a global partnership awareness on health, safety and dedicated to promoting effective environmental issues. We have certain systems in smoke-free air policies worldwide. place to ensure transparency It brings together civil society and As a member of the Global in Hikma deployed reporting nongovernmental organizations, Smoke-free Partnership, we systems that aim to reduce energy universities, intergovernmental actively promote anti-smoking consumption, waste, greenhouse organizations, ministries of practices and smoke-free gas emissions and water health, corporations, and workplaces. In 2013, Hikma consumption: Global Reporting individuals active in international hosted representatives of the key Initiative, the Carbon Disclosure smoke-free air policy. players in the industry in Jordan Project (CDP). It also produces an for a session titled “Towards a Annual Monitoring Report to the Smoke-free Environment”. It was International Finance Corporation Actions organized with the help of the (IFC) as part of its long-standing The CREC overseas Hikma’s CR King Hussein Cancer Centre’s partnership agreement. Moreover, programme, where the major Cancer Control Office. Hikma is committed to fulfilling achievements have been: the ISO 14001 requirements or its Performance equivalent. -The full implementation of an The results of the CDP environmental data-capture Hikma has quantified and 2013 report were published, system, including carbon reported emissions according and Hikma scored 72 “C” in the disclosure, across all our territories to the Defra Environmental rating of Healthcare sector of the Reporting Guidelines 2013. -The expansion of CR champions FTSE 250 responding companies. We have used the latest UK in each jurisdiction who are This is a great improvement over Government Conversion Factors responsible for local community our previous scores. for Company Reporting in order involvement and environmental During the period 1 January to calculate emissions from issues to 31 December 2013, Hikma corresponding activity data. -Introduction of and training emitted 16,817 tCO2e from Results are reported in tCO2e on new sustainability software the combustion of fuel (Scope for Scope 1 emissions and tCO2 relating to quality, health, 1 direct) and 49,779 tCO2 from for Scope 2 emissions, as UK safety and environmental electricity purchased for our Government emission factors management, allowing Hikma to own use (Scope 2 indirect). This for overseas electricity currently better manage its risks. This will is equal to 2.92 tCO2e per full account for carbon dioxide streamline our reporting across time equivalent FTE employee emissions only. A materiality the Group. In 2013 we began and 8.65 tCO2 per FTE employee threshold of 10% has been implementing software which will respectively. applied for emissions reporting improve our ability to monitor purposes. Hikma’s full results are on page and reduce emissions, waste, 32 of the published CDP report. We consolidate our organisational energy consumption and water Hikma measures the following boundary according to the usage. This programme will be GRI indicators:1 operational control approach and implemented across the Group the requirements of Section 7 during 2014. EN3: direct energy consumption of the UK Companies Act 2006 Also we have successfully passed EN8: total water withdrawal (Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013. the audit of SGS for: ISO14001 EN22: total weight of waste and OHSAS 18001 at HikmaHealthy Workplaces Jordan facility. In addition, 1 The report is available on the CDP website. https://www.cdproject.net/CDPResults/CDP-FTSE-350-Climate-Change-Report-2013.pdf Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2013 27 Principle Nine: Encourage development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 28 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2013 Commitment Systems, Processes and Environmental and Social Performance, Annual Hikma stands by its mission of Programs Monitoring Report (AMR) improving people’s quality of life, Hikma strives to record related including the environments that Hikma prepares a comprehensive environmental impacts through they live in. Hikma realises that Annual Monitoring Report effective measurement, environmental responsibility must (AMR) for Hikma’s facilities monitoring and reporting over be translated into its operations. and operations for the IFC, time. Disclosing the greenhouse part of the World Bank Group. Pharmaceuticals manufacturing gas (“GHG”) emissions of our This document displays the can be an energy-intensive organisation helps us to reduce environmental and social business and it is therefore our our negative impact on climate state and enables Hikma to responsibility to understand change. ensure that its operations our related environmental We continuously develop energy meet all the requirements of impacts. We strive to ensure the conservation and efficiency in our the local regulatory agencies adaptation of environmentally operations; improve employee and applicable World Bank friendly processes in all its plants engagement and product/process Group (WBG)/IFC policies and across the Group whenever innovations throughout our Environmental, Health and possible. business. Safety Guidelines. Systems must be put in place to ensure that Our commitment stems from Green Buildings environmental externalities stay our corporate strategy. It is beneath WBG/IFC Maximum evident in that all of Hikma’s All of Hikma’s new buildings will Levels and host country maximum new buildings are constructed be built in an environmentally Levels. in an environmentally conscious friendly manner. Hikma is manner. serious in its commitment to the Hikma personnel are required environment as an integral part to monitor, record, and report Hikma upholds its Environmental of its corporate responsibility environmental monitoring data Principle, which is mentioned in strategy. Hikma’s state-of-thethroughout the reporting period. the Code of Conduct as follows: art lyophilised plant in Portugal Hikma strives to protect that was inaugurated in 2011 As a part of its environmental the natural environment in became fully operational during efforts Hikma initiated a which it operates, and sees 2012. It is a fully environmentally procedure by an approved sustainable development as friendly building, in accordance to third-party to measure, monitor a key element of its role as a international standards. and record the all environment responsible business. The information system for impact and aspects in our reporting environmental impact, facilities such as air emission, Hikma continues to work dust, disposal water, electrical to reduce its impact on the which inevitably leads to improving on technologies and consumption, diesel consumption, environment, focusing in pharmaceutical waste (hazardous particular on minimising processes, is a standard that is mentioned in the Code of and non hazardous) and used oil waste, analysing carbon as per Jordanian and international emissions, monitoring and Conduct as follows: regulations. reducing energy usage, and Communications, Disclosures minimising demands for water and Records Hikma’s consideration of consumption. the environment is reflected Maintain information Our unwavering and proactive throughout its processes, and management systems to commitment towards the this is evident in its purchasing ensure that our records are environment is seen in the key policy, which was updated to maintained in compliance pledge of our Environment Policy: state that Hikma is required to with applicable legal, to reduce our impact on climate install environmentally conscious regulatory, environmental, change. equipment in its production units. tax, employment, and trade requirements. The improvement on the environmental front for all Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2013 29 processes is an ongoing effort. Actions water usage. Our ability to reduce this impact through reduced Hikma Group is seeking to Hikma’s Energy Management water consumption will also reduce energy costs and increase System conducts actions in the enable us to deliver meaningful sustainability throughout all of its following key areas: costs savings. In 2013, we facilities by implementing Energy installed a number of systems Conservation Measures (ECMs). Energy Consumption and in our production processes Reduction: There are three specific objectives that increased the efficiency of surrounding this vision: We will start by focusing our water usage in Jordan and on areas of key energy Portugal. 1) Minimize energy costs consumption, covering Utilising Solar Energy manufacturing and office 2) Maximize sustainability through sites, but also look to make In Jordan, we have begun reduction of carbon emissions significant reductions in other introducing our first photovoltaic 3) Reduce reliance on the areas including the transport we system, converting sunlight electricity supply from the use. directly into electricity. This is one public supply network of a series of renewable energy Where it proves fuel efficient, projects in the Group, expected to ECMs consist of two groups of we will move to the use of gas deliver substantial cost savings. technologies that enable the to replace the combustion of above objectives to be achieved: diesel Performance Energy Efficiency technologies We will continue to implement enable the energy (both electrical studies to identify areas where Hikma’s operations were able to and thermal energy) that is Hikma can switch to the use of reduce Diesel consumption by procured to be utilised more renewable energy sources 14.6% and decrease hazardous effectively within the facility. By waste by 10%. We will invest in energy saving improving energy efficiency, the equipment, in particular for all During the period 1 January 2013 user does not need to use as replacement material. Energy to 31 December 2013, Hikma much energy to deliver the same usage will also be a strong emitted 16,817 tCO2e from tasks or processes. consideration in the design of the combustion of fuel (Scope Decentralised Energy new buildings and plants 1 direct) and 49,779 tCO2 from technologies enable energy to electricity purchased for our Across the group, we aim to be produced at or near the point own use (Scope 2 indirect). This minimize our environmental of use, generally from renewable is equal to 2.92 tCO2e per full impact by integrating energy sources. This is in contrast time equivalent FTE employee environmental policies and to the traditional, wasteful and and 8.65 tCO2 per FTE employee activities into our day-to-day increasingly costly method of respectively. business. New machinery installed buying energy that is generated in our facilities in Jordan will help in a centralised power station Hikma measures the following lower energy consumption and that may be many hundreds GRI indicators: reduce carbon emissions. While of kilometres from the point at providing a clear environmental which the energy is needed. EN3: direct energy consumption benefit, this project will also drive We strive to protect the natural cost savings, through reductions EN8: total water withdrawal environment focusing in particular in electric, fuel and water on minimising waste, analysing consumption. EN22: total weight of waste carbon emissions, monitoring Reducing Water Consumption and reducing energy usage and minimising demands for water We are continuously assessing consumption. ways to reduce our environmental impact in our operations, the most significant of which as a pharmaceutical manufacturer, is 30 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2013 Principle Ten: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2013 31 Commitment or which compromises their Our commitment is cemented judgement or their ability to through our engagement in At Hikma we conduct our act objectively. global initiatives that combat business with high ethical values corruption. In addition to being and in compliance with all This standard applies to a signatory of the UN Global applicable laws. The company interactions with to all Compact, Hikma is a founding has a strong ethical culture that individuals and corporate member of Partnering against is deeply embedded within its bodies with whom Hikma operations. Corruption is not Corruption Initiative (PACI), an does business – healthcare off-shoot of the World Economic tolerated at Hikma and we have professionals, customers, applied strict processes to ensure Forum. PACI is a business driven suppliers, professional bodies, global initiative that seeks to that all of our employees do not regulatory authorities, take part in any form of corrupt fight bribery and corruption. and NGOs – regardless of Participants commit to zero practices. where they are located tolerance of bribery and the Our commitment is both ethical geographically. successful implementation of and practical in nature. Hikma a program to fight bribery and is publicly listed in the London At Hikma we will: corruption. Stock Exchange and thus abides Act honestly, ethically and by the UK Anti-Bribery Act 2010 and the Share Dealing Code and with integrity in all company Systems, Processes and Disclosure policies. interactions Programs Not engage in or condone Hikma follows the guidelines Our Code of Conduct sets the bribery or any other form(s) of regarding share dealing that tone for our activities. Hikma’s corruption prohibit the use of internal core Integrity Principle in the information for personal gain Code of Conduct states: Not give or receive gifts or or insider trading, as per the hospitality where this could Hikma does not condone or UK Anti-Bribery Act 2010 and give rise to a perception of a participate in any form of the Share Dealing Code and corrupt purpose corruption and refrains from Disclosure policies. doing business with those who We enjoy a culture of transparent Compliance, Responsibility do not meet its standards. communications, reflected in the and Ethics Committee (CREC) Code’s Speaking Up standard: Responsibilities The Code outlines the work ethics that employees should adopt: Hikma wishes to encourage The CREC sets the overall strategy an environment in which full, for the Group’s response to Hikma has a zero tolerance of free, and frank discussions can bribery and corruption risks and bribery and corruption. be held on issues that concern is responsible for approving the our employees. Therefore, contents of all of the business’ All directors, officers, policies in areas where ethical Hikma has always had an employees, and other judgments are important. It open door policy regarding oversees the Group’s ABC individuals working for Hikma communication. compliance programme, together and joint Furthermore, we must hear with Group policies on ethics and ventures in which it has an business conduct. The committee from those who have any equity control are prohibited reviews Group policy in the concerns about the ethics and area of CR at Board level and is from offering or giving, either integrity of our business. As supported in this work by the CR directly or indirectly, money part of your commitment to Committee. It is responsible for or anything else of value, this Code, you have a duty overseeing the development of as a bribe or inducement: to report to the Company as the Group’s Code of Conduct, to make, (or as a reward for soon as possible any suspected on behalf of the Board. It is the making or not making), a violations of the Code, its CREC’s responsibility to own the decision that is favourable to supporting policies or any framework for ABC compliance Hikma’s interests; or to seek applicable law or regulations within the Group and to ensure to gain an unfair business that it operates adequately and of which you become aware. advantage or otherwise effectively. influence business activities; 32 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2013 The CREC also oversees Hikma’s Each year Hikma employees are As part of their commitment to speak-up process for employees required to confirm that they have the Code employees understand to raise ethical concerns, and, read the Code, have understood that they have a duty to report where relevant, oversees their it and will abide by its terms. any suspected violations. Hikma investigation. As an organisation investigates all reports of nonHikma is committed to clear Employees also confirm in writing compliance and takes appropriate and open communication. The that they understand their action. members of the committee obligations to report events of remains open to direct discussion suspected non-compliance with Corporate Responsibility with shareholders. Code. The Executive Vice Chairman Anti-Bribery and AntiThe training plan for the Code champions Hikma’s corporate Corruption (ABC) includes face-to-face training responsibility programme for top managers, training and within the Company and is Quality and excellence have discussion sessions at department Chairman of Hikma’s Corporate been the heart of Hikma since level for employees and lower Responsibility Committee. The VP its foundation, and Hikma has management. of Communications is responsible always been committed to the for CR at an operational level. highest standards of integrity Training and communication and ethics in the conduct of its on ABC policies and the Code The CREC Chairman, VP of business. continues to enhance employees’ Communications, divisional and understanding of bribery and functional heads and Company Hikma has communicated its corruption risks, and increases Secretary are members of the CR zero tolerance of bribery and the penetration of compliance Committee. The CR Committee corruption to its employees and issues into the decision making reviews, supports and promotes made sure they are aware that process for business departments Hikma’s CR activities and reports Hikma will not penalise any as they consider existing and new directly to the CREC. individual for complying with the business structures. principles enshrined in the Code The CR team, led by the VP or in our ABC policies, even at Speak Up of Communications, regularly the cost of foregoing a business presents developments to the Hikma understands that it is CREC. The CR team is made up of opportunity, losing revenue or critical for employees to be able profit or disobeying a superior’s a CR manager and CR champions to raise concerns on issues of from Hikma’s different company instructions. Hikma will discipline integrity without retribution and staff for ethical breaches in order locations. that appropriate methods of to maintain its high standards of voicing such concerns be available Responsible Sales integrity. to them. Code of Conduct Hikma ensures that responsible Therefore, Hikma has an sales are maintained, be it Hikma’s current Code of Conduct open-door policy regarding through our Code and or has been benchmarked against communication so that it can induction training for our Medical good industry practice and a peer hear from those who have any Reps team. group of international companies. questions or concerns about It also underwent a full internal the ethics and integrity of the The Induction program focuses on consultation, encompassing business. Where employees the MENA where pharmaceutical a broad cross-section of believe that it is not possible sales mainly depend on direct management and benefitting or appropriate to report to contact between the business and from the input of an external line management, they may doctors through medical reps. compliance consultant. make reports confidentially to Hikma boasts a strong team of any senior manager within the The updated Code was reviewed business. Additionally, Hikma over 1800 medical reps in the by the CREC and proposed to has anonymous reporting lines region. the Board, where it was fully in place across the US and Transparency Measures supported. The new Code has European operations, and an now been translated into the online system for the rest of the Our image as a responsible and major functional languages of locations, which report directly trusted organization is important Hikma: Arabic, English, French, to the compliance team, VP of to us. We welcome external German and Portuguese. Corporate HR and the General stakeholder engagement and Counsel. are transparent in our business Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2013 33 activities. Our communication The major developments on the sessions given to functional channels include social media ABC programme have been the: and geographical teams, with platforms, which are managed a particular focus on the MENA Enhancement of the Code of region. by a communications specialist, Conduct communication exercise led by the VP Corporate with a goal of ensuring that Launching a dedicated webCommunication, and steered all employees have read and based Compliance Speak-up through a multi-functional Social understood the Code of Conduct. reporting system that is managed Media Committee. As with each year, Hikma by an independent outside employees continued to confirm company. It gives all employees, An extensive social media policy regardless of location and in writing that they understand was distributed to Hikma’s their obligations to report events position, a way to communicate employees worldwide and has of suspected non-compliance their concerns confidentially become part of their employment with the Code. and anonymously. The system is contract to ensure responsible available in English and French, and ethical participation in both Further development of our via the internet. Hikma endorsed and other social ABC policies and procedures media platforms. to ensure that they are fully In 2014, the CREC will be focused adapted to our business. During on the on-going development Ethical Suppliers 2012 we created the ABC and implementation of our policies as a result of the work compliance programme, and The supply chain process at for the risk assessment exercise. further training and education Hikma’s manufacturing facilities During 2013, the compliance of our employees to build chooses significant suppliers that department undertook a full understanding of compliance uphold ethical practices and do review of compliance policies issues across the Group. not break with internationally and procedures with the proclaimed integrity measures. support of our external adviser, This will continue to give our PwC. The review also included people the tools and information Our suppliers follow Good an extensive consultation they need to make good decisions Manufacturing Practices (GMP) when they are faced with ethical and our significant suppliers are with executive management, encompassing the advice and issues. ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 support of the compliance certified or their equivalent. champions, and senior functional Performance and line management within Actions each business division and each In 2013, we achieved 100% significant geography. This signatures of the Code of This has been the third full process has been undertaken Conduct from all of the senior year of operation for the in order to ensure that the managers of Hikma worldwide. Compliance, Responsibility and policies can and will be applied Ethics Committee. Over the year consistently at every level Training continued across the we have continued to develop throughout Hikma. The focus group, with 972 training sessions our programme for anti-bribery of the compliance department were conducted in Hikma’s main and anti-corruption (“ABC”) and the compliance champions sites that include manufacturing compliance and formalized for 2014 will be to finalize the operations: Hikma Corporate, our oversight of Hikma’s CR implementation across the Group. Jordan, APM, Portugal, Morocco, programme. Algeria, Sudan, Egypt and the US; Continuing with our on-going with a budget of $ 1,811,732 In 2013 a new, full time Chief focus on employee education and spent on training in these sites. Compliance Officer (“CCO”) was dissemination of ABC compliance assigned. information across the business. In 2013 the company streamlined Our employee induction programs its auditing procedure by Hikma has always prided itself on have been updated during the identifying its major suppliers and its ethical approach to business. year to ensure that each new Significant progress we have doing a more extensive audit of employee can clearly understand made in implementing our their supply procedures. 70% the Group’s ethical expectations. ABC processes and procedures of the significant supplies have In addition, increasing awareness to ensure ABC compliance and undergone screenings on human has been built within the business strengthen our marketplace rights. for the processes and issues of activities. ABC compliance, with awareness 34 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2013 Recognition Our ethical conduct and transparency continued to be recognised in 2013 and Hikma was granted the “Building Public Trust Award” by PriceWaterhouseCoopers (PwC) for the category “Best Executive Remuneration Reporting” among the FTSE 250 companies for the best practices in reporting. We were nominated for the “Transparency in Governance Award” by ICSA for the category “Best Board Disclosure” for the FTSE 250 companies, which relates to Hikma’s governance disclosures in the annual report and accounts. Hikma measures the following GRI indicators: SO3: percentage of employees trained in anti-corruption policies For further information please contact: Hikma Pharmaceuticals P. O. Box 182400 11118 Amman Jordan Telephone: +962 6 5802900 Facsimile: +962 6 5827102 www.hikma.com
