WORKING TOGETHER SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 TO BRING … WORKING TOGETHER SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 … A VISIONARY IDEA TO LIFE NAVIGATION 1 2 .1 Our management potential, and when run on electricity produced from 2 2 renewable sources, this potential can even be reduced PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY .1 approach by half. We are deliberately using the BMW i3 to set CLASSIC METHOD an in-house benchmark by gradually transferring the measures practised in the BMW i3 to BMW Group vehicle projects with internal combustion engines. PROGRESS IN 2013 KPIs 2014+ FORECAST AND OBJECTIVES BMW i3 INTRODUCED IN SERIES CO2 EMISSIONS OF BMW GROUP EXPAND REACH OF BMW i REDUCING EMISSIONS PRODUCTION AUTOMOBILES (EU-27) – Inadditional 2014, we will launch the BMW i3 on – We have successfully introduced our first — 2013 Our visionary BMW i brand vehicles are spearhead133 markets (North and South America, ing our long-term efforts to produce completely You can read the Sustainable Value fully electric premium vehicle in Europe – Asia). We will also launch a new BMW i family the BMW i3. Compared with a conventional g/km model – the BMW i8. In addition, we will emissions-free vehicles. But they are only one part combustion engine vehicle, the BMW i3 expand our range of electric motorcycles PRODUCT with RESPONSIBILITY The BMW Group takes a comprehensive approach of our Efficient Dynamics development strategy, our generates over 50% less greenhouse gas the fully electric BMW C Evolution Scooter. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 4.5 LTR. OF DIESEL PER 100 KILOMETERS — The BMW 520d. REDUCING CONSUMPTION WITH AERODYNAMICS — BMW Group wind channel. to product responsibility. For us, it starts with the concept for ensuring sustainable individual mobility potential (CO2 equivalents) throughout the Report as you would a normal book: entire product life cycle. 2.1 Our management approach development of fuel-efficient vehicles that are safe for emis2.1 Ourofmanagement through constant and consistent reduction approach 2012 138 g/km drivers and other road users. It covers resource-effisions. We achieve the best results here by applying An example of this philosophy is the BMW 520d, We set our sights on intelligent services covering the 2.2 Efficient mobility cient and eco-friendly development and production innovative efficiency technologies. 2.2 Efficient mobility with average fuel consumption in the EU test cycle entire spectrum of future mobility. One example is 2.3 Product safety processes, integrated and high-quality customer care 2.3 Product safety of 4.5 litres per 100 kilometres and a CO2 value our DriveNow car-sharing service see Chapter 2.5. start on page 1 and navigate page by FURTHER REDUCTION IN FLEET EMISSIONS AVERAGE FUEL CONSUMPTION EU-27 STEP UP RECYCLING MEASURES as well as recycling concepts that ensure our cars have Whether through efficient engines, optimised aeroof 119 grams per kilometre. With 184 hp, the – We – packs from our electric vehicles as well as — 2013 2.4 Resource efficiency and 2.4 Resource efficiency and further reduced the CO emissions of our 2 We are developing ways to reuse spent battery minimum impact on the environment even after they dynamics, intelligent energy management, lightmanagement BMW 520d shows that sustainability and driving Finally, we also strive for a high degree of customer recycling management recycling vehicles sold in Europe to 133 g/km (2012: Petrol Diesel reach the end of their life cycle. weight design, forward-looking drive control, the pleasure are by no means mutually exclusive. satisfaction, conducting studies, customer interviews 6.2 4.8 138 g/km; – 3.6%). This means that we are in by-products of the production. In addition, 2.5 Future mobility 2.5 Future mobility and constant analysis of customer feedback to find page to the end of the report. line with our plan to reduce our fleet emissions we already recycle 20% of the thermoplastic Auto Start Stop function, brake energy regeneration, by 2020 by 50% compared with 1995. materials in our vehicles and are gradually 2.6 Customer satisfaction tyres with reduced rolling resistance2.6 flap conor airCustomer satisfaction TAKING A BROADER VIEW OF PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY out how we can improve even further from our cusincreasing our use of secondary raw materials. A good example of our comprehensive understandtrol – every BMW Group vehicle is developed with tomers’ perspective see Chapter 2.6. l/100 km l/100 km Our product responsibility is, however, not limited ing of product responsibility is the BMW i3, the EfficientDynamics in mind. The BMW Group aims To do this use the arrow keys on your first large-series electric vehicle produced by the for intelligent lightweight construction, an efficient to producing eco-friendly vehicles. As a provider of MEETING INTERNATIONAL REQUIREMENTS 2012 Petrol 6.3 l/100 km Diesel 5.0 l/100 km premium products and premium services for individBMW Group. From the outset and throughout the and dynamic drive system, and intelligent manageual mobility, we also view the safety of our customers International regulatory requirements for entire life cycle we developed this vehicle in line with ment of all vehicle energy flows in every vehicle see SAFETY STANDARDS DEFINED NUMBER OF DriveNow USERS PROMOTE NETWORKED MOBILITY and other road users as a central component of our BMW Group products are becoming increasingly measurable sustainability targets – from raw material Chapter 2.2. computer or simply swipe on your product responsibility. Through active safety features stringent, particularly in the area of vehicle emis– Since – Online — January 2014 2013, all BMW motorcycles in series applications and networking are likely to extraction through the entire production and use we try to prevent accidents, and through passive sions. 93% of the vehicles we sell are subject to 220,000 production have been equipped with ABS as change the face of urban mobility in the future. phase to recycling at the end of vehicle life. safety systems to mitigate their effects see Chapter 2.3. corresponding regulations and tax legislation. At the a standard feature. For all car models we offer It is our aim to be a driver of mobility research, passive and active safety systems that warn identifying new trends at an early stage and same time, planning for sales is made difficult by tablet device. Taking the already very efficient BMW 118d as refOther elements in our approach to product responrapid changes in legislation. This means that we have and support drivers in dangerous situations transforming the most promising research and protect them to the greatest extent users results into practical applications. erence vehicle (Green Car of the Year 2008), the sibility are resource-efficient production and high to be prepared to cope with new framework condipossible in case of accident. BMW i3 has significantly less greenhouse gas potenrecycling and reuse standards that close the materials tions even before they are announced by legislators. 2012 75,000 users tial across its entire product life cycle. For example, cycle as much as possible see Chapter 2.4 and see when using the European Electricity Mix (EU-25), the Chapter 3. BMW i3 has around one-third less global warming Previous chapter Next chapter Contents page Home Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 — PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 38 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 — OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH 40 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 — OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH 39 OR 2 1 1 2 3 4 2 .1 Our management potential, and when run on electricity produced from renewable sources, this potential can even be reduced approach by half. We are deliberately using the BMW i3 to set SELECTIVE METHOD an in-house benchmark by gradually transferring the measures practised in the BMW i3 to BMW Group vehicle projects with internal combustion engines. REDUCING EMISSIONS Our visionary BMW i brand vehicles are spearheadPrevious Next Contents Home You can also go straight to the topics ing our long-term efforts to produce completely emissions-free vehicles. But they are only one part PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY The BMW Group takes a comprehensive approach to product responsibility. For us, it starts with the of our Efficient Dynamics development strategy, our concept for ensuring sustainable individual mobility chapter chapter page that are of specific interest to you. To 2.1 Our management approach development of fuel-efficient vehicles that are safe for through constant and consistent reduction of emisdrivers and other road users. It covers resource-effisions. We achieve the best results here by applying 2.2 Efficient mobility cient and eco-friendly development and production innovative efficiency technologies. PRODUCT 2.3 Product safety processes, integrated and high-quality customer care do this, look for the cross-references RESPONSIBILITY 2.4 Resource efficiency and recycling management as well as recycling concepts that ensure our cars have minimum impact on the environment even after they Whether through efficient engines, optimised aerodynamics, intelligent energy management, light1. U  se this arrow symbol to go straight reach the end of their life cycle. weight design, forward-looking drive control, the and links throughout the document. 2.5 Future mobility Auto Start Stop function, brake energy regeneration, 2.6 Customer satisfaction tyres with reduced rolling resistance or air flap con2.1 Our management approach — p. 39 to the previous chapter. A good example of our comprehensive understandtrol – every BMW Group vehicle is developed with ing of product responsibility is the BMW i3, the EfficientDynamics in mind. The BMW Group aims The navigation elements on the left 2.2 Efficient mobility — p. 42 first large-series electric vehicle produced by the for intelligent lightweight construction, an efficient 2.3 Product safety — p. 50 BMW Group. From the outset and throughout the entire life cycle we developed this vehicle in line with and dynamic drive system, and intelligent management of all vehicle energy flows in every vehicle see 2.  Use this arrow symbol to go straight margin will help you find your way. 2.4 Resource efficiency and recycling management — p. 55 measurable sustainability targets – from raw material Chapter 2.2. 2.5 Future mobility — p. 58 extraction through the entire production and use phase to recycling at the end of vehicle life. to the next chapter. 2.6 Customer satisfaction — p. 65 Taking the already very efficient BMW 118d as reference vehicle (Green Car of the Year 2008), the 3.  Use this symbol to go back to the BMW i3 has significantly less greenhouse gas potential across its entire product life cycle. For example, when using the European Electricity Mix (EU-25), the ­contents page. BMW i3 has around one-third less global warming S USTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 Previous chapter Next chapter Contents page 36 Home 4.  Use this symbol to get back to the ­beginning of the document at any time. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 — OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH 39 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 — NAVIGATION 3 CONTENTS INTRO 1 —  SUSTAINABILITY 2 —  PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 3 —  GROUP-WIDE ENVIRON­ MANAGEMENT MENTAL PROTECTION Preface 5 1.1 Our management approach 12 2.1 Our management approach 39 3.1 Our management approach 72 Our point of view 6 1.2 Stakeholder engagement 20 2.2 Efficient mobility 42 3.2 Energy consumption and emissions 76 An overview of the BMW Group 7 1.3 Risk management 26 2.3 Product safety 50 3.3 Efficient transport Key performance indicators 8 1.4 Compliance and 2.4 Resource efficiency and logistics 81 corporate governance 32 recycling management 55 3.4 Materials use and waste 2.5 Future mobility 58 management 86 2.6 Customer satisfaction 65 3.5 Water 89 3.6 VOC emissions and biodiversity 92 4 — SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 5 — EMPLOYEES 6 — CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Figures, facts and objectives 160 4.1 Our management approach 97 5.1 Our management approach 110 6.1 Our management approach 142 4.2 Three-step process 5.2 Attractive employer 114 6.2 Corporate Citizenship 145 to minimise risk 101 5.3 Occupational health 6.3 Cultural engagement 150 APPENDIX 4.3 Utilising opportunities and safety 120 and leveraging potential 104 6.4 Foundations 155 About this report 217 5.4 Training and further education 125 Assurance report 219 5.5 Diversity and inclusion 130 Global Reporting Initiative 222 5.6 Work-life balance 136 Contact, Imprint 229 Key technical data, fuel consumption and CO2 emission ratings for the vehicles referred to in this report can be found on page 228. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 — CONTENTS 4 PREFACE Dear Reader, In 2013, we brought our vision of urban emissions-free electromobility to the streets. The BMW i3 is purpose built for electric driving. It is just one example of our innovative technology and how we view our responsibility in society. We believe premium should be a role model. 2013 was the most successful year yet for the BMW Group. But this is just one more chapter in the long and continuing history of the company. Our focus is on the future and our actions are geared towards the long term. We take a holistic approach by implementing sustainability along the entire value chain. We see this as an investment in the future. It is our way of ensuring that sustainability is established as part of the very structure of the company, becoming an integral part of our day-to-day lives. DR.-ING. DR.-ING. E. H. NORBERT REITHOFER — Chairman of the Board of Management of BMW AG Sustainability is a key component of our long-term corporate strategy. This means we set ourselves ambitious targets concerning both our products and their manufacture and work towards these with determination and conviction. By 2020, we aim to have reduced the CO2 emissions of our European new-vehicle fleet by at least 50 percent compared to 1995. From the outset, the BMW Group also committed to the EU target of 95 grams of CO2 per vehicle from 2020 onwards. On our production lines we plan to reduce our resource consumption per vehicle by 45 percent by 2020 compared to 2006. Our vision is to achieve completely CO2-free vehicle production. At the BMW Group, all aspects of sustainability are integrated into the work of every division and each one of our 110,000 associates. Every member of the Board of Management also sits on the Sustainability Board. As a result, the BMW Group has been one of the top companies in every major sustainability rating and ranking for many years. As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, the BMW Group has implemented its Ten Principles at all locations worldwide since 2001. Our world and our society are facing huge challenges. As a leading premium manufacturer in the automotive industry, we are shaping individual mobility for our customers today and in the years to come. This is our contribution towards mastering the many challenges of the future whilst also securing our continued viability as a company. Dr.-Ing. Dr.-Ing. E. h. Norbert Reithofer Chairman of the Board of Management of BMW AG SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 — PREFACE 5 OUR POINT OF VIEW Our business model is based on premium We can only realise our full potential as a Today’s demand for emissions-free vehicles We aim to achieve our sustainability targets vehicles and services for individual mobility. leading corporation by attracting the best in our fleet and further s­ ignificant CO2 reby working together with our partners in the We look to the future and focus our actions employees. We create the right working ductions call for revolutionary ­development supply chain and in cross-sectoral networks. over the long term. Our goal is to be pio­conditions worldwide to achieve this. approaches. BMW i and Efficient Dynamics Our goals are greater resource efficiency, neers, offering our customers solutions that are our answers to these challenges. more environmental protection and complipave the way to the future. ance with social standards. Dr.-Ing. Dr.-Ing. E.h. Norbert Reithofer Milagros Caiña Carreiro-Andree Dr.-Ing. Herbert Diess Dr.-Ing. Klaus Draeger Chairman of the Board of Management of BMW AG Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Human Resources and Labour Relations Development Purchasing and Supplier Network The BMW Group is an attractive investFor us in the Production division, sustainWorldwide, customers require new concepts Car-sharing using electric vehicles relieves ment – from a sustainability perspective ability means putting our responsibility into for sustainable individual mobility. As the traffic jams and protects the environment as well. Investors are increasingly integrating practice. We build our vehicles and engines world’s leading premium car company, we in city centres. With these services, the sustainability performance into their investefficiently and with environmental considare providing solutions with our innovative BMW Group is enabling even more customment criteria. erations in mind, making increasing use of low emissions and emissions-free vehicles. ers to enjoy the electric driving experience. renewable energy. Dr. Friedrich Eichiner Harald Krüger Dr. Ian Robertson (HonDSc) Peter Schwarzenbauer Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, MINI, Finance Production Sales and Marketing BMW, Sales Channels BMW Group BMW Motorrad, Rolls-Royce, Aftersales BMW Group SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 — STATEMENTS BY THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT 6 AN OVERVIEW OF THE BMW GROUP OUR HISTORY OUR PRESENT OUR FUTURE 1916: FOUNDING OF COMPANY AS WE ARE THE LEADING PROVIDER SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT IS BAYERISCHE FLUGZEUGWERKE AG OF PREMIUM VEHICLES. AN INVESTMENT IN OUR FUTURE (BFW). SUCCESS. PRODUCTION AND SALES EMPLOYEES OF THE BMW GROUP 2013 AUTOMOBILES DELIVERED IN 2013 — as of 31.12.2013 — units 28 PRODUCTION AND ASSEMBLY PLANTS IN 13 COUNTRIES. ­ SALES NETWORK WITH OFFICES 110,351 of which 4,445 1,963,798 of which 84.3% 15.5% 0.2% 140 COUNTRIES. apprentices BMW MINI Rolls-Royce IN Workforce 100,306 105,876 Sales 1,668,982 1,845,186 development 2011 2012 development 2011 2012 OUR BUSINESS CO 2 EMISSIONS OF BMW GROUP PROFIT BEFORE TAX ­AUTOMOBILES — in € million — in g/km* 3 133 7,913 BUSINESS SEGMENTS Automobile, Motorrad, Financial Services 3 BRANDS BMW, MINI, Rolls-Royce * Fleet consumption of newly registered vehicles in Europe (EU-27) Emissions development 145 g/km 2011 138 g/km 2012 Profit before tax development 7,383 2011 7,803 2012 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 — AN OVERVIEW OF THE BMW GROUP 7 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Key performance indicators five-year review 09 10 11 12 13 % Ordinary activities of the BMW Group Revenues (in € million) 50,681 60,477 68,821 76,848 76,058 – 1.0 Profit before tax (in € million) 413 4,853 7,383 7,803 7,913 1.4 Return on capital employed (in %) 3.3 19.1 25.6 23.0 21.4 – 7.4 Sales volume automobiles (in thousand units) 1,286.3 1,461.2 1,669.0 1,845.2 1,963.8 6.4 Product responsibility CO2 emissions of BMW Group vehicles (EU-27) (in g/km) 150.0 148.0 145.0 138.0 133.0 – 3.6 Research and development expenditure (in € million) 2,448 2,773 3,373 3,952 4,792 21.3 Group-wide environmental protection1 Energy consumption per vehicle produced (in MWh/vehicle) 2.80 2.72 2.43 2.41 2.36 – 2.1 Water consumption per vehicle produced (in m3/vehicle) 2.66 2.4 2.25 2.22 2.18 – 1.8 Process wastewater per vehicle produced (in m /vehicle) 3 0.64 0.6 0.57 0.51 0.47 – 7.8 CO2 emissions per vehicle produced (in t/vehicle) 0.94 0.89 0.75 0.72 0.68 – 5.6 Waste for disposal per vehicle produced (in kg/vehicle) 11.03 10.49 8.49 6.47 5.73 – 11.4 Volatile organic compounds (VOC) per vehicle produced (in kg/vehicle) 1.84 1.66 1.75 1.78 1.59 – 10.7 Employees BMW Group workforce at the end of the year 96,230 95,453 100,306 105,876 110,351 4.2 Attrition rate at BMW AG (as a percentage of workforce) 4.59 2.74 2.16 3.87 3.47 – 10.3 Share of women in total workforce of BMW AG (in %) 2 – 15.2 16.1 16.8 17.4 3.6 Share of women in management positions at BMW Group (in %)2 – – 11.8 12.7 13.8 8.7 Average days of further training per BMW Group employee 1.6 2.4 3.3 3.7 3.5 – 5.4 Accident frequency at BMW Group (per one million hours worked) 3.1 3.6 7.1 5.8 4.8 – 17.2 Corporate Citizenship Expenditure on donations in 2012 by the BMW Group (in € thousand) 7,619 10,242 12,873 9,638 8,485 – 12.0 Expenditure on Corporate Citizenship by the BMW Group in 2012 (in € thousand) 7,619 26,591 36,846 31,979 28,944 – 9.5 1 Due to a change in the calculation method, these figures cannot be compared with the 2012 figures. For more details see figures, facts and objectives section. 2 Figures for 2012 adapted due to data cleansing. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 8 1 S USTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 Our management approach Stakeholder engagement Risk management — p. 26 — p. 12 — p. 20 Compliance and corporate governance — p. 32 9 1 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT WE INVEST IN OUR FUTURE ­VIABILITY. — SUSTAINABILITY AS AN INTEGRAL PART OF OUR CORPORATE STRATEGY — GROUP-WIDE RISK MANAGEMENT — HOLISTIC APPROACH TO THE VALUE CHAIN — FOCUSED INVESTMENT IN PROJECTS TO SECURE OUR FUTURE — CONTINUOUS DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS Global megatrends such as scarcity of resources, more stringent government ­regulation and changing values present companies with both opportunities and risks. Sustainability management means leveraging opportunities, identifying risks and thus laying the foundation for long-term success. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 10 1 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PROGRESS IN 2013 KPIs 2014+ FORECAST AND OBJECTIVES BUSINESS POTENTIAL USED AUTOMOBILES DELIVERED CONTINUE SUCCESSFUL BUSINESS PERFORMANCE – Wmegatrends — 2013 ith the launch of BMW i, we are addressing in society and the business area. – We aim to achieve new record levels of sales 1,963,798 With the BMW i3, we deliver a consistently and Group return on sales in 2014. Our goal is sustainable product which we have developed units to have an EBIT margin between the range of with a particular focus on changing customer 8 to 10% in the automotive segment. requirements and needs. 2012 1,845,186 units “MISSION: FUTURE” ROLLED OUT REVENUES INTEGRATE SUSTAINABILITY ACROSS ALL ­WORLDWIDE — 2013 DIVISIONS – In­employees, – For 76,058 this online training course, BMW Group each individual division, we will continue to dealers and suppliers can learn derive specific requirements and targets from how to make sustainable decisions and thus € million the sustainability strategy which allow us to secure and enhance the long-term viability systematically establish sustainability criteria of a ­company. in all areas of the company. 2012 €76,848 million HUMAN RIGHTS CLAUSE ANCHORED PROFIT BEFORE TAX CONSOLIDATE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT – Allcontracts — 2013 dealer contracts in Europe as well as our – Inourthewide-ranging 7,913 with CKD production partners coming years, we will further consolidate worldwide now contain a binding human rights stakeholder engagement clause, in particular with regard to compliance € million activities at the international level and we will with the ILO core labour standards. integrate stakeholder input into the further refinement of our strategy. 2012 €7,803 million SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 11 1 1 .1 Our management F.01 Corporate Strategy Number One approach Vision Competitive advantage Access to new Shaping the Growth Profitability technologies and future customers SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Sustainability management is an investment in our Core principles future success. We leverage new business opportuni1.1 Our management approach ties, minimise risk and seek to overcome social and business challenges at an early stage. 1.2 Stakeholder engagement 1.3 Risk management integration of the company into society. Taking social By the year 2020, the BMW Group will be the world’s and environmental responsibility for all we do is an 1.4 Compliance and corporate governance leading provider of premium products and premium integral part of our corporate image. services for individual mobility. That is the goal we set ourselves in 2007, when we established our StratWe are convinced that the lasting economic success egy Number ONE, which has undergone continued of any enterprise these days is based increasingly on development ever since. As we strive to achieve our acting responsibly and ensuring social acceptance. visions, we will focus consistently on growth, profWe also believe that the manufacturer with the most itability and the continuous development of new efficient and resource-friendly production processes technologies, combined with access to the relevant will be the future industry leader, offering its customcustomer groups. Actively shaping the future is a ers state-of-the-art solutions for sustainable individual major part of this vision. These core action areas form mobility. the four pillars of Strategy Number ONE. Sustainability is one of our core principles and an integral part of each of these pillars see Figure 01. For us, sustainable operations constitute a long-term business case: sustainability means making a lasting positive contribution to the company’s economic success. However, we don’t measure success by financial indicators alone but rather in terms of the solid Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Our management approach 12 1 .1 c­ ompany, the environment and society. We derive EVOLUTION AND REVOLUTION specific requirements and targets for each individual division from the sustainability strategy that allow Our industry is currently going through a process of technous to systematically establish sustainability criteria in logical transformation. We want to be pioneers and drivers of this transformation process. To do this, we are taking two all areas of the company. parallel approaches: evolution and revolution. The further development of highly efficient combustion engines, lightSustainability has been established as a strategic corweight construction, hybrid drivetrains and resource-effiporate objective in the BMW Group’s management cient production – that is what we call evolution. Carbon-free logic since 2009. Every major project must therefore mobility with new types of drivetrain, combined with ambibe measurable in terms of “Sustainability” as a cortious targets based on resource-efficient production, new porate objective. This ensures that, in addition to materials and innovative mobility services – that is what we economic factors, environmental and social aspects call revolution. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT are also accounted for in the decision-making proWith the new BMW i family, we are also positioning ourselves cess – because we know that, today, the value of a 1.1 Our management approach as an innovation leader in the area of electromobility, taking company is not measured solely by direct financial the integration of sustainability along the value chain to a indicators but also by its non-financial performance. 1.2 Stakeholder engagement new level. We are the only premium manufacturer to take the In addition, sustainability as a corporate objective 1.3 Risk management revolutionary approach of offering since 2013 purpose-built cascades down to personal target agreements for vehicles for electric drivetrains. The carbon body significantly managers and is thus part of their performance-based 1.4 Compliance and reduces vehicle weight and guarantees pleasurable electric corporate governance driving. The BMW i services are likewise custom-made for remuneration. sustainable mobility on the premium level. A set of key performance indicators (KPIs) and the In line with our holistic understanding of sustainability, the BMW Group’s performance in various external ratelectricity required to assemble the BMW i3 and BMW i8 ings and rankings are the factors that influence our at the Leipzig plant comes 100% from renewable sources. sustainability management. BMW i with its first models BMW i3 and BMW i8 is thus launching a new era in urban mobility. Our KPIs are summarised in the chapter Figures, facts and objectives. An overview of the relevant KPIs is provided on the fact sheet at the beginning of each chapter and specific details are provided in the respective CONSISTENTLY INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY chapters. The sustainability strategy passed in 2009 is derived directly from Strategy Number ONE and is applicable worldwide as the overarching strategy for all corpor­ate divisions. The main aim is to establish sustainability along the entire value chain and in all basic processes – thus creating added value for the Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Our management approach 13 1 .1 IDENTIFYING KEY ISSUES MATERIALITY PROCESS 2013 To identify issues that may present opportunities In 2013 we subjected the issues list from the previous year or risks to our business in the future, we regularly to a thorough review. The review process involved telephone ­ana­lyse various sustainability themes using our interviews with 12 representative stakeholders, including ­materiality process to find out exactly what they customers, suppliers, investors, authorities, NGOs and mean for our company, both from the point of view scientists from different regions of the world. We then of different stakeholder groups as well as from an combined the interview results from 2013 with the results of internal BMW Group perspective. the stakeholder survey and analysis from 2012. This gave us an updated rating of the issues from an external perspective. The results of the materiality analysis – shown in To update the internal perspective, we once again conducted a materiality workshop with 18 representatives from the the materiality matrix – form the point of departure relevant company divisions (including their strategy offices). SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT for regular verification of the direction our sustainFinally, our corporate strategy experts evaluated the results ability strategy is taking. We judge a core area to of the workshop. 1.1 Our management approach be particularly significant if it is categorised as very important by both our stakeholders and the company 1.2 Stakeholder engagement see Figure 02. 1.3 Risk management 1.4 Compliance and corporate governance F.02 Materiality analysis CO2 emissions and climate change 9 Environmental and social standards in the supply chain Product safety 8 Anti-corruption/compliance 7 Water Future mobility/mobility services Alternative drivetrain Importance for stakeholders technologies Further education 6 Corporate Citizenship and training Efficient use of resources and recycling management 5 Biodiversity Energy supply/renewable energy 4 Diversity Human rights 3 Occupational health and safety Corporate volunteering Work-life balance 2 Donations/sponsoring Demographic change 1 Importance for BMW Group 0 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 From the materiality matrix it is evident that the topics of CO2 emissions and climate change continue to be the most relevant for both stakeholders and the BMW Group. The topics of environmental and ­social standards in the supply chain, product safety as well as alternative drivetrain technologies are also top priorities. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Our management approach 14 1 .1 PURSUING LONG-TERM SUSTAINABILITY GOALS We intend to further expand our leading position while focusing on the issues on which we can have As an active member in the World Business Counthe greatest impact through our products. Our cil for Sustainable Development and the UN Global long-term goals include efforts in the areas of ProdCompact, we are taking up the challenge of increasucts and Services, Production and Value Creation ing our efforts to promote sustainable development as well as Employees and Corporate Citizenship worldwide. It is essential that we take a long-term see Figure 03. approach. F.03 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT CTS AND SERVICES P RO D U 1.1 Our management approach ELECTROMOBILITY Leader in taking a 1.2 Stakeholder engagement holistic approach to premium electromobility 1.3 Risk management CO2 EMISSIONS MOBILITY PATTERNS Reduced by at least 50 % Permanent change as a result 1.4 Compliance and in the European of integrated mobility services corporate governance new vehicle fleet in selected metropolitan areas (base year: 1995) PREPARING FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE: Establishing the necessary skill set THE MOST SUCCESSFUL to face the challenges of the future. AND SUSTAINABLE RENEWABLE ENERGY Workforce health improved and PREMIUM PROVIDER number of occupational accidents Leader in using renewable energy OF INDIVIDUAL MOBILITY for production and value creation reduced Sustainability targets of BMW Group up to 2020 EMPL LEADERSHIP Overarching leadership concept ATI O OYE established. Continuous improveN ment in employee motivation and CRE ES A capacity to perform UE ND CO RESOURCE CONSUMPTION DV AL RP Water, energy, waste, solvents AN OR DIVERSITY per vehicle reduced by 45 % ON AT E Diversity within the company (base year: 2006) TI CI (culture, gender, age) increased UC TI EN and innovative strength OD PR Z SH enhanced IP For a detailed overview of the 2013 measures Previous Next Contents Home and results see Figures, facts and objectives. chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Our management approach 15 1 .1 INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY INTO THE ORGANISATION Sustainability Board by the Sustainability Circle, which comprises department heads from all divisions. One important goal of our sustainability strategy is to establish sustainability as a core strategy within F.04 Organisation of sustainability in the BMW Group our organisation. For this reason, our Sustainability Sustainability Board and Environmental Protection department has been directly incorporated into our Corporate Planning – Comprises the entire Board of Management and Product Strategy unit since 2007, under the man– Chairman: Chairman of the Board of Management date of the Chairman of the Board. Its responsibilities – Responsible for strategic alignment include the continued enhancement of our sustainability strategy and the management of all aspects of sustainable operations. Some of the department’s Sustainability Circle SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT tasks are: – Comprises department heads from all divisions – Chairman: BMW Group Sustainability and Environmental Representative – Responsible for preliminary work to support decision-making 1.1 Our management approach – Further development, specification and integration of a sustainability strategy in individual divisions, 1.2 Stakeholder engagement taking account of the entire value chain 1.3 Risk management Specialist divisions 1.4 Compliance and – Development and monitoring of targets – Implement measures and processes needed for the BMW Group to achieve its goals corporate governance – Identification of and internal approach to addressing core challenges BUSINESS CASE FOR SUSTAINABILITY – Central corporate function for environmental protection (Group Representative) and management of Our core principles form the foundation for consisenvironmental protection network tently sustainable operations at the BMW Group. They stipulate that taking social responsibility is – Management of global centres of competence for a inextricably linked to the Group’s perception of itself range of environmental issues as a business enterprise. At the same time, sustainability is seen as making a positive contribution to The long-term direction of the core areas of the susthe business success of the company. We are already tainability strategy is set down by the Sustainability demonstrating how sustainability measures have led Board, which includes all members of the Group to cost savings or generated revenue – thus validating Board of Management as well as the Sustainability the business case for sustainability: and Environmental Protection Manager and Corpor­ ate Communications. The Sustainability Board con– Between 2006 and 2013, we were able to reduce venes twice a year to assess the company’s progress. energy and water consumption, waste and VOC The topics are prepared for presentation to the emissions by around 40% per vehicle produced. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Our management approach 16 1 .1 This was made possible, among other things, by as an employer, in particular amongst the so-called investments in environmentally friendly plants Generation Y. and technologies as part of our Clean ­Production Strategy. In 2013 we achieved cost savings of – Through projects such as Today for Tomorrow, we €6.8 million. reduce health risks and follow-up costs. Raising awareness of health issues and providing ergonom– Due to global megatrends (e.g. urbanisation, cliically optimised workstations offset our workforce’s mate change and regulation), customer mobility age-related physical performance limitations. requirements are also shifting. Premium is increasingly being defined through a product’s sustainRESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS ability. This creates new business potential for the BMW Group. With our new sub-brand BMW i, we As a member of the UN Global Compact, the SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT began in 2013 to offer products to fulfil these cusBMW Group assumes environmental and social tomer requirements to an even greater extent than responsibility, and by signing the Joint Declaration 1.1 Our management approach before. This gives us both a clear competitive edge on Human Rights and Working Conditions at the as well as making a significant contribution to the BMW Group we already pledged in 2005 to observe 1.2 Stakeholder engagement company’s future success. internationally recognised human rights. Our man1.3 Risk management agement process is aligned with the requirements of 1.4 Compliance and – Direct feedback from our fleet customers indicates the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human corporate governance that environmental issues are gaining in signifiRights. We use these principles as our main guide cance. Many DAX-listed companies are increasingly to critical reflection and continuous improvement of focusing their car policies on sustainability, motiv­ how we entrench human rights requirements within ating employees to use environmentally friendly the company. vehicles. Thanks to our efficient vehicles as well as the sustainability advice provided by our subsidiary Our cross-divisional human rights team monitors curAlphabet, we can fulfil the changing expectations rent developments in the international human rights of our fleet customers. Our Efficient Dynamics Prodebate, analyses potential risks for the BMW Group, gramme and our consulting services thus give us a and promotes further entrenchment of human rights significant edge on the competition. requirements in the company and in the operations of our business partners. The focus is on the core – In order to develop and offer top-quality products labour standards of the International Labour Organand services, we need the best employees availisation (ILO) as well as the core issues defined in the able. Being amongst the most popular employers Joint Declaration on Human Rights and Working in many markets is therefore a crucial competitive Conditions at the BMW Group. The human rights advantage. We want to continue to expand this team reports to the Sustainability Circle and the edge. To do this, we rely not only on above-average Sustainability Board. The integration of human rights remuneration and social benefits; our leading role requirements in the supply chain is ensured through in sustainability also increases our attractiveness our supplier management see Chapter 4. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Our management approach 17 1 .1 RAISING AWARENESS OF HUMAN RIGHTS COMMITMENT TO INTERNATIONAL CONVENTIONS AND PRINCIPLES When the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights were published, we educated our In 2001, the BMW Group committed to complying with employees at all hierarchy levels on the position of the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and the Inter­ the BMW Group and on current developments in national Declaration on Cleaner Production of the United human rights in business operations. The topic is also Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). As a member of addressed in our sustainability training, as part of an the UN Global Compact, the company undertakes to comply introductory event for new employees and our Webwith internationally recognised human rights, in particular based training. Comprehensive information as well as the core labour standards of the ILO. These include freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining, elimcourse materials on human rights are available on the ination of forced and compulsory labour, abolition of child employee portal. labour and elimination of discrimination in the workplace. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT The BMW Group reiterated this position with its Joint DecIn 2013 we integrated a clause on respecting human laration on Human Rights and Working Conditions at the 1.1 Our management approach rights, including in particular compliance with the BMW Group, which the Board of Management of BMW AG ILO core labour standards, into contracts with propassed in agreement with employee representatives in 2005 1.2 Stakeholder engagement and reconfirmed in 2010. The company also abides by the duction partners as well as all dealer contracts in OECD’s principles for multinational corporations and by the 1.3 Risk management Europe. We plan to implement this contract clause Business Charter for Sustainable Development issued by the for dealerships and importers worldwide over the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) as well as the UN 1.4 Compliance and corporate governance next few years. By joining the UN Global Compact Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. at the beginning of 2014, our joint venture BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd in China also explicitly committed to following the ten principles, including the observance of human rights and fair working conditions. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Our management approach 18 1 .1 AVOIDING HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS The Human Rights Response Team, which includes one representative from the Works Council, handles As well as investment and location decisions, human the reports and initiates measures as required to rights requirements are also integrated into our risk remedy possible violations. In 2013 Human Rights management process. Contact received three internal general requests for information on the management approach in If employees have any questions, they can ask the BMW Group and human resources policy. In their line managers or the BMW Group Human none of the cases was any violation of human rights Rights Contact helpline. Employees also have the determined. opportunity to submit information about possible human rights violations within the company via the AWARDS AND SUSTAINABILITY RANKING BMW Group SpeakUP Line – anonymously and conSUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT fidentially. The BMW Group SpeakUP Line is availIn 2013 the BMW Group ranked high in several susable in a total of 34 languages and can be reached tainability indices and received a number of awards 1.1 Our management approach via local toll-free numbers in all of the countries in see Figure 05. which BMW Group employees carry out activities. 1.2 Stakeholder engagement 1.3 Risk management F.05 Sustainability Ratings and Rankings 2013 1.4 Compliance and corporate governance Listings Evaluation and result Dow Jones Sustainabilty Index (DJSI) The BMW Group is the only company in its industry that has been listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index World every year since it was founded in 1999. In September 2013, the BMW Group was amongst the top 3 in the industry for the eighth time in succession and as a result was listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index World and Europe. Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) The BMW Group achieved a record result in the Global 500 Ranking CDP which was published in September 2013. With the maximum number of points possible, the company is an industry leader and listed on the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI). In addition, the BMW Group is listed on the Carbon Performance Leadership Index (CPLI). The BMW Group is also one of the top participating companies worldwide in any sector in the CDP Global 500 Ranking. FTSE4Good The BMW Group was again listed on FTSE4Good in 2013, an index of the British index family on sustainability and corporate governance provided by FTSE in London. Awards SAM Sustainability Award In June 2013, the SAM Group presented for the second year the SAM Sustainability Awards in Germany. As one of three German carmakers, the BMW Group’s commitment to sustainability was again awarded the SAM Gold Class Status and the company was also named industry leader. Humanitarian Award 2013 In October the United Nations Association of New York bestowed its Humanitarian Award 2013 on the BMW Group and Norbert Reithofer, for innovations in the field of sustainable mobility. The association thus ­recognised both the BMW Group and the management performance of Chairman of the Board of Management Norbert Reithofer. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Our management approach 19 2 1 .2 Stakeholder plants engage in regular dialogue with local stakeholders on locally relevant topics. A range of com­engagement mittees and channels allow specialist departments of the company to contact relevant stakeholder groups directly. The results of the interchanges are systematically communicated to internal departments, the Sustainability Circle and the Sustainability Board. Last but not least, specific measures are derived and the input is integrated into our strategy development processes. Our basic goal is to host one stakeholder dialogue per SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT The BMW Group engages in ongoing dialogue with year in Germany and the USA. We set the themes its stakeholders at all its locations and in relevant for these stakeholder dialogues according to how 1.1 Our management approach markets. This is a very important learning process for currently relevant they are. In 2013, for example, our company. By using targeted dialogue to gain varwe conducted stakeholder dialogues on the topics of 1.2 Stakeholder engagement ious perspectives and input on strategically relevant electromobility, mobility services and energy supply 1.3 Risk management topics, we can identify trends and key topics at an for the company locations. early stage and enhance acceptance of our activities 1.4 Compliance and corporate governance and decisions. In addition to these events, we also have direct contact with individual stakeholders on specific occasions. For example, in 2013 some NGOs inquired Our main stakeholder groups comprise our customabout compliance with social and environmental ers, employees and representatives of the capital standards in our supply chain. In these cases, we market as well as business partners and suppliers. respond directly and try to clarify the situation But non-governmental organisations, political decitogether in dialogue. sion-makers, researchers, associations and the media are also among the groups we address. STRATEGICALLY ALIGNING STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT EXCHANGING VIEWS WITH STAKEHOLDERS We want to understand the different perspectives of our stakeholders, address them properly, and Dialogue is based on continuous and systematic idenultimately also benefit from the knowledge gained. tification and prioritisation of stakeholders based on This helps us to build trust and deepen partnerships. a regular stakeholder mapping with regard to straIn order for that to happen, it is important that we tegically important and pertinent topics at relevant display a unified strategic direction worldwide with locations, as well as the implementation of various respect to our stakeholder engagement. This is why dialogue formats. In addition, our subsidiaries, our we developed the Stakeholder Engagement Policy political offices in the different markets as well as our of the BMW Group. This policy forms the basis for Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Stakeholder ­engagement 20 1 .2 our ongoing dialogue and set downs the targets, Worldwide, the BMW Group participates in a large processes for identification and prioritisation of our number of initiatives, forums and events with chief stakeholders as well as the selection of dialogue forexecutives as well as technical and other experts, mats and communication principles. organised by government authorities, political parties, scientific organisations and NGOs. In addition, many national and international delegations from COMMUNICATION ON SOCIAL MEDIA government and industry come to our company each year to inform themselves about the latest technologCommunication with stakeholders via social media is gaining ical developments and the BMW Group’s strategic in importance. Our BMW Group Facebook page now has direction in the face of constantly changing condiover 150,000 followers (March 2014) (approx. 100,000 as of 2012). The Facebook page is another important tool used to tions. This can take a variety of forms, from bilateral foster discussion of sustainability with stakeholders such as visits to regular dialogue with representatives of SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT our customers as well as to identify new trends and receive government and industry. feedback on our activities. 1.1 Our management approach IN DIALOGUE WITH LOCAL STAKEHOLDERS 1.2 Stakeholder engagement The dialogue with local stakeholders at our company 1.3 Risk management CONTINUING THE GLOBAL DIALOGUE WITH OUR sites takes place in a wide range of formats. The STAKEHOLDERS focus is on personal conversations, plant visits, reg1.4 Compliance and corporate governance ular meetings, neighbourhood discussions and press In 2013, the BMW Group continued the dialogue events. with its stakeholders both in regular local and international formats and at specific events. Highlights At the beginning of 2013, for example, BMW South were our contribution to the Delhi Sustainable DevelAfrica in Johannesburg invited some 50 stakeholdopment Summit, the UN Framework Convention on ers to the event. The future of electric mobility by Climate Change COP19 in Warsaw, and the InternaBMW in South Africa – Automobility reinvented. The tional Conference Verantwortung Zukunft organised goal of the event was to give stakeholders a look at by the FAZ Institute. Also of note is our commitment the activities of the BMW Group and to discuss the in the context of the Aluminium Stewardship Initiaopportunities and challenges of electromobility in tive see Chapter 4. Events with political stakeholders South Africa. took place additionally in Germany (Berlin, Munich, Leipzig) and Europe (Amsterdam, Brussels, London), in the USA (Washington, DC) as well as in Asia (Seoul, Tokyo, New Delhi). Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Stakeholder ­engagement 21 1 .2 STAKEHOLDER EVENTS IN 2013 – In INFORMATION AND DIALOGUE EVENT IN LEIPZIG: April 2013, 58 participants from the fields of politics, non-governmental organisations, science and research took – PMOBILITÄT, ARLIAMENTARY EVENING ON THE SUBJECT OF DIE VIELES VERÄNDERT (MOBILITY TO CHANGE OUR WORLD) IN BERLIN: part in this event at the BMW plant in Leipzig. During a guided In November 2013, high-ranking politicians from the USA, tour through the plant, we gave the participants a glimpse China and Germany convened in Berlin to discuss worldwide behind the scenes at the development of BMW i. They had success factors for electromobility. Among the 300 guests the opportunity to discuss key questions on electromobility were members of the German Bundestag, ambassadors, and and to exchange views and suggestions as well as express a number of representatives from the federal ministries, state criticism. In four workshops, our experts provided insights into delegations, associations and NGOs. In the Venture Lounge, the topics of production (industrialised CFRP production and Berlin start-ups presented their business models for the body construction), safety (crash, repair and CFRP recycling), mobility services of tomorrow. Participants were also able to SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT range (battery and charging) and energy (CO2-minimised test-drive the BMW i3 through Berlin’s government district. ­production). 1.1 Our management approach – B­PREMIERE MW GROUP DIALOGUE AT THE BMW i3 WORLD 1.2 Stakeholder engagement –  INFORMATION AND DIALOGUE EVENTS IN MAISACH AND AMSTERDAM: IN LONDON: For the world premiere of the BMW i3 in July 2013 in Peking, 1.3 Risk management In July and October 2013, we continued the dialogue we New York and London, the BMW Group hosted a stakeholder had launched in Leipzig and offered 33 stakeholders from dialogue in the British capital. At the event, the new BMW i3 1.4 Compliance and Germany and the UK a chance to test-drive for the first time was presented to more than 200 stakeholders. In a panel corporate governance pre-series BMW i3 vehicles in Maisach (near Munich) while discussion with experts from five European countries, mobility 24 stakeholders had the same opportunity in Amsterdam. In trends in various European cities were analysed and innovative accompanying workshops, the participants were able to speak solutions reviewed. The key factors identified for the accepwith experts from the BMW Group and to make suggestions tance of electric vehicles were the diversity of government and voice opinions on the vehicle while expressing their views incentive schemes, a growing charging infrastructure in urban on the overall concept of urban mobility. areas, the introduction of innovative car-sharing programmes and the use of renewable energies for charging the vehicles. – STAINABLE TAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE ON THE SUBJECT OF SUSSUPPLY CHAINS IN MUNICH: Stakeholders are increasingly expecting companies like the –  BMW GROUP DIALOGUE ON THE FUTURE OF ­SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY IN WARSAW: BMW Group to assume responsibility for the entire supply chain. During the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change We took up this topic in December 2013 in an intensive dialogue COP 19 in Warsaw in November 2013, BMW Group hosted with ten experts from politics, NGOs, suppliers and the scientific ­another dialogue event on sustainable and emissions-free urban world, discussing it in detail in two workshops. The main topics ­mobility. Many guests from politics, civil society, industry and were the integration of environmental and social considerations science took advantage of the occasion to discuss sustainable in the procurement process, respect for social standards and ­solutions for public and individual mobility. The panel discussion human rights along the supply chain, resource efficiency in the focused on ways to promote low-emissions and emissions-free supply chain, as well as the issue of sustainability in raw mater­ ­vehicles in urban areas as well as sustainable urban planning and ials mining and processing. You can find more details on this in develop­ment. see Chapter 4. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Stakeholder ­engagement 22 1 .2 IN DIALOGUE WITH POLITICAL DECISION-MAKERS A central department at our BMW Group headquarters in Munich manages political stakeholder commuBy engaging in regular, active and open dialogue with nication. This department ensures that our political political decision-makers, union representatives and communication in all areas and all markets worldassociations as well as non-governmental organisawide is always in line with our basic corporate strattions, we are fulfilling the task of playing a construcegy and with the positions, guidelines, codices as well tive role in shaping the general political framework as all basic principles and voluntary commitments for our business activities, offering our expertise, published by the BMW Group. In addition, we foster promoting fair competition for all involved and findongoing dialogue with policymakers not only directly, ing sustainable solutions. via our employees, but also by way of membership in a number of national associations and umbrella assoOur representative offices in Berlin, Brussels, Lonciations as well as international industry representaSUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT don, Washington, DC and Beijing are the direct tive bodies. point of contact for political stakeholder groups in 1.1 Our management approach our main markets. Over the years, we have entered into long-term dialogue in these locations on a range EXAMPLES OF NATIONAL ASSOCIATIONS 1.2 Stakeholder engagement of different topics in the political arena. In recent 1.3 Risk management years additional representative offices were added in – German Association for the Automotive Industry (VDA) Sacramento, Tokyo, New Delhi, Moscow and Seoul – Association of the Bavarian Economy (vbw) 1.4 Compliance and corporate governance in order to intensify dialogue with politicians and – ­Electrical Industry (vbm)of the Bavarian Metal and Employers’ Association non-governmental organisations in these markets. In 2013 offices were also opened in Singapore and – The Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders (SMMT) Panama City. In addition, the sales organisations of the BMW Group take responsibility for public affairs EXAMPLES OF INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATIONS AND INDUSTRY REPRESENTATIVES in their markets. – Federation of German Industry (BDI) The representative offices concern themselves with – Confederation of German Employer Organisations (BDA) public affairs as they affect environmental, finan– The Confederation of British Industry (CBI) cial and socio-political topics and deal with relevant – National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) economic policy and industry-specific issues. In the – European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association (ACEA) BusinessEurope period under report, the main topics in this regard, – The Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers apart from how to put CO2 regulation into practice, – (AUTO ­ALLIANCE) were how to deal with trade barriers, fair taxation legislation as well as social challenges such as demographic change. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Stakeholder ­engagement 23 1 .2 INTENSIFYING THE DIALOGUE WITH SUSTAINABILITY-­ IN DIALOGUE WITH OUR EMPLOYEES AND SUPPLIERS ORIENTED ANALYSTS AND INVESTORS When it comes to evaluating employee satisfaction, Not only sustainability-oriented investors but also what they think of their working environment, permainstream investors are increasingly basing their sonal development opportunities, corporate culture, investment decisions on the extent to which com­ and of the BMW Group as an employer, we hold panies like the BMW Group integrate environmental regular Group-wide employee surveys. There are also and social factors as well as corporate governance additional dialogue events for employees and managinto their business models, products and activities. ers see Chapter 5. This is particularly true of institutional investors with long-term strategies, such as pension funds. We also engage in regular dialogue with our sup­ pliers. The focus here is on formats such as the LearnSUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT In 2013 we continued our traditionally intensive ing from Suppliers forum, and on seminars, training dialogue with capital market representatives by courses and lectures see Chapter 4. 1.1 Our management approach holding bilateral talks, road shows and conferences. We stepped up the dialogue with sustainability-oriINTENSIFYING OUR DIALOGUE WITH STUDENTS 1.2 Stakeholder engagement ented investors, analysts and rating agencies while 1.3 Risk management also actively addressing sustainability topics with In our stakeholder dialogues with experts, we fremainstream investors through our Investor Relations quently talk about longer periods of time (2020 1.4 Compliance and corporate governance department. to 2050). We are therefore interested in whether younger target groups who will be professionally Of note here are individual and group discussions active during this period might rate various sustainat SRI (Socially Responsible Investment) road shows ability issues differently than the senior experts of and conferences in Europe’s financial centres and the today. Our experience shows that students in particUSA. This presented us with opportunities to inform ular sometimes have a different outlook on sustainstakeholders of the BMW Group’s current progress in ability. For example, most experts judge our apps the area of sustainability. In almost all conversations for mobility services positively and find them to be with both mainstream and sustainability-oriented effective and up-to-date. Students are, however, much investors, we discussed our future orientation and the more critical. After our first student round table in implementation of our vision of sustainable mobility, 2012, we continued our dialogue with them in 2013. for example on the basis of alternative drive systems. Experts from the BMW Group visited German uniDue to the great interest shown by capital market versities (University of Würzburg, Technical Univerrepresentatives in the BMW Group’s innovative sity of Munich), where they gave lectures and took electric car, the BMW i3, we conducted several forums part in discussions on various sustainability issues. on the product. They took place in Leipzig, London, Paris, Munich and Amsterdam and offered test drives for participants. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Stakeholder ­engagement 24 1 .2 vehicles. Here again, the BMW Group provides the government with its knowledge and research results and actively helps shape political framework conditions via its established political network. MAINTAINING MEMBERSHIPS Through a large number of memberships, we engage in dialogue with other organisations and work towards more sustainability, in particular in the following initiatives, networks and associations: SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT IN DIALOGUE WITH DECISION-MAKERS — BMW Stakeholder Dialogue, Warsaw 2013. – World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) 1.1 Our management approach 1.2 Stakeholder engagement – econsense – the Forum for Sustainable EXPANDING THE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Development of German Business 1.3 Risk management DIALOGUE 1.4 Compliance and – Global Compact Network Germany corporate governance In order to demonstrate the potential and challenges of electromobility in practice and explain what needs to happen in terms of policy, the BMW Group has FORECAST collaborated with public authorities to carry out comprehensive field tests with electric vehicles such We plan to continue fostering and expanding the dialogue as the MINI E and the BMW ActiveE. In markets where with our stakeholders, in particular internationally. Our aim BMW Group electric vehicles have covered over here is to continue to incorporate stakeholder input as we 38 million kilometres in field tests, the information further develop our strategy, while also communicating and experience gathered is shared with governments, openly with our stakeholders to give them a more realistic authorities and scientific institutions and can thus be view of what they can expect in certain areas. Only in a comintegrated directly into future framework policy. mon dialogue can solutions be developed to meet successfully the challenges of the future. The BMW Group also plays a central role in the National Platform for Electric Mobility (NPE), a German government advisory committee on electromobility founded by Chancellor Angela Merkel in May 2010. This platform aims to push for progress on electromobility, create a lead market for it in Germany and speed up the market launch of innovative electric Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Stakeholder ­engagement 25 3 1 .3 Risk management reporting of risks in the network, including the required measures, and promotes cooperation and mutual exchanges. The risk management process comprises identifying and scrutinising risks early on, comprehensive analysis and risk assessment, the coordinated deployment of appropriate control tools, and the monitoring and evaluation of measures for the short and medium term of up to two years. The risks reported by the network to the central The BMW Group operates in a dynamic environment steering committee are first presented for examinawhere it is constantly confronted with new opportun­ tion to the Risk Management Circle, which is chaired SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT ities and risks. Managing these opportunities and by Group Controlling. Following this examination, risks is a fundamental prerequisite for being able the risks are reported to the Board of Management 1.1 Our management approach to deal successfully with changes in the prevailing and Supervisory Board. Fundamental risks or risks political, legal, technical and economic conditions. that would present a threat to the company are clas1.2 Stakeholder engagement In order to achieve growth, profitability, efficiency sified on the basis of the potential scale of impact on 1.3 Risk management and sustainable levels of business in the future, the the company’s earnings, assets and financial position. BMW Group consciously exposes itself to risks. The risk is quantified, taking into account the prob­ 1.4 Compliance and corporate governance ability of occurrence and risk mitigation measures. The aim of the risk management system is to identify, DISCUSSING OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS FROM THE analyse and actively influence any risks within or outVIEWPOINT OF SUSTAINABILITY side the company that could endanger the achievement of our business objectives. Risk management at Opportunities and risks in the area of sustainability the BMW Group is based on a company-wide decenare discussed by the Sustainability Circle. The resulttralised network, which is managed by a central risk ing strategic options and measures that can be taken management function. by the BMW Group are presented to the Sustainability Board. Risk aspects discussed are integrated into RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS the Group-wide risk network. The close ties between the steering and sustainability committees ensure The risk management process is geared towards that risk and sustainability management are closely meeting the criteria of effectiveness, usefulness and coordinated. completeness. In the interests of completeness in particular, risk catalogues were developed in 2013 to ensure Group-wide transparency of risk situations. The risk catalogues were integrated into a newly developed IT tool that optimises the recording and Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Risk management 26 1 .3 Dealing with political and global economic risks and the risk factors associated with it. We also use As one of the world’s leading providers of premium this information as a decision-making criterion when products and premium services, the BMW Group choosing suppliers. In order to identify and counis faced with major challenges. The world is chan­ teract any risks to our supply of parts and materials ging at a rapid pace. In many countries, individual early on, we assess the extent to which supplier sites mobility remains a key focus of political regulation are exposed to natural hazards such as floods or and national industrial policy. Changing values in earthquakes. society require new mobility solutions. Unpredictable disruptions in economic interdependencies along Turning strategic and industry-specific risks into with increasingly intense competition can result in opportunities incalculable chain reactions and their consequences. The automotive industry worldwide is faced with the The ongoing sovereign debt crisis in the eurozone constant challenge of having to reduce fuel consumpSUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT and volatile economic conditions continue to unsettle tion and emissions and raise safety standards at the markets and consumers. The slow-down of economic same time. Government intervention into activities 1.1 Our management approach momentum in China, one of our main markets, poses that have an impact on climate change is intensifying. further risks. Resulting regulatory changes (e.g. city tolls or CO2 1.2 Stakeholder engagement taxes), trends in fuel prices as well as changing values 1.3 Risk management The escalation of political tension, terrorist activ­ and environmental influences all have an impact on ities, natural disasters or possible pandemics could customer behaviour. We are facing these challenges 1.4 Compliance and corporate governance all have a negative impact on the global economy and increasing our competitiveness with our E ­ fficient and international capital markets. The BMW Group Dynamics concept and by developing sustainable counters these risks primarily by internationalising drivetrain technologies. its sales and production structures in order to reduce the potential impact of risk exposures in individual Opening up new opportunities through alternative countries. drive systems The broader market introduction of alternative drive Avoiding environmental and natural risks systems means new challenges and additional investThe BMW Group minimises natural and environmenment for the automotive industry. At the same time, tal risks by implementing a number of technical and we also see this as an opportunity to put our techorganisational measures. These range from fire prenological expertise and innovation strengths to use. vention to direct emergency communications in case Greater fuel economy and the reduction of emissions of fire. are fundamental parameters that we automatically include when designing new products. To avoid negative ground impact and ground­water pollution, the BMW Group has developed and implemented appropriate preventive strategies and initiatives. When choosing a new site for a facility, we analyse the effects of climate change in the region Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Risk management 27 1 .3 F.06 Risk management in the BMW Group Identification Effectiveness Reporting Analysis and Usefulness Risk measurement Compliance management Risk Committee management Completeness SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Monitoring Controlling 1.1 Our management approach Group audit 1.2 Stakeholder engagement Internal control system 1.3 Risk management 1.4 Compliance and corporate governance In the short and medium term we will achieve greater therefore already incorporated into the production fuel economy by electrifying the drivetrain and and logistics structures at the planning stage to make developing comprehensive hybrid systems. We are provision for such eventualities, both in terms of also working on solutions for sustainable mobility in likelihood of occurrence and loss impact. In addition densely populated areas. to technical fire prevention, these measures include preventive maintenance, spare parts management Addressing risks in production, purchasing coordinated between plants as well as the planning of and sales alternative transport routes. We are subject to numerous risks in the operational areas of production, purchasing and sales, which we Flexible work schedules and working-time accounts deal with using a variety of measures. as well as the ability to build certain car models at alternative plants generally help to reduce oper­ational PRODUCTION risks. Risks arising from business interruption and loss of production due to fires or natural disasters are Production interruptions due to fire, plant or IT insured up to economically reasonable levels with breakdowns as well as problems with transport and insurance companies that enjoy a good credit rating. logistics all pose risks. Precautionary measures are Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Risk management 28 1 .3 PURCHASING The requirement to apply uniform standards across the Group is embedded in the BMW Group’s core The customary distribution of tasks between manuprinciples and documented in detailed working facturers and suppliers within the automotive sector instructions. These instructions require employees creates economic benefits, but also exposes contractto handle all information (such as customer and ing parties to a certain degree of mutual dependence. employee data) appropriately and to ensure that Suppliers are hence increasingly joining forces to information systems are properly used and that risks hedge risk in mission-critical future technologies. pertaining to information technology (IT risks) are dealt with transparently. Even in the earliest stages of the supplier selection process, we make sure our future business partners Regular communication, awareness-raising activ­ meet the same environmental, social and governance ities and training measures (e.g. online training on SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT standards the BMW Group has set itself see Chapter 4. information and data protection issues) create a high degree of security and risk awareness among 1.1 Our management approach SALES the employees involved. Employees increasingly also receive training from the Group’s Compliance 1.2 Stakeholder engagement Changing global economic conditions and increasing ­Organisation to ensure compliance with legal and 1.3 Risk management protectionist tendencies are causing fluctuations in regulatory requirements see Chapter 1.4. the regional spread of sales as well as the composi1.4 Compliance and corporate governance tion of the model mix and the demand for mobility In view of the current public discussion on the proservices. Sales and production processes within posal for a new EU directive on data protection and the BMW Group are flexible enough to allow new due to the NSA affair, there has been a significant opportunities to be exploited at short notice. At the rise in queries with regard to data protection. The same time, we keep close watch over margin and global data security network that has been estabprice pressure due to more intense competition in all lished within the BMW Group ensures the necessary markets, in particular Western Europe, the USA and transparency and timely introduction of measures. China. In the case of cooperation arrangements and business Protecting information and data partnerships we protect our intellectual property as We attach great importance to protecting individual well as customer and employee data by stipulating rights, business secrets, innovative developments clear instructions with regard to data protection and and process information from unauthorised access, the use of information technology. damage and/or misuse. The protection of information and data is an integral component of our business The board or management team in each BMW Group processes and is based on the International Security company is responsible for data protection at that Standard ISO/IEC 27001. company. Each Group company has its own local Data Privacy Protection Officers. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Risk management 29 1 .3 Avoiding financial risks Ensuring liquidity As a global enterprise, the BMW Group conducts The liquidity of the BMW Group is ensured at all business transactions in various currencies, which times by maintaining liquidity reserves and through always entails currency risks. The BMW Group mana broad diversification of refinancing sources. The ages currency risks at both a strategic and operating liquidity position is monitored continuously at a level. Strategic risk management includes increasing separate entity level and managed by means of a the volume of production in foreign countries (natcash flow requirements and sourcing forecast sysural hedging) as well as increasing the volume of tem in place throughout the Group. Liquidity risks purchases denominated in foreign currency. In this can arise in the form of rising refinancing costs on context, the construction of new plants at foreign the one hand and restricted access to funds on the sites such as the USA, China or Brazil also helps to other. Most of the Financial Service segment’s credit reduce foreign exchange risks. For operating purfinancing and lease business is refinanced on capital SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT poses, currency risks are hedged on the financial markets. markets. Hedging transactions are entered into only 1.1 Our management approach with financial partners of good credit standing. The BMW Group has good access to financial markets thanks to its excellent creditworthiness and, as 1.2 Stakeholder engagement Securing the supply of raw materials in previous years, was able to raise funds at good con1.3 Risk management The BMW Group monitors the availability of raw ditions during the reporting period. In addition to a materials and the risk of changes in their prices by diversified refinancing strategy, this can be attributed 1.4 Compliance and corporate governance means of a well-defined control process. Financial to the BMW Group’s continued solid financial derivatives are employed to hedge against price risks situation. arising for precious metals (i.e. platinum, palladium and rhodium) and non-ferrous metals (i.e. aluminExcluding legal risks ium, copper and lead) and, to some extent, steel and Acting responsibly and complying with the law are steel ingredients such as iron ore. Mediumand longthe basic prerequisites for our success. Current legisterm purchase contracts with fixed pricing arrangelation provides the binding framework for our wide ments for raw materials such as steel and plastics are range of activities around the world. The growing also in place. international scale of operations of the BMW Group, developments in the business world as well as the Changes in the price of crude oil (as a basic ingrewhole range of complex legal and tax regulations dient in many of our components) have a direct increase the risk of laws being broken, simply impact on our production costs. Crude oil prices because they are not known or fully understood. Sev(and exchange rates) also influence fuel prices, eral years ago, the BMW Group therefore established which, in turn, directly influence the purchasing a Compliance Organisation aimed at lastingly ensurbehaviour of our customers. The BMW Group counting that its representative bodies, managers and staff ers this by developing and selling efficient and ecoact in a lawful manner at all times see Chapter 1.4. nomical engines and by developing alternative drive technologies. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Risk management 30 1 .3 The high quality of our products, which is ensured by regular quality audits and ongoing improvement measures, helps to reduce this risk. The BMW Group is not currently involved in any court or arbitration proceedings that could have a significant impact on its financial condition. FURTHER IMPROVEMENT IN RATING In December 2013 the rating agency Standard & Poor’s raised BMW AG’s long-term rating from A (stable outlook) to A+ (stable outlook). BMW AG is the only European automoSUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT bile manufacturer with this high rating. The short-term rating remained at A-1, also the highest level for the sector. 1.1 Our management approach 1.2 Stakeholder engagement COMPANY HEADQUARTERS — BMW tower with BMW Welt. 1.3 Risk management FORECAST 1.4 Compliance and corporate governance COPING WITH LEGAL RISKS In the future, both the global economy and our own business processes are sure to grow even more complex. We must Like all enterprises, the BMW Group is, or could be, therefore further optimise the interplay between risk manconfronted with the risk of legal disputes relating, agement, strategy and dialogue with external partners in among other things, to warranty claims, product society. liability, infringement of protected rights or proceedings initiated by government agencies. Any of these matters could have an adverse impact on the Group’s reputation. Such proceedings are typical for the sector or arise as a consequence of realigning our product or purchasing strategy to suit changing market conditions. Particularly in the US market, class action lawsuits and product liability risks can give rise to substantial financial consequences and cause reputational damage. The BMW Group recognises appropriate levels of provisions for lawsuits. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Risk management 31 4 1 .4 Compliance and cases of non-compliance. The BMW Group Compliance Committee reports regularly to the Board of ­corporate governance Management and the Supervisory Board on all compliance-related issues. INTEGRATING COMPLIANCE IN THE ORGANISATION The decisions taken by the BMW Group Compliance Committee are drafted in concept, and implemented operationally, by the BMW Group Compliance Committee Office. The BMW Group Compliance Committee Office is allocated in organisational terms to SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Responsible and lawful conduct is fundamental to the the Chairman of the Board of Management. Around success of the BMW Group. At the same time, it is an 170 Compliance Responsibles are integrated into the 1.1 Our management approach integral part of our corporate culture. The Board of Compliance Organisation. They report regularly on Management and the employees of the BMW Group the compliance status in the different units as well as 1.2 Stakeholder engagement are obliged to act responsibly and in compliance with on any legal risks or infringements and corrective or 1.3 Risk management the applicable laws and regulations. This principle preventive measures taken. has been embedded in BMW’s internal rules of con1.4  ompliance and C corporate governance duct for many years. Compliance management in the BMW Group has instruments and measures in place to ensure that the Group, its representative bodies and all employees In order to protect the company systematically act in a lawful manner. Particular emphasis has been against compliance-related and reputational risks, the placed on compliance with antitrust legislation and Board of Management created a Compliance Committhe avoidance of corruption risks. Compliance meatee several years ago, mandated to establish a worldsures are supplemented by a whole range of internal wide Compliance Management System throughout policies, guidelines and instructions, which in part the BMW Group. The BMW Group Compliance Comreflect applicable legislation. The BMW Group Policy mittee comprises the heads of the following depart“Corruption Prevention” deserves particular menments: Legal Affairs, Corporate and Governmental tion: this document deals with lawful handling of Affairs, Corporate Audit, Organisational Developgifts and benefits and defines appropriate assessment ment and Corporate Human Resources. It manages criteria and approval procedures for specified actions. and monitors activities necessary to avoid non-compliance with the law (legal compliance). These activities include training, information and communication measures, compliance controls and following up Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Compliance and ­corporate governance 32 1 .4 Compliance measures are determined and prioritised More than 20,300 (2012: 16,500) managers and staff on the basis of an annually updated Group-wide have received training in compliance basics worldcompliance risk assessment with a focus on corrupwide since the introduction of the BMW Group Comtion covering all 276 business units and functions pliance Organisation. Successful participation in the worldwide within the BMW Group. Measures have training programme is mandatory for all BMW Group been realised since 2012 with the aid of a regionally managers. Appropriate processes are in place to structured compliance management team covering all ensure that all newly recruited managers and proparts of the BMW Group. moted staff undergo compliance training. In this way, the BMW Group ensures full training coverage for its The BMW Group Legal Compliance Code is the cormanagers in compliance matters. In addition to this nerstone of the Group’s Compliance Organisation, basic training, in-depth training is also provided to spelling out the Board of Management’s acknow­ certain groups of staff on specific compliance issues. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT ledgement of the fact that compliance is a joint Advanced training on competition and antitrust law responsibility (Tone from the Top). This document, was introduced in 2013 and already completed the 1.1 Our management approach which explains the significance of legal compliance same year by 2,300 employees. and provides an overview of the various areas rele1.2 Stakeholder engagement vant for the BMW Group, is available on the intranet Additional Compliance Market Coachings have also 1.3 Risk management in German and English as well as 11 other languages been implemented in local markets since late 2012. for the convenience of all employees. These seminars strengthen the understanding of 1.4 C  ompliance and corporate governance compliance in selected units and enhance cooper­ We conduct a Group-wide employee survey every ation between the central BMW Group Compliance two years to measure our performance. In 2013, the Committee Office and decentralised compliance survey was conducted on the basis of a representaoffices. In 2013, market coaching was performed for tive sample. The results showed that BMW Group Financial Services and National Sales Companies in employees have an excellent understanding of Argentina, Brazil, China, Mexico and Singapore. the topic of compliance and its significance to the company. In order to avoid violations of law, employees are kept fully informed of the instruments and measures used COACHING AND COMMUNICATING COMPLIANCE by the Compliance Organisation via various internal channels. The central means of communication Managers in particular bear a high degree of responis the Compliance website within the BMW Group’s sibility and must set a good example in the process intranet, where employees can find compliance-­related of preventing infringements. Managers throughout information and have access to training mater­ials in the BMW Group accept this principle by signing a both German and English. The website contains a spewritten declaration in which they also undertake to cial service area where various practical tools and aids inform staff working for them of the content and sigare made available to employees that help them to deal nificance of the Legal Compliance Code and to make with typical compliance-related matters. BMW Group staff aware of legal risks. employees also have access on the website to an Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Compliance and ­corporate governance 33 1 .4 electronically supported approval process for invitaAs part of its regular activities, Corporate Audit tions in connection with business partners. carries out on-site audits. The BMW Group Compliance Committee also engages Corporate Audit RESPONDING TO COMPLIANCE-RELATED QUERIES to perform compliance-specific checks. In addition, random checks (BMW Group Compliance Spot In order to avoid legal risks, all members of staff are Checks) specifically designed to identify potential expected to discuss compliance matters with their corruption risks are carried out. In 2013, three Commanagers and with the relevant departments within pliance Spot Checks were performed in different the BMW Group, in particular Legal Affairs, Corpor­ units. Compliance control activities are coordinated ate Audit and Corporate Security. The BMW Group by the BMW Group Panel Compliance Controls. Any Compliance Contact serves as a further point of connecessary follow-up measures are organised by the tact for both employees and non-employees for any BMW Group Compliance Committee Office. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT questions regarding compliance. It is essential that employees are aware of and com1.1 Our management approach Employees also have the opportunity to submit inforply with applicable regulations. The BMW Group mation – anonymously and confidentially – via the does not tolerate violations of law by its employees. 1.2 Stakeholder engagement BMW Group SpeakUP Line about possible breaches Culpable violations of the law result in employ1.3 Risk management of the law within the company. The BMW Group ment-contract sanctions and may involve personal SpeakUP Line is available in a total of 34 languages liability consequences for the employee involved. 1.4 C  ompliance and corporate governance and can be reached via local toll-free numbers in all The BMW Group reports on legal infringements in countries in which BMW Group employees carry out its Annual Report if the events in question could be activities. of interest for shareholders, analysts and other stakeholders due to economic consequences. We are not Compliance-related queries and concerns are docuaware of any such infringements having occurred in mented and followed up by the BMW Group Comthe period under report. pliance Committee Office using an electronic Case Management System. If necessary, Corporate Audit, ENSURING COMPLIANCE BY BUSINESS PARTNERS Corporate Security, the Works Council and Legal Affairs may be called upon to assist in the investigaIn the same way that the BMW Group is committed tion process. to lawful and responsible conduct, it also expects no less from its business partners. In the year under MONITORING AND AUDITING COMPLIANCE report, the BMW Group developed a new Business Relations Compliance programme aimed at ensuring Compliance with and implementation of the Legal the reliability of its business relations. Relevant busiCompliance Code are audited regularly by Corporate ness partners are checked and evaluated with a view Audit and subjected to control checks by Corporate to identifying potential compliance risks. Security and the BMW Group Compliance Committee Office. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Compliance and ­corporate governance 34 1 .4 These procedures are particularly relevant for relaCORPORATE GOVERNANCE tions with sales partners and service providers such as agencies and consultants. Depending on The BMW Group manages its business in accordance the results of the evaluation, appropriate meas­ with principles of responsible corporate governance ures – such as communication measures, training and geared to long-term value creation. In 2002, it conpossible monitoring – are implemented to manage firmed its commitment to these principles in its own compliance risks. The Business Relations Compliance Governance Code. Based on the German Corporate programme has already been launched in 12 units Governance Code (GCGC), this document is regu(from a total of 70) since 2012 and will be rolled out larly updated. You can find more information in the Annual successively over the coming years throughout the Report under “Statement on Corporate Governance” (p. 166). BMW Group’s worldwide sales organisation. In 2013, the company also began introducing compliance SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT clauses into dealer and importer contracts to protect FORECAST contractual relationships. 1.1 Our management approach In addition to rolling out the Business Relations Compliance COOPERATING WITH EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATIVES programme in further units, the BMW Group plans to conduct 1.2 Stakeholder engagement three Compliance Spot Checks in the coming year as well 1.3 Risk management Compliance is also an important factor in terms of as implementing and piloting a corporate hospitality and safeguarding the future of the BMW Group’s workgifts IT system. A compliance information package for new 1.4  ompliance and C corporate governance force. With this in mind, the Board of Management employees is also planned for 2014. and the national and international employee representative bodies of the BMW Group have agreed on a set of Joint Principles for Lawful Conduct. In doing so, all parties involved gave a commitment to the principles contained in the BMW Group Legal Compliance Code and to trustful cooperation in all matters relating to compliance. Employee representatives are therefore regularly involved in the process of developing compliance measures within the BMW Group. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Compliance and ­corporate governance 35 2 S USTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.5 2.6 Our management approach Efficient mobility Product safety — p. 42 — p. 50 Resource efficiency and recycling management Future mobility — p. 58 Customer satisfaction — p. 39 — p. 65 — p. 55 36 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY WE DELIVER SOLUTIONS FOR INDIVIDUAL MOBILITY. — CONNECTED DRIVE — BMW i — DRIVE NOW — EFFICIENT DYNAMICS — 360° ELECTRIC Forecasts predict that 60% of the global population will live in cities by 2030. Big cities will offer fascinating opportunities to shape new forms of individual mobility. Source: KPMG Future State 2030 The global megatrends shaping governments SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 37 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY PROGRESS IN 2013 KPIs 2014+ FORECAST AND OBJECTIVES BMW i3 INTRODUCED IN SERIES CO2 EMISSIONS OF BMW GROUP EXPAND REACH OF BMW i PRODUCTION ­AUTO­MOBILES (EU-27) – Inadditional 2014, we will launch the BMW i3 on – Wfullye have — 2013 133 successfully introduced our first markets (North and South America, electric premium vehicle in Europe – the Asia). We will also launch a new BMW i family BMW i3. Compared with a conventional model – the BMW i8. In addition, we will g/km combustion engine vehicle, the BMW i3 expand our range of electric motorcycles with generates over 50% less greenhouse gas the fully electric BMW C Evolution Scooter. potential (CO2 equivalents) throughout the entire product life cycle. 2012 138 g/km FURTHER REDUCTION IN FLEET EMISSIONS AVERAGE FUEL CONSUMPTION EU-27 STEP UP RECYCLING MEASURES – We – We — 2013 further reduced the CO emissions of our 2 are developing ways to reuse spent battery vehicles sold in Europe to 133 g/km (2012: Petrol Diesel packs from our electric vehicles as well as 6.2 4.8 138 g/km; – 3.6%). This means that we are in by-products of the production. In addition, line with our plan to reduce our fleet emissions we already recycle 20% of the thermoplastic by 2020 by 50% compared with 1995. materials in our vehicles and are gradually increasing our use of secondary raw materials. l/100 km l/100 km 2012 Petrol 6.3 l/100 km Diesel 5.0 l/100 km SAFETY STANDARDS DEFINED NUMBER OF DriveNow USERS PROMOTE NETWORKED MOBILITY – Since – Online — January 2014 2013, all BMW motorcycles in series applications and networking are likely to production have been equipped with ABS as change the face of urban mobility in the future. 220,000 a standard feature. For all car models we offer It is our aim to be a driver of mobility research, passive and active safety systems that warn identifying new trends at an early stage and and support drivers in dangerous situations transforming the most promising research and protect them to the greatest extent results into practical applications. possible in case of accident. 2012 75,000 users SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 38 1 2 .1 Our management and when run on electricity produced from renewable sources, this potential can even be reduced by ­approach half. We are deliberately using the BMW i3 to set an in-house benchmark by gradually transferring the measures practised in the BMW i3 to BMW Group vehicle projects with internal combustion engines. REDUCING EMISSIONS Our visionary BMW i brand vehicles are spearheading our long-term efforts to produce completely emissions-free vehicles. But they are only one part PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY The BMW Group takes a comprehensive approach of our Efficient Dynamics development strategy, our to product responsibility. For us, it starts with the concept for ensuring sustainable individual mobility 2.1 Our management approach development of fuel-efficient vehicles that are safe for through constant and consistent reduction of emisdrivers and other road users. It covers resource-effisions. We achieve the best results here by applying 2.2 Efficient mobility cient and eco-friendly development and production innovative efficiency technologies. 2.3 Product safety processes, integrated and high-quality customer care as well as recycling concepts that ensure our cars have Whether through efficient engines, optimised aero2.4  esource efficiency and R recycling management minimum impact on the environment even after they dynamics, intelligent energy management, lightreach the end of their life cycle. weight design, forward-looking drive control, the 2.5 Future mobility Auto Start Stop function, brake energy regeneration, 2.6 Customer satisfaction tyres with reduced rolling resistance or air flap conA good example of our comprehensive undertrol – every BMW Group vehicle is developed with standing of product responsibility is the BMW i3, the ­Efficient Dynamics in mind. The BMW Group aims first large-series electric vehicle produced by the for intelligent lightweight construction, an efficient BMW Group. From the outset and throughout the and dynamic drive system, and intelligent manageentire life cycle we developed this vehicle in line with ment of all vehicle energy flows in every vehicle see measurable sustainability targets – from raw material Chapter 2.2. extraction through the entire production and use phase to recycling at the end of vehicle life. Taking the already very efficient BMW 118d as reference vehicle (Green Car of the Year 2008), the BMW i3 has significantly less greenhouse gas potential across its entire product life cycle. For example, when using the European Electricity Mix (EU-25), the BMW i3 has around one-third less global warming potential, Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Our management ­approach 39 2 .1 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 4.5 LTR. OF DIESEL PER 100 KILOMETERS — The BMW 520d. REDUCING CONSUMPTION WITH AERODYNAMICS — BMW Group wind channel. 2.1 Our management approach An example of this philosophy is the BMW 520d, with We set our sights on intelligent services covering the 2.2 Efficient mobility average fuel consumption in the EU test cycle of entire spectrum of future mobility. One example is 2.3 Product safety 4.5–4.9 litres per 100 kilometres and a CO2 value of our DriveNow car-sharing service see Chapter 2.5. 119–129 g/km. With 184 hp, the BMW 520d shows that 2.4  esource efficiency and R recycling management sustainability and driving pleasure are by no means Finally, we also strive for a high degree of customer mutually exclusive. satisfaction, conducting studies, customer interviews 2.5 Future mobility and constant analysis of customer feedback to find 2.6 Customer satisfaction TAKING A BROADER VIEW OF PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY out how we can improve even further from our customers’ perspective see Chapter 2.6. Our product responsibility is, however, not limited to producing eco-friendly vehicles. As a provider of MEETING INTERNATIONAL REQUIREMENTS premium products and premium services for individual mobility, we also view the safety of our customers International regulatory requirements for and other road users as a central component of our BMW Group products are becoming increasingly product responsibility. Through active safety features stringent, particularly in the area of vehicle emiswe try to prevent accidents, and through passive sions. 93% of the vehicles we sell are subject to safety systems to mitigate their effects see Chapter 2.3. corres­ponding regulations and tax legislation. At the same time, planning for sales is made difficult by Other elements in our approach to product responrapid changes in legislation. This means that we have sibility are resource-efficient production and high to be prepared to cope with new framework condirecycling and reuse standards that close the materials tions even before they are announced by legislators. cycle as much as possible see Chapter 2.4 and see Chapter 3. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Our management ­approach 40 2 .1 SUSTAINABILITY OVER THE ENTIRE VEHICLE LIFE CYCLE important component in this connection is our commitment to the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative To ensure the sustainability of our products across see Chapter 4. their entire life cycle, we set ambitious goals for our vehicles early on in the strategic planning phase. To do so, we apply a holistic accounting method FORECAST to assess the environmental, economic and social impact of our products across their entire life cycle. In the coming years, we will continue to focus on reducing This method complements our long-standing Life CO2 emissions and expanding innovative mobility services. Cycle Assessment system (ISO 14040/44). The holisWe have set ourselves ambitious goals: for example, we tic view incorporates aspects of the sustainability risk intend to reduce CO2 emissions in the European new vehicle filter used in supplier management see Chapter 4. fleet by at least 50% by 2020 (base year: 1995). We also PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY want to take the lead with our holistic approach to premium In the development process, we take into account electromobility and to deploy integrated mobility services 2.1 Our management approach potential environmental effects throughout the in order to lastingly change mobility behaviour in selected vehicle life cycle, from the selection of materials to metropolitan regions. 2.2 Efficient mobility production, use and subsequent recycling. These sus2.3 Product safety tainability targets have the same significance as, for You can find further innovations planned in the area of prodexample, cost or weight criteria in the development uct responsibility at the end of the following sub-chapters. 2.4  esource efficiency and R recycling management process of the vehicle. Our aim is to improve the environmental impact from one vehicle generation 2.5 Future mobility to the next with the help of Life Cycle Engineering in 2.6 Customer satisfaction accordance with ISO 14062. Life Cycle Assessment pursuant to ISO 14040/44 rates progress in this respect as well as the achievement of targets in the development process. The BMW i3 was the first vehicle of the BMW Group to consistently implement the Life Cycle Engineering approach, and it will now be applied just as consistently to BMW Group vehicles with internal combustion engines. In addition, we already use a holistic accounting approach to assess the environmental impact of innovative technologies and materials in the pre-development phase. This helps us to recognise potential for building sustainability into the life cycle. Another Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Our management ­approach 41 2 2 .2 Efficient efficiency technologies are further developed and joined by new technologies on an ongoing basis. mobility Since 2013, we have added electric drives in products of the BMW i sub-brand to our portfolio. Plug-in hybrids are an increasingly important component of this strategy. We are thus creating the basis for continuing to meet the performance standards for CO2 emissions and fuel consumption in the future. CO2 EMISSIONS REDUCED IN ALL NEW VEHICLES PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY We are getting closer and closer to our vision of susBetween 1995 and 2013, we reduced the CO2 emistainable mobility. We are using innovative efficiency sions of our newly sold cars in Europe (EU-27) by 2.1 Our management approach technologies in all models and adding electrically more than 37%. Average fuel consumption in 2013 powered cars to our model range. By 2020, we want was 6.2 litres of petrol per 100 kilometres or 4.8 litres 2.2 Efficient mobility to cut the CO2 emissions of our vehicle fleet in half of diesel per 100 kilometres. Average CO2 emissions 2.3 Product safety compared to 1995. were 133 grams of CO2 per kilometre. 2.4 R  esource efficiency and recycling management These are important achievements for the Legal regulations on emissions are becoming increasBMW Group, but represent only one step towards 2.5 Future mobility ingly stringent worldwide, continually posing new our goal. As resources dwindle and climate change 2.6 Customer satisfaction challenges to the automotive industry. 93% of the continues unabated, we must strive to further reduce vehicles we sell are subject to corresponding legislacarbon emissions, improve energy efficiency and tion. Long before the official announcement of reguswitch to alternative drivetrain technologies. By 2020, latory changes in the year 2000, the BMW Group had we will therefore reduce the CO2 emissions for our already set the course for reducing fuel consumption vehicle fleet by 50% compared to the base year 1995. and emissions. We are steadily moving closer to achieving our longBased on our Efficient Dynamics development term goal of sustainable mobility. In 2013, 39 ­models strategy, the BMW Group reduces the energy had maximum CO2 emissions of 120 g/km. For requirements of every vehicle through intelligent develop­ment of CO2 emissions in our vehicle fleet lightweight construction and consistently optimised see Figure 07. aerodynamics. At the same time, we are improving the efficiency of traditional internal combustion engines as we successively offer more electrified drives based on the BMW i drive technologies, including models of the core BMW brand. Our Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Efficient mobility 42 2 .2 F.07 Development of CO2 emissions of BMW Group cars in Europe (Index: 1995 = 100; Basis: Fleet consumption of newly registered cars in Europe [EU-15] measured on the basis of the New European Driving Cycle in accordance with the ACEA self-commitment) 110 105 100 95 90 85 80 75 70 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 65 60 2.1 Our management approach 55 2.2 Efficient mobility 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 091 10 11 12 13 2.3 Product safety 101.0 102.4 101.0 98.6 96.7 96.7 92.9 92.9 94.8 90.0 88.6 80.0 73.3 71.4 70.0 69.0 66.0 63.0 2.4 R  esource efficiency and 1 Measured only on EU-27 basis from 2009 onwards. recycling management 2.5 Future mobility 2.6 Customer satisfaction COMPONENTS OF EMISSIONS-FREE MOBILITY – Revolutionary lightweight construction concepts and the industrial use of new materials such as Over a decade ago, the BMW Group had the vision of CFRP as well as the reuse of recycled material. ensuring the long-term competitiveness of all vehicle models and offering the most efficient and dynamic – Optimal aerodynamics thanks to our in-house aerovehicles. dynamics testing centre, one of the most advanced wind tunnels in the world. BMW is thus preparing itself to face changing market conditions (the development of metropolises/mega­ – Intelligent management of all energy flows in the cities, regulatory requirements, resource scarcity, etc.) vehicle and the consistent use of driver assistance as it also keeps pace with shifting values. systems for optimal energy efficiency across all model ranges. Efficient Dynamics means providing the most efficient overall vehicle concept and the most intelligent In addition to the battery-powered BMW i3 for comenergy management possible for every vehicle propletely emissions-free mobility within cities, we will duced by BMW: take the next step in June 2014 by offering our first Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Efficient mobility 43 2 .2 plug-in hybrid, the BMW i8. The BMW i8 delivers unlimited mobility for longer distances while achieving the best fuel economy of any BMW Group vehicle powered in part by an internal combustion engine. In addition to battery-powered electric vehicles, the BMW Group also wants to achieve its vision of completely emissions-free electric driving over longer distances with short refuelling stops for larger v ­ ehicles equipped with hydrogen fuel cell technology. At the same time, we are also the benchmark in terms of the efficiency of conventional drive concepts, thanks to PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY the constant evolutionary development of convenADDED VALUE THROUGH CONNECTING — BMW ConnectedDrive. tional drivetrains as well as ongoing advances in the 2.1 Our management approach networking of vehicles, drivers and the environment. is shown in real time on the BMW navigation sys2.2 Efficient mobility We remain confident that we are thus well equipped tems. This enables the driver to avoid congested areas 2.3 Product safety worldwide to face the challenges of the coming years. and save on fuel. 2.4  esource efficiency and R recycling management SAVING FUEL AND REDUCING EMISSIONS THROUGH ECO PRO mode ­EFFICIENT TECHNOLOGIES All BMW models now come standard with a Drive 2.5 Future mobility Performance control for activating the ECO PRO 2.6 Customer satisfaction Among the technologies resulting from the Efficient mode. Depending on individual driving style, the Dynamics strategy are efficient engines, optimised ECO PRO mode allows fuel savings about 15%. As aerodynamics, intelligent energy management, lightthis mode is not activated in the usual test cycles, the weight construction, forward-looking drive control, full fuel savings are realised only in real day-to-day the Auto Start Stop function, brake energy regenerdriving. ation, tyres with reduced rolling resistance, air flap control and laser light technology. These are not Active Coasting optional extras for niche or special models but stand­ Active Coasting is an innovative function for autoard in every new vehicle since March 2007. matic vehicles that the BMW Group brought onto the market in 2012 and which now comes as standard in Connected Drive all new models. The principle involved is extremely Efficient Dynamics opens up further potential in simple: by releasing pressure on the accelerator, the combination with BMW ConnectedDrive – a packdriver automatically disconnects the engine from the age of intelligent technologies that interconnect the gearbox. The vehicle then decelerates through air driver, vehicle occupants, the vehicle itself and the resistance and the rolling resistance of the wheels environment. For example, traffic on the main roads alone. Active Coasting is particularly effective for Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Efficient mobility 44 2 .2 drivers who have a predictive driving style of the kind models BMW ActiveHybrid 3, BMW ActiveHybrid 5 and enabled by the Proactive Driving Assistant. BMW ­ActiveHybrid 7. Starting in 2014, the BMW i8 will round out the programme. The BMW i8 is the first Proactive Driving Assistant plug-in hybrid produced by the BMW Group whose Drivers themselves have a significant influence on battery can also be charged via the electricity grid. actual fuel consumption. The Proactive Driving It combines the driving performance of a sports Assistant uses data from the navigation system to car with the fuel efficiency of a compact. Its range tell the driver about speed limits, tight bends and when running on electricity will be approximately roundabouts or turns ahead. It gives the driver tips 37 kilometres, with CO2 emissions of 49 g/km in the on the most efficient way to drive in these situations, EU cycle. enabling maximum possible fuel economy. Since 2013, we have gradually been introducing Proactive Plug-in hybrid models use up to 50% less fuel than PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Energy Management as well. Along with the proactheir combustion-powered equivalents. tive function in ECO PRO mode, an intelligent drive 2.1 Our management approach system is also able, in the sport and comfort modes, According to estimates made by the European Autoto change to the right gear in advance of the corres­ mobile Manufacturers’ Association (ACEA), between 2.2 Efficient mobility ponding driving situation. This avoids unnecessary 3% and 8% of all new vehicles registered will be either 2.3 Product safety gear changes and significantly increases fuel econfully or partially electrically powered by the year omy even beyond the ECO PRO mode. 2020. To make sure that we play an active role in this 2.4 R  esource efficiency and recycling management growing market, we will pioneer radical new soluAs well as reducing the carbon emissions of our tions in this field as we have elsewhere, reaffirming 2.5 Future mobility ­vehicles, we are working to bring down other emisour technological leadership. 2.6 Customer satisfaction sions. We are playing a pioneering role in meeting the Euro 6 standards, which call for a significant EMPLOYING ALTERNATIVE DRIVETRAIN CONCEPTS reduction in nitrogen oxide (NOx) levels, in particular for diesel vehicles. Thanks to BMW BluePerforUnder the BMW i brand, we bundle our activities mance technology, since 2008 customers can choose in the areas of electromobility and mobility services from several ­models with particularly clean diesel (e.g. DriveNow), which are geared in particular engines that comply with Euro 6 standards. towards responding to the challenges of future urban mobility. REALISING FURTHER POTENTIAL THROUGH HYBRID SOLUTIONS Since 2007, our Project i has been developing completely new concepts for individual mobility as well The electrification of the drivetrain by way of as vehicle architecture and production that integrate various hybrid solutions is a vital component of sustainable solutions in an even more innovative our E­ fficient Dynamics programme that enables fashion along the entire value chain. The models prous to realise further fuel-saving potential. Since duced under the BMW i sub-brand don’t simply have autumn 2012, the BMW Group has offered the a different engine; they were conceived from the start Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Efficient mobility 45 2 .2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 2.1 Our management approach 2.2 Efficient mobility 2.3 Product safety RECHARGING AT HOME — With the optional Wallbox the batteries of the new BMW i3 can be recharged in less than 3 hours. 2.4  esource efficiency and R recycling management 2.5 Future mobility as electric rather than combustion-powered cars (conCharging electric vehicles with green power 2.6 Customer satisfaction version approach). We conceived these models from An electric car can only reach its full potential when the outset as new and independent vehicle concepts it runs on electricity that is as carbon-neutral as pos(purpose-build approach), because only then could sible. For the German market, we therefore entered the full potential of these drive concepts be realised into a strategic cooperation with Naturstrom AG in and put at the service of customers. This includes 2012 for the supply of electricity from renewable intelligent lightweight design – using carbon-fibre-­ sources. BMW i customers will have the option in reinforced plastic (CFRP) and a host of new mater­ future of purchasing a suitable green electricity packials to produce vehicles of minimum weight – and age for charging their electric vehicles. In the other especially resource-efficient production. This results international markets where the BMW i3 is sold, we in visionary vehicles that combine consistent sustainwill offer our customers similar solutions with local ability with maximum range and driving pleasure. partners. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Efficient mobility 46 2 .2 CERTIFIABLY SUSTAINABLE: ISO CERTIFICATION FOR THE ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT OF THE BMW i3 We already set ourselves sustainability goals when launching the development of the fully electrically powered BMW i3. Chief among them was a target for global warming potential (measured in CO2 For the customer, leather tanned with olive leaf extracts, eco-friendly quality-finished wood from certified European cultivation as well as the visible use of natural fibres in the instrument equivalents) as a concrete, measurable target across the vehicle life ­panel and door panels make tangible the new premium character cycle – a good indicator for resource efficiency. This component of the vehicle, designed with sustainability in mind. 25% of the of the environmental footprint now takes its place alongside the plastics used in the interior and the thermoplastics on the exterior long-established parameters of vehicle weight, vehicle costs and are made up by weight of recycled materials or renewable raw fuel consumption. Over its entire life cycle, including vehicle use, materials. a BMW i3 displays significantly less global warming potential than an extremely efficient car in the same segment with a combustion Moreover, the energy required to assemble the BMW i models at motor of equal size and performance. When a BMW i3 is run on the the Leipzig plant comes exclusively from renewable sources. We PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY European Electricity Mix (EU-25), it has around one-third less globbuilt a wind farm on-site to directly power production at the plant. al warming potential, and when run on electricity produced from The TÜV Süd technical inspection agency reviewed the data and 2.1 Our management approach renewable sources, this potential can even be reduced by half. methods in detail according to fixed criteria. The validation ­certificate of the independent agency verifies that the methods 2.2 Efficient mobility A large number of individual measures further contribute to the used by BMW i meet the scientific state of the art and fulfil all positive environmental scorecard. These have never before been requirements of the strict ISO standards 14040/14044. 2.3 Product safety implemented with this degree of consistency at the BMW Group. 2.4 R  esource efficiency and An important role in optimising the environmental footprint is recycling management played by the high proportion of recycled materials used, along with energy-efficient manufacturing processes. This includes the use of 2.5 Future mobility aluminium and carbon-fibre-reinforced plastic (CFRP). The light2.6 Customer satisfaction weight alloy components of the BMW i3 consist to a large extent of so-called secondary aluminium, generated not from ore but from molten production residues and recycled materials. Secondary aluminium can be generated with significantly less energy. Primary aluminium produced using renewable energy also contributes to the sustainability of the BMW i3. In the production of the so-called “life module” (passenger compartment), the BMW Group in many respects makes use of its expertise in the field of industrial CFRP production, unique in the automotive sector, in combination with sustainable manufacturing processes. In a process developed especially for BMW i models, for example, cutting scraps left over from the production of CFRP components can be returned to the production process. This reduces the need for raw materials from the carbon-fibre plant in Moses Lake (USA), the source of all the materials for CFRP components in the BMW i3. 100% of the electricity required for the manufacture of the carbon fibres is supplied from renewable sources. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Efficient mobility 47 2 .2 greater range. Hydrogen is used here as an energy source that is converted by the fuel cell into electri­ city and water. This approach offers the possibility of extended ranges and refuelling times that are com­ parable to those for today’s conventional drivetrains. The BMW Group has been cooperating with the ­Toyota Motor Corporation (TMC) in this field since 2012. The aim is to jointly develop a basic fuel-cellpowered vehicle system that includes a hydrogen tank, electric engine, fuel cells and battery. Both companies are also cooperating on the development PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY of technologies for producing lightweight bodies. 2.1 Our management approach FORECAST 2.2 Efficient mobility 2.3 Product safety We will continue to offer innovative solutions for the diverse FULLY ELECTRIFIED DRIVING PLEASURE — The BMW C Evolution Scooter. mobility needs of our customers. We are deliberately focus2.4  esource efficiency and R recycling management ing our efforts on building a broad technology base so that in the coming years we can offer tailored solutions worldwide 2.5 Future mobility Getting around town on electric scooters for wide-ranging individual mobility needs. 2.6 Customer satisfaction We plan to launch our electric scooter in 2014. The fully electric-powered scooter will have 48 hp and a In 2014, the BMW Group will introduce the BMW i3 in many range of 100 kilometres1. It has been designed as the additional markets. The US market in particular promises first commuting vehicle expressly for travel between great potential for electromobility. 2014 will also see the the outskirts and the city centre. The main focus here market launch of the BMW i8 and the electric scooter is on two requirements: performance comparable to BMW C Evolution. With the electric scooter, the BMW Group that of a combustion-powered maxi-scooter and a is expanding its electromobility product portfolio to the field high range in practice. of two-wheeled vehicles. EMISSIONS-FREE DRIVING WITH HYDROGEN AND We will also expand our range of vehicles that meet the FUEL CELLS Euro 6 standard. Besides developing electric drivetrains using lithium-ion batteries, the BMW Group is also doing research into hydrogen and fuel cells as a further solution for local emissions-free driving with a Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page 1 Consumption: 0,0 l/100 km; CO2 emissions: 0 g/km. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Efficient mobility 48 2 .2 AWARD-WINNING SOLUTIONS FOR SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY We have received several awards for our technological solutions for sustainable mobility, including: – FYEAR ROST & SULLIVAN GLOBAL COMPANY OF THE AWARD: – 1st THE SUNDAY TIMES TOP 100 CAR LIST: place for the BMW i3 in the category “Electric and 1st place for the BMW Group in the category “New Mobility Hybrid Car” Products and Services” – 1stSCHWEIZER ILLUSTRIERTE SWISS CAR OF THE YEAR: – A1stUTOplaceBILDfor the DESIGN AWARD 2013: BMW i8 Spyder in the category “Studies and place for the BMW i3 in the category “The Greenest Car in Switzerland” Concept Cars” PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY – UHUMANITARIAN NITED NATIONS ASSOCIATION OF NEW YORK 2.1 Our management approach – ALENKRAD UTO BILD / BILD AM SONNTAG GOLDENES / GRÜNES (GOLDEN/GREEN STEERING WHEEL): AWARD 2013: Award for the BMW Group for innovations in the field of 1st place for the BMW i3 sustainable mobility 2.2 Efficient mobility 2.3 Product safety – A1stUTOplaceBILDfor the KLASSIK READERS’ CHOICE 2013: BMW i3 in the category “Future Classics” – 1st WHAT CAR? GREEN CAR OF THE YEAR: place for the BMW i3 2.4 R  esource efficiency and recycling management – A1stUTOplaceZEITUNG AUTO TROPHY 2013: for the BMW i3 in the category “Electric Cars” 2.5 Future mobility 2.6 Customer satisfaction – A1stUTOMOBILE MAGAZINE 2013 DESIGN OF THE YEAR: place for the BMW i8 – CEXCELLENCE OMMUNICATION DIRECTOR MAGAZINE EUROPEAN AWARD: 1st place for the BMW Group in the category “Automotive and Transport” for the multi-stakeholder approach in the communication for BMW i – EAward NERGY SAVING TRUST FLEET HERO AWARD 2013: for the design and production of the BMW i3 in the category “Car and Van Manufacturing” – L1st’ARGUS DE L’AUTOMOBILE: place for the BMW i3 in the category “Green Cars” Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Efficient mobility 49 3 2 .3 Product safety Avoiding accidents through driver assistance systems A central measure for promoting safety is the implementation of driver assistance systems, which are now being increasingly integrated into our model ranges. They help make driving safer by identifying critical traffic situations in order to warn the driver and make sure they are handled safely. One example is the pedestrian warning system, which is already available in our BMW i3. Another example is the traffic jam assistant: in long and monotonous driving situations, for example in traffic congestion, the vehicle PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY As a provider of premium products and premium serhelps keep the car longitudinally and laterally posivices for individual mobility, we regard the safety of tioned in the lane, easing the strain on the driver. 2.1 Our management approach our customers and other road users as fundamental to In the medium term, these new driving features will our sense of product responsibility. We take an inteeven be able to assist the driver at higher speeds. For 2.2 Efficient mobility grated approach to mastering this challenge, which this purpose, we are developing technologies that go 2.3 Product safety encompasses not only passive and active safety, but beyond today’s state of the art in detecting the suralso aspects such as product labelling, safety training, rounding traffic situation. 2.4 R  esource efficiency and recycling management the avoidance of potentially critical materials as well as minimising emissions in the vehicle interior. By Intelligent emergency call system saves ­ 2.5 Future mobility addressing all these areas, we try to avoid risks for valuable time 2.6 Customer satisfaction road users and any adverse health consequences in Another example is the Advanced Emergency Call the event of an accident. system that forms part of our Connected Drive package. If an intelligent emergency call is triggered by a collision, this feature delivers not only exact For more than 30 years, we have been carrying out position data, but also information with which the systematic research into the causes of accidents and vehicle can be identified and the likelihood of severe developing technologies and strategies to improve injury predicted. This saves valuable time that can the safety of all road users. We take an integrated in extreme cases even make the difference between approach to this task, which means we analyse the life and death. The Advanced Emergency Call is a entire process chain, from accident prevention to forward-looking safety feature with functionality that post-crash applications. Based on these analyses, we already exceeds today the EU regulations under distry to prevent accidents from happening in the first cussion for a mandatory and simply designed emerplace through active safety measures, and to mitigate gency call system from 2015. their consequences through passive safety features. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Product safety 50 2 .3 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY A LIFE SAVER — Intelligent Emergency Call by BMW ConnectedDrive. SAFETY FIRST ON 2 WHEEELS — BMW Motorrad Sicherheit 360°. 2.1 Our management approach Actively communicating safety the right moment. Pyrotechnically activated seatbelt 2.2 Efficient mobility BMW Group products are developed and manufacpretensioners and seatbelt force limiters further mini2.3 Product safety tured in strict compliance with quality management mise risk of injury. systems. The BMW Group monitors its products on 2.4 R  esource efficiency and recycling management the market and examines all feedback on the topic PREVENTING ACCIDENTS THROUGH ACTIVE SAFETY of safety. If necessary, the responsible authorities are SYSTEMS 2.5 Future mobility informed and all measures that serve customer safety 2.6 Customer satisfaction are initiated. The BMW Group has established the Active safety includes perfect chassis coordination, relevant committees, processes and organisations for optimal traction and effective brakes. Electronic chasthis purpose. sis control systems such as Dynamic Stability Control (DSC) and Electronic Damper Control (EDC) likewise PASSIVE SAFETY SYSTEMS SAVE LIVES contribute to preventing accidents. These are joined by driver assistance systems. Automatic warning and Energy-absorbing crumple zones, safe passenger braking systems are already available as options for cells, restraint systems, airbags and a host of other the BMW i3, the BMW 1 Series, BMW 3 Series, BMW 5 passive safety features protect the lives and health of Series, BMW 6 Series, BMW 7 Series, the BMW X5 drivers on a day-to-day basis. and the new MINI. In order to afford drivers and passengers the greatest SETTING SAFETY STANDARDS WITH BMW MOTORRAD possible protection in the event of a collision, various safety elements work hand in hand. A networked BMW Motorrad is the only manufacturer today to system of highly sensitive sensors enables airbags to offer a comprehensive safety concept. Safety 360º is deploy in the appropriate situation and at precisely based on an ideal meshing of three facets: innovative Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Product safety 51 2 .3 safety technologies in the vehicle itself; safety derived from high-quality, functional rider equipment; and safety derived from rider training for every level and every terrain. These three areas cover the full spectrum of active and passive safety. As a safety pioneer, BMW Motorrad is consistently refining this concept. Since the model year 2013, all BMW motorcycle models are equipped with ABS as a standard component. BMW Motorrad is thus defining the security stand­ ards worldwide for all motorcycle manufacturers and legislators. According to EU law, all newly registered PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY motorcycles must be equipped with ABS from 2016. TRAINING FOR SAFETY — BMW Driving Experience. 2.1 Our management approach GUARANTEEING PRODUCT AND SERVICE INFORMATION FOR CUSTOMERS Technical assessment during the release process 2.2 Efficient mobility ensures that product and service information 2.3 Product safety The BMW Group is obliged by the applicable legal for customers (manuals in particular) meets all regulations to inform customers about risks, hazards requirements. 2.4  esource efficiency and R recycling management and the proper use of its products and services. In the European Union, for example, we report on the DRIVER SAFETY TRAINING 2.5 Future mobility fuel economy of our vehicles based on the NEDC 2.6 Customer satisfaction (New European Driving Cycle). Fuel consumption The BMW Group also contributes to protecting road and CO2 emissions for each vehicle model are also users through driver safety training. Today we offer reported on the websites of the individual brands. some 50 different training courses in 26 countries worldwide on BMW and MINI cars and BMW motorInformation on vehicle safety and protecting cuscycles. BMW is the first manufacturer of premium tomer health can be found in the respective manuals automobiles to offer, with the BMW i3 eDrive Experior in notes inside the vehicle (e.g. rescue card) as well ence, a training experience with an electric vehicle. as on our manufacturer websites. Additional backHere, the special product features are combined ground information on service, accessories, parts and with extensive driver safety training. In 2013, more BMW ConnectedDrive is likewise available online. than 22,000 participants in driving safety courses learned how to identify critical driving situations and respond properly, and how to avoid such situations in the first place if possible. Over the next few years, these driving safety training modules will be made available on a professional level as Driving Experience courses in further markets in accordance with Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Product safety 52 2 .3 our internationalisation strategy, so that more participants can benefit from them. OUTSTANDING VEHICLE SAFETY We have received numerous awards for the safety of our The BMW Group also provided police units with vehicles, including: 61 vehicles in 2013 for their own driver training. This promotes safety in police operations. Additional vehicles are delivered to fire departments and the Fire – BMW X3 – IIHS TOP Safety Pick Fighters’ Association so that they can learn rescue – BAward MW i3 – Euro NCAP 4 stars and Euro NCAP Advanced techniques using modern cars. USING SAFE MATERIALS – 5BMW 3 Series China Long Wheelbase – China NCAP stars and 2013 China Annual Top Safety Car, China’s premier vehicle safety award PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY For each phase of the vehicle life cycle (from devel2.1 Our management approach opment, to use, to disposal) our specialist departments ensure compliance with the worldwide legal – BMW 5 Series – Korea NCAP 5 stars requirements for product safety and human health. 2.2 Efficient mobility In the early development phase, an interdisciplinary 2.3 Product safety working group on “Materials” evaluates the potenindustry. In the IMDS system, material data tial materials to be used in a product to determine sheets (MDS) are transmitted along the value chain 2.4 R  esource efficiency and recycling management their risk potential and eliminate any problematic from raw material suppliers to the auto­motive candidates. The working group can then intervene in ­manufacturer (OEM) and checked and released by 2.5 Future mobility the selection and development process as well as in each recipient. After careful examination of the 2.6 Customer satisfaction BMW’s production as needed. This means that new data, the BMW Group then enters the approved legal requirements such as the EU chemicals regulaIMDS data sheets into our own MDS system. In tion REACH can be reliably integrated into product this system, material data sheets for in-house parts development. are also created. This BMW Group material data sheet system assists the company for instance in Qualifying the materials used the ­fulfilment of legal requirements such as the We test all current and future products according to bans on certain ­materials outlined in the EU End the exacting standards of the BMW Group. As well as of Life Vehicle Directive. series parts, all auxiliary production substances and process materials such as paint and adhesives also Furthermore, as part of BMW’s production proundergo rigorous qualification processes. cesses, all chemical substances that are used by the BMW Group are documented. They are first The material composition of components is docuinspected to ensure their safety and then released mented in material data sheets. The International for a specific application through the central Material Data Sheet system (IMDS) is the central recording system for environmentally relevant subdata structure used by the global auto­motive stances (ZEUS). The system also provides detailed Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Product safety 53 2 .3 s­ pecifications and tips on handling these products as Several research prototypes equipped with technology well as on first aid, storage and transport. that is close to reaching series maturity are already able to function on the motorway with a high degree of automation AVOIDING EMISSIONS INSIDE THE VEHICLE including switching from one motorway to another at motorway intersections. Our research vehicles slow down, speed Emissions inside BMW vehicles have been signifiup and pass independently – always taking into account the cantly reduced since the 1990s. This was accomrespective traffic situation and observing all traffic laws. plished through a plan drafted by independent experts setting target levels for interior emissions and Such vehicles have already covered some 10,000 test kiloits implementation in new material concepts. metres. We are working closely with the relevant authorities to design the legal framework for the highly automated drivBy complying with our internal guidelines for the ing features of the future. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY development of new vehicles, our vehicles have lower levels of interior emissions than those legally defined 2.1 Our management approach anywhere in the world. 2.2 Efficient mobility 2.3 Product safety FORECAST 2.4 R  esource efficiency and recycling management In the coming years, we want to further strengthen both active and passive safety features. We will focus here on the 2.5 Future mobility consistent roll-out of warning and emergency braking sys2.6 Customer satisfaction tems in all vehicle segments. In 2014 and 2015, we will continue to integrate Active Protection features and AEB (Autonomous Emergency Braking) systems into further models. This also includes the pedestrian warning system, which will be available for all BMW Group vehicles. Furthermore, with our vision of highly automated driving, we are already building the technological and methodological expertise that will allow us one day to offer a number of cutting-edge driver assistance systems, bringing us one step closer to accident-free mobility. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Product safety 54 4 2 .4 Resource efficiency and are helping us to protect resources and make more efficient use of raw materials. recycling management New drivetrain concepts, new challenges The successive introduction of new forms of drivetrain and the modified vehicle concepts that result are presenting new challenges in the use of resources. One example is the increased application of components made of innovative, lightweight ­carbon-fibre-reinforced plastic (CFRP), which is used for the passenger compartments of the BMW i3 and BMW i8. When talking about the reuse of carbon fibres PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Intelligent design and the use of secondary and from manufacturing waste, we have to distinguish renewable raw materials enable us to reduce our between pure carbon fibres and fibres with a resin 2.1 Our management approach consumption of valuable resources. By optimising matrix. All fibres without a resin component can be our recycling structures, we are preparing now for reused directly as a raw material. Plastic-reinforced 2.2 Efficient mobility increasing volumes of electric vehicles in the future. parts are first separated from the resin using an 2.3 Product safety established method (for example pyrolysis) and then processed further. 2.4  esource efficiency and R recycling management In the initial development and architecture phase, we already design our vehicles and processes with a view USING RAW MATERIALS AND RESOURCES 2.5 Future mobility to minimising the use of valuable resources. By proINTELLIGENTLY 2.6 Customer satisfaction cessing manufacturing waste, we gain secondary raw materials while protecting the environment. We also For us, dealing intelligently with raw materials and save resources through the targeted use of renewable resources begins long before the time comes to disraw materials. We can draw on established systems pose of them. for the recycling of end-of-life vehicles, components and materials. Making recycling part of the process from the outset Initially implemented on the German and European Even in the early stages of vehicle development, the markets, the BMW Group’s recycling systems are decisions our designers and engineers make, includgradually being rolled out internationally and have ing the selection of materials and components, will already been established in some 30 different coundetermine the reusability of our vehicles decades into tries. European dealers are contractually obligated to the future. In line with our principle of Design for meet BMW retail standards for old-parts recycling. Recycling, we create our vehicles in such a way that These standards, along with our global network for their components can largely be reused or recycled returning used components, for example old catalytic efficiently once the vehicle reaches the end of its life converters and in the future thermoelectric generators, cycle. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Resource efficiency and recycling management 55 2 .4 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY WASTE SEPARATION — Recycling at the BMW plant in Spartanburg. INNOVATIVE MATERIALS — Interior of the BMW i3. 2.1 Our management approach At the same time, our BMW Group Recycling and In 2015, the legally required recycling rate for end-of2.2 Efficient mobility Dismantling Centre (RDZ) near Munich (another life vehicles, components and materials will be raised 2.3 Product safety one is scheduled to become operational in Shenyang, to 85% reuse and recycling of materials and 95% overChina in 2016) is working continuously to come up all recovery. We began to prepare for these require2.4  esource efficiency and R recycling management with new solutions for vehicle recycling. The RDZ ments at an early stage, so that all vehicles marketed is currently trialling recycling concepts for the new by the BMW Group since 2008 already meet the 2.5 Future mobility vehicle components found in hybrid and electric requirements set for 2015. 2.6 Customer satisfaction models. Batteries from vehicles of this kind can either be passed on to existing networks of recycling busiUSING SECONDARY AND RENEWABLE RAW MATERIALS nesses or used, for example, to produce photovoltaic systems. Secondary raw materials are finding more and more applications in our vehicles. Up to 20% of the therEnd-of-life vehicle recovery and recycling moplastic materials in our automobiles are already In the early 1990s – long before the legal regulations made from recyclates. One example is the substrate were established – the BMW Group began to build used for the centre console and the door armrest. By an extensive network in the European Union for the using recyclates in our vehicles we reduce the need recovery and recycling of end-of-life vehicles (ELV). for mineral oil to manufacture plastic components Each ELV returned to the BMW Group in this netwhile contributing to saving energy and to resource work is recycled at no charge to the last owner. In efficiency. Europe, the BMW Group has contracts with some 2,500 vehicle recyclers. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Resource efficiency and recycling management 56 2 .4 F.08 Ratio of plastic recyclates in vehicles1 FORECAST in % 25 In the coming years, we want to further improve our resource 20 efficiency and increasingly close our material cycles. An 15 example: due to a new air purification system used in our 10 paint shops, pulverised limestone results as a by-product. 5 Currently, various methods are being researched worldwide for reusing this pulverised limestone in cement factories or 11 12 13 coal-fired power plants. 15 15 20 We are also looking into innovative solutions for the reuse of old batteries from electric cars. The aim is to extend the life 1 R  ecyclate share in thermoplastic materials. The vehicle with the highest share of recyclates PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY is shown. cycle of lithium-ion batteries developed specifically for use in the BMW i3 as far as possible. To this end, we are develop2.1 Our management approach ing various concepts for potential reuse. Used batteries can, Wherever it makes technical, business and environfor example, serve as stationary power storage, thus optimis2.2 Efficient mobility mental sense and is socially acceptable, we replace ing the use of renewable energy sources as well as providing 2.3 Product safety artificial materials with natural, renewable materials. reliable power supply to buildings. In addition to leather for the interior and biopoly2.4  esource efficiency and R recycling management mers for technical features, the focus here is on alternative materials with natural fibres as a substitute for 2.5 Future mobility classic plastics. Examples are wool upholstery, cot2.6 Customer satisfaction ton in sound insulation panels, flax and sisal fibres in substrates for door panels and parcel shelves, or wood fibres in seat back panels. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Resource efficiency and recycling management 57 2 .5 Future ­mobility PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY We want to shape tomorrow’s mobility. To do this, THE FUTURE OF MOBILITY — Mobility services by the BMW Group. we are developing visionary vehicles and mobility 2.1 Our management approach services under the BMW i brand. BMW i represents a new premium standard defined chiefly in terms of in the future. The institute is guided by a Board of 2.2 Efficient mobility sustainability. Trustees whose members include, along with the 2.3 Product safety BMW Group, high-ranking representatives from the German railway company Deutsche Bahn AG, Deut2.4 R  esource efficiency and recycling management The BMW Group today faces the challenge of how sche Lufthansa AG, MAN AG, Siemens AG and the to anticipate changing mobility needs early on and World Bank, as well as scientists from various discip­ 2.5 Future mobility meet them successfully. The central questions are: lines. The institute’s research findings are incorpor­ 2.6 Customer satisfaction What is the future of individual mobility in cities with ated into the strategy process of the BMW Group. increasingly dense populations? What concepts are needed in order to make mobility climate-friendly DEVELOPING AND IMPLEMENTING SUSTAINABLE and easy on resources? ­MOBILITY SERVICES The BMW Group aims to make the entire value chain Convenient electromobility through BMW i 360° of future mobility as sustainable as possible. EnvironELECTRIC mental sustainability is a focus here, along with social One example of our holistic approach to electromobilimpact and economic viability. ity is our 360º ELECTRIC product and service package. It includes recharging both at home with the BMW i Our traffic researchers and engineers are hard at wallbox and on the go at ChargeNow public charging work on new solutions for the mobility of tomorrow. points. 360º ELECTRIC also includes Assistance SerFor example, since 1998, the Institute for Mobility vices with Connected Drive services designed specifiResearch (ifmo), a research organisation that is part cally for electromobility as well as further service and of the BMW Group, has been studying the mobility repair offers. In addition, BMW Add-on Mobility gives challenges various means of transport will be facing customers access to conventional BMW vehicles for Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Future ­mobility 58 2 .5 long-distance travel as well as the car-sharing service DriveNow. 360º ELECTRIC thus provides easy and convenient electromobility in virtually any situation. Mobility services in step with the times BMW i stands not only for innovative electric and hybrid vehicles, but also for a more extensive sustainable mobility concept. Vehicles and mobility services are intelligently linked to promote urban mobility with and without cars. BMW i offers the following mobility services: MORE THAN 220.000 SUBSCRIBERS — Car sharing with DriveNow. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Premium car sharing with DriveNow In 2011, the BMW Group and Sixt AG launched the 2.1 Our management approach car-sharing service DriveNow. It is the first car-sharing concept to build exclusively on efficient premium 2.2 Efficient mobility automobiles and comprehensive service. Cars can 2.3 Product safety be picked up and left wherever the customer wishes within certain city limits. So far, the offer is available 2.4  esource efficiency and R recycling management in Munich, Berlin, Düsseldorf, Cologne, Hamburg and San Francisco. As of the end of January 2014, 2.5 Future mobility there were around 220,000 registered members, more 2.6 Customer satisfaction than twice as many since December 2012. We are increasingly combining our car-sharing offers with our electric drivetrain solutions. Since June LOW-COST MOBILITY — Corporate Car Sharing mit AlphaCity. 2012, 72 electrically powered BMW ActiveE cars have been available to members in San Francisco. In the second quarter of 2013, a total of 60 BMW ActiveE cars Car sharing for corporate customers: saving on joined the DriveNow fleets in Munich and Berlin. costs with AlphaCity With a powerful electric engine, an aerodynamic With the innovative car-sharing product AlphaCity, body and modern lithium-ion battery technology, companies can offer their employees an efficient the BMW ActiveE stands for visionary, zero-emissions alternative to taxis, rental cars or public transport, mobility. for either business or private use. While DriveNow is specifically aimed at private customers, AlphaCity is an ideal solution for businesses and their employees. With extensive use, the system offers significant savings potential on the total cost of ownership. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Future ­mobility 59 2 .5 AlphaCity is currently available to customers in several modes of transport). BMW i Ventures belongs seven countries: Germany, France, the Netherlands, to the sub-brand BMW i. England, Denmark, Belgium and Spain. Linking parking spaces with drivers with Locating and paying at ChargeNow charging points ParkatmyHouse ChargeNow, a mobility service of BMW i 360º ELECThe web portal ParkatmyHouse.com (PAMH) is an TRIC, is the largest network of public charging infrainnovative online marketplace designed to link availstructure suppliers. Drivers can locate ChargeNow able private parking spaces with drivers in search of charging points via the BMW i ConnectedDrive parking. The marketplace is a strategic investment by services in the navigation unit, using a smartphone our venture capital company BMW i Ventures. After or on the website. Thus, locating and using public getting off the ground in London, the service has charging points couldn’t be easier. Payment can be now spread throughout the UK and has more than PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY made cash-free simply by using the ChargeNow card. 440,000 registered drivers as well as parking spaces Once a month, the customer receives a detailed overat over 94,400 locations. 2.1 Our management approach view of the charging transactions and the associated costs. Finding your way in the city with MyCityWay 2.2 Efficient mobility MyCityWay is a free app for smartphones. It sup2.3 Product safety Find a parking space using ParkNow plies traffic information in real time for 70 cities Drivers in the greater San Francisco area can use our worldwide and identifies shops, restaurants and 2.4 R  esource efficiency and recycling management ParkNow service to locate unoccupied parking spaces ATM cash machines in the user’s direct vicinity. in multi-storey car parks, saving not only time but MyCityWay is an example of how we are offering 2.5 Future mobility also fuel and doing both their finances and the envipremium services under the BMW i sub-brand that 2.6 Customer satisfaction ronment a favour. The service also provides useful simplify customers’ lives and give them access to tips such as where to find a car wash or the availreal day-to-day benefits regardless of whether or not ability of bicycles for hire in the respective ParkNow a car is involved. locations. Life360 brings family members together With the BMW i3, ParkNow LongTerm is also being Life360 is an innovative smartphone app that conintroduced to help customers rent a long-term nects families across the city. With the help of loca­parking space that is equipped with a charging tion-based technology and the so-called check-in station. feature, users can see on a map where various family members happen to be at a certain time. Investing in mobility services through BMW i Ventures Other features are direct contact via chat and navi­ BMW i Ventures makes high-potential investments gation to wherever the other family members are in mobility services. We look for long-term strategic located. There’s also an emergency button for rapid partnerships in the areas of e-mobility, navigation, on-site assistance in case of emergency. The partnerparking, car sharing and intermodality (mobility with ship between Life360 and BMW opens up new Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Future ­mobility 60 2 .5 possibilities for innovative, location-based and integrated mobility services. It supports and enriches the way families live in and experience a city. So far, 21 million families have registered. Investments in charging infrastructure: ChargePoint and Chargemaster BMW i Ventures has also made investments in ChargePoint and Chargemaster. ChargePoint is a US company with the world’s largest network of charging points for electric vehicles. Chargemaster is the largest infrastructure provider for the recharging of elecPRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY tric vehicles in the UK, and is also available in other European countries, and is growing. AHEAD OF THE GAME — Developing mobility solutions for tomorrow. 2.1 Our management approach Both providers are partners of the BMW i Charge2.2 Efficient mobility Now network. routing, but also pedestrian ­routes and other mobility 2.3 Product safety services such as bicycle and car sharing. RESEARCHING AND REALISING MOBILITY SOLUTIONS 2.4  esource efficiency and R recycling management PROJECT VISION MOBILITÄT 2050: REGION MÜNCHEN Our efforts in the field of mobility research already 2.5 Future mobility took a step forward in 1995 with the founding of In the project Vision Mobilität 2050: Region 2.6 Customer satisfaction the Inzell Initiative. Within this platform, the city of München (Vision Mobility 2050: Munich Region), the Munich and the BMW Group are working in close participants in the Inzell Initiative are attempting to cooperation with other stakeholders to search for develop a road map for traffic in the Munich region. new and intelligent solutions for improving the traffic Similarly promising is the project Modellquartier situation in the greater Munich area. Innovative new (Model Quarter), an offshoot of Vision Mobility mobility concepts and traffic systems are playing an 2050: Munich Region that aims to develop a model important role in paving the way to the future. urban district focusing on sustainable and seamless mobility. One successful result of this partnership is the Intermodal Route Planner pilot project. The goal here is to develop an integrated mobility service enabling simple, convenient door-to-door trip planning using multiple modes of transport. The route planner is available to customers with BMW i ConnectedDrive and the BMW i navigation. For the future, the goal is to integrate not only cars and public transport in the Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Future ­mobility 61 2 .5 WIMOBIL The focus is on the systematic planning and development of a city’s overall charging infrastructure as well In 2012, we also launched the research project as the analysis of direct empirical data on the oper­WiMobil. Here, the BMW Group is investigating the ation, use and care of e-vehicles in daily private use. impact of e-car-sharing systems on mobility and the Also planned is the development of a city-friendly, environment in urban areas. Funded by the Federal efficient e-car-sharing system as well as analysis of Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation the suitability of electric taxis for everyday use. and Nuclear Safety (BMU), the project is scheduled to run for three years. Project partners are the The research undertaking is a joint project involving BMW Group and DB Rent GmbH with its Flinkster Munich, the BMW Group, the BMW i car-sharing car-sharing system. Also participating are the cities programme DriveNow, Audi AG, the F ­ orschungsstelle of Berlin and Munich as well as the Universität der für Energiewirtschaft e.V., GE Global Research, the PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Bundeswehr in Munich and the Institute of Transport IsarFunk ­Taxizentrale GmbH & Co. KG, the StädResearch at the Deutsches Zentrum für Luftund tisches Klinikum M ­ ünchen GmbH and the Universi2.1 Our management approach Raumfahrt e.V. Since the second quarter of 2013, tät der Bundeswehr. user surveys, mobility tracking and backend data 2.2 Efficient mobility recording conducted as part of the research project MOBILITY ACROSS ALL END-DEVICES 2.3 Product safety have been providing insights on how e-car-sharing is used and by what target groups, which regions As part of the MINI E Berlin powered by Vattenfall 2.4 R  esource efficiency and recycling management demonstrate a demand for this service, what the project, the BMW Group was able to gain new environmental impact of the systems and charging insights between 2009 and 2012 with an intermodal 2.5 Future mobility infrastructure might be, and which development mobility assistant tested as an iPhone app. The app 2.6 Customer satisfaction scenarios result for e-car-sharing systems. is currently being further enhanced as part of the Inzell Initiative. Its purpose is to provide people with ELECTROMOBILITY FOR FUTURE CITY PLANNING intermodal route information via a range of different media, both for planning their journeys in advance As part of the Schaufenster Elektromobilität (Bayern and for finding answers to questions while they are – Sachsen: Elektromobilität verbindet / Electromoon the move. Work is under way to enable the seambility Showcase Bavaria – Saxony: Electromobility less transitions needed between PCs, mobile-deviceConnects), we launched the research project ePlan in based Web services and in-car navigation systems in 2013. In this project, the BMW Group explores the order for the system to function. impact of electric vehicles on future urban development, infrastructure and city transport planning. The goal is to develop an innovative planning tool, the Electrical Infrastructure Masterplan LHM, for the city of Munich. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Future ­mobility 62 2 .5 BMW ActiveE USER STUDY WITH LONG-DISTANCE RESEARCH FOCUS ON MOBILITY CULTURES IN THE COMMUTERS WORLD’S MEGACITIES Since the first quarter of 2013, the BMW Group, The research focus Mobility Cultures in the World’s together with the Technical University of Chemnitz Megacities is being extended further at the Institute and the Leipzig public utilities, has been conductfor Mobility Research (ifmo). A new project is proing a user study of long-­distance commuters in the viding insights into changes in mobility patterns in greater Leipzig area to determine the benefits of the modern cities such as New York or Paris. Will New BMW ­ActiveE. It examines the viability of an electrically York City one day become a city of bicycles? Is Paris powered vehicle in ranges of 40 to 100 kilometres the city of sharing (cars, cycles, etc.)? Where is Berper day. In a total of five phases until 2014, 15 prilin currently setting trends? The project sets out to vate users in each phase will use a BMW ­ActiveE over a answer these and similar questions and to determine PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY period of 12 weeks. their implications for future urban mobility products and services. 2.1 Our management approach MAKING OPTIMAL USE OF WIND ENERGY SCENARIOS FOR THE FUTURE OF MOBILITY 2.2 Efficient mobility The Controlled Charging V2.0 project is a further 2.3 Product safety enhancement of the charging concept developed The tradition established by the ifmo in 2001 of draftwithin the framework of the project MINI E Berlin ing future scenarios of various means of transporting 2.4  esource efficiency and R recycling management powered by Vattenfall for the purpose of a functional people and goods in Germany was subsequently demonstration. The goal is to improve the charging of extended to the USA and China. Currently, the Ger2.5 Future mobility electric vehicles using wind energy, considering the man scenarios are being updated for the year 2035. 2.6 Customer satisfaction limited temporal and local availability of this renewable energy source. Charging should be confined The present study attempts to project central develhere as much as possible to the timeframe during opments in the influential areas of demographics, which wind power availability is high while the grid economy, transport policy, technology and energy load is low. into the future and assess their impact on tomorrow’s mobility. Independent external experts from DESIGNING THE ELECTRIC CAR OF THE FUTURE the fields of science, business and public administration are contributing to the study. For the first time, In the collaborative project Visio.M, scientists at the attitudes toward mobility are being considered as a Technical University of Munich have been working separate influence factor, because people’s attitudes since April 2012 with experienced automobile engin­ have a major impact on how mobility will develop eers on concepts for electric cars that are not only going forward. The parameters considered include efficient and safe, but also inexpensive to manuspecific attitudes towards the various modes of transfacture. BMW AG is at the head of the consortium. port as well as awareness of environmental issues Supported by the Federal Ministry of Education and the willingness to use information and commuand Research, the project has a total volume of nication technologies. The ifmo scenarios are still a Previous Next Contents Home €10.8 million. chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Future ­mobility 63 2 .5 unique product in the field of international mobility USING INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION research. ­TECHNOLOGIES TO IMPROVE EVERYDAY MOBILITY SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY PROJECT In a further project, the Institute for Mobility Research is examining how information and commuThe BMW Group is participating in the three-year nication technologies are changing everyday mobilSustainable Mobility Project II initiated by the World ity. The main questions include: When we use social Business Council for Sustainable Development media daily, do we spend more or less time on the (WBCSD). Transport and mobility issues are near go? Which modes of transport benefit? What does the top on the agenda these days in many cities and this mean for future mobility products and services? regions. The aim everywhere is to enhance mobility while simultaneously mitigating any negative PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY effects. The WBCSD project brings together a global, FORECAST cross-industry group of mobility-related companies 2.1 Our management approach that are interested in working together with selected Online applications and networking opportunities could very city administrations to promote sustainable urban well bring about further changes in future urban mobility. Our 2.2 Efficient mobility mobility. The goal is to collaborate with the cities goal is to be an engine for mobility research, to identify new 2.3 Product safety on road maps for expanding access to safe, reliable, trends at an early stage and to translate the most promising convenient and intermodal mobility – without losing research findings into practical applications. 2.4 R  esource efficiency and recycling management sight of issues such as affordability, traffic safety and minimal environmental impact. New concepts are In the coming years, we intend to further expand our 2.5 Future mobility to be drafted to facilitate the mobility of people and car-sharing service both nationally and internationally, 2.6 Customer satisfaction the transfer of goods and hence contribute to a prosincreasingly integrating electric cars. At the same time, we perous and modern society. In the year under report, will study the impact of car-sharing and e-car-sharing systhe BMW Group took charge of the “City Clustering” tems on mobility and the environment in urban areas. workstream, which classifies cities according to rele­ vant mobility-related criteria. The typology helps to identify cities with similar mobility challenges in order to be able to scale the proposed solutions. In 2014, the BMW Group will be involved chiefly in the urban projects in Hamburg, Chengdu and Indore. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Future ­mobility 64 6 2 .6 Customer satisfaction surveys, as well as the progress of central projects to improve customer satisfaction. In 2011, we launched the Group-wide initiative CustomerFirst in order to enhance our focus on the customer in all areas of the company. The activities of the initiative aim at ensuring the sustained success of the BMW Group by aligning all processes and decisions for the benefit of the customer. We intend to achieve the highest possible customer satisfaction with our products, services and support, both at the time of purchase as well as during use. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY The BMW Group’s Strategy Number ONE puts customers at the focus of all we do. Their satisfaction In 2013, the BMW Group continued to take its usual 2.1 Our management approach with our products and services is a key prerequisite voluntary prompt and consistent action in case of for our success, both today and in the future. defects. Wherever it was required or useful to the cus2.2 Efficient mobility tomer, vehicles were recalled and defects eliminated 2.3 Product safety well before any symptoms became obvious to their By means of studies, customer interviews and analyowners. 2.4  esource efficiency and R recycling management sis of customer feedback we constantly explore how our products and services are perceived and what IMPROVING RETAIL PERFORMANCE 2.5 Future mobility customers think we could do even better. Our stra­ 2.6 Customer satisfaction tegic goal is to be top in the relevant market segment Transparent customer feedback in terms of customer satisfaction, based on our vehiIn 2010, we set about achieving transparency by cle concepts and reliability as well as the sales and enabling customers in a few key markets to see how support experience we offer. We track our success in other clients had rated our BMW and MINI dealerthis area through benchmark studies. ships. This approach was applied in all European markets in 2011 and has also been introduced in Achieving a high degree of customer satisfaction is further markets. largely the responsibility of our international subsidiaries, in cooperation with decision-makers at The basis is formed by the constant use of customer corporate headquarters. Since 2010, the largest marsatisfaction surveys. These are conducted by phone, kets (such as the USA, China and Germany) have in writing and online. The results are evaluated using reported every six months to a specially assembled a 5-star rating system (5 stars = excellent, 1 star = committee, including the involvement of the Board of disappointed) and are published on the respective Management, which deals exclusively with customer dealer’s website along with brief customer comments. satisfaction. They report on factors such as the key This level of transparency reflects the customer orienindicators from our ongoing customer satisfaction tation strategy of the BMW Group and gives us and Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Customer satisfaction 65 2 .6 our dealers added motivation to continue to improve applicable principles and ethical guidelines. The customer focus in the future. BMW Group constantly reviews its standards and rules of conduct with regard to advertising. Experiencing sustainability in sales and services We want BMW Group customers to be able to tanThe BMW Group does not sell any products whose gibly experience our philosophy of sustainability. sale is prohibited in specific markets. We provide our Selected sales facilities have therefore been concustomers with all the information necessary for a structed as environmentally friendly buildings with prudent and deliberate decision. Essential informalow energy consumption, high energy efficiency as tion is neither concealed nor presented in a misleadwell as natural light and air conditioning, thus bringing manner. ing our sustainable approach to life. Our principles also include incorporating sustainPRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY We have also ensured that green building requireability as a theme in advertising. This is done both ments are being met for new builds by integrating by means of stand-alone campaigns (e.g. campaigns 2.1 Our management approach them into the Europe-wide retail standards for our advertising the Efficient Dynamics models or the CO2 retail partners see Chapter 3.2. In addition, sustainFinder on our website) as well as through continuous 2.2 Efficient mobility ability has become an integral part of sales training vehicle-integrated communication. 2.3 Product safety courses. Our goal is for the sales staff at our dealerships to be so well-informed that they are able to The marketing specialists in each country are respon2.4  esource efficiency and R recycling management answer any questions customers may have on the sible for implementing our advertising activities BMW Group’s sustainability efforts. there. The BMW Group is not aware of having vio2.5 Future mobility lated any regulations pertaining to advertising during 2.6 Customer satisfaction Sustainability is therefore also a category in BMW’s the reporting period. Excellence in Sales Award, the international BMW Group dealer competition that honours outENSURING COMPREHENSIVE DATA PROTECTION standing achievements in sales. The BMW Group meets all data protection requireETHICALLY CORRECT ADVERTISING ments when handling personal data from its customers, prospects, employees and business partners. In our advertising we take care that we comply with all legal requirements and don’t discriminate. The We have established a Group-wide committee to BMW Group develops central advertising campaigns ensure a uniform level of data privacy worldwide. for its brands. The campaigns are adapted by the Personal data is only collected, processed or used if respective country markets to the local/national this is legally permissible, or with the consent of the circumstances and requirements, which in turn corinterested party. The corresponding processes regurespond to the country-specific guidelines. By way larly review corporate data protection and its inter­ of internal committees and its own standards, the national network. BMW Group ensures that advertising complies with Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Customer satisfaction 66 2 .6 If customers or prospects lodge any complaints regarding data protection, for example with respect AWARD-WINNING SATISFACTION to advertising campaigns, such complaints are In 2013, we received the following awards for customer promptly addressed and the data for the respective ­satisfaction: customer or prospect is immediately and perman­ ently removed from the address list if requested. – A(THE UTO, MOTOR UND SPORT DIE BESTEN AUTOS 2013 BEST CARS): The BMW Group is committed to the principles of 1st place BMW 3 Series, BMW 5 Series and BMW 6 Series customer self-determination, data processing transGran Coupé parency and data minimisation. In the field of vehicle communication (Connected Drive) as well, data – Ö2013 KOTREND DIE UMWELTFREUNDLICHSTEN AUTOS (THE MOST ECO-FRIENDLY CARS): secur­ity and prevention of misuse are a key concern. 1st place BMW X1 sDrive 20d EfficientDynamics Edition PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY and BMW 730d BluePerformance IMPROVING EVEN FURTHER THROUGH CUSTOMER 2.1 Our management approach SURVEYS – DCAR EKRA GEBRAUCHTWAGENREPORT 2013 (USED REPORT) FAHRZEUG DES JAHRES (CAR OF THE 2.2 Efficient mobility YEAR): Every year, we survey around 1.5 million customers 2.3 Product safety in 94 markets to find out about their wishes and 1st place BMW Z4 experiences. This feedback is then incorporated into 2.4 R  esource efficiency and recycling management the development and optimisation of our products – 1st AUTO BILD WERTMEISTER 2013 (VALUE MASTER): place MINI Cooper S, BMW 320d Touring, BMW 520i, and services. Feedback on the new BMW 1 Series, BMW X1 xDrive18d 2.5 Future mobility BMW 3 Series, BMW X1 and BMW 7 Series models 2.6 Customer satisfaction was extremely positive and showed clearly that opti– 1st J.D. POWER CSI (CUSTOMER SERVICE INDEX) 2013: misations compared with previous models on the place for MINI in Japan in the relevant categories basis of customer surveys are successful. – 1st J.D. POWER SSI (SALES SATISFACTION INDEX) 2013: place for MINI in USA and Japan in the relevant Our customer surveys show that our customers’ categories needs vary considerably from country to country, so we must take these national and cultural differences into account. We constantly survey our customers. – JEXECUTION .D. POWER APEAL (AUTOMOTIVE PERFORMANCE, AND LAYOUT) 2013: In 2012, we implemented stricter standardisation 1st place for BMW 5 Series in the USA requirements for the customer satisfaction surveys carried out in our subsidiaries in order to ensure the completeness and comparability of the results. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Customer satisfaction 67 2 .6 FORECAST In the coming years, we plan to further increase customer satisfaction and expand opportunities for direct contact with customers. With the launch in 2012 of the sales programme Future Retail we want to take more than ever the customer’s perspective and offer more points of contact with customers and potential customers. This also includes expanding our test-drive offerings and intensifying follow-up after delivery of a vehicle. To date, customer follow-up has extended to up to seven days after PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY delivery in order to clarify any questions that may have come up and to show customers our appreciation for their busi2.1 Our management approach ness. Improvement measures that have already been initiated focus on measuring the lasting impact of the purchase. 2.2 Efficient mobility EXCEEDING EXPECTATIONS — Focus on customer satisfaction. 2.3 Product safety With the BMW Group’s Sales Quality Initiative (Q INI V), we continue to optimise the customer experience through 2.4  esource efficiency and R recycling management LET’S HELP process improvements, investments and training measures, in both sales and service as well as in the event of vehicle 2.5 Future mobility One action that has already been launched, and breakdown. 2.6 Customer satisfaction which we further expanded in 2013, is Let’s help. Our employees are often approached by customers or prospects from their circle of acquaintances who want to offer suggestions or express their own wishes. The Let’s help button on the intranet now enables employees to pass on these concerns quickly and easily to Customer Service. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Customer satisfaction 68 3 S USTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 GROUP-WIDE ENVIRON­ MENTAL PROTECTION 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 3.5 3.6 Our management approach Efficient transport logistics Water — p. 89 VOC emissions and biodiversity — p. 72 Energy consumption and emissions — p. 81 Materials use and waste management — p. 76 — p. 92 — p. 86 69 3 GROUP-WIDE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION WE PRODUCE IN A RESOURCE-EFFICIENT WAY. — CLEAN PRODUCTION PHILOSOPHY — CLOSED MATERIAL CYCLES/RECYCLING — USE OF RENEWABLE ENERGY — REDUCTION OF RESOURCE CONSUMPTION — REDUCTION OF EMISSIONS Due to economic growth, population growth and technological progress, the demand for raw materials will continue to increase. Demand for energy will increase 40% by 2030. Source: KPMG 2013. Future State 2030: The global megatrends shaping governments. IEA 2012 World Energy Outlook. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— GROUP-WIDE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 70 3 GROUP-WIDE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROGRESS IN 2013 KPIs 2014+ FORECAST AND OBJECTIVES FURTHER REDUCTION IN RESOURCE ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER VEHICLE EXPAND SHARE OF RENEWABLE ENERGY ­UTILISATION ­PRODUCED SOURCES – Iemissions – We — 2013 2.36 n 2013, we reduced resource utilisation and will continue to expand our use of per vehicle produced by an average renewable energy. In 2014, we will use biomass of 6.6% compared with the previous year. This MWh as an energy source to cover part of the is equivalent to cost savings of €6.8 million. energy requirements of our production plant in Rosslyn (South Africa). 2012 2.41 MWh SIGNIFICANT INCREASE IN SHARE OF WASTE FOR DISPOSAL PER VEHICLE FURTHER INCREASE RESOURCE EFFICIENCY ­RENEWABLE ENERGY ­PRODUCED – By 2020, we aim to have reduced resource – — 2013 5.73 We increased further the share of renewable consumption (energy, water, process energy as a percentage of total power wastewater, waste for disposal) and emissions consumed across locations by the BMW Group kg per vehicle produced by 45% compared with from 36% to 48% in 2013. 2006. 2012 6.47 kg WIND POWER PLANT STARTED WATER CONSUMPTION PER VEHICLE FURTHER OPTIMISE TRANSPORT ­PRODUCED LOGISTICS – For the production of the BMW i3, four — 2013 – Incontinuously 2.18 windpower plants with a total installed capacity the area of materials supply, we are of 10 MW were commissioned on the premises working to further optimise of the BMW plant in Leipzig. They generate m3 packaging at our production plants, thus around 26,000,000 kWh of electricity annually. reducing transport volumes. We will further expand rail transport of new vehicles. 2012 2.22 m3 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— GROUP-WIDE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 71 1 3 .1 Our management Declaration on Cleaner Production of the United Nations Environment Programme. ­approach We aim to make a contribution towards combating climate change. The BMW Group plays its part in limiting greenhouse gas emissions, and CO2 emissions in particular, by manufacturing efficient vehicles, implementing effective production processes, using renewable energy sources and carefully selecting its production locations. ACHIEVING OUR GOAL OF CLEAN PRODUCTION GROUP-WIDE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION We are convinced that with farsighted thinking and We aim to be not only the leading, but also the most by integrating environmental considerations in all 3.1 Our management approach resource-efficient, premium provider of individual business processes we can achieve both ecological 3.2 Energy consumption mobility. In order to achieve this goal, we pursue a and economic added value. and emissions policy of comprehensive, Group-wide environmental management. This entails integrating environmental In 2007, we set ourselves the goal of reducing our 3.3 Efficient transport logistics considerations into all our major investment decisions consumption of resources and emissions per vehicle 3.4  aterials use and M at an early stage, as well as tracking and monitoring produced by an average of 30% between 2006 and waste management all the relevant environmental indicators. We set the 2012. We exceeded this goal and reached an effi3.5 Water bar high and transfer best-practice solutions from ciency improvement of more than one-third (35.7%). within the company to the whole production The parameters we use to measure this achievement 3.6  OC emissions and V network. include energy, water, process wastewater, waste for biodiversity disposal and solvent emissions. Our tradition of environmental protection at the It is a challenge to achieve further reductions when BMW Group goes back a long way. An environmenprocesses are already very efficient. In spite of this, tal protection officer was appointed as far back as the we set ourselves an ambitious new target in 2012 for early 1970s, a first for the automotive industry. The the year 2020. We want to reduce our consumption of Group established its own environmental guidelines resources per vehicle produced by 45% compared to in 1993, based on the ICC Charter for Sustainable 2006. Development and Agenda 21. In line with our Clean Production philosophy, we design our manufacturing Since 2006 we have reduced both the resources util­ processes for minimum environmental impact and ised and the emissions per vehicle produced by an resource consumption. We underscored this commitaverage of over 40% (41.4%). This represents a signifi­ ment in 2001 when we signed the International cant step towards reaching our strategic targets by Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Our management ­approach 72 3 .1 the year 2020 – both in terms of increasing overall (BMW Brilliance joint venture) to include an exhaust efficiency as well as the other objectives. air filtering system. We have been able to achieve the following reducF.09 Resource consumption and emissions per vehicle tions in the past seven years: ­produced compared with previous year 20121 2013 Compared p.a. Energy consumption –31.0% Water consumption –33.1% Energy consumed Process wastewater –42.7% in MWh 2.41 2.36 – 2.1% Non-recyclable waste –69.7% Water consumption in m3 2.22 2.18 – 1.8% Solvent emissions –36.7% Process wastewater GROUP-WIDE ENVIRONMENTAL CO2 emissions –35.2% in m3 0.51 0.47 – 7.8% PROTECTION Waste for disposal in kg 6.47 5.73 – 11.4% 3.1 Our management approach Volatile organic com3.2 Energy consumption In 2013, the utilisation of resources and the ­emissions pounds (VOC) in kg 1.78 1.59 – 10.7% and emissions per vehicle produced were reduced by an average CO2 emissions in t 0.72 0.68 – 5.6% of 6.6% compared with the previous year, yielding 3.3 Efficient transport logistics savings of €6.8 million. 1  ue to a change in the calculation method, these figures cannot be compared with the 2012 D figures. 3.4  aterials use and M waste management Measures implemented due to the continuous 3.5 Water improvement process contributed towards improved efficiency in the use of both energy and water. At INTEGRATION INTO THE ORGANISATION 3.6  OC emissions and V the Spartanburg plant (USA) in particular, water biodiversity consumption was lowered by the use of condensed Environmental protection is part of our sustainability water gained from the cooling system. At the same management. The steering committee of our intertime, good capacity utilisation at our plants also national environmental protection network controls made a significant contribution to the efficient use of environmental management under the direction of water and energy. A strong contributing factor in the the Group Representative for Environmental Protecreduction of non-recyclable production waste was a tion. Every machine, every building and every area at decrease by nearly one-quarter (23.3%) in waste at the each production site is assigned to an operator. That Landshut plant, primarily through a higher recovery operator is responsible for the products, processes, rate for production waste (e.g. foundry waste). The machines and technical systems in his or her alloimpressive reduction in solvent emissions per vehicle cated area as well as their environmental impact. produced can be mainly attributed to the retrofitting of the paint shop at the Dadong plant in China Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Our management ­approach 73 3 .1 GROUP-WIDE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 3.1 Our management approach 3.2 Energy consumption and emissions MOST SUSTAINABLE PLANT IN THE BMW PRODUCTION NETWORK — State-of-the-art paintshop at the BMW plant in Tiexi. 3.3 Efficient transport logistics 3.4 M  aterials use and waste management SHARING THE BEST-PRACTICE APPROACH resource-efficient paint shop in our production net3.5 Water work. This significantly lowers both the environEnvironmental improvements that have been effect­ mental impact as well as the ongoing costs of the 3.6 V  OC emissions and ive at one location are implemented at other locaproduction site. biodiversity tions wherever possible. Our six competence centres (for water, waste, energy, emissions, training and CONSIDERING ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES WHEN MAKING the environmental management system) are staffed INVESTMENTS by environmental experts from the different plants and by specialists from Corporate Environmental One main method of enhancing resource efficiency is Protection. They discuss legal requirements and to consistently take account of environmental aspects best-practice solutions with technology experts from when planning new investments. This allows potenthe production plants and develop reference systial improvements in efficiency to be identified and tems on which to base future planning and process implemented at an early stage. If they are found to be improvements. insufficient, more environmentally friendly alternatives can be sought. One recent example is the paint shop opened at our Tiexi plant (China) in June 2013, the most Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Our management ­approach 74 3 .1 external audits and meet European Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) standards. Environmental management coverage of BMW Group production facilities is therefore at 100%. We have also installed environmental management systems at our dealerships in Germany, Austria and Switzerland. All German dealerships, as well as six others in Europe (Vienna, Zurich, Rome, Milan, Madrid and Barcelona) are already certified in accordance with ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. REQUIRING ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION FROM GROUP-WIDE ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPLIERS AND PARTNER COMPANIES PROTECTION Beyond our own production lines, we also promote 3.1 Our management approach compliance with and improvement of environmental 3.2 Energy consumption standards on the part of our suppliers. For example, and emissions in cases where environmental management is relevant and necessary, we require proof that suppliers 3.3 Efficient transport logistics have installed such a system see Chapter 4. 3.4 M  aterials use and waste management We also work closely with our joint venture partners 3.5 Water SGL Group and Brilliance Automotive Ltd. to implement continuous improvement. For example, our 3.6  OC emissions and V MATERIAL OF THE FUTURE — Joint CFRP production with SGL Carbon in joint venture with SGL Automotive Carbon Fibers biodiversity Wackersdorf. in Moses Lake (USA) uses renewable hydropower to produce its carbon fibres. ESTABLISHING ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS OUTLOOK We establish environmental management systems at all of our existing and future BMW Group production In the future, the BMW Group will continue to implement its facilities worldwide as well as in our central planClean Production philosophy. We will intensify our efforts to ning departments (e.g. in Production and Developachieve zero-emissions energy supply see Chapter 3.2 and ment). With the exception of the motorcycle plant in roll out best-practice solutions Group-wide from our differManaus, Brazil (national standard), these systems are ent locations (e.g. Leipzig in Germany, Steyr in Austria and certified in accordance with ISO 14001. The GerSpartanburg in the USA). man and Austrian sites have undergone additional Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Our management ­approach 75 2 3 .2 Energy consumption DEFINING STRATEGIC AREAS OF ACTION and emissions In order to further enhance our energy efficiency and to move forward with the use of renewable energy, we have defined five strategic areas of action: – Further development of an integrated energy management system (transparency of consumption, targets management, monitoring at all locations), for which we collaborate with a range of process partners GROUP-WIDE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Our vision is to achieve a completely carbon-neutral – Continuous improvement of ongoing operations energy supply for the BMW Group. With this in 3.1 Our management approach mind, we set ourselves the goal of becoming a leader – Planning and implementation of energy-efficient in the use of renewable energy by 2020. Each year we properties, plants and technologies 3.2  nergy consumption E are also reducing our energy consumption and our and emissions emissions per vehicle produced. – Implementation of renewable energy projects 3.3 Efficient transport logistics – Raising awareness, training and motivating man3.4 M  aterials use and The BMW Group faces the challenge of guaranteeing agers and employees on the topics of energy and waste management a secure and economical, but also environmentally energy efficiency 3.5 Water friendly, energy supply. All production sites of the BMW Group are required to use the most enviLESS ENERGY CONSUMPTION, MORE SECURITY 3.6 V  OC emissions and ronmentally sound and economically sustainable OF SUPPLY biodiversity energy source available. In 2013 we were able to continuously increase the percentage of electricity Continuous reductions in energy requirements from renewable sources used in the BMW Group to as well as a strategy of producing our own energy 48% (36% in the previous year and 28% in 2011). An or drawing energy from local renewable sources important goal for the future is to further increase increase our autonomy and ensure security of supply this percentage. for the BMW Group. As a result, the probability of our production lines being affected by energy bottlenecks decreases. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Energy consumption and emissions 76 3 .2 We monitor and optimise our energy consumption on an ongoing basis. To do this, we use an energy management system based on the environmental management systems ISO 14001 and EMAS. We are continuously improving these systems, for example by introducing tools to track the effectiveness of our energy efficiency measures. SAVING ENERGY PAYS OFF In addition to the intelligent use of energy, we are also focusing on renewable energy expansion. To GROUP-WIDE ENVIRONMENTAL this end, we have installed combined heat and power PIONEERING — Emissions-free building at the BMW branch in Berlin. PROTECTION systems at a total of eight locations. These systems allow us to use both the electricity generated as well 3.1 Our management approach as the resulting waste heat. We are also continuously ACHIEVING SUSTAINABLE BUILDINGS AND PROCESSES 3.2  nergy consumption E improving our vehicle production processes. Energy and emissions efficiency studies conducted at various BMW Group In general, every new plant is designed to raise the locations in 2013 identified potential for improvebar in terms of energy efficiency and to become a 3.3 Efficient transport logistics ment amounting to more than 250,000,000 kWh. benchmark for all other plants. The most recent 3.4  aterials use and M example is the plant our joint venture partner BMW waste management We rely on state-of-the-art technologies to help us Brilliance Automotive Ltd. (BBA) opened in Tiexi 3.5 Water achieve our efficiency targets. In paint shops, for (China) in 2012. Lessons learned and innovations example, these include the Integrated Paint Process from other plants, for example cooling systems that 3.6 V  OC emissions and as well as optimising the efficiency of ventilation sysuse groundwater, were integrated into the design of biodiversity tems and closing energy cycles. The resulting reducthis plant. Many measures were taken to optimise the tion in energy costs in the face of rising energy prices use of energy, water and waste. makes the BMW Group more profitable and more competitive. The reference system for sustainable construction is the basis for new-build projects and building converReducing CO2 emissions not only makes environmensions at the BMW Group. It sets down principles and tal sense – it is also a business opportunity for the concepts for buildings throughout the Group and BMW Group. In the third period of the European CO2 enables the measures taken during the individual emissions trading programme (2013–2020), emissions project phases to be monitored. The aim is to minirights allocation will be reduced further each year. mise consumption of energy and resources as well as Therefore, every unit of energy saved pays off twofold, environmental impact during all phases of building as the costs of energy consumption and the purchase life cycles – from planning, construction, use and of emissions allowances can be reduced as a result. renovation right up to demolition and renaturation. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Energy consumption and emissions 77 3 .2 Based on this reference system, we were able for – Since 2013, around 30% of the heat required for example to certify all buildings erected for the proour engine plant in Steyr is being supplied by a duction of the BMW i3 at our Leipzig site in accordance neighbouring biomass thermal power plant (fuelled with the Leadership in Energy and Environmental by timber waste from the region). This means an Design (LEED) programme. annual reduction in CO2 emissions of 3,000 tonnes. In addition, the complete electricity supply for the plant was switched to renewable sources in 2013. CONSTRUCTION AND FACILITY CONSULTANCY FOR DEALERS – Carbon-neutral electricity is used for the entire production process of the BMW i3 in Leipzig. For this Sustainability is also an integral part of any new-build advice provided to our dealers by the BMW Group’s international purpose, four wind turbines were commissioned on construction and facility consultancy. Dealers, investors and the plant’s premises in mid-2013, with a capacity of GROUP-WIDE ENVIRONMENTAL local architects are informed about the benefits of “green 10 megawatts. PROTECTION building” measures when planning new buildings and mod3.1 Our management approach ernisation measures for our dealers’ operations. This enables us to protect the environment and at the same time enhance – At our Rosslyn plant in South Africa, the new independent operator Bio2Watt will provide 40% of the our image, while saving on operating costs and increasing 3.2  nergy consumption E required electricity from a twin-unit power station the value of the buildings. and emissions based on landfill gas (biogas firing, i.e. waste from When the Retail Standards 2013+ are introduced, the reference system for sustainability in real estate projects in dealer cattle ranches or chicken farms as well as food 3.3 Efficient transport logistics organisations will become the mandatory sustainability waste). 3.4  aterials use and M standard and its implementation at dealer organisations will waste management be verified by a sustainability audit carried out by an external RAISING WORKFORCE AWARENESS OF ENERGY ISSUES organisation. 3.5 Water Teaching trainees how to deal with energy effi3.6 V  OC emissions and ciently is an integral part of vocational training at biodiversity the BMW Group. In addition, we offer courses on TAKING ADVANTAGE OF RENEWABLE ENERGY value-creating production systems, a systematic approach to improving efficiency in technical and Our vision is to draw 100% of our energy requireadministrative processes. This approach is founded ments from renewable sources. Instead of relying on on a modern and respectful attitude towards others, energy from one specific source we will take a look in particular production staff, combined with continat local conditions and decide which concept makes uous improvement. It applies not only to production most sense at each location. In 2010, we impleprocesses, but also to administration, planning and mented a development plan to assess the potential development. The programme addresses all company of each production facility and we are now putting it levels: workplaces, production areas and process into practice step by step. chains as well as general value flows and business processes. Using a training demonstrator, employees can engage in active learning in energy efficiency. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Energy consumption and emissions 78 3 .2 GROUP-WIDE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION USE OF RENEWABLE ENERGY IN PRODUCTION — Factory vehicle at the NEW PRODUCTION PROCESSES — CFRP production at the BMW plant BMW plant in Spartanburg. in Landshut. 3.1 Our management approach 3.2 E  nergy consumption and emissions We are also developing an interactive online training F.10 Energy consumption per vehicle produced module for all employees on the subject of energy in MWh/vehicle 3.3 Efficient transport logistics efficiency in the BMW Group. 3.0 3.4  aterials use and M 2.8 waste management FURTHER REDUCING ENERGY CONSUMPTION 2.6 2.4 3.5 Water Despite the introduction of new manufacturing pro2.2 3.6  OC emissions and V cesses (for example the production of carbon-­fibrebiodiversity reinforced plastics) and the global construction/ 09 10 11 12 13 commissioning of new structures worldwide (such as the new foundry at the Landshut plant), we managed 2.841 2.721 2.431 2.411 2.361 in 2013 to further reduce energy consumption per 1  fficiency indicator = energy consumption minus CHP losses divided by the total number of E vehicle produced to 2.36 MWh (–2.1% compared to vehicles produced, not including the vehicles from the Magna Steyr contract production plant. 2012) see Figure 10. This represents an improvement of 31.0% over the base year 2006, bringing us that much closer to our goal of reducing energy consumption per vehicle by 45% compared with 2006. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Energy consumption and emissions 79 3 .2 Improved energy efficiency, the utilisation of highly FORECAST efficient, ecologically sustainable combined heat and power plants (CHPs) and the use of electricity genIn the coming years, our main focus will be on achieving our erated from renewable sources enabled us to reduce energy targets. We will continue to expand our use of renewthe carbon emissions per vehicle produced by 5.6% able energy. By 2020 we will have designed processes and to 0.68 tonnes during the period under report see buildings even more efficiently in order to achieve a 45% Figure 11. This represents an improvement of 35.2% reduction in energy requirements per vehicle produced comsince 2006. pared with 2006. In terms of absolute carbon emissions throughout our production network, measures such as a change in the energy mix and the purchase of larger quantiGROUP-WIDE ENVIRONMENTAL ties of electricity generated from renewable sources PROTECTION resulted in a lower increase in emissions. Despite a 7.0% increase in the number of vehicles produced in 3.1 Our management approach the BMW Group production network, overall CO2 3.2  nergy consumption E emissions increased by just 5.2%. and emissions F.11 CO2 emissions per vehicle produced 3.3 Efficient transport logistics in t/vehicle 3.4  aterials use and M 0.95 waste management 0.90 0.85 3.5 Water 0.80 3.6  OC emissions and V 0.75 biodiversity 0.70 0.65 09 10 11 12 132 0.941 0.891 0.751 0.721 0.681 1 Efficiency  indicator = CO2 emissions minus CHP losses divided by the total number of vehicles produced, not including the vehicles from the Magna Steyr contract production plant. 2 Calculations based on updated VDA emissions factors. If the VDA factors used in previous years were applied there would have been a year-on-year reduction of 10.5%. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Energy consumption and emissions 80 3 3 .3 Efficient transport logistics GROUP-WIDE ENVIRONMENTAL As a global supplier of premium products and serRAIL TRANSPORT PREFERRED — Delivery of vehicles by railway. PROTECTION vices, the BMW Group transports large volumes of goods, and people within the Group are always on the 3.1 Our management approach move. Our aim is to keep the environmental impact When issuing new invitations to tender, we always 3.2 Energy consumption of these logistics activities as low as possible. We do aim at further optimisation of capacity utilisation and emissions so by continuously optimising our transport logisand the choice of transport mode. In this context, tics and expanding our use of low-carbon modes of we give rail transport preference over road transport 3.3 Efficient transport logistics transport. wherever possible. Moreover, in 2013 we introduced 3.4  aterials use and M measures to reduce the volume of goods transported waste management by air freight. 3.5 Water The global transport volume required to supply our production plants with materials, to deliver our Sustainability requirements apply not only to our 3.6 V  OC emissions and vehicles and to supply spare parts to the markets suppliers, but also to our transportation service probiodiversity has grown considerably in the past few years. This viders. In regularly conducted Supplier Performance is primarily due to an increase in our global proReviews, we discuss relevant topics such as the introduction and sales volume, combined with regional duction by transportation service providers of meas­ shifts in these volumes. Above-average growth in ures for greater fuel efficiency. North America and Asia means that long transport distances must be covered. The increase in transport EXPANDING THE USE OF LOW-CARBON MODES volume in recent years has also led to more carbon OF TRANSPORT emissions caused by transport logistics. In order to keep these emissions to an absolute minimum, we Supplying materials to our global production network on the principle “production follows the marwork requires highly flexible logistics structures. ket”. In addition, we are also working on improving This is due in part to the growing need for direct, our packaging and continually increasing the pertime-­sensitive deliveries as well as the increasing centage of low-carbon modes of transport. volatility of global markets. Ensuring flexibility while Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Efficient transport logistics 81 3 .3 giving priority to rail transport requires very careful F.12 Share of vehicles shipped by rail from BMW Group plants1 planning. in % 70 For example, for years we have been using a daily 60 block train from the greater urban areas of Hanover, 50 Wuppertal and Frankfurt to supply each of our Bavar40 ian plants in Munich, Dingolfing, Regensburg and 30 Landshut. This strategy enables us to avoid some 20 30,000 truck trips per year, saving more than 13,000 10 tonnes of carbon emissions. We also make a significant contribution to relieving the congestion on 09 10 11 12 13 traffic routes. A new invitation to bid issued in 2012 GROUP-WIDE ENVIRONMENTAL for Europe-wide transport of material supplies to the 47.0 49.5 53.1 56.9 60.7 PROTECTION German plants secured these rail transport arrange1 Excluding Rolls-Royce automobiles. ments for the long term, despite substantial extra 3.1 Our management approach expense compared to truck delivery. Two of these 3.2 Energy consumption railway connections converted to electricity from and emissions renewable sources in 2013, and the third will f­ ollow SECURING CAPACITIES THROUGH RAIL STRATEGY in 2014. Overall, this will allow us to avoid over 3.3 Efficient transport logistics 4,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions each year. In order to secure sufficient rail transport capacity for 3.4  aterials use and M vehicle delivery, we developed a rail transport stratwaste management We increased the average volume of rail transport egy. As part of this strategy, around 75% of the rele3.5 Water of BMW Group vehicles from the plants to 60.7% in vant covered-wagon rail freight capacity available in 2013. This was up from 56.9% the previous year see Central Europe was secured long term. For this pur3.6  OC emissions and V Figure 12. pose, two of our transportation service providers are biodiversity investing in additional covered railcars. By 2015, we In 2013 we managed in particular to significantly will have at our disposal over 300 new, state-of-the-art increase the share of rail used to transport new covered wagons. This is essential in order to continue ­vehicles from our Leipzig plant. All transport of to maintain and increase the high share of rail transexport vehicles from Leipzig to the seaport of Bremerport of vehicles leaving the plants, particularly in haven, accounting for a volume of some 30,000 units highly populated areas. In addition, all new wagons per year, has been switched from road to rail transare equipped with “whisper brakes” to significantly port. This saves over 1,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions reduce noise emissions for the benefit of residents per year. living near railway lines. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Efficient transport logistics 82 3 .3 Compared with 2012, transport volume increased SOUTH CAROLINA INLAND PORT – BENEFICIAL by around 9.4%. This is due on the one hand to an DESIGN OF LOGISTICS PROCESSES increase in the number of BMW and MINI brand We launched a new rail-based sea freight carriage concept vehicles produced and delivered, and on the other to in the USA at the end of 2013. This lets us shift up to 20,000 an expansion in the system limits for the collection of containers per year from road carriage to more eco-friendly data to encompass additional transport volumes. For rail, transporting them per freight train from the Charleston example, since 2013 we have also been able to record seaport to the BMW plant in ­Spartanburg. data on inbound transports by air and sea freight. In In the course of a complete overhaul of our logistics processaddition, for certain markets in Europe and the USA es and after securing the necessary rail capacity, we collabwe can now capture data for dispersion transports orated with the operators of the port and railway line to build from the distribution centres to dealers for around an inland port directly adjacent to the tracks and in close proximity to the Spartanburg plant. In addition, a new ship60% of all vehicles delivered worldwide. GROUP-WIDE ENVIRONMENTAL ping centre for assembly kits was also built in the immediate PROTECTION vicinity of the inland port. Total CO2 emissions increased in 2013 by around In future, rail will be used instead of trucks to transport more 11% compared to the previous year, equivalent to a 3.1 Our management approach than 90% of import containers from the seaport to the inland per-unit increase of around 3.7%. Applying the 2012 port and 100% of export containers back to the seaport. The system limits, however, CO2 emissions declined per 3.2 Energy consumption new concept reduces CO2 emissions by approx. 60%, saving and emissions unit by over 5%. This is due primarily to a sharp 17% approx. 4,000 tonnes of CO2 per year. decline in the volume of air freight used to supply 3.3 Efficient transport logistics non-European plant locations. 3.4 M  aterials use and waste management In cases where rail transport is not possible, we Apparent shifts in 2013 in the ratios of modes of 3.5 Water require that our carriers use environmentally friendly transport used can likewise be attributed mainly to vehicles. For example, our catalogue of specifications the extension of the system limits for data acquisi3.6 V  OC emissions and in Europe stipulates that only transport vehicles that tion; for example, dispersion transports of vehicles biodiversity meet at least the Euro 5 standard may be used. Newly are made by truck, which results in a higher percentacquired vehicles must meet the latest statutory Euro age of road freight see Figure 13. standard. OPTIMISING PACKAGING VOLUME INCREASED AND SYSTEM LIMITS EXTENDED When designing transport packaging we always aim In 2013, the BMW Group had a total transport volfor optimal utilisation of the packaging. This means ume of around 33.8 billion tonne-kilometres, emitensuring both ideal packaging density for protecting ting 1.38 million tonnes of CO2 in the process see the product as well as the best use of space when Figure 13. loading packages onto trucks or containers. The BMW Group’s packaging manual is an integral part of our purchasing terms and conditions and informs suppliers of our packaging requirements. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Efficient transport logistics 83 3 .3 F.13 Carriers and CO2 emissions1 09 10 11 12 13 Inbound (material provision of the plants and spare parts delivery) Transport capacity in million tkm 2,673 3,810 9,072 10,703 11,560 CO2 emissions in t 201,376 320,526 518,157 547,049 580,616 Outbound (distribution vehicles and spare parts) Transport capacity in million tkm 9,942 15,088 18,854 20,195 22,226 CO2 emissions in t 106,040 145,501 677,730 700,051 803,158 GROUP-WIDE ENVIRONMENTAL Total (inbound and outbound) PROTECTION Transport capacity in million tkm 12,615 18,898 27,926 30,898 33,786 CO2 emissions in t 307,416 466,027 1,195,887 1,247,100 1,383,774 3.1 Our management approach Percentage share of carriers in total (inbound and outbound) in terms of transport volume and CO2 emissions 3.2 Energy consumption and emissions tkm g CO2 tkm g CO2 tkm g CO2 tkm g CO2 tkm g CO2 3.3 Efficient transport logistics Sea 78.0 14.0 79.9 14.1 78.9 51.3 79.2 53.1 78.9 51.6 3.4  aterials use and M Road 15.8 73.4 13.3 61.2 11.9 24.2 10.7 20.2 12.4 23.1 waste management Rail 6.0 7.1 6.3 7.3 8.2 5.5 8.9 4.6 7.5 3.8 Air 0.2 5.5 0.5 17.4 1.0 19.0 1.2 22.1 1.2 21.5 3.5 Water 1  igures refer to BMW and MINI, excluding Rolls-Royce automobiles. Conversion factor for CO2 emissions from road, rail and sea freight according to Tremod. Conversion factors from sea freight are reported F 3.6  OC emissions and V back directly by shipping companies. Since the 2011 financial year, the scope has expanded significantly and currently comprises: inbound volumes (material supplies to plants and spare parts delivery) are biodiversity included for BMW and MINI vehicles in Germany, the UK, the USA, South Africa, China, Thailand, India and CKD/SKD locations as well as for delivery of spare parts to the parts supply centre ZTA in Dingolfing. Outbound volumes (distribution of vehicles and spare parts) are included up to arrival at the distribution centres in the markets worldwide as well as for some markets up to arrival at the dealerships. One of the main requirements is that packaging must – Reduction: Use reusable packaging wherever pos­ always take into account economic and environmensible and expedient. tal impacts. The focus is on the following principles, which reflect our environmental priorities: – Recycling: Environmentally sound recycling of materials must be possible for both disposable and – Avoidance: Limit the use of materials to the absoreusable packaging. lute minimum. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Efficient transport logistics 84 3 .3 SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY FOR OUR EMPLOYEES Staff commuting is a major concern on the BMW Group’s logistics balance sheet. Here, too, we try to keep our impact on the environment as low as possible. Among the measures that are in place are our plant buses which reduce the number of individual drives to work. Works buses make sense when they are heavily used by shift workers and employees who live close to one another. GROUP-WIDE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION We have works buses in operation both in Germany PROMOTING HEALTH — Rental bikes for employees. (Munich, Landshut, Dingolfing, Regensburg, Ber3.1 Our management approach lin) as well as at our international locations (Tiexi 3.2 Energy consumption in China, Rosslyn in South Africa). Around 85% of The carbon footprint for employees at our German and emissions employees in China use the buses to travel to work. locations was 4.6 kg of CO2 per employee and day of In Germany, 44% of all employees travelled to work production in 2013. 3.3 Efficient transport logistics by plant bus or public transport in 2013, and another 3.4 M  aterials use and 6% by bicycle or on foot. waste management FORECAST 3.5 Water Since 2011, the BMW Group has been offering a very successful bicycle-lending programme called One way in which we wish to reduce transport volume in the 3.6 V  OC emissions and ProBike in Munich. ProBike allows employees to future is by further optimising packaging on inbound transbiodiversity cycle between BMW locations in the city of Munich. ports to our production plants. In the area of vehicle distriA total of 48,000 such trips were made in 2013. This bution, we will continue to expand the ratio of rail transport not only saves on fuel and reduces CO2 emissions: used. In 2014, we will switch to rail on further routes for with the ProBike programme, we also motivate our vehicle delivery within Germany. For example, in the future employees to be more health conscious and use bikes import vehicles will be transported from Bremerhaven to more often. Thuringia and Saxony by rail. In the coming years, additional major international BMW Group locations will be added to our calculations of carbon footprint per employee. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Efficient transport logistics 85 4 3 .4 Materials use and – Recovery: We incinerate most non-recyclable waste materials. Other methods of disposal are also used. waste management – Disposal: Only the small volume of non-recyclable waste that is then left over is earmarked as waste for disposal. Our innovations in the area of electromobility and lightweight construction go hand in hand with new recycling processes for residual materials from v­ ehicle production or recycling. Our focus in 2013 was therefore once again on new uses for materials, for GROUP-WIDE ENVIRONMENTAL With raw materials worldwide becoming increasexample high-voltage battery systems or carbon-­fibrePROTECTION ingly scarce, the BMW Group engages in recycling reinforced plastics (CFRP). management throughout material life cycles. This 3.1 Our management approach is because what we think of as waste is often a valuCONTROLLING AND MANAGING WASTE 3.2 Energy consumption able resource, which we try to use intelligently. We and emissions have therefore set ourselves the goal of reducing the The process of recording and reusing the waste we amount of non-recyclable production waste by 45% by produce is managed worldwide by our own BMW 3.3 Efficient transport logistics 2020 (base year: 2006). waste information system ABIS, which was designed 3.4 M  aterials use and for the German plants in accordance with the law on waste management life cycle management. ABIS can be applied world3.5 Water When we recycle materials or waste, we comply with wide to determine the best method of disposal for the five-step hierarchical model set down by the EU: a particular type of waste. The method specified is 3.6  OC emissions and V then implemented at all plants, provided that this is biodiversity – Prevention: Where possible, we avoid creating possible in the individual countries. In 2013, we were waste in the first place. This is the best solution, able to fully integrate our Chinese plants into the both in economic and environmental terms. ABIS. Integration of the new BMW plant in Brazil is in preparation. – Reuse: We reuse any viable waste material immediately. Otherwise we prepare it for reuse in its ori­ ginal area of application. – Recycle: If reuse is not an option, we recycle the material in such a way that we can reintroduce it to the cycle. It can then replace primary raw materials. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Materials use and waste management 86 3 .4 ABIS is also used to document the individual waste AVOIDING WASTE THROUGH BEST-PRACTICE SOLUTIONS flows and categorises waste as hazardous or safe in AT OUR PLANTS accordance with country-specific regulations. There were no incidences of the import or export of treated Materials use and waste management are two areas or untreated hazardous waste during the reporting in which we have been applying best-practice soluperiod. tions that we have gradually rolled out across our production network. We take a whole range of measures to work towards achieving our vision of waste-free DISPOSAL IN SERVICE OPERATIONS production. In Germany, BMW operates a closed, mandatory system for For example, the iron dust that results as a waste workshop waste disposal. This means that every one of our product in our foundry in Landshut is recycled using service companies (dealers and dealerships) must take part GROUP-WIDE ENVIRONMENTAL in the disposal system organised by BMW. BMW stipulates a new process, reducing the volume of waste for PROTECTION disposal. At the Rolls-Royce plant in Goodwood (UK), the materials its service companies must return to the BMW system for recycling and raw material recovery. This applies no non-recyclable waste was produced in 2013. 3.1 Our management approach to all packaging and waste from service, maintenance and repair (e.g. bumpers, batteries, trim). 3.2 Energy consumption and emissions 3.3 Efficient transport logistics 3.4 M  aterials use and F.14 Waste waste management in t 09 10 11 12 13 3.5 Water 3.6  OC emissions and V Total waste 450,513 564,117 594,791 664,752 680,299 biodiversity Hazardous waste for recovery 12,073 14,987 18,413 19,979 21,884 Hazardous waste for disposal 8,570 9,772 8,720 8,127 7,668 Non-hazardous waste for recovery 425,066 534,188 562,482 633,394 647,725 Non-hazardous waste for disposal 4,804 5,171 5,176 3,252 3,022 Materials for recycling 437,139 549,175 580,895 653,373 669,609 Metals for recycling (scrap) 377,700 428,175 449,900 494,894 500,589 Waste for disposal 13,374 14,943 13,896 11,379 10,690 Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Materials use and waste management 87 3 .4 Our Rosslyn plant in South Africa now offers a re­ FORECAST cycling scheme for the local population. This project serves to raise public awareness of the importance of Although we have already reached our goal for 2020 in the waste separation and recycling. area of waste disposal (a 45% reduction compared to the base year 2006), in 2014 we will continue to work on miniWASTE FOR DISPOSAL REDUCED mising waste for disposal even further and devote the necessary resources to recycling management. With 5.73 kg of waste for disposal per vehicle produced in 2013, figures are down by 11.4% compared to the previous year and even by 69.7% compared to 2006. GROUP-WIDE ENVIRONMENTAL For the trend over the past few years see Figure 14 PROTECTION and see Figure 15. 3.1 Our management approach F.15 Waste for disposal per vehicle produced in kg/vehicle 3.2 Energy consumption and emissions 14.0 12.0 3.3 Efficient transport logistics 10.0 3.4 M  aterials use and 8.0 waste management 6.0 4.0 3.5 Water 2.0 3.6 V  OC emissions and biodiversity 09 10 11 12 13 11.031 10.491 8.491 6.471 5.731 1  Efficiency indicator equals waste for disposal divided by the total number of vehicles ­produced, not including the vehicles from the Magna Steyr contract production plant. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Materials use and waste management 88 5 3 .5 Water – closing water cycles at the paint shops and introducing waterless processes (dry separation) USING WATER SPARINGLY Currently, there is no risk to water supply at the BMW Group’s production plants, even though we are active in countries with high water risk, such as South Africa, the USA and China. In these countries in particular, we are continuing to reduce our water consumption in order to help conserve scarce resources. GROUP-WIDE ENVIRONMENTAL Water is an increasingly scarce resource: over onePROTECTION third of the world’s population live in countries where For example, in the USA we more than halved water water supply is a problem. As a result, careful use consumption between 2006 and 2013. We try to use 3.1 Our management approach of this natural resource is set to become ever more drinking water only when it is necessary for reasons 3.2 Energy consumption important in the future. For this reason, we are workof hygiene. We aim to gradually increase the ratio of and emissions ing hard to reduce our water consumption and are process water (industrial water) and hence reduce the developing wastewater-free processes for our proconsumption of drinking water. We want our waste3.3 Efficient transport logistics duction lines. By 2020, we aim to reduce our water water to contain only as many substances as can be 3.4 M  aterials use and consumption per vehicle produced by 45% compared broken down naturally. waste management with 2006. 3.5 Water COMPLYING WITH LEGAL REGULATIONS 3.6 V  OC emissions and The three largest water consumers at the BMW Group Due to legal requirements the limits are regularly biodiversity are the sanitary facilities for our workforce (47%), controlled. BMW Group water guidelines prescribe evaporation, mainly at cooling towers (31%) and how to handle substances that could be hazardous to the production processes, mainly at the paint shops the water supply. These standards usually exceed the (22%). We are continuously improving our resource local requirements. efficiency in all three areas by: At all international BMW Group production plants – replacing sanitary fittings with water-efficient and at our German and many international dealversions erships, we have implemented an environmental management system in accordance with ISO 14001, – gradually replacing open cooling towers with which also manages our water consumption. closed ones and using groundwater for cooling (for example in the plant in Tiexi, China) Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Water 89 3 .5 this process. No water is used. This procedure will gradually be adopted by all locations over the next few years. – Since 2012, part of the purified wastewater that results from the corrosion protection process in the paint shop at the Munich plant has been reused in another paint shop process. – At the Dingolfing plant, an old ion exchanger was replaced by a more efficient one. The number of regenerations that consume water and chemicals GROUP-WIDE ENVIRONMENTAL was significantly reduced as a result. In addition, PROTECTION the wastewater produced during regeneration is reused in another process. 3.1 Our management approach REDUCING WATER CONSUMPTION — Modern dry scrubbing method in the paint 3.2 Energy consumption shop at the BMW plant in Spartanburg. – At the Regensburg plant, we successfully tested a and emissions new procedure to reduce wastewater in cathodic dip painting. Using membrane technology, the 3.3 Efficient transport logistics By 2020, we aim to reduce our current water conanolyte wastewater is purified and returned to the 3.4 M  aterials use and sumption by 45% compared to 2006. Our vision is to production cycle. We are now gradually introducwaste management achieve wastewater-free production processes. ing this technology at all locations worldwide. 3.5 Water 3.6 V  OC emissions and DEVELOPING WASTEWATER-FREE PROCESSES – In South Africa, we installed measuring devices to enhance how we manage our consumption of biodiversity After carrying out tests to identify the three largest resources there. sources of water consumption, we introduced the following ongoing measures: – At many plants, for example in Shenyang (China), we replaced the bathroom fittings to significantly – To optimise water use at our paint shops, we are reduce sanitary water consumption. gradually switching the paint process from wet to dry. At the Spartanburg plant in the USA, for example, we are already using this state-of-theart dry separation process in the paint shop. The overspray paint, which does not reach the body of the vehicle during the painting process, can be bound by stone powder and then discharged using Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Water 90 3 .5 WATER CONSUMPTION REDUCED FURTHER 86% of the water used by the BMW Group comes from the public drinking water system. 14% is In 2013, the water consumption per vehicle produced groundwater. There was no consumption of water was 2.18 m3. This represents a reduction of 33.1% from sensitive sources (i.e. water from conservation compared to the base year 2006. We thus came closer areas) during the reporting period. to achieving our target of reducing water consumption by 45% by 2020. To see how our water consumpFINDING INDIVIDUAL SOLUTIONS TO CONFLICTS IN tion has developed over time see Figure 16 and see MEETING TARGETS Figure 17. In the period under report, we made great progress F.16 Water consumption per vehicle produced1 in reducing our water consumption. However, we in m3/vehicle did run into some conflicts when it came to meeting GROUP-WIDE ENVIRONMENTAL 3.0 our targets. Individual solutions had to be found. PROTECTION 2.8 For example, although changing the paint process 2.6 from wet to dry (dry separation) reduces water con3.1 Our management approach 2.4 sumption, it does create stone powder, which must 3.2 Energy consumption 2.2 be disposed of. Our Leipzig plant developed a model and emissions solution for this conflict by making the stone powder 09 10 11 12 13 available for use by a cement plant. 3.3 Efficient transport logistics 3.4  aterials use and M 2.662 2.402 2.252 2.222 2.182 waste management FORECAST 1 These figures refer to the production sites of the BMW Group. 3.5 Water Efficiency indicator = water consumption divided by the total number of vehicles produced, 2 not including the vehicles from the Magna Steyr contract production plant. We plan to further reduce our water consumption in the com3.6  OC emissions and V ing years. Our target is to reduce water consumption by 45% biodiversity F.17 Process wastewater per vehicle1 by 2020 (base year: 2006). To achieve this, we will continue in m3/vehicle to close the water cycles in the paints hops and in engine 0.70 production as well as replace old sanitary facilities and open 0.60 cooling towers. A concrete example of a reduction in water 0.50 consumption is the planned switchover by the paint shop at 0.40 our Dingolfing plant to the dry separation process in 2014. 0.30 09 10 11 12 13 0.642 0.602 0.572 0.512 0.472 1  he key figures refer to production wastewater. T 2 Efficiency indicator = process wastewater divided by the total number of vehicles produced, not including the vehicles from the Magna Steyr contract production plant. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Water 91 6 3 .6 VOC emissions and F.18 VOC emissions per vehicle produced in kg/vehicle biodiversity 2.50 2.25 2.00 1.75 1.50 1.25 1.00 09 10 11 12 13 GROUP-WIDE ENVIRONMENTAL In our Group-wide environmental efforts, we aim to 1.841 1.661 1.751 1.781 1.591 PROTECTION minimise the impact on the environment of our emis1 Efficiency  indicator = CO2 emissions minus CHP losses divided by the total number of vesions of volatile organic compounds (VOC). We therehicles produced, not including the vehicles from the Magna Steyr contract production plant. 3.1 Our management approach fore intend to reduce our VOC emissions by 45% by 3.2 Energy consumption 2020 (base year: 2006). Furthermore, we monitor the and emissions impact our business activities have on flora and fauna At our Spartanburg (USA) and Oxford (UK) plants as and use a biodiversity indicator to determine the enviwell, the paint shops have taken measures to further 3.3 Efficient transport logistics ronmental status of selected properties. reduce VOC emissions, for example by lowering the 3.4 M  aterials use and number of rinses specified and reusing the rinsing waste management liquid. 3.5 Water With an average of 1.59 kg VOC emissions per vehicle produced, we are below the maximum levels stipuBy the end of 2013, VOC emissions had been reduced 3.6  OC emissions and V lated in Germany at almost all plants worldwide. The by 36.7% (base year: 2006), bringing us much closer biodiversity only exception is the South African BMW plant in to achieving the goal we have set ourselves of a 45% Rosslyn near Pretoria, which is below the maximum reduction by 2020. worldwide limit but not yet below the stricter German VOC levels. Plans have already been made to For the development of VOC emissions over the last reduce VOC emissions in the paint shop there. five years see Figure 18. At the Dadong plant run by our joint venture partner BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. in China, we installed a thermal exhaust-air treatment system in 2013. Since initial operation this reduced VOC emissions there from 5.63 kg to less than 1.00 kg per vehicle produced, very efficiently and significantly lessening the environmental impact. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— VOC emissions and biodiversity 92 3 .6 PROTECTING BIODIVERSITY At all our locations, we monitor the impact our business activities have on the animal and plant world. We have gathered environmental evidence at selected locations such as Leipzig and Regensburg to identify local animal and plant species and introduce special protective measures for endangered species. For example, at our testing centre in Aschheim, we identified the butterfly species Polyommatus bellargus and Colias hyale/alfacariensis, both of which are on Germany’s red list of endangered species. GROUP-WIDE ENVIRONMENTAL BIODIVERSITY — At the BMW plant in Regensburg. PROTECTION We use a biodiversity indicator to regularly identify the environmental status of properties at selected 3.1 Our management approach locations in order to gain an understanding of the of nature is relevant (e.g. Miramas, Regensburg, 3.2 Energy consumption flora and fauna there. Our Spartanburg plant in Wackersdorf, Leipzig and Aschheim). and emissions the USA as well as our testing centres in Miramas (France) and Aschheim (Germany) are the only loca3.3 Efficient transport logistics tions that directly border on a protected area. FORECAST 3.4 M  aterials use and waste management In the period under report, there were no significant Our new plant BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. in Tiexi, 3.5 Water emissions of hazardous substances. We are not aware China will contribute further to achieving a reduction in of any impact our products and services have had on VOC emissions. In addition, solvent emissions at the South 3.6  OC emissions and V protected areas or regions of high biodiversity. ­African plant will be reduced in the medium term to the biodiversity level at other plants. PRESERVING NATURAL HABITATS In 2014, we will continue to work hard on the topic of biodiWe try to protect and restore natural habitats. Just a versity management and to define the next steps in this area. few years after construction of the Leipzig plant, the location was certified as having a high biodiversity factor due to its natural landscape design. The testing centre in Miramas (France) was built away from nat­ural habitats. Driving is only allowed on marked routes at the Enduropark in Hechlingen. Maintenance measures are carried out regularly to further improve biological diversity. In addition, we continue to gather data at locations where the p ­ rotection Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— VOC emissions and biodiversity 93 4 S USTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 4.1 4.2 4.3 Our management approach — p. 97 Three-step process to minimise risk — p. 101 Utilising opportunities and leveraging potential — p. 104 94 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT WE FOSTER LONG-TERM SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIPS. — SUSTAINABILITY RISK MANAGEMENT — PARTICIPATION IN INITIATIVES — PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS AND NETWORKS FOR THE SUPPLIER NETWORK — SUSTAINABILITY TRAINING Stakeholders increasingly expect companies to be responsible for the entire ­product life cycle and to utilise their influence in the supply chain. One-third of consumers today already consider it important that products fulfil their ­sustainability expectations. Data source: Globe Scan/SustainAbility: The 2013 Aspirational Consumer Index SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 95 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT PROGRESS IN 2013 KPIs 2014+ FORECAST AND OBJECTIVES FURTHER DEVELOPED OUR RISK OPERATIONAL PURCHASERS AND COMCONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT OF RISK ­MANAGEMENT MODITY MANAGERS RECEIVED TRAINING ­MANAGEMENT 80 – Wrisk ­ – Inevenorderfurther, — 2013 e are continuously working to refine our to improve our risk management filter. In addition to the annual data update our focus for 2014 is on better in 2013, we also carried out special risk integration of risk assessment into the supplier assessments for all product groups. over % selection process. EXTENSIVE TRAINING CONCEPT REGIONAL DISTRIBUTION OF IMPROVE TRANSPARENCY IN THE SUPPLY ­IMPLEMENTED ­PURCHASING VOLUME CHAIN – – We — 2013 In 2013, around 1,000 purchasers, internal actively promote greater transparency in in %, basis: production material process partners and suppliers participated the supply chain for selected, relevant and in our wide range of courses, from webe f g critical raw materials and components by based training modules to two-day certificate d engaging in initiatives, networks and projects. courses. c a STAKEHOLDER ROUNDTABLE b EXPAND COLLABORATION IMPLEMENTED – Atcarmakers European level, we work closely with o­ ther – Inof December 2013, we discussed the topic a) Germany b) Rest of Western Europe 47 19 on the joint development of risk sustainability in the supply chain and minimisation instruments. We also participate in raw materials production with selected c) Central and eastern Europe 17 in cross-sectoral networks and initiatives to stakeholders from the fields of science, d) NAFTA 12 improve sustainability in supply chains. industry, non-governmental organisations e) Africa 2 and politics. f) Asia/Australia 2 g) China 1 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 96 1 4 .1 Our management – Utilising opportunities and leveraging potential. We achieve this by working closely with suppli­approach ers, for example by promoting resource efficiency, training and qualifying our employees and suppliers, as well as by actively engaging in initiatives and in dialogue with stakeholders. Our approach involves on the one hand to ensure sustainability standards with comprehensive, broadbased risk management – i.e. with all of our direct suppliers – and on the other hand in-depth analysis of specific raw materials and resources along the SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT Our global supply chain network makes a major entire supply chain. contribution to value creation, quality and inno4.1 Our management approach vative strength, and hence to the success of the IMPROVING SUSTAINABILITY IN THE SUPPLIER NETWORK BMW Group. Our suppliers therefore play a signif4.2  hree-step process T to minimise risk icant role in helping us to achieve our sustainability To ensure continuous improvement in our two areas goals and in the sustainable development of society as of focus, we continued to develop our risk manage4.3 Utilising opportunities a whole. ment and related processes in 2013. We provided and leveraging potential sustainability training for over 80% of our operational purchasers and commodity managers and were Our cooperation with suppliers is marked by a actively involved in the Aluminium Stewardship mutual understanding of product and production Initiative (ASI), an initiative for creating sustainable quality, security of supply, price credibility and innostandards for the aluminium value chain. vative strength as well as the continuous integration of our sustainability standards. In times of complex We also continued to drive the purchase internaglobal supplierand value-added chains, involving tionalisation in 2013, and to expand local sourcing. a large number of suppliers and sub-suppliers, our For example, at our production plants in Germany demands represent a considerable challenge but also more than 40% of our direct purchasing volume was a great opportunity. sourced from suppliers in Germany in 2013. Besides reducing currency risks, local sourcing offers numerIn order to ensure sustainability and continuous ous additional benefits. Expanding local sourcing improvement throughout the entire supplier nethelps us to support communities and regions and work, we concentrate mainly on two areas: also reduces logistics costs and the resulting CO2 emissions. – Managing and minimising risks. In the risk management process, we identify and analyse potential sustainability risks along the Previous Next Contents Home ­supply chain. chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Our management ­approach 97 4 .1 INTEGRATION INTO THE ORGANISATION F.19 Regional mix of BMW Group purchase volumes in 2013 in %, basis: production material Within the BMW Group, the specialist divisions e f g d Functional Processes and Sustainability in the Purchasing and Supplier Network, Sustainability and Environmental Protection and Raw Materials Mana c agement work together closely and assume joint responsibility to ensure sustainability in our supply chains. b PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS FOR SUPPLIERS a) Germany 47 e) Africa 2 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT The BMW Group abides by the principles of the UN b) Rest of Western Europe 19 f) Asia/Australia 2 Global Compact, the International Labour Organizac) Central and Eastern Europe 17 g) China 1 4.1 Our management approach tion (ILO) and the UNEP Cleaner Production Declad) NAFTA (+ MERCOSUR) 12 ration. We also align our focus with the guidelines of 4.2 T  hree-step process to minimise risk the OECD and the ICC Charta. On the same basis, we approved the Joint Declaration on Human Rights 4.3 Utilising opportunities and Working Conditions at the BMW Group in 2005. potential new suppliers. This is an important corand leveraging potential With this declaration, the BMW Group has made a nerstone for us in the integration of sustainability commitment to respecting human rights at all times aspects into the procurement process. Each potensee section 1.1. tial new supplier must take into consideration the BMW Group sustainability requirements when subFor the BMW Group, it is essential that our business mitting a proposal. Sustainable material properties partners meet the same environmental and social such as the use of secondary aluminium are also standards we have set ourselves. The BMW Group addressed in the request for proposal. Supplier Sustainability Standard establishes basic principles and standards to be adhered to by all After the proposal has been submitted, these details BMW Group suppliers. This includes compliance are included as key decision-making indicators in with all internationally recognised human rights as the procurement process. When the decision for a well as labour and social standards. particular supplier is being made, a standard template provides the committees responsible with all INTEGRATION OF SUSTAINABILITY INTO THE PROCURErelevant information. Sustainability is one of the MENT PROCESS decision-making criteria, alongside product and production quality, security of supply, innovative The BMW Group Supplier Sustainability Standard strength and price credibility. is an integral part of the documentation and the sustainability self-assessment questionnaire sent to Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Our management ­approach 98 4 .1 ENGAGEMENT IN INDUSTRY INITIATIVES AND NETWORKS and systematically focusing on and prioritising the company’s own activities (for example with respect Engagement in initiatives, networks and associations to certain raw materials or specific supply chains). and the resulting exchanges beyond the boundaries In addition, the stakeholders advised industry-wide of our company are essential for our activities and our and cross-industry cooperation to develop joint continuous improvement efforts. At the European approaches. level, for example, the BMW Group collaborates with eight other car companies in the European AutomoPROMOTING DIVERSITY IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN tive Working Group on Supply Chain Sustainability, which is coordinated by CSR Europe, to jointly proIt is important to us to develop, promote and expand mote greater sustainability in the supply chain. This the diversity of our suppliers. We are convinced that group of companies develops measures to minimise these efforts are of great benefit not only for suppliSUPPLIER MANAGEMENT risk and works on projects to increase sustainability ers and society, but also for our long-term economic in supply chains and to establish standard minimum growth. 4.1 Our management approach requirements for suppliers. Furthermore, as a member of econsense, the Forum for Sustainable DevelopIn the United States, in contrast with other countries, 4.2  hree-step process T to minimise risk ment of German Business, we promote cross-industry companies owned by women and minority groups auditing systems to evaluate sustainability at supplier can register separately. This inspired us to launch an 4.3 Utilising opportunities companies. initiative to promote supplier diversity at our Sparand leveraging potential tanburg plant. As part of this initiative, we organENGAGING WITH STAKEHOLDERS ised our first Matchmaking Conference in 2012. The conference brings together current and potential Engaging with our stakeholders is an additional first-tier suppliers and sub-suppliers with purchasimportant tool for us to continuously improve our ing executives from the BMW Group to promote measures and activities and to identify and discuss purchasing from companies owned by women or key trends that helps us to stay on track while disminorities. cussing and assimilating external trends. Therefore, in December 2013 we discussed the topic of sustainAround 50 direct suppliers and 300 companies run ability in the supply chain and in raw materials proby women and minorities came to the first conferduction with selected stakeholders from the fields of ence. In 2013, there were already twice as many science, industry, non-governmental organisations suppliers attending as in the previous year: over and politics. 600 womenand minority-owned companies and around 100 direct suppliers participated. Thanks to It became evident in the course of the talks that the new contacts made at the conferences between stakeholders expect companies like the BMW Group the various companies, we were able over the past to assume more responsibility along the supply chain. two years to heavily increase number of companies Key recommendations included applying solutions run by women and minorities among the direct from other industries to the automotive industry, suppliers at our Spartanburg plant, as well as the Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Our management ­approach 99 4 .1 our suppliers. Furthermore, we also engage in cross-­ industry initiatives for this purpose. In December 2012, for example, we were the first carmaker to join the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI). ­Aluminium plays a major role in lightweight construction, because it weighs significantly less than steel and hence contributes to weight reduction. The aim of the ASI is to create sustainable standards along the entire aluminium value chain – from responsible corporate governance to compliance with environmental and social standards. The ASI is the first comprehensive initiative for creating a SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT PROMOTING DIVERSITY — Matchmaking conference hosts suppliers and sustainable standard for the value chain of a metallic managers of the BMW Group. resource. 4.1 Our management approach 4.2  hree-step process T to minimise risk number of such companies among our s­ econd-tier FORECAST suppliers. 4.3 Utilising opportunities Ensuring sustainability along the entire supply chain is a and leveraging potential SUSTAINABLY EXTRACTING AND PROCURING RAW lengthy process. To continue making real progress, we will MATERIALS further develop our risk management processes in 2014. We will also work closely with our suppliers in order to achieve Raw materials are the basis for every industrial progreater transparency in the supply chain and to implement duction process and thus indispensable to indusresource efficiency projects. try. However, with today’s multi-layered global and dynamic supply chains, the intermediate trade and processing stages, and commodity trading on the stock exchange, actually tracing the route of a raw material from the mine to the end product is an extremely complex undertaking. It is therefore a great challenge to influence sustainability standards in raw materials production. Our approach is to focus on selected, relevant and critical raw materials and supply chains. To this end, we analyse and assess these supply chains and the need for action. From this analysis we derive measures that we implement in conjunction with Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Our management ­approach 100 2 4 .2 Three-step process to The respective production facility of the supplier, rather than its head office, is assessed in each minimise risk case. If a supply chain is thought to be in breach of sustainability standards, it is also evaluated using the sustainability risk filter. We continuously improve the system used for the risk filter. In addition to the annual update of the data in 2013, we also added special risk assessments for all product groups. STEP 2: VOLUNTARY SELF-ASSESSMENT QUESTIONNAIRE SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT The main instrument we use to ensure our sustainability standards is our sustainability risk The sustainability risk filter forms the basis for the 4.1 Our management approach management process, which we are continually next step – the supplier submits a voluntary self-asrefining. It consists of a sustainability risk filter sessment questionnaire. Since 2009, we have been 4.2  hree-step process T to minimise risk specifically designed for the BMW Group, a voluntary asking suppliers to complete this questionnaire to self-­assessment questionnaire and sustainability provide a self-evaluation of their sustainability man4.3 Utilising opportunities audits. In addition, we identify and analyse relevant agement and related activities. The questions cover and leveraging potential and potentially high-risk suppliers using a media whether they have an ISO 14001 environmental manscreening tool. Through systematic observation and agement system in place, to what extent recyclability analysis of supplier-specific media coverage and is considered in product development, and informasocial media posts, we can identify potential risks at tion on waste utilisation concepts and compliance an early stage. with human rights. In 2013, around 3,000 suppliers submitted the information we requested. STEP 1: SUSTAINABILITY RISK FILTER If the sustainability questionnaire identifies low sustainability performance at the supplier’s facility, First, our proprietary sustainability risk filter purchasers and suppliers develop a joint action plan evaluates all suppliers with regard to their for improvement. This approach reflects our convicenvironmental, social and governance risk potential. tion that sustainability in supply chains can only be We take into account here both location-specific achieved if we work hand in hand with our suppliers. and product-­specific risks. This includes for instance an assessment of social risks in certain All agreements concluded by BMW AG with its supcountries, such as child labour or forced labour. We pliers contain clauses based on the principles of the also consider environmental risks such as damage UN Global Compact and the International Labour to nature, e­ missions, and process materials that Organization (ILO). These principles also specify contain substances that can be hazardous to health. that a contractual commitment must be made to Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Three-step process to minimise risk 101 4 .2 implement environmental management systems and management and employees, as well as a review of comply with labour and social standards. They also the management system. prohibit bribery and corruption and obligate suppliers to pass this ban on to sub-suppliers. If the results of an audit show non-compliance or potential for improvement, we work with the supFor suppliers with known sustainability deficits, we plier to develop a specific plan of action and provide supplement the supply contracts with corrective assistance with implementing this plan. If the supaction plans and clauses. We can thus ensure that all plier is uncooperative or in breach of a fundamental sustainability requirements will be met by the beginBMW Group sustainability clause, termination of ning of the contract period. Our goal is for complibusiness relations may follow. Our goal however is to ance with these standards to be viewed as a matter of determine the majority of risks through the first two course. This applies not only to our first-tier supplisteps, to manage these risks and in this way to help SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT ers, but also to their sub-suppliers. suppliers raise their sustainability standards. Audits represent the final stage of our risk management and 4.1 Our management approach As we have at best an indirect influence on sub-supare carried out only in exceptional cases and for highpliers, however, it is only through our first-tier suprisk suppliers. 4.2  hree-step process T to minimise risk pliers that we can press for implementation of our standards along the entire supply chain. We therefore When we become aware of individual cases of 4.3 Utilising opportunities support our first-tier suppliers in introducing mannon-compliance with our sustainability principles, and leveraging potential agement systems and require them to ensure that our Supply Chain Response Team handles them, their sub-suppliers likewise comply with our susapplying a defined process. This team is made up tainability requirements. We also develop individual of one representative each from Operational and action plans for specific supply chains. Strategic Purchasing, Corporate Strategy (a sustainability expert), Corporate Communications and the STEP 3: SUSTAINABILITY AUDITS Works Council. In 2013, the Supply Chain Response Team was called upon in four cases. All four cases Supplier production facilities that have an increased involved human rights violations by suppliers or risk of breaching sustainability requirements, and sub-suppliers. The team takes a three-step approach facilities suspected of such a breach, are subject to to its response. First, the management of the supindependent audits. The first step is a detailed examplier company receives a written request to provide ination of sustainability performance at the supplia statement and agree to a clarifying interview. If er’s production facility using a specially designed clarification is not possible, a visit is made to the catalogue of criteria. Based on this, verifications and supplier company. If non-compliance is confirmed certifications will be carried out by external auditors. and the supplier is not cooperative or shows no If we conclude at some point that further validation improvement, termination of the current business of the supplier is necessary, we then initiate a comrelations with the supplier may result as a final step. plete on-site sustainability audit. This audit includes, However, it is not our general intention to terminate for example, plant inspections and interviews with business relationships with suppliers, but rather Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Three-step process to minimise risk 102 4 .2 F.20 Risk management process 1. Identify Risks 2. Retrieve Self-Assessment 3. Conduct Audits 1a 1b 2a 2b 3a 3b Identify high risk Identify and analyse Obtain Develop Sustainability Corrective supplier locations high risk suppliers self-assessment supplier-specific audit conducted action plan based on based on media sustainability corrective by independent based on sustainability screening questionnaire action plan external auditors audit result risk filter SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 4.1 Our management approach 4.2  hree-step process T to minimise risk to raise awareness of this issue amongst suppliers FORECAST and sub-suppliers to enable them to become more 4.3 Utilising opportunities sustainable. In order to improve our risk management even further, our and leveraging potential focus for 2014 is on better integration of risk assessment into the supplier selection process. In addition, we will systematically promote projects for achieving greater transparency in the supply chains for critical raw materials and components. Finally, at the European level, the BMW Group will continue to expand its collaboration with other carmakers to promote sustainability in supply chains. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Three-step process to minimise risk 103 3 4 .3 Utilising opportunities and leveraging ­potential SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT A long-term orientation and close collaboration with REWARDING INNOVATION — BMW Supplier Innovation Award 2013. our suppliers form the foundation for successful and 4.1 Our management approach stable business relations. On this basis, we can cooperate with our suppliers to utilise the challenges in and process innovations at the BMW Group Research 4.2 T  hree-step process to minimise risk the area of sustainability as an opportunity for develand Innovation Centre in Munich. The aim of the opment and to leverage the potential in this field. event is to encourage an exchange of information on 4.3 Utilising opportunities This includes, for example, efficient use of resources, the topics of innovation and sustainability, while conand leveraging potential increasing awareness of sustainability along the supnecting these issues in a targeted fashion. ply chain, and promoting innovative ideas. In 2011, the BMW Group introduced a Supplier Innovation Award to recognise and reward especially The focus is on three key areas: event concepts innovative achievements on the part of suppliers. such as the Learning from Suppliers forum and the The prize is awarded in eight categories, including ­Supplier Innovation Award, training courses and sustainability. ­presentations for purchasers and suppliers, and projects to improve resource efficiency in the supply At the award ceremony in April 2013, the winner of chain. the Supplier Innovation Award in the category of sustainability was Aunde Achter & Ebels GmbH. With LEARNING FROM AND WITH SUPPLIERS seat covers made from 100% PET recyclate, Aunde Achter & Ebels GmbH supplied a high-quality upholSince 2012, in the Learning from Suppliers forum, stery fabric. This seat cover sets new standards in the our suppliers have been showcasing best-practice field of recycling. case studies on innovative and sustainable solutions for products, materials and production processes. In the context of this event series, suppliers have a chance every month to present sustainable product Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Utilising opportunities and leveraging ­potential 104 4 .3 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 4.1 Our management approach 4.2 T  hree-step process to minimise risk 4.3 Utilising opportunities and leveraging potential WORKING WITH SUPPLIERS WORLDWIDE — Seat suppliers in China. TRAINING FOR EMPLOYEES AND SUPPLIERS – A basic training course for new purchasing employees, with a module on sustainability. 154 employees We offer a wide range of training courses for purparticipated in this training in 2013. chasers, internal process partners and suppliers. This comprises: – A Web-based training course that includes case studies on sustainability in the supplier network. – A basic training course on sustainability in the supThis training is available to both employees of the ply chain for purchasers and commodity managers. BMW Group and its suppliers. In 2013, around 800 (over 80%) of our operational purchasers and commodity managers took part in – A two-day course to become a certified sustainabilthis training. We thus exceeded our goal of training ity officer for the purchasing and supplier network. 80% of our purchasers and commodity managers in In cooperation with the University of Ulm, we offer sustainability in 2013. The number of participants this course to employees and suppliers. In 2013, a was reported to top management as the achievetotal of 40 people participated in the certification. ment of a target value on the Balanced Score Card. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Utilising opportunities and leveraging ­potential 105 4 .3 – Presentations at external events as well as particiFORECAST pation in roundtables and panel discussions. These include for example conferences and meetings for In the future, we will continue to offer our events and trainmedium-sized German businesses, as well as colloing courses and to systematically work with our suppliers quiums on expert studies. towards a more resource-efficient supply chain. WORKING TOGETHER FOR A RESOURCE-EFFICIENT ­SUPPLY CHAIN Reducing resource consumption and achieving greater energy efficiency in production have been major goals of the BMW Group for a long time. SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT Because our suppliers are responsible for a large part of the value chain, it is not enough for us to set 4.1 Our management approach sustainability standards only for the energyand resource-efficiency of our own production. In an 4.2 T  hree-step process to minimise risk effort to better identify potential improvements in our suppliers’ energy and resource consumption, 4.3 Utilising opportunities we joined the Supply Chain Program of the Carbon and leveraging potential Disclosure Project (CDP) in 2013. By participating in the CDP Supply Chain Program, suppliers can record their resource consumption on a generally accepted platform. They benefit from greater transparency in their resource use, leading to potential business opportunities and cost savings. Further, we review, observe, and analyse the resource consumption and CO2 emissions of our Top 100 suppliers and evaluate their potential for improvement at six-month intervals in Supplier Performance Review meetings. These two measures help us to better assess suppliers’ efficiency and to uncover ways to save even more energy and resources together. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Utilising opportunities and leveraging ­potential 106 5 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 EMPLOYEES 5.1 5.2 5.3 5.4 5.5 5.6 Our management approach Attractive employer Work-life balance — p. 114 Occupational health and safety Training and further education Diversity and inclusion — p. 136 — p. 110 — p. 130 — p. 120 — p. 125 107 5 EMPLOYEES WE OFFER ATTRACTIVE WORKPLACES. — “TODAY FOR TOMORROW” — FURTHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING DEMOGRAPHICS PROGRAMME — HEALTH MANAGEMENT AS WELL AS LIFELONG LEARNING PROGRAMMES — DIVERSITY — FLEXITIME — ERGONOMIC WORKPLACE DESIGN The average age of the population is steadily increasing. In 2030, one billion people will be 65 years of age or older. This trend as well as the expected shortage of skilled workers in the long term and changing employee requirements have consequences for HR planning at the BMW Group. Source: KPMG 2013. Future State 2030: The global megatrends shaping governments. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— EMPLOYEES 108 5 EMPLOYEES PROGRESS IN 2013 KPIs 2014+ FORECAST AND OBJECTIVES HR STRATEGY FURTHER REFINED EMPLOYEES AT THE BMW GROUP REALIGN HR DEVELOPMENT – W­global – We — 2013 e reviewed our HR strategy and set up a are bringing our HR processes into line with 110,351 organisational structure as the basis employee development, focusing on integratfor coordination of strategic HR topics. ing employees to the greatest extent possible and increasing transparency in recruiting, succession management and potential assessment ­processes. 2012 105,876 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY SHARE OF FEMALE EMPLOYEES AT ENHANCE OUR ATTRACTIVENESS AS AN ­IMPROVED BMW GROUP ­EMPLOYER – – By — 2013 17.4 We were able to further reduce accident introducing mobile working, we have ­frequency at the BMW Group to 4.8 accidents taken a further innovative step towards selfper one million hours worked. determined working hours, results focus and % individual design of working environments. 2012 16.8% PROMOTE COMPATIBILITY OF WORK-LIFE APPRENTICES FURTHER ESTABLISH DIVERSITY BALANCE – Diversity — 2013 and inclusion has become part of the – We 4,445 opened our own company childcare facility compulsory further training programmes for at the Munich location, which can accommomanagers. date around 220 children. 2012 4,266 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— MITARBEITER 109 1 5 .1 Our management At the same time, we still face challenges ahead. In Germany and other Western industrialised nations ­approach in particular, skilled workers will become increasingly scarce in the medium term. Demographic change is also having a considerable effect on the age structure of our workforce. It is therefore essential that we position ourselves on all relevant labour markets as an attractive employer, for all target and age groups. To achieve this we offer an attractive working environment that takes particular account of age and life phases. We constantly develop the skills of our employees to meet our high commitment to EMPLOYEES Our success is based on the dedication and technical innovation. expertise of our employees. We make every effort 5.1 Our management approach to attract and keep the best people. To achieve this, INTERNATIONAL AND INTERCULTURAL ALIGNMENT OF we offer them secure and attractive jobs, compreOUR HUMAN RESOURCES STRATEGY 5.2 Attractive employer hensive development and training opportunities and 5.3 Occupational health a HR policy geared to the long term. We also pay Based on our Strategy Number ONE, the and safety above-­average wages and have a variety of measures BMW Group Human Resources Strategy was passed 5.4 T  raining and further in place to enable employees to balance work and in 2008 and has been continuously developed since education private life. then. In 2013, we updated the strategy based on an analysis of the global strategic environment, adapting 5.5 Diversity and inclusion it to include regional matters. We closely align the HR 5.6 Work-life balance Despite diverse challenging economic conditions organisation to the requirements of the HR Strategy. for the global automotive industry, the BMW Group In 2013, we set up for the first time a global structure was able to achieve very good results in 2013. This to coordinate strategic HR matters with and within is mainly due to the commitment, creativity and the regions, in order to accommodate the different expertise of our employees. We want to continue to cultural challenges faced in an international context. make every effort to attract and keep the best people. For example, recruiting potential in the threshold Apart from the fixed and variable salary components, countries that are experiencing high levels of growth we also offer our employees a wide range of social is significantly lower than in established industrial benefits. Our employees are deployed according to nations. In spite of the fact that these countries have their individual strengths and talents, which they much better demographics, this trend has developed can continue to develop by taking advantage of tardue to the competition generated by the high number geted, future-focused further education and training of companies building up workforces. On the other programmes. hand, the increase in life expectancy in industrial countries has produced higher cost pressure in the medical and social sectors. In the countries where we Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Our management ­approach 110 5 .1 do business, we address these different challenges by ACHIEVING SUSTAINABILITY OBJECTIVES THROUGH installing country-specific concepts derived from our STRATEGIC PROJECTS global strategic projects. Particularly when it comes to employees, we are able to combine our Group-wide From our strategic projects, we also derive most of intercultural competence with our local expertise. our long-term sustainability objectives and expectations with regard to employees. In 2012, we The main global strategic projects are as follows: introduced long-term objectives which we are continuously developing. – Leadership Qualification and Development: Development of current and future managers to expand The objectives are anchored within the internal objectheir leadership and employee management skills tives system (e.g. balanced scorecard) with results and to enable them to achieve their personal tarbeing tracked on an ongoing basis. These include, for EMPLOYEES gets as well as company objectives. example, our attractiveness as an employer, excellent leadership and employee diversity, reduction of work 5.1 Our management approach – Future Talent Program: Recruitment and developaccidents, promotion of employee health and ongoment of university graduates and future man­agers ing further education and training. 5.2 Attractive employer from outside the BMW Group in order to build up 5.3 Occupational health a long-term and diverse global talent pool. One of the key parameters applied in HR policy is the and safety number of employees working at the BMW Group. 5.4  raining and further T – Diversity & inclusion: Transformation of the existThis number increased worldwide by 4.2% to a total education ing diversity concept into a diversity-&-­inclusionof 110,351 by the end of 2013, partly due to an strategy suitable for global application. Definition increase in the number of skilled workers recruited as 5.5 Diversity and inclusion of objectives and performance indicators at global, a result of high demand for our vehicles see Figure 21. 5.6 Work-life balance national and regional level to derive and implement suitable measures. Key decisions that affect employment are taken by the entire Board of Management. BMW AG Human – Health and Work Environment: Promotion of Resources is responsible for the various aspects of the best possible employee performance at the employment. Progress on the implementation of the BMW Group, based on demand-oriented measures Human Resources Strategy is regularly reported to in the area of health and working environment. the Board of Management. Human Resources and the specialist divisions bear equal responsibility for successful implementation. In our long-term HR policy, we formulate the targets by which the company is to be measured. Some of the main principles here are respect and team spirit. We believe that good teams are more than the sum of their parts; a strong team spirit forms the basis for Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Our management ­approach 111 5 .1 F.21 BMW Group employees at end of year1 Number OUR WORKFORCE IN FIGURES — AS AT YEAR-END 2013 120,000 100,000 80,000 60,000 110,351 employees AT BMW GROUP — 2012: 105,876 employees 40,000 4,445 apprentices 20,000 09 10 11 12 13 AT BMW GROUP — 2012: 4,266 apprentices EMPLOYEES Total 96,230 95,453 100,306 105,8762 110,3513 99 countries of origin Employees in Germany Employees international EMPLOYEES FROM AROUND 99 COUNTRIES ACROSS ALL 1 F  igures exclude suspended contracts of employment, employees in the non-work phases of ­LOCATIONS OF THE BMW AG 5.1 Our management approach pre-retirement arrangements and low income earners. Of whom 35.2% are tariff-bound production employees of the BMW Group. 17.4% share of 2 5.2 Attractive employer Of whom 35.1% are tariff-bound production employees of the BMW Group. 3 5.3 Occupational health and safety long-term success. This also applies to our collabor­ female employees IN TOTAL WORKFORCE AT BMW GROUP — 2012: 16.8% 5.4 T  raining and further ation with our partners worldwide. Based on this, we education can offer our employees secure and attractive jobs. 5.5 Diversity and inclusion 13.8% share of The principles of our human resources policy 5.6 Work-life balance are binding for every employee. In addition, our female employees 12 Group-wide basic principles form the foundaIN MANAGEMENT POSITIONS AT BMW GROUP — 2012: 12.7% tion for the recruitment and conduct of managers and employees. Group management as well as the national and international employee representa3.5 days AVERAGE DAYS OF FURTHER TRAINING tives are committed as well to assuming their social PER EMPLOYEE AT THE BMW GROUP — 2012: 3.7 days responsibility and to the basic principles of the UN Global Compact see Chapter 1. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Our management ­approach 112 5 .1 COMPLYING WITH THE PRINCIPLES OF HR POLICY AND include standard shift models and modular capacity HUMAN RIGHTS systems, such as defined extensions and reductions in shift hours, working through breaks and collective In order to ensure adherence to our HR principles in breaks. We also ensure flexibility by utilising tempor­ daily operations, the BMW Group has established a ary work contracts and to a limited extent by using multi-level monitoring system. When potential legal the services of temping agencies. violations by BMW Group employees are involved, assistance is provided by the BMW Group CompliOUR PROGRESS IN THE CORE AREAS ance Organisation. As an additional point of contact for human rights issues, each employee has access The organisational realignment of the HR division by phone to our Human Rights Contact helpline. To also led to a pooling of our talent management. We prevent human rights abuses in the supply chain, we use integrated young talent programmes as well as EMPLOYEES identify risks and take action against any violations training and further education to ensure that we can of our standards see Chapter 1.4 and see Chapter 4.1. fulfil our strategic skills requirements worldwide 5.1 Our management approach In addition, the office for health and safety and ergosee Chapter 5.2 and see Chapter 5.4. We have also nomics is available to provide advice on all aspects of pooled the topics of health promotion and sustain5.2 Attractive employer health and safety. able performance see Chapter 5.3. By restructuring 5.3 Occupational health the HR organisation based on international hubs, we and safety GUARANTEEING FAIR PAY AND STRATEGIC FLEXIBILITY want to make a contribution towards more c­ ultural 5.4  raining and further T diversity see Chapter 5.5. Moreover, we added a new education The BMW Group policies for remuneration and addiBMW company childcare facility to our existing worktional benefits apply for all BMW Group companies. life balance packages, and expanded an existing 5.5 Diversity and inclusion We pursue a total remuneration approach in which childcare facility see Chapter 5.6. 5.6 Work-life balance salaries as well as our extensive range of benefits are considered part of a total package. The main guiding principle is fair pay. For every location worldwide, the FORECAST total remuneration package must be above the average of the respective labour market. Minimum wage In 2014 again, we will continue to work on developing solulegislation must be complied with. We ensure that we tions to accommodate the different cultural challenges faced are complying with these objectives by carrying out in an international context and will expand the global strucregular, centrally managed remuneration studies. ture to coordinate strategic HR matters with and within the regions. In order to continue to be successful in the future and to be able to secure jobs in the long term, we You can find information on further planned changes in HR have made it our mission to reconcile sustainability management at the BMW Group at the end of each of the management with strategic flexibility. We use a range following sub-chapters. of instruments to ensure flexibility, in order to adapt working hours to fluctuations in demand. These Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Our management ­approach 113 5 2 .2 Attractive employer EMPLOYEES We are one of the most attractive employers worldATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER — A skilled workforce increases competitiveness. wide. And we intend to build further on this competi­ 5.1 Our management approach tive advantage: through above-average remuneration and social benefits, but also by taking feedback from this approach. However, for all our focus on perform­ 5.2 Attractive employer our employees seriously and offering them opportun­ ance, we know from experience that it is only possi5.3 Occupational health ities to develop their individual strengths within the ble when our employees are able to achieve a good and safety BMW Group. In addition, our leading role as a suswork-life balance. 5.4 T  raining and further tainable business significantly strengthens our appeal education to employees. SECURING SKILLS FOR THE FUTURE 5.5 Diversity and inclusion We try to set the course at an early stage to ensure 5.6 Work-life balance Our premium standards are at the heart of everywe have the skill sets we need for the company in the thing we do. We develop and offer our customers long run. Therefore, since 2011 we have been deterfirst-class products and services. To do this we need mining annually the skill sets we need based on the the best employees available. We rate amongst the corporate and departmental strategies, and we align most popular employers, which give us a crucial comour young talent and further training programmes petitive advantage. accordingly. But at the same time, we face many challenges. Also highly relevant for human resources planning Highly skilled workers are becoming increasingly are demographic effects on the structure of the scarce. The reasons for this differ from market to workforce. Foreseeable, age-related retirements were market. Today, we are already facing a lack of experts therefore systematically analysed in 2013, in Gerin some key areas. As an innovative business entermany and internationally. prise, it is important that we break new ground and develop new technologies. So we need experts in In the emerging markets such as China, India and areas such as electromobility who are ready to take Brazil in particular, demand for qualified employees Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Attractive employer 114 5 .2 is rising steadily. Attractive recruitment programmes STRENGTHENING OUR EMPLOYER BRAND and market-specific human resources marketing are therefore an integral part of our international human In 2013, we used all relevant channels to communiresources policy. cate our BMW Group Employer Brand, which was revised and updated in 2012, enabling us to raise the BMW Group’s external profile as an attractive ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER AWARDS IN 2013 employer. However, we want to capture the core of our employer brand even more effectively. In order – T2013: RENDENCE GRADUATE BAROMETER GERMANY to do this, all processes for recruiting, developing and retaining employees are being put to the test in Number 2 in business and engineering, number 4 in IT. the Talent Management initiative. We also conduct EMPLOYEES – UNumber NIVERSUM GRADUATE SURVEY 2013: 2 in business and engineering, number 11 in IT. intern­al employee surveys and culture analyses. The findings enable us to pursue our employer branding in an even more targeted manner worldwide. 5.1 Our management approach – GREPTRACK LOBAL REPUTATION INSTITUTE 2013 (GLOBAL 100): Our collaboration with universities reinforces grad5.2 Attractive employer 1st place (across industries and worldwide). uates’ awareness of the BMW Group as a potential 5.3 Occupational health and safety – TNumber RENDENCE EUROPE’S TOP 500 EMPLOYERS 2013: 9 in business, number 5 in engineering. employer. Here, we were able to gain new international partners, such as the Nanyang Technological 5.4  raining and further T University in Singapore. In addition, we continued to education – U2013: NIVERSUM WORLD’S MOST ADMIRED EMPLOYERS expand our HR marketing worldwide, adapting it to the specific needs of each market. 5.5 Diversity and inclusion Number 14 in business, number 5 in engineering (thus the 5.6 Work-life balance top automotive company and top German company). The Facebook career page launched in 2010 remains among the most visited career portals operated by – TNumber RENDENCE PUPIL BAROMETER GERMANY 2013: 4 (thus the top automotive company). companies in social networks, with an exceptionally high level of interaction. On a personal level, we – TGERMANY RENDENCE YOUNG PROFESSIONAL BAROMETER 2013: engage in dialogue that provides deep insights into the working world of the BMW Group. 1st place in the categories business, engineering and IT. REWARDING PERFORMANCE WITH ABOVE-AVERAGE – U2013: NIVERSUM PROFESSIONAL SURVEY GERMANY REMUNERATION 2nd place in business, 1st place in engineering, number 4 in IT. We reward the outstanding performance of our employees with above-average remuneration. Our remuneration is aligned with the upper third Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Attractive employer 115 5 .2 of the respective labour market worldwide. The industry and not the collective agreements in the BMW Group thus pays considerably above the local temporary work sector. This ensures that compenminimum wage. sation for core employees and temporary workers is largely the same. In addition to a fixed salary, our employees receive a variable share in the company’s profits. Due to the OFFERING EXTENSIVE SOCIAL BENEFITS positive business development in 2012, employees took home a profit share in 2013 that was almost Apart from the fixed and variable salary components, as high as the record level of the previous year. In the BMW Group also offers its employees a wide Germany, this amount was equivalent to around 2.5 range of social benefits, such as a company pension. months’ salary. The employees at our international sites are simiEMPLOYEES A standardised profit-based component for all of larly offered numerous social benefits geared toward our employees forms part of our variable remuner­ supplementing the social services available in their 5.1 Our management approach ation packages. Calculated on the basis of dividends, country. In 2012, for example, a programme of bene­ Group profit after tax and Group return on sales fits for our employees in China made far-reaching 5.2 Attractive employer after tax, this bonus tracks the profitable, sustainimprovements in their accident and health insurance 5.3 Occupational health able growth of the company. The same calculation as well as insurance for surviving dependants. These and safety method for profit sharing is used for all levels in the are areas where the government offers only the bare 5.4  raining and further T hierarchy, including the Board of Management. This minimum of coverage. Employees at our subsidiary education approach is currently unique both in the automotive in India, where the health insurance network is still industry as well as among the DAX-30 companies. being developed, can benefit from our offer to obtain 5.5 Diversity and inclusion insurance coverage not just for themselves, but also 5.6 Work-life balance GUARANTEEING FAIR REMUNERATION for their families and a parent. Our remuneration system is gender-neutral. To make OFFERING PENSION PROGRAMMES TO OUR EMPLOYEES sure that this is the case all over the world, all our companies are interviewed regularly. There were no The BMW Group supports its employees in Gerdiscernible differences between the base salaries of many and internationally with attractive pension women and men for either tariff employees in adminprogrammes to secure their standard of living when istration, IT, development and production or for the they reach retirement. For example, we are currently non-tariff employees. setting up a company pension for our employees at a new plant in Brazil. And in the UK and the USA, Based on a voluntary commitment by BMW AG, employees can opt for a comprehensive company the compensation received by temporary workers pension package. Additional comprehensive health employed by the company is oriented on the collecinsurance is available to our employees in the USA. tive agreements applicable to our core employees, i.e. primarily the collective agreements in the automotive Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Attractive employer 116 5 .2 Employees in Germany also receive a c­ ompanyassets amounted to approximately €6.7 billion. In funded pension and can set aside additional retirerecent years, the BMW Group has externalised penment provisions through a deferred compensation sion obligations, thus making an essential contriprogramme. All of these systems also include surbution towards securing its pension commitments. vivors’ benefits in case of death of the employee, Targeted asset-liability management minimises any as well as benefits in case of a reduction in earning risks due to fluctuations on the capital markets and capacity. changing evaluation parameters for the pension obligations. Due to the method of calculating the obligaIn Germany, the BMW Group offers members tions and assets on the balance sheet, with different of management (approx. 2% of the workforce) a parameters as at the due date, temporary fluctuations defined-contribution pension commitment, i.e. in the liquidity ratio are possible. BMW deposits a specific monthly sum in a pension EMPLOYEES account. The money is invested in the capital marIn principle, all benefits are also available to part-time ket and generates an attractive return throughout its and temporary employees. The full payment of some 5.1 Our management approach entire period. When employees retire, the accumuof the benefits, such as profit-sharing and pension lated funds become available to them. commitments, is, however, tied to a minimum period 5.2 Attractive employer of employment with the company. 5.3 Occupational health In Germany, we pay all other employees a fixed penand safety sion depending on their years of service and their ENABLING FLEXIBILITY AND CO-DETERMINATION 5.4 T  raining and further category. In addition, employees can make voluntary education pension contributions through a salary conversion Long-term job security is one of the priorities of our scheme. Approximately 20% of employees participate human resources policy. Our company agreements 5.5 Diversity and inclusion in the voluntary, employee-funded pension models. on BMW working time accounts and strategic flexi­ 5.6 Work-life balance The BMW Group guarantees its payment obligations. bility, which enable us to deal with fluctuations in Already existing obligations are deposited with sepademand, help us to achieve this goal. The flexibility rately managed capital and secured by an independ­ requirements apply to all BMW Group locations. ent legal entity (BMW Trust e.V.). The BMW working time accounts make the relation The present value of additional employee pension between working time and remuneration more flexentitlements acquired due to longer tenure or proible. This enables us to adapt working time to the motion is calculated using an actuarial method and respective project and order situation without changalso paid annually into the BMW Trust e.V. As the ing employees’ pay. assumed interest rate and return on investment are strongly dependent on external factors, the liquidity The timely and comprehensive involvement of ratio of the pension obligations can fluctuate. employee representatives, in particular in the case of major operational changes, is ensured in the At the end of 2013, pension obligations in Germany BMW Group in a variety of ways and is an integral amounted to around €7.4 billion, while pension part of our corporate culture. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Attractive employer 117 5 .2 In accordance with the German law on co-determin­ RETAINING SATISFIED EMPLOYEES ation, BMW AG has a Supervisory Board with equal representation of all parties, including external repAt 3.5%, the attrition rate was slightly lower in 2013 resentatives of the competent trade union as well as than in 2012. Retirement continues to be the primary company representatives from the works councils reason for attrition. The actual attrition rate is very formed at the BMW AG company locations. low, demonstrating the effectiveness of the proven programmes and measures of the BMW Group At the German BMW AG locations and the subsidgeared toward positioning the company as an attraciaries within Germany, works councils are formed tive employer see Figure 22. according to the German Works Constitution Act. The works councils of BMW AG also delegate repreF.22 Employee attrition rate BMW AG1 sentatives to the Group Works Council of BMW AG. as a % of the workforce EMPLOYEES 6 For the European locations of the BMW Group, there 5 5.1 Our management approach is a European Works Council composed of employee 4 representatives from the European production sites 3 5.2 Attractive employer of the BMW Group. 2 5.3 Occupational health 1 and safety Employee representation at the international 5.4  raining and further T BMW Group locations follows the respective national 09 10 11 12 13 education regulations, with employee representation most recently having been established in India (Chennai 4.592 2.74 2.16 3.87 3.47 5.5 Diversity and inclusion plant) and at the sales and financial services com­ 1 Number of employees on unlimited employment contracts leaving the company. 5.6 Work-life balance panies in China. 2 Increase due to voluntary termination agreements during the global financial crisis 2008/2009. Cooperation with international employee representatives is steered by Labour Relationship Management. OFFERING THE OPPORTUNITY TO GIVE FEEDBACK Employee surveys (e.g. on satisfaction, health or customer focus) and other feedback systems are key management tools at BMW. A Group-wide employee survey is conducted every two years. In 2013, the survey was conducted on the basis of a representative sample. 89% of those surveyed were, on the whole, satisfied with the BMW Group. Very positive ratings were also given Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Attractive employer 118 5 .2 to attractiveness as an employer (91%), social benefits participants of our young talent programmes as well (85%) and job security (87%) see Figure 23. as students on internships with the BMW Group. These surveys enable us to obtain a realistic picF.23 Group-wide employee survey 2013 ture from young people of how they perceive the in % BMW Group, and we can derive any necessary meas­ Overall satisfaction 89 ures from this. 0 100 DERIVING MEASURES FROM FEEDBACK Attractiveness as an employer 91 0 100 In addition to the many positive results, the results Social benefits 85 of the surveys also show us where we need to take 0 100 action, especially with regard to processes and strucEMPLOYEES tures as well as customer focus. For instance, we can Job security 87 improve how we define responsibilities. The aim is 0 100 5.1 Our management approach to place even more focus on the requirements and desires of our customers in our day-to-day activities. 5.2 Attractive employer 5.3 Occupational health We complement the employee survey with IT-supand safety ported feedback systems for managers: Feedback for FORECAST 5.4 T  raining and further Managers (outside Germany) and 360+ Feedback education (in Germany; global roll-out is currently starting). Based on the Talent Management initiative launched in With the aid of these tools, managers can compare 2012, we are gradually aligning HR processes to employee 5.5 Diversity and inclusion the feedback provided by their staff, colleagues and development. In connection with this, HR processes and the 5.6 Work-life balance super­iors with their self-assessment. Careful evaluarequired IT system support are being professionalised. When tion of the results as well as practical recommendadesigning these processes and system support, we focus on tions for the subsequent processes make feedback the integrating employees to the greatest extent possible and starting point from which individual leadership perincreasing transparency in recruiting, succession manageformance and team development can be improved. ment and potential assessment processes. New employees participate in an onboarding programme when they join the company. The aim is to familiarise them with the company from the outset. Later they can emphasise their own personal development in the annual performance assessment process. The thoroughness of our feedback systems becomes apparent in the fact that we also regularly survey the Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Attractive employer 119 3 5 .3 Occupational health collaboration. We were able to enhance intercultural collaboration in 2013 with the introduction of Powand safety erWheel, an international networking platform on occupational health and safety. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY AND ERGONOMIC WORKSTATION DESIGN In Germany, special committees on occupational health and safety and ergonomics are in place at every plant. These committees convene once every quarter to consult on the topics of occupational EMPLOYEES We promote and support our employees’ health to health and safety as well as accident prevention. secure and reinforce our performance as a company. Each committee consists of employer representatives, 5.1 Our management approach Integrated health management, working systems experts in occupational health and safety as well to suit an ageing workforce and a high degree of as environmental protection, company physicians, 5.2 Attractive employer job security help us to achieve this. We also offer safety officers, works council representatives and 5.3 Occupational health extensive prevention, rehabilitation and exercise additional experts in the field. Occupational health and safety programmes. and safety committees are also in place at all inter­ 5.4  raining and further T national locations. They are structured in various difeducation ferent ways, also with union participation, and pass Demographics pose a particular challenge when among other things union agreements that often go 5.5 Diversity and inclusion it comes to occupational health and safety as the well beyond the statutory requirements. 5.6 Work-life balance BMW Group’s workforce is also ageing. In Germany, we have responded to this challenge, both on the proBased on the globally applicable standards of the duction line and in administration, by implementing BMW Group, each plant creates an individual conour Today for Tomorrow demographics programme. cept that takes account of country-specific reguWe are currently working to extend this programme lations. For instance, in the USA, individual and to additional locations and corporate divisions, both requirement-specific training courses are offered on in Germany and at our international locations. accident prevention for employees and managers. Based on this, through to 2015, BMW’s plant in SparThe company is also facing additional challenges tanburg intends to continue to build on its leading with regard to occupational health and safety and role in the area of occupational health and safety how to deal with new technologies. We have just among the carmakers of North America. founded a new centre of competence to respond to this challenge worldwide. A range of country-specific At present, OHRIS and OHSAS-certified occupaoccupational health and safety as well as ergonomics tional health and safety management systems are legislation also require a higher degree of intercultural in place at 19 of our 28 production plants; the other Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Occupational health and safety 120 5 .3 facilities work with systems that meet national stand­ F.24 Accident frequency rate at BMW AG ards. Further certification is planned for plants in per one million hours worked the UK in 2014 and 2015. BMW AG dealerships 8.0 were also OHSAS 18001-certified in 2013 as part of 7.0 a matrix certification. 6.0 5.0 MINIMIZING RISKS OF WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS 4.0 3.0 There have been no fatal accidents at the 2.0 BMW Group for the last eight years. All accidents at BMW AG are captured and reported using the ISIS 09 10 11 12 13 Safety computer system. Accident frequency rates EMPLOYEES were redefined in 2012. The system no longer bases 3.11 3.61 7.12 5.82 4.82 its calculations on reportable occupational accidents 1  ccupational accidents with more than three days of absence from work (calendar days) per O 5.1 Our management approach causing more than three days of absence from work one million hours worked. (in accordance with the German Social Code VII), 2 Occupational accidents with at least one day of absence from work per one million hours 5.2 Attractive employer worked (data covers around 85% of BMW Group employees due to system constraints). but on all occupational accidents with absence from 5.3 Occupational health work. and safety 5.4 T  raining and further The accident frequency rate at BMW AG (not includSAFETY FIRST WITH FUTURE TECHNOLOGIES education ing dealerships) was 5.3 per million hours worked in 2013; the rate at the BMW Group was 4.8. We aim As electric drive systems become firmly established 5.5 Diversity and inclusion to reduce the long-term accident frequency rate at in automotive production and maintenance, ques5.6 Work-life balance BMW Group worldwide to 5.0 accidents per one miltions as to how to safely handle high-voltage techlion hours worked by 2020. nologies are gaining importance. The BMW Group has developed a training programme on how to deal Managers and safety officers cooperate closely to safely with high-voltage systems in vehicles. implement measures. Two examples of outstanding initiatives in the reporting period were Null Unfälle We also worked with other German carmakers to (zero accidents) at the Munich plant and 5STOP at draw up and implement a safety concept for the verithe Steyr location. In the same period we also develfication of lithium-ion batteries in drive systems. oped a safety standard for large-scale construction sites that goes far beyond what is required by law SUPPORTING AN AGEING WORKFORCE see Figure 24. With our Today for Tomorrow project, we are gradually adapting our production lines to suit our ageing workforce. We started in 2007 by launching a pilot project at a segment of our production line in the Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Occupational health and safety 121 5 .3 Dingolfing plant to map the expected age structure in 2017. The average age at this segment was around 47; in the plant as a whole, it is currently around 43. The production processes and working conditions were adapted by introducing a number of ergonomic meas­ ures, employee rotation designed to balance out physical strain as well as ageand health-related measures. This culminated in the automotive industry’s first component production system worldwide that is specially designed to meet the needs of older workers. The result: an area with an older age structure can function just as efficiently as comparable EMPLOYEES areas with much younger employees. The knowledge gained from this project is now being implemented WORKPLACES TO SUIT AN AGEING WORKFORCE — Today for Tomorrow initiative at the BMW plant in Dingolfing. 5.1 Our management approach across other German and international BMW Group locations (e.g. in South Africa and USA). 5.2 Attractive employer 5.3 Occupational health Along the same lines of the programme Today for and safety ERGONOMICS IN THE PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Tomorrow on the production line, we developed an ­PROCESS additional concept we call Today for Tomorrow in 5.4 T  raining and further education the office world. This concept has so far been impleBy setting targets for ergonomic production processes, we create age-appropriate working conditions on the production mented with some 2,000 employees in around 100 5.5 Diversity and inclusion line, starting in the vehicle development phase. We continudepartments. 5.6 Work-life balance ously monitor workstations in the production processes for potential to further optimise ergonomics. The integration of HEALTHY LIVING AND WORKING measures such as job rotation and workplace physiotherapy are integral parts of our production philosophy. The health management department at the BMW Group has developed the Health Initiative, an integrated company approach. It builds up ­know­ledge, determines health conditions, derives Over 15,000 employees at the German-speaking and develops targeted measures and evaluates all BMW Group locations now benefit from Today for activities. New measures are developed and existing Tomorrow. ones modified based on the results of the evaluation. The main steering committee on health sets strategic objectives and decides the basic direction health management should take. The various measures are managed by strategic and work groups. The company Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Occupational health and safety 122 5 .3 agreements on presence management and integraIn the UK, we began to offer our employees annual tion management focus on promoting health and health check-ups at the various locations (Oxford, thus decreasing illness-induced absenteeism within Swindon, Hams Hall, Bracknell, Hook and Goodthe company. wood) in 2011. Similar to Checkup35+, which is offered by the statutory health insurers in Germany, PROMOTING PREVENTIVE MEASURES a physical check-up is administered and the patient’s vital parameters monitored. Prevention is a core element in our health management. Every employee at our German locations Employees on deployment to other countries and is entitled to use our company-owned PROAKTIV their families receive health advice, check-ups and all Centres and join the low-cost fitness and health other necessary preventive care. programmes as well as other training courses on offer EMPLOYEES at these facilities. Our Treppe statt Aufzug (Take the SUPPORTING REHABILITATION, INTEGRATING PEOPLE Stairs!) campaign at our Munich location uses amusWITH DISABILITIES 5.1 Our management approach ing slogans to encourage employees to climb the stairs instead of using the lift. And our ProBike pro­ The BMW Group supports employees who want to go 5.2 Attractive employer ject allows employees in the north of Munich to cycle to rehab after a long period of illness, both through 5.3 Occupational health from one meeting to the next. its reintegration management programme and its and safety Netzwerk Reha rehabilitation programme. In 2006, 5.4  raining and further T In 2013, we placed particular focus on the topic of Netzwerk Reha set up a partnership between the education bowel cancer prevention. A physical health campaign health management programme of the BMW Group that ran for several weeks, Aktionswochen der Psyand the company’s health insurer BMW Group BKK 5.5 Diversity and inclusion chischen Gesundheit, also offered talks, seminars on the one hand, and the German pension insurance 5.6 Work-life balance and workshops on topics such as relaxation techas well as eight rehabilitation clinics on the other. niques and stress management. At our plants, we make every effort to secure the PROVIDING HEALTH CHECK-UPS workplaces of employees with debilitating health issues in the long term. All social partners work Health services play an important role at all our together to ensure that employees who are no ­longer international locations. Our Associate Family Health able to carry out the work they once did as well as ­Center at our Spartanburg plant in South Carolina severely disabled employees are provided with ade(USA) now provides low-cost employee health-care quate working conditions. Company agreements and close to the workplace. Its services are available both standardised processes form the basis for this. As to employees of the BMW Group as well as direct a result, we were able to significantly decrease the family members and retired BMW staff. A total of number of inadequately designed workplaces in spite $5 million were invested in the centre. of the growing number of employees who are not able to do the work they once did due to disability. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Occupational health and safety 123 5 .3 There is also a comprehensive compulsory programme on target-group-oriented training in the area of occupational health and safety. For instance, last year, we developed a hybrid training concept on the safe use of hybrid technology as well as a new sem­ inar on ergonomics. Since mid-2012, BMW Motorrad has systematically expanded the area of driver training for all BMW Group employees who drive motorcycles as part of their jobs. FORECAST EMPLOYEES CORPORATE HEALTH MANAGEMENT — Health campaign in 2013. Currently, due to system restrictions, 80% of the 5.1 Our management approach BMW Group’s workforce is included in accident frequency rate calculations. In 2014, they will include an increasing 5.2 Attractive employer TRAINING COURSES share of the workforce (e.g. dealerships and CKD plants). 5.3 Occupational health Preparations will be made in the Development Division for and safety How our managers behave influences the health occupational health and safety certification. Our Today for 5.4  raining and further T of our employees as well as their satisfaction at Tomorrow project will continue to be implemented to adapt education work. Raising awareness for health-oriented manadditional areas of the company for our ageing workforce. agement styles is therefore an integral part of the 5.5 Diversity and inclusion BMW Group’s manager training courses and the fur5.6 Work-life balance ther training of our employees. For instance, as part of the BMW Group’s Health Initiative, we developed compulsory five-day health and leadership seminars that raise managers’ awareness of the impact they have on the health of their employees. The BMW Group Academy also expanded its courses on health training. For example, it now offers seminars for shift workers on stress and time management as well as time-zone management for employees working abroad. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Occupational health and safety 124 4 5 .4 Training and further education EMPLOYEES In the face of new technological advances in the automotive industry as well as wide-ranging changes on GLOBAL TALENT PROMOTION — Internship programme Te gusta aprender for 5.1 Our management approach the labour market, the education and further trainSpanish graduates. ing of our employees is becoming more and more 5.2 Attractive employer important. Our further training courses aim to cover 5.3 Occupational health our requirements in this area by promoting the indipersonal interests and abilities are in line with the and safety vidual strengths of our trainees, skilled workers and specific requirements and development opportunities 5.4 T  raining and further managers. of the position within the company. education In addition, we support staff members who want to 5.5 Diversity and inclusion In the coming years, there will be a significant develop their skills. With the aid of an IT-based tool, 5.6 Work-life balance increase in the demand for well-trained skilled workwe also work with educational needs analyses. These ers. This is particularly true in areas such as drive allow us to draw comparisons between operational electrification, the use of hydrogen technology and skills requirements (planned) and existing skills fuel cells. To continue meeting these requirements (actual). going forward, we want to identify and attract talent to our company at an early stage. One way of doing We base the further training and education of our this is to provide comprehensive support for their employees and managers on a leadership principle training and further education. In addition, we offer that focuses on people’s strengths. All managers employees a large number of development and certitake part in management training programmes so fication programmes. This promotes the concept of that they can learn to identify and foster their own life-long learning within the BMW Group. strengths and those of their staff. Team workshops also give managers the opportunity to work on develWe want to enable our employees to make full use oping strength-focused collaboration and task distriof their personal and social strengths. To do this, we bution in their teams. try to make sure that we recruit candidates whose Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Training and further education 125 5 .4 BMW Group employees can gain state-of-the art IMPLEMENTING YOUNG TALENT PROGRAMMES expertise by taking part in funded study courses WORLDWIDE outside working hours. We are expanding the range of study courses we offer and are continuously adaptSpecial additional training programmes for high-­ ing them to the requirements of the company, for potential trainees round off our young talent port­ ­example by offering courses in lightweight construcfolio. We aim to retain our young talent within the tion, composite materials and hydrogen/fuel cells. BMW Group as far as possible. The BMW Group has attractive programmes designed to recruit our future ATTRACTING AND FOSTERING TALENT managers at international level. The focus here is on the Group Graduate Programme which is designed We invest in attracting and training talent on an to meet requirements in Germany and the Manageongoing basis. This enables us to secure our human ment Associates Programme for our international EMPLOYEES resources requirements in a volatile environment. locations. The BMW Group’s global package of measures 5.1 Our management approach ranges from vocational training to young talent proMOTIVATING NEW RECRUITS FROM THE OUTSET grammes for student target groups to high-potential 5.2 Attractive employer programmes for future managers. In Germany, our Drive onboarding programme 5.3 Occupational health established in 2012 is a standardised induction proand safety The young talent programmes are based on a global gramme for all new employees in administration, IT, 5.4  raining and further T philosophy that participants are provided with both etc. The aim is both to give employees relevant expereducation financial support as well as focused training in their tise and to help them develop an emotional connecareas of expertise as well as in other areas. They can tion to the BMW Group. 5.5 Diversity and inclusion also gain additional experience through practical 5.6 Work-life balance work periods. To enable future employees to meet the Strategic university partnerships help us to attract talincreasing challenges faced in the multinational conent to the BMW Group worldwide. The BMW Group text, periods abroad are either obligatory or optional has established strategic partnerships and collabor­ parts of all programmes. ations with institutions such as Technische Universität München, Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT), At the end of 2013, around 240 young potentials University of St. Gallen, Georgia Institute of Technolwere taking part in the ongoing, practice-oriented ogy, Clemson University, Massachusetts Institute of bachelor’s and master’s programmes funded by the Technology, Nanyang Technological University and company in Germany. Around 220 doctoral candiTsinghua University. We will continue to expand our dates are currently studying for their PhDs with the collaboration with these universities in the coming BMW Group. Their research and innovative spirit years. supports departments in all areas of the company. In addition, a large number of PhD students working in cooperation with BMW at various universities are involved in BMW Group projects. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Training and further education 126 5 .4 EMPLOYEES 5.1 Our management approach 5.2 Attractive employer 5.3 Occupational health and safety 5.4 T  raining and further education THE WAY FORWARD IN VOCATIONAL TRAINING — Dual vocational training principle extended to various locations outside Germany. 5.5 Diversity and inclusion 5.6 Work-life balance SYSTEMATICALLY PROMOTING APPRENTICES PIONEERING ROLE IN VOCATIONAL EDUCATION STRENGTHS The BMW Group is a pioneer in focused education and The new TaLEnt training concept was introduced at further training. In 2013, the BMW Group had the best vocational trainees in the occupations of vehicle interior trimmer, all German locations at the beginning of the 2012 painter and technical model designer. Among other things, training year. the model designers received the best marks in the state from the Oberbayern and Munich chamber of industry and TaLEnt stands for Talentorientiertes Lernen und commerce. Entwickeln (talent-oriented learning and development). The concept focuses not only on good-quality academic training – the personality of each individual is also taken into account. Seminars fostering young people’s strengths promote awareness among all Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Training and further education 127 5 .4 trainees of what they are capable of, and enable the F.25 Average days of further training per BMW Group employee1 trainers to identify talents and strengths more effect­ Number ively. This allows us to align personal capabilities very 4.0 closely with the needs of the company. 3.5 3.0 DUAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING SYSTEM ROLLED OUT 2.5 WORLDWIDE 2.0 1.5 We believe in the dual vocational training system. For this reason, we have set up vocational training 09 10 11 12 13 according to the German dual system at various international locations. For example, at our Spartan1.6 2.6 3.6 3.7 3.5 EMPLOYEES burg location in South Carolina (USA) the third year 1  ata retrieved by direct capture of the number of participants as well as a small share by D of the dual vocational training system started successqualified extrapolation. 5.1 Our management approach fully in 2013, while students began their second year in Shenyang (China). 5.2 Attractive employer employees participated in 3.5 days of further training 5.3 Occupational health Another example of this was the launch of a trainin 2013 see Figure 25. and safety ing workshop in Oxford in 2012. Prime Minister 5.4 T  raining and further Cameron took a tour of this new training location TRAINING MANAGERS education in autumn 2013 and described it as a “shining ­example”. In addition to the already existing locaOur vision of corporate leadership is mainly based on 5.5 Diversity and inclusion tions, we plan to launch training courses according the three pillars Managing Business, Leading People 5.6 Work-life balance to the dual system in Brazil and India in 2015. and Leading Yourself. We communicate this leadership philosophy to our managers early on in their We have also adapted our vocational education syscareers. Our experienced managers also regularly partem to integrate company-relevant special qualificaticipate in measures to further develop and reinforce tions such as the Hybrid programme. This goes above our understanding of what leadership should be. and beyond the specifications laid down in the German vocational training regulations. LEARNING TO OPTIMISE THE EFFECTIVENESS OF LEADERSHIP In 2013, we had 1,363 apprentices worldwide, 1,200 of whom were in Germany. We are training 4,445 A Corporate Leadership programme has been in young people worldwide in vocational and young talplace since 2010, with clear messages on leadership ent programmes, 3,765 of whom are in Germany. within the BMW Group. In various settings, new and experienced leaders at all levels regularly discuss Our capital expenditure on education and further leadership topics. In 2013, we extended and updated training amounted to €288 million. On average, our the Corporate Leadership Programme to include Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Training and further education 128 5 .4 current corporate strategy requirements as well as offering training courses and introductory events on HR development (second cycle). Our aim here is to these topics. With this in mind, we have developed encourage all managers to continuously examine an interactive Web-based training (WBT), which was their leadership approaches in order to achieve longrolled out worldwide in 2013. term results, and to increase the effectiveness of their leadership. And we have installed the corporate initiative Wertschöpfungsorientiertes Produktionssystem WORKING TOGETHER TO EXCHANGE AND CONSOLIDATE (WPS – value-creating production system), which LEADERSHIP SKILLS among other things aims to save resources and improve efficiency. We continuously develop our vision of Corporate Leadership and establish the concept with our manEMPLOYEES agers. We achieve this by fostering continuous diaFORECAST logue between BMW Group managers. To do this, we 5.1 Our management approach set up two innovative dialogue platforms where manIn 2014, the first participants will be invited to take part in agers can discuss the BMW Group’s requirements the international young talent programmes for students – 5.2 Attractive employer with regard to leadership skills. one of our target groups. We plan to increase the number of 5.3 Occupational health participants step by step by 2016. In the area of manager and safety PROMOTING INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE training, we will be providing new training formats on health 5.4  raining and further T and safety in 2014. Other focus areas in internal further education We promote exchange between employees from training are the planned expansion of training courses on the our different locations. This results in a more intertopics of quality, new technologies, electrics, electronics 5.5 Diversity and inclusion national workforce and makes us a more attractive and health. 5.6 Work-life balance employer. In 2013, the BMW Group implemented a number of other training measures as part of the internationalisation process. This included an international summer school, various training courses on intercultural competence and vehicle development training for Chinese employees. RAISING AWARENESS OF SUSTAINABILITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS The BMW Group strives for sustainability in its business, environmental and social activities. We therefore raise employee awareness at an early stage by Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Training and further education 129 5 5 .5 Diversity and inclusion To further promote diversity among our workforce, the Board of Management passed a targeted diversity concept in November 2010. This defined three dimensions of diversity that apply across the company, with due consideration for local conditions: – Cultural background – Age/experience – Gender In 2011, the Board of Management and the Super­ visory Board approved target ranges for increasing EMPLOYEES In all their diversity, each and every one of our the share of women in our workforce. Our vision is employees is accorded equal levels of appreciation, for women to make up 15–17% of our workforce by 5.1 Our management approach respect and opportunity. We have also established 2020, both in the general workforce and in managespecific objectives to make our workforce even more ment positions within the BMW Group, in Germany 5.2 Attractive employer diverse. We believe that this further enhances our and worldwide. 5.3 Occupational health competitiveness. and safety The BMW Group also strives for diversity in the 5.4  raining and further T supply chain. This is why we organised a Supplier education Today’s society is characterised by a level of diverDiversity Conference in Spartanburg, South Carolina sity that is leading to considerable shifts in popula(USA) also in 2013. At this Matchmaker Conference, 5.5 Diversity and inclusion tion structures and lifestyle choices. This is mainly companies owned by women and by members of 5.6 Work-life balance induced by globalisation, demographic trends and minority groups were given the opportunity to introchanging values. In this situation, a multicultural duce themselves to the BMW Group and our sup­ workforce, an appropriate gender balance and a good pliers as potential business partners see Chapter 4. mix of ages are essential. Managers have had the opportunity since August Diversity and inclusion is a fundamental element in 2013 to participate in a dialogue-based training our HR strategy. Changes, including clearly defined course reflecting on various dimensions of diversity. indicators, are regularly reported to the Board of They identify opportunities to foster diversity and Management and the Supervisory Board of the inclusion and to improve their effectiveness. Eighteen BMW Group. management circles, with around 140 German and international managers, took place in the course in 2013. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Diversity and inclusion 130 5 .5 The decisive factor is the quality of an applicant. To IMPLEMENTING THE DIVERSITY CHARTER ensure that we are attractive for all highly qualified applicants and that all employees can develop to their We signed the Diversity Charter in 2011. This initiative is full potential, we create a corporate culture characterintended to promote the recognition, appreciation and inclusion of diversity as part of the corporate culture in Germany. ised by mutual respect and appreciation. The organisations that have committed to the Charter aim to create a working environment that is free from prejudice. PREVENTING DISCRIMINATION We also joined the association Charta der Vielfalt e.V. (DiverAt all of our locations, we seek to prevent discrimin­ sity Charter) in 2012. This enables us to finance numerous ation on the grounds of gender, origin, age, disabilprojects throughout Germany that encourage increased ity, religion or sexual orientation. The BMW Group diversity and tolerance. One example is the project Jugend SpeakUP Line offers all employees worldwide the denkt Vielfalt in NRW (Young people think “diversity” in EMPLOYEES North Rhine-Westphalia). Here, innovation games and youth possibility to anonymously and confidentially log forums are used to encourage dialogue with young people complaints of breaches of this principle. Employees 5.1 Our management approach on the subject of diversity and show them what diversity and can also address their queries to their own man­ inclusion mean for the economy. agers, the relevant offices of the BMW Group, the 5.2 Attractive employer HR department, the works council or the Diver5.3 Occupational health sity and inclusion office. Questions can also be and safety addressed to the legal, Group auditing and Group 5.4  raining and further T PROMOTING OUR INNOVATIVE STRENGTH THROUGH security departments. The BMW Group Compliance education DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Contact is a further point of contact employees and people from outside the company can come to with 5.5 Diversity and inclusion As a company that is currently involved in over 150 compliance-relevant queries. Our employees can 5.6 Work-life balance countries, we see diversity among our workforce as also avail themselves of the Human Rights Contact an opportunity. In Munich alone, we currently have helpline, which facilitates queries and complaints employees from over 90 countries working together about human rights. Should cases be reported, they very successfully. The systematic use of different but are dealt with by a cross-divisional ad hoc team that complementary talents enhances the company’s perincludes a representative of the works council. formance and innovative strength. PROMOTING FEMALE EMPLOYEES AND MANAGERS The diversity of our employees helps us to understand the specific needs of our customers worldwide, The BMW Group’s Diversity Concept aims to bring enabling us to provide the best possible service for the share of women in management positions into our existing markets and to tap into new ones. In line with the overall employee structure. This also addition, we address a broad target group in order to means that we are complying with the recommendaensure we can recruit highly qualified skilled workers. tions of the German Corporate Governance Code. In Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Diversity and inclusion 131 5 .5 2011, together with the other DAX-30 companies, we F.27 Share of female employees in management positions at made a commitment to increase the share of females BMW AG/BMW GROUP in management positions. For more information see the in % Status report. 11 12 13 In 2013, the total share of female employees in Supervisory Board 15.0 20.0 20.0 the BMW Group workforce was 17.4% (BMW AG: Board of 14.5%) see Figure 26. The number of female man­ Management 0.0 12.5 12.5 agers increased from 12.7% in 2012 to 13.8% in 2013 Non-tariff employees (BMW AG: from 10.0% in 2012 to 10.9% in 2013). BMW AG 9.1 10.0 10.9 20% of our Supervisory Board members are currently BMW Group 11.8 12.71 13.8 women (previous year: 20%). In July 2012, one female joined the BMW Board of Management (12.5%) 1 Figures for 2012 adjusted due to data cleansing. EMPLOYEES see Figure 27. These positive changes show that our 5.1 Our management approach measures are having an effect. Both male and female employees participate in a 5.2 Attractive employer PROVIDING SUPPORT THROUGH COACHING AND 100-day Business Coaching Programme to acquire the 5.3 Occupational health MENTORING skills they need to move up in the organisation. The and safety programme teaches them how to be successful man5.4 T  raining and further F.26 Share of female employees in total workforce of agers. Since the programme was launched in 2012, a education BMW AG/BMW Group total of 366 employees from ten countries have taken in % part, of whom just under half (46%) were women. The 5.5 Diversity and inclusion 18 training courses took place in Germany, Korea (with 5.6 Work-life balance 17 participants from Korea, Malaysia and Singapore) and 16 China (with participants from China and Singapore). 15 14 Female employees have also initiated a network called 13 Female Managers in Dialogue. This network now has 12 150 members. In 2009, a complementary network was set up for female staff on collective agreements. 09 10 11 12 13 In 2012, a further network was established for parttime employees of both sexes. BMW AG 13.1 13.2 13.5 14.2 14.5 BMW Group 15.2 16.1 16.81 17.4 We are also involved in the Cross-Mentoring Pro1 Figures for 2012 adjusted due to data cleansing. gramme run by the city of Munich. The purpose of cross-mentoring is to encourage young female managers by providing individual support from a mentor of either sex. Mentees are accompanied for a year by Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Diversity and inclusion 132 5 .5 EMPLOYEES 5.1 Our management approach 5.2 Attractive employer 5.3 Occupational health and safety 5.4  raining and further T GETTING MORE WOMEN INTO TECHNICAL OCCUPTATIONS — BMW Group Girls for engineering-camp. education 5.5 Diversity and inclusion a mentor from another company. Over 30 women We are encouraging an interest in the technical pro5.6 Work-life balance have participated in this programme since 2002. fessions among young people while they are still at school. One example is the BMW Junior Campus, GETTING WOMEN INTERESTED IN TECHNICAL which over 16,000 girls and boys aged five to 13 OCCUPATIONS attended in Munich in 2013. In addition, over 14,000 children have taken part in the workshops offered by To attract more female employees in the long term, the Junior Campus Berlin since its launch in 2011. we are encouraging an interest in the technical professions among women from a young age. At the We place a special emphasis on women in both annual Mädchen für Technik Camp (Girls for Techour academic young talent programmes and our nology Camp), girls are given a two-week practical vocational training programmes. The proportion of insight into the technical professions as part of the women in the BMW Group’s management trainee BMW vocational training programme in Munich. programmes grew to over 30% during the reporting Many BMW locations in Germany are also involved period (Group Graduate programme: 37.5%, Manin our annual Girls’ Day. agement Associates programme: 35.2%). This creates Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Diversity and inclusion 133 5 .5 As an international company with an intercultural workforce, we focus on recruiting managers with international experience and will also increase the share of non-German top managers in the long run. The international character of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board of BMW AG also reflects the internationality of the company. TAKING ACCOUNT OF AGE DIVERSITY When setting up new locations or divisions we recruit people from a range of ages. For example, at our new EMPLOYEES BMW location in Brazil we are recruiting a mixed-age workforce from the very beginning. This will allow us 5.1 Our management approach to avoid age structure issues and to focus on tapping into the specific strengths of different age groups. 5.2 Attractive employer INCREASING DIVERSITY — Intercultural workforce for an intercultural company. 5.3 Occupational health As our workforce ages, we are creating conditions and safety worldwide in which young employees can remain 5.4  raining and further T the basis for a more feminine, culturally sensitive and healthy as they grow older and in which older education well-networked leadership in the future. employees can contribute their particular strengths. To achieve this, we successfully launched the Today 5.5 Diversity and inclusion With innovative recruiting programmes specially for Tomorrow programme, implemented it interna5.6 Work-life balance designed for women in the technical professions, we tionally and also successfully introduced the health were able to attract female graduates, young profesmanagement cycle as a pilot project see Chapter 5.3. sionals and managers to the company in 2013. The number of years each employee works for the ENHANCING CULTURAL DIVERSITY BMW Group is increasing. This is due to earlier entry into the company and later exit due to rising retireWe enhance cultural diversity by focusing on recruitment ages, for example. To make sure that employing new employees at our locations in the growth ees of different ages and in different life phases can markets and by recruiting employees from other contribute their particular strengths to the full, we countries to work in Germany. To enhance cooper­ introduced extensive programmes for flexible and ation, we also promote employee exchanges between mobile working see Chapter 5.6. To complement this, BMW companies worldwide. we raise the awareness among managers of the challenges posed by mixed-age teams. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Diversity and inclusion 134 5 .5 PROMOTING AND UTILISING IDEAS and occupational health and safety. However, an improvement does not necessarily have to lead to cost For over 70 years, our Ideas Management system has savings. Prizes are equally awarded for ideas that lead enabled employees to have a direct influence on the to improvements in working conditions, quality or development of the company. In 2013 alone, sugcustomer benefit. gested improvements in Germany and at our inter­ national plants combined led to savings of around €38.8 million. The company paid out €3.7 million to FORECAST employees for their ideas. Focused diversity management increases diversity in the The ideas management system CRE8 replaced the BMW Group’s workforce. From 2014 onwards, diversity imotion programme at the end of 2012. CRE8 comand inclusion will become part of the compulsory further EMPLOYEES prises a user-friendly IT system, simplified and training programmes for managers. Participants reflect on transparent processes and attractive prizes of up to various dimensions of diversity and identify opportunities 5.1 Our management approach €120,000. to foster diversity and inclusion in order to improve their effectiveness. 5.2 Attractive employer We modified CRE8 in 2013 by adding new func5.3 Occupational health tionalities to the system. For instance, employees in and safety Germany can invest their prize money in pension 5.4  raining and further T funds by transforming it into private pension capital. education In addition, we introduced continuous improvement process workshops and idea campaigns that call on 5.5 Diversity and inclusion employees to suggest solutions to specific problems. 5.6 Work-life balance With the launch of CRE8, we also introduced the new role of ideas process experts to support managers in processing complex ideas, thus speeding up the entire process. In 2013, we prepared the ground for the inter­national roll-out of CRE8. Worldwide implementation will get as many employees as possible involved and generate a large number of ideas. The emphasis is on improving the transfer of knowledge as well as generating a large number of high-quality, feasible ideas. This should result in synergy effects and multiple applications of the ideas, while avoiding unnecessary duplication of work. Our employees offer suggestions from a wide range of areas, e.g. the environment, quality Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Diversity and inclusion 135 6 5 .6 Work-life balance We inform our employees and managers about these offerings on an ongoing basis. For instance, a new intranet page now provides even more comprehensive support to employees in their efforts to improve their work-life balance. ENABLING FLEXIBLE WORKING TIMES AND MOBILE WORKING When it comes to ensuring the competitiveness of We support our employees in finding the right workthe BMW Group, flexible working times that can be life balance. To achieve this, we offer a wide range of adjusted to suit demand for our products and tailored EMPLOYEES tools to make their working hours and workplaces to meet changing economic conditions are essential. more flexible and to help them with childcare and But variable working time tools and individual work5.1 Our management approach other dependants who require care. ing time accounts also offer our employees greater leeway. 5.2 Attractive employer 5.3 Occupational health In today’s world, work and private lives are becomThe option of working without being tied to a speand safety ing increasingly interlinked. Ideally, the two should cific location also helps to ensure a positive work-life 5.4  raining and further T complement each other, but in reality they somebalance. In 2013, we expanded on the established education times do the opposite. The BMW Group would like teleworking programme by integrating it into the to help its employees to achieve a harmonious workNeue Arbeitswelten (New Working Worlds) concept 5.5 Diversity and inclusion life balance. However, this is a challenging task. As for a test period. Building on this successful mobile 5.6 Work-life balance society becomes more individualised, the range of working pilot project, we made a new company different lifestyles also increases. This means that not agreement for all employees of BMW AG in autumn every tool is right for every employee. Added to this 2013. The agreement came into force on 1 January is the fact that the BMW Group is becoming increas2014. Before its introduction, we informed all those ingly international. This leads to more international involved about the new options. A key element of activities, including work across different time zones, our communications in this regard was a recommenwhich can be difficult to reconcile with your personal dation on to what extent employees should be availlife. Needs and requirements can also differ quite able during their leisure time, the principle being significantly from country to country. work flex­ibly, but know how to switch off. Dialogue between employees and their superiors promotes To meet the different challenges, we have develboth target-focused, flexible working as well as longoped a range of options for our employees. Each term health and employability of our staff. BMW Group location develops individual measures with a view to country-specific conditions. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Work-life balance 136 5 .6 F.28 Alternative work forms at BMW AG1 in hours 09 10 11 12 13 Part-time employees 3,133 3,709 3,825 3,948 3,966 in % of total number of employees 4.5 5.3 6.0 5.8 5.7 Teleworking positions 7,636 9,209 11,717 15,235 18,094 in % of total number of employees 10.9 13.2 16.4 22.5 25.9 Sabbaticals 704 498 450 514 511 in % of total number of employees 1.0 0.7 0.6 0.8 0.7 Parental leave 1,313 1,600 1,513 1,674 1,968 in % of total number of employees 1.9 2.3 2.1 2.5 2.8 EMPLOYEES 1 Figures refer to employees with permanent and part-time contracts. 5.1 Our management approach 5.2 Attractive employer Our Vollzeit Select (Fulltime Select) working time tool sabbaticals and parental leave have become even 5.3 Occupational health allows employees in Germany and Austria to take 20 more popular in 2013. and safety additional days of leave each year with corresponding 5.4 T  raining and further adjustments to their salaries, without any compliIn 2013, we also discontinued core working times at education cated red tape. Meanwhile, BMW Group employees the German locations in Munich and Regensburg in Germany, Austria, the USA and the UK can also and expanded flexitime. We facilitate individually 5.5 Diversity and inclusion take sabbaticals of up to six months (this initiative tailored working times and promote work-life balance 5.6 Work-life balance is open to our managers only). In the UK, up to 40 by not obliging employees to be present during cerweeks parental leave can be taken on full pay, well in tain core periods. excess of the statutory allowance see Figure 28. OFFERING CARE SERVICES FOR CHILDREN AND TAILORING PART-TIME RETIREMENT TO EMPLOYEES’ DEPENDANTS NEEDS The BMW Group supports its employees with a series Employees and managers in Germany can tailor their of measures to enhance their work-life balance. In transition into retirement to their individual needs Munich, we have been funding a business partner by agreeing on the starting date and duration of their since 1992 that offers advice and consultation serpart-time early retirement programme. In addition, vices on all questions of childcare. In 2010, this was employees at many of our overseas facilities can take extended to include Home and Elder Care for depenearly partial or full retirement based on their personal dants who are ill or otherwise require care. In early early-retirement models. Our employees are making 2012, the entire programme was extended to cover all increasing use of these options. Vollzeit Select, of our locations in Germany, including our subsidiaries. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Work-life balance 137 5 .6 There was a significant rise in utilisation of this programme in 2013. A similar service is offered by the Employers’ Association for the Bavarian Metalworking and Electrical Industries. We make this service available to our own employees within the Association’s catchment area. Since late 2010, it has been providing free support for the care of children and dependants. SUPPORTING PARENTS WITH CHILDCARE EMPLOYEES We have also established childcare services at many LAUNCH OF COMPANY CHILDCARE FACILITY — BMW Group Strolchgarten. of our locations both in Germany and abroad. In 5.1 Our management approach Munich and Dingolfing, childcare facilities set up close to the company by the BMW Strolche parents’ FORECAST 5.2 Attractive employer initiative and supported by the BMW Group are 5.3 Occupational health available to parents with small children. In RegensBy introducing mobile working in 2014, we have taken a furand safety burg, we increased the number of children that can ther innovative step towards self-determined working hours, 5.4 T  raining and further be accommodated in the company facility there from more focus on results and more flexibility in tailoring working education 24 to just under 50 in 2013. In Leipzig and Berlin, environments to individual requirements. It is supported by facilities near the plants provide childcare. top management and the works council and is implemented 5.5 Diversity and inclusion as a joint effort. The BMW Group is taking up a pioneering 5.6 Work-life balance In September 2013, the BMW Group opened its own role in fostering the resulting dialogue between employees childcare facility at the Munich location with places and managers on the topic of availability. for around 220 children aged between three months and six years. The number of childcare places at BMW’s locations in Germany has doubled as a result, to around 440. At the Munich location we offered a full day of childcare for the first time on the Day of Repentance school holiday to 60 children between six and twelve years of age. At BMW Group facilities around the world, childcare services meet local and regional requirements. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Work-life balance 138 6 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 6.1 6.2 6.3 6.4 Our management approach Corporate Citizenship Cultural engagement Foundations — p. 155 — p. 142 — p. 145 — p. 150 139 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP WE PROMOTE INTERCULTURAL INNOVATION. — JUNIOR CAMPUS — EDUCATIONAL PROJECTS — INTERCULTURAL INNOVATION AWARD — TRAFFIC SAFETY TRAINING — FOUNDATIONS — RESPONSIBLE USE OF RESOURCES Many societies are marked by high levels of social and intercultural inequality as well as by scarcity of resources. Intercultural understanding and ­responsible use of global resources are two essential ingredients in a joint approach towards resolving the issues that arise between cultures. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 140 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP PROGRESS IN 2013 KPIs 2014+ FORECAST AND OBJECTIVES CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP STRATEGY EXPENDITURE ON CORPORATE DISCUSS STRATEGY WITH STAKEHOLDERS ­IMPLEMENTED ­CITIZENSHIP – Inour2014, 29 we will be discussing the content of – I­Cnitizenship — 2013 2013, we implemented our new Corporate Corporate Citizenship strategy for the first strategy in our markets and time with opinion-makers at our national and s­ ubsidiaries, thus intensifying our international around € million international stakeholder dialogues. networks. 2012 €32 million FURTHER INTERNATIONALISATION OF EXPENDITURE OF FOUNDATIONS ON CONSOLIDATE CONTENT OF MAIN TOPICS JUNIOR CAMPUS NON-PROFIT PROJECTS – We 5.2 will add further detail to content and – — 2013 We promoted the further internationalisation of structure in the focal areas of intercultural our Junior Campus, launching a fourth campus innovation and social inclusion as well as in Moscow (Russia) in addition to the existing around € million efficient use of resources. ones in Berlin, Munich (Germany) and in South Korea. 2012 €4.8 million NEW ASPECTS TO INTERCULTURAL NUMBER OF BENEFICIARIES OF THE LEVERAGE INTERNATIONAL SYNERGIES INNOVATION AWARD ­INTERCULTURAL INNOVATION AWARD — 2013 – We want to further intensify the exchange of – We are reinforcing the active support we information between our national subsidiaries 175,000 provide for finalists of the Intercultural and headquarters in order to expand the Innovation Award and have networked the around sharing best-practices approach in the area prizewinners with our PR management of Corporate Citizenship. colleagues in their regional markets. 2012 70,000 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 141 1 6 .1 Our management local level. This is why we believe we can contribute towards more intercultural understanding and social ­approach inclusion. TAKING RESPONSIBILITY AS A CORPORATE CITIZEN For us it is important to scale up our corporate citi­ zenship solutions on an international level and to help people to help themselves in the long term. In addition to our two global focus areas, we also continue to support neighbourhoods around our locations and thus contribute towards local development. CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Corporate Citizenship forms an integral part of the It is both our objective and duty to be a dependable BMW Group’s vision of itself as a business enterpartner to society. We work primarily on topics and 6.1 Our management approach prise. We focus mainly on those areas in which we in regions that are relevant to us and in which we are can apply our core expertise to achieve specific and active ourselves. The aim is to integrate the company 6.2 Corporate Citizenship measureable improvements. into society and to create mutual acceptance and 6.3 Cultural engagement a positive image while taking local conditions into account. Thus, projects close to our production plants 6.4 Foundations Intercultural innovation and social inclusion as well in Spartanburg (USA), Chennai (India) and Regensas responsible use of resources are some of the main burg (Germany), for example, vary considerably focal areas of our corporate citizenship strategy. Our depending on local requirements. However, they are educational projects are the tool we use to promote all united by the principle of focused and sustainable understanding of these focal areas. In the area of engagement with the issues of the respective society. traffic safety we work at a local level. We believe that In exceptional cases, such as (natural) catastrophes, strategic corporate citizenship contributes towards we also provide support spontaneously and indemastering challenges in society, while at the same pendently of our focus areas. time bringing economic benefit to the company. Thus we can utilise the experience and expertise we gain As a corporate citizen, we are also active in the area from corporate citizenship projects to the benefit of of culture. Here, we want to be a credible force outour core business. side our core business while at the same time complementing the public funding available for cultural In 2013, our main focus was on intercultural commuactivities. Our cultural engagement also enhances the nication and social inclusion. As we are active in 140 reputation of our company and opens up dialogue countries, intercultural communication is part of our with opinion-makers. day-to-day business. Many of the markets we serve are characterised by high levels of inequality. We are familiar with the social conditions and realities on a Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Our management ­approach 142 6 .1 Through our foundations, we make an effective conIn 2013, we spent a total of €28,944,466 on our cortribution towards shaping a society characterised by porate citizenship activities, €8,485,289 of which took social cohesion and social innovation. the form of donations. To see how these funds were allocated to our various areas see Figure 29 and see INTEGRATION INTO THE ORGANISATION Figure 30. The main reasons for the decline in expenditure on corporate citizenship in 2013 were previWithin the company, the Sustainability Board is ous cases of one-off project funding which no longer responsible for corporate citizenship. All members of applied in 2013, as well as projects whose social the Board of Management are on this committee. The impact was not measurable. Corporate Communications Department, in close collaboration with the department for sustainability F.29 BMW Group donations worldwide in 2013 strategy and environmental protection, is responsible In %, total amount €8,485,2891 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP for managing our corporate citizenship activities. In c def cooperation with Group Corporate Communications 6.1 Our management approach at headquarters, local initiatives are taken care of by a local production and sales organisations. 6.2 Corporate Citizenship 6.3 Cultural engagement MEASURING THE EFFECTS OF OUR ACTIVITIES b 6.4 Foundations It is essential to be able to measure results. Since 2010, we have therefore been measuring the effects of our corporate citizenship activities using the iooi a) Science/Education 34.3 d) Politics 2.6 (Input Output Outcome Impact) method, which b) Society/Community 52.1 e) Environment/Sustainability 0.3 was developed in cooperation with other DAX-listed c) Culture 8.4 f) Sport 2.3 corporations in a working group established by the 1 T  he sum indicated here does not include either cause-related marketing or sponsorship and Bertelsmann Foundation. This method provides guiddoes not contain the projects and activities carried out in the context of the company’s social ance for systematic tracking of expenditure on and and cultural commitment. impact of corporate citizenship activities. The BMW Group focuses its activities in the area of donations on society and the community as well as science and education, providing targeted support of projects connected with the company’s core competencies and Before we start a corporate citizenship project, we activities. Donations made by the BMW Group in 2013 were approximately examine the social challenges faced at local level. The 12% lower than in 2012. The main reason for this was that some funded key question we ask ourselves is whether and how projects came to an end. the expertise we provide is actually improving local conditions. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Our management ­approach 143 6 .1 F.30 Amount of expenditure on social commitment, by type FORECAST of activity in € thousand We plan to further raise the profile of the BMW Group’s core 40,000 competencies in the area of corporate citizenship. There35,000 fore, we will continue to expand on the content and structure 30,000 in the focal areas of intercultural understanding and social 25,000 inclusion as well as efficient use of resources. Our aim in 20,000 2014 is to further implement our strategy at our locations 15,000 globally and thus to better leverage synergies. 10,000 5,000 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 09 10 11 12 13 6.1 Our management approach Total 7,619 26,591 36,846 31,979 28,944 Commercial activities 6.2 Corporate Citizenship Donations/contributions in kind Community investment 6.3 Cultural engagement The activities of the BMW Group in the area of corporate social responsibility are divided into three main areas. Firstly: monetary donations 6.4 Foundations and donations in kind. Secondly: community investment. Community investment refers to investment in project initiatives conceived in-house, ­cooperative endeavours and partnerships as well as corporate volunteering by BMW Group employees. And thirdly: commercial activities, i.e. sponsorship and cause-related marketing. Total expenditure on corporate citizenship activities of the BMW Group decreased compared to the 2012 financial year. The main reasons for the decline in expenditure on corporate citizenship in 2012 were previous cases of one-off project funding which no longer applied in 2013, as well as ­projects whose social impact was not measurable. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Our management ­approach 144 2 6 .2 Corporate Citizenship CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP We see ourselves as a corporate citizen and aim to PROMOTING INTERCULTURAL UNDERSTANDING — Intercultural Innovation play a role in overcoming the challenges presented by Award. 6.1 Our management approach society. Intercultural understanding and responsible use of global resources are two essential ingredients 6.2 Corporate Citizenship in a joint approach towards resolving the issues that Our activities also enhance the reputation of the 6.3 Cultural engagement arise between cultures. company and open up dialogue with opinion-makers and stakeholders. And finally, when we address local 6.4 Foundations issues and challenges and provide our support, we As a global corporation, we are familiar with condiare promoting higher levels of acceptance and awaretions in the countries we do business in, and we can ness among the general public. integrate this expertise into our corporate citizenship activities. At the same time we take account of local INTERCULTURAL COMMUNICATION AND SOCIAL requirements. We aim to achieve the highest possible INCLUSION impact with our activities. We analyse the costs and the benefits by using the iooi (Input Output Outcome As a global corporation with a multinational workImpact) method. 75% of our production locations force, we have been working for many years now to carry out corporate citizenship projects, with some of promote understanding between nations, religions them running for periods of many years. and ethnic groups. We also benefit as a company from our corporate Between 1997 and 2010, the BMW Group Award citizenship activities. For example, we become more for Intercultural Learning went to a large number familiar with local social structures, reach new, previof innovative projects and individuals worldwide ously untapped target groups with our intercultural who support sustainable, open relations in the inter­ skills and learn to see things from an alternative national community. perspective. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Corporate Citizenship 145 6 .2 In 2011, we further developed this award to establish The new collaboration model between the UN and the Intercultural Innovation Award in collaboration the private sector has already had considerable with the United Nations Alliance of Civilizations impact. For example, some of the award winners (UNAOC). The Intercultural Innovation Award is a have already been able to report concrete success and one-of-a-kind project to support innovative concepts progress as a result of the support they received. This that work towards solving intercultural tension and is documented in the Support to Winners report. The conflict. volume of media coverage of the awards ceremony at the Volkstheater, Vienna, in 2013 shows just how important intercultural understanding has become. THIS AWARD IS BASED ON THREE PILLARS YOU WILL FIND MORE INFORMATION ON THE AWARD AND ITS FINALISTS – Freceive inancial support: Award winners (1st to 5th place) prize money amounting to a total of USD 100,000 FROM 2013 AT: CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP w ww.bmwgroup.com/iia for further work on their projects. 6.1 Our management approach – Atodvisory services: All ten finalists receive advice tailored their individual needs. In addition, the BMW Group, in PROMOTING AN OPEN AND PEACEFUL SOCIETY 6.2 Corporate Citizenship collaboration with the UNAOC, organises webinars as well 6.3 Cultural engagement as worldwide workshops to train and support the finalists The BMW Group supports the Adam Institute for in the necessary areas, for instance in HR, communicaDemocracy and Peace. This institute is a leading 6.4 Foundations tions, or marketing and finances. organisation for teaching democratic values through– NIntercultural etwork utilisation: Vigorous dialogue takes place in the Leaders network which was set up specifout Israel. Since 1999, we have been supporting a programme that teaches democratic values in Jewish ically with the award in mind, with finalists, alumni, the and Arab schools, aiming to support the education BMW Group as well as the UNAOC as members. The finalof Arab and Jewish adolescents. Here, in addition to ists can come to an online market place for expert advice. promoting intercultural understanding, we are also The aim of the network is to increase the effectiveness of making a contribution towards securing peace. The the projects and make them transferable to other contexts. BMW Group’s long-standing commitment has earned the company the Teddy Kollek Award. LONG-TERM EDUCATIONAL PROJECTS FOR SOCIAL INCLUSION One of our largest long-term educational projects is in South Africa. The Schools Environmental Education Development Project (SEED) aims to raise young people’s awareness of environmental issues and promote social responsibility. This project places Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Corporate Citizenship 146 6 .2 particular focus on children from disadvantaged popfuture, mobility, sustainability and globality will be ulation groups. They learn about hygiene standards, the focal themes of the newly planned and renovated for example, and develop skills such as how to grow campus laboratory. vegetables. Each participating school is also responsible for an environmental project. The schools are In addition, we opened our Junior Campus Berlin in inspected annually and their performance evalu2012. It is based on the educational concept of the ated. They receive a financial reward based on how Junior Campus in Munich and was further expanded well they have performed. The SEED project was in cooperation with the Deutsches Technikmulaunched in 1996 at 15 schools close to the BMW seum by adding the areas of natural science and plant in Rosslyn. The project has had a positive effect mathematics. both on the children themselves as well as on their families and friends. Over 60 schools are now taking The Junior Campus concept is internationally transCORPORATE CITIZENSHIP part in the project. We are thus reaching an ever-inferrable and is adapted to specific local requirements. creasing number of children. We plan to expand the At the end of 2012, the BMW Korea Future Fund 6.1 Our management approach SEED project in the next few years. opened the first international Junior Campus in South Korea. The new mobile laboratory, which is 6.2 Corporate Citizenship SECURING MOBILITY AND TRAFFIC SAFETY installed in a truck, offers educational opportun­ities 6.3 Cultural engagement to less privileged children from rural regions of South To complement our main topics of intercultural innoKorea, thus contributing towards social inclusion. In 6.4 Foundations vation and social inclusion, we also have many eduNovember 2013, we opened our fourth Junior Camcational and traffic safety projects. This allows us to pus in Moscow (Russia). A 300-square-meter space promote people’s understanding of technology and gives children between the ages of five and ten the sustainability. opportunity to take part in interactive workshops and to learn how to proceed with care in traffic. We For instance, together with renowned educators and developed this concept specifically for Russia, in scientists, the company developed a concept that collaboration with teachers and traffic safety experts. enables people to use all their senses to discover Traffic safety in Russia is a serious social issue. In mobility and sustainability. Based on this concept the first half of 2013, around 10,000 people died on we set up the Junior Campus at the BMW Welt in Russia’s streets; over 300 of them were children. By Munich. Since 2007, children are given the opportuway of comparison, over 1,400 people died on Gernity to independently and interactively explore, test man streets in the same period, of whom just under and experiment so that they can experience the life 40 were children. cycle of a car from a mobility perspective. In 2013, over 16,000 children and adolescents took part in the workshops. 24,000 guests visited the open laboratory. Visitors can interact free of charge with various exhibits to delve deeper into the topic of mobility. In Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Corporate Citizenship 147 6 .2 PROTECTING ALL ROAD USERS We also engage in university partnerships via our young talent programmes. In addition, we support For us, it is not only vehicle safety that matters, but universities by installing endowed chairs, providing also the safety of all road users. We are committed vehicles for research and teaching purposes as well to increasing safety levels through numerous social as having employees engaged as lecturers, making initiatives. donations towards teaching and research projects and offering internships and a number of other In the UK, we have focused on the Internet. Our Safe measures. on the Street programme has provided a designated website for children, parents and teachers since the PROMOTING VOCATIONAL EDUCATION year 2001. With over 200,000 visitors so far, the portal received the International Visual CommunicaIn addition to its work with universities and the CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP tions Gold Award for its innovative and user-friendly sciences, the BMW Group also needs partners in approach. the area of vocational training. As vocational train6.1 Our management approach ing scales up at the international locations, the In the USA, around 14,000 adolescents and adults BMW Group also supports vocational schools and 6.2 Corporate Citizenship visit our BMW Performance Driving School each comparable institutes outside Germany. 6.3 Cultural engagement year. As part of a long-term cooperation project with dealers nationwide, the Performance Driving School In addition, collaboration with facilities in the UK, 6.4 Foundations also offers the Teen Driving School for young drivers. Asia and the USA makes an essential contribution The BMW Car Club of America’s Teen Driver Safety towards successfully training young people for variProgram also targets beginners and has reached ous jobs at our production locations and within the around 2,600 teenagers in 101 schools so far. Among dealership network. We frequently provide high-qualother things, it runs the DON’T TXT & DRIVE camity components or even entire vehicles to vocational paign, which uses the full range of media channels to schools and training facilities so that they can be used warn about the dangers of becoming distracted when for teaching and training purposes. driving. LOCAL COMMITMENT REALIGNING OUR INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY NETWORK The BMW Group has 28 manufacturing and assembly Since 2011, we have been realigning our partnerships plants in 13 countries. Our sales network is made up with universities worldwide. Eight strategic university of 42 subsidiaries. Wherever we are represented in partnerships and collaborations have now been set the world, we are committed to social responsibility. up or expanded in Europe, the USA and Asia. Each While our local activities are generally strategic in strategic university partnership focuses on the areas character, we also provide immediate assistance when of research and promotion of young talent. major disasters occur. For example, after the floods in Germany in 2013, we provided a total of €1.5 million in financial support to the municipalities around the Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Corporate Citizenship 148 6 .2 BMW plants in Dingolfing/Landshut, Regensburg/ Almost 2,000 students have participated in this comWackersdorf and in the region of Leipzig/Halle. petition since 2012. SUPPORTING THE DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL Both funds offer a platform that enables the entire COMMUNITIES BMW Group, its workforce, dealers and customers to make a contribution towards society in the respective The foundations China Charity Federation (CCF) countries. BMW Warm Heart Fund and the BMW Korea Future Fund are regionally focused. REWARDING EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT The BMW Warm Heart Fund was established in 2008 Again in 2013, the BMW Group bestowed social by BMW China Brilliance Automotive in collabor­ responsibility awards on its employees worldCORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ation with the China Charity Federation. In the first wide. This is the company’s way of thanking those five years a total of almost RMB 100 million in donaemployees who do voluntary work in their free 6.1 Our management approach tions were collected. This money goes towards fundtime. Employees from 11 countries took part in the ing various local projects. For instance, the BMW Joy competition. This year again, four projects were 6.2 Corporate Citizenship Home Children Care Program was set up to provide presented with the award, each of them focusing on 6.3 Cultural engagement material and psychological support to children from different aspects of social responsibility. The projects economically disadvantaged regions of China, and range from setting up an inclusive football team, to 6.4 Foundations the BMW Joy Future programme offers financial and a recycling project in Cairo as well as the support of educational support to outstanding students from refugees and migrants, to weekend/holiday care of less privileged families. disabled children and adolescents. The BMW Korea Future Fund was established by the BMW Group Korea in 2011, and has since been OUTLOOK promoting the development of a responsible elite in Korean society under the motto Responsible Leader In the future, we will further expand our focal topics of interfor Future. This fund supports various projects to procultural innovation and social inclusion as well as resource mote the development of children. For instance, the efficiency. In these areas, we plan to provide benefits to a Junior Campus is a scientific educational programme total of one million people by 2020. At local level, we will for primary school children. Disadvantaged adolescontinue to focus on traffic safety and education. cents are mentored via the Young Engineer Dream Project programme. In addition, the Hope Sharing School programme is supported, which offers meals and schooling to disadvantaged children. The BMW Korea Future Fund’s activities are rounded off by its support of the business plan competition From Idea to Startup, which is targeted at students and graduates. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Corporate Citizenship 149 3 6 .3 Cultural – Long-term character of engagement – Subtlety of brand presence engagement – Guaranteed artistic freedom – Focus on the three pillars of contemporary and modern art, classical music and jazz as well as architecture and design. CAREFUL CHOICE OF PROJECTS The Corporate Communications and Policy departments at the company’s headquarters select the projects that are to receive funding. However, the CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP The BMW Group has been promoting art and culture individual locations also support local cultural comfor over 40 years. We support hundreds of projects mitment activities. The cultural commitment office 6.1 Our management approach worldwide in the areas of classical music and jazz, accepts suggestions from within the company. Project modern and contemporary art as well as architecture proposals can also be submitted to the BMW Group 6.2 Corporate Citizenship and design. from outside the company. The cultural commitment 6.3 Cultural engagement office reviews the proposals and either implements them itself or in cooperation with other BMW Group 6.4 Foundations With our cultural activities we want to be perceived departments. as a corporate citizen, enhance our reputation and stand out from the competition. We also aim to EXPANDING CULTURAL ENGAGEMENT AT NATIONAL achieve a positive image transfer that contributes AND INTERNATIONAL LEVEL towards the BMW Group’s public image. The unrestricted creative freedom of our cultural partners is We want to become active outside the large cities in guaranteed at all times. Germany in particular and to also provide the benefit of our engagement at dealership level. The same goes In 2012, we developed our BMW Group Cultural for integrating projects into markets that are of parCommitment strategy which standardises all our ticular relevance to the BMW Group, such as China. activities in this area. This umbrella strategy is implemented worldwide and is based on the corporate and In 2013, we successfully expanded our cultural combrand strategy as well as on the sponsorship strategy mitment at international level. For example, we launched in 2010. Furthermore, binding guidelines participated in new art fairs and continued to interfor cultural commitment were developed in 2012 in nationalise the Opera for All format. The feedback collaboration with the Strategy department. We have we receive from creative artists, customer surveys and introduced our own Cultural Strategy for the Gerin the form of positive media reports demonstrates man market, based on the BMW Group Strategy. The the high level of public acceptance of our cultural main principles of this strategy are: commitment. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Cultural engagement 150 6 .3 aims to use new art forms to reach an international audience and in the process to take changing expectations of art into account. In 2013, we also published a revised and extended edition of the BMW Art Guide by Independent Collectors. This guide is the first publication of its kind and lists all publicly accessible private art collections worldwide. The guide was complemented by a blog which we launched at the same time. The BMW Group also expanded its commitment in other areas. MINI got involved in art fairs for the first time CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP at the art berlin contemporary in Berlin. In addition, BMW expanded its funding of the Paris Photo Los 6.1 Our management approach A COMMITMENT TO CULTURE — BMW Tate Live 2013. Angeles, initiated in 2013. And the company was involved for the first time in the international art film 6.2 Corporate Citizenship festival and competition Kino der Kunst in Munich. 6.3 Cultural engagement PROMOTING MODERN ART, MUSIC, ARCHITECTURE AND DESIGN BMW GUGGENHEIM LAB 6.4 Foundations We support a large range of projects worldwide in BMW’s Guggenheim Lab, a mobile research labthe areas of modern and contemporary art, classical oratory, was the result of a collaboration between music and jazz, as well as architecture and design. the BMW Group and the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation. International teams (for example from SUPPORTING MODERN AND CONTEMPORARY ART the areas of urban planning, design, the sciences, technology, education and sustainability) worked The Preis der Nationalgalerie für junge Kunst and on projects and experiments and engaged in public the Preis für junge Filmkunst in Berlin are two of the dialogue on issues of modern urban living. Over a BMW Group’s contemporary artist awards. million participants from more than 160 countries and regions took part in some 600 free public events, In 2013, we further expanded our engagement workshops, lectures, research and urban projects. with BMW Tate Live. This collaboration between the BMW Group and the Tate Modern in London In 2013, the project was completed with the openwas designed to run for several years. It showcases ing of the exhibition Participatory City: 100 Urban performances and interdisciplinary art forms. The Trends from the BMW Guggenheim Lab. Between programme includes live online transmissions of October 2013 and January 2014, the Solomon exclusive artworks as well as live performances at R. Guggenheim Museum in New York City held this the Tate Modern and think tanks. The partnership exhibition about the experiences and ideas that were Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Cultural engagement 151 6 .3 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP CLASSICAL MUSIC AND JAZZ — Winners of BMW Welt Jazz Awards 2013. EXPERIENCING CULTURE — Opera for All. 6.1 Our management approach gathered during the BMW Guggenheim Lab’s two The BMW Group has been the main partner in the 6.2 Corporate Citizenship years on the road. Now that the BMW Guggenheim Munich Philharmonic’s educational programme 6.3 Cultural engagement Lab has reached completion, the BMW Group will Spielfeld Klassik since 2011. This initiative aims to continue to collaborate with the Solomon R Guggenawaken an interest in classical music by offering 6.4 Foundations heim Museum as a global partner. adults and children from as young as five years of age the opportunity to visit concerts, rehearsals, The BMW Guggenheim Lab has received a number of introductory events and workshops. This programme international awards and nominations, and it was reccontinued to be successful in 2013. In addition, the ognised by the United Nations as a showcase project. BMW Group provided financial assistance and transport during the Munich Philharmonic’s tour of Asia. EXPERIENCING CLASSICAL MUSIC AND JAZZ THROUGH BMW OPERA FOR ALL The BMW Welt Jazz Award celebrated an anniversary The award-winning Opera for All offers a very special in 2013: for the fifth time, six international ensemmusical experience. We launched this open-air event bles competed against each other in Munich under in 1997 in Munich and in 2007 in Berlin. Opera for the motto Leading Drums. The award, with prize All broadcasts performances of the Bavarian State money of €15,000, has become an established name Opera and the Berlin State Opera Unter den Linden in the jazz world. In addition to the BMW Welt Jazz in public spaces, thus reaching an audience that Award, the BMW Group also supports jazz festiwould otherwise probably not have access to opera. vals and concerts in various cities in Europe, South Again in 2013, tens of thousands of people came to ­America and Asia. the open-air events at Max-Joseph-Platz in Munich and Bebelplatz in Berlin. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Cultural engagement 152 6 .3 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 6.1 Our management approach 6.2 Corporate Citizenship 6.3 Cultural engagement 6.4 Foundations EXPERIENCING DESIGN — Quiet Motion installation at the Salone del Mobile 2013. We have also gone international with this format. In DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURE 2013, the BMW LSO Open Air Classics live concert took place for the second time. The renowned LonEach year since 2010, the BMW Group has had an don Symphony Orchestra (LSO) plays free live openinstallation at the international furniture fair Salone air classical music concerts for the general public del Mobile in Milan. We want to be inspired by the once a year. The open-air concert drew a crowd of designs of the furniture manufacturers and at the almost 10,000 to London’s Trafalgar Square. same time present our own ideas. A look beyond our own industry creates headroom for design innov­ In 2013, our long-term activities in the international ation. In 2013, the BMW Group had two installamarkets comprised further collaborations with tions at the fair. The installation QUIET MOTION by renowned opera houses such as the Teatr Wielki designers Ronan and Erwan Bouroullec was inspired Opera Narodowa in Warsaw and the Sugi Opera in by the BMW i models’ lightweight design, transparSeoul. ency, sustainable materials and the new experience of driving in silence. The MINI Design Team also showcased the MINI Paceman as a dynamic sculpture. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Cultural engagement 153 6 .3 In addition, the headquarters building of the OUTLOOK BMW Group, the Vierzylinder in Munich, celebrated its 40th anniversary in 2013. Karl Schwanzer’s postWe plan to further expand our cultural commitment activities war architectural icon was a deliberate choice on in 2014. In addition to our hundreds of existing partnerships the part of the company, selected for its innovative, worldwide, a number of new projects are planned for 2014. dynamic construction that was later to be followed We will begin preparations to produce a new BMW Art Car, by pioneering buildings by Zaha Hadid and Coop continue to internationalise the Opera for All concept and Himmelb(l)au. The original cultural commitment increase our engagement in China. activities of the BMW Group date back to the period of the Vierzylinder and the company’s successful internationalisation. CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP MEASURING THE SUCCESS OF OUR CULTURAL ENGAGEMENT 6.1 Our management approach With regard to cultural engagement, we draw import6.2 Corporate Citizenship ant success parameters from the Sigma Milieustu6.3 Cultural engagement dien. These studies show that art and culture are among the main interests of our customers. They 6.4 Foundations include art exhibitions, museums, classical concerts and opera performances in particular. We also measure the performance of our cultural activities by reviewing media coverage. We gather data on media coverage of individual projects and generate comprehensive reports (Clipreports). In 2013, over 2,300 reports were published on the company’s cultural engagement. Performance is also measured by longitudinal studies and economic assessments. In future, we want to further enhance public awareness of the range and quality of our activities. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Cultural engagement 154 4 6 .4 Foundations for today’s social issues. Projects with selected partners create forums for social innovation and responsibility. When the projects reach completion they become independent entities that have their effect in day-to-day life. Both foundations plan and manage their programmes themselves. They are independent, both legally and with respect to their content. In some areas, the foundations collaborate with the BMW Group in order to make their commitment effective on a larger scale. In 2013, they invested a total of €5.22 million in nonCORPORATE CITIZENSHIP We believe it is possible to successfully shape a sociprofit programmes and projects. The foundations ety that is based on social cohesion and innovation if provide clear and comprehensible evidence of the 6.1 Our management approach the competencies and skills of each individual are harsuccess of their various activities. nessed for the general good and used to implement 6.2 Corporate Citizenship social change. Our foundations contribute towards TAKING THE INITIATIVE 6.3 Cultural engagement making this happen. In addition, the BMW Future Fund was established in 6.4 Foundations 2011. This foundation, run by BMW Korea, promotes The BMW Foundation Herbert Quandt provides initiatives for environmentally friendly mobility. inspiration and support to people who work for the common good and to prepare society for the chalWith a mix of their own projects, long-term funding lenges of the future. It provides a forum for decisionand advice services, the foundations are highly relemakers, the aim being to gain an understanding of vant to society as a whole. It is a challenging task to global challenges and to map out potential ways fordesign projects in such a way that they can continue ward. The foundation takes a cross-sectoral approach on their own after the funding and support phase. To and collaborates with partners worldwide. Together, meet this challenge, the foundations create a strong they work to find innovative solutions for governstructure at an early stage. ment, industry and society. Since October 2013, the Eberhard von Kuenheim BMW AG’s Eberhard von Kuenheim Foundation Foundation and the BMW Foundation Herbert sees itself as a creator of forums within which social Quandt have been implementing the Sinnvestition responsibility can be fostered in Germany. Its manproject. In addition to operational project work and date is to promote entrepreneurial thinking and investments as part of the Venture Philanthropy action above and beyond the economic context. approach, this project aims to support the funding Under the motto freude am neu:wagen (try someobjectives of the foundations directly from fixed thing new), it develops and tests new solution models assets. This new approach is designed to have an Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Foundations 155 6 .4 Leaders is increasingly becoming a dynamic network for people who wish to work together to make their societies fit for the future. Six of the selected projects at the 4th World Young Leaders Forum in Beijing (China), which drew over 300 international participants, received substantial support from the network. Informational events, behind-the-scenes dialogue and financial commitment have enabled the foundation to raise the profile of pro bono work in Germany. In CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP BMW FOUNDATION HERBERT QUANDT — 4th World Young Leaders Forum addition, we were able to convince foundations and in Beijing. companies of the benefits of having professional vol6.1 Our management approach untary programmes. This process led to the founding of the independent social company Proboneo. 6.2 Corporate Citizenship effect on the economy and the financial sector in 6.3 Cultural engagement addition to the non-profit third sector. FOUNDATION 6.4 Foundations THE WORK OF BMW FOUNDATION HERBERT QUANDT BMW STIFTUNG HERBERT QUANDT Under the umbrella concepts of social innovation and ÜBER DIE STIFTUNG global dialogue, in 2013 the BMW Foundation HerThe BMW Foundation inspires and supports people in bert Quandt dedicated itself to the topics of Respontheir work for the general good and future of society. To sible Leadership, Venture Philanthropy, Pro bono achieve this, the foundation works with partners worldServices, Social Entrepreneurship, Political Participawide. Together, we look for innovative solutions in the tion, Strong Intermediaries and Europe. political arena, industry and society – solutions that bring people and cultures together and strengthen social A key instrument in the foundation’s work in 2013 cohesion. was its international Young Leaders programmes, FACTS which are characterised by cross-sectoral partici­pation 1970 23 and interactive design. The programmes motivate Foundation employees managers to take social responsibility a step further, established in 2013 beyond their professional tasks. The growing number of global alumni of the BMW foundation Responsible Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Foundations 156 6 .4 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 6.1 Our management approach 6.2 Corporate Citizenship 6.3 Cultural engagement EBERHARD VON KUENHEIM FOUNDATION — Joblinge project provides support for unemployed youth. 6.4 Foundations At the Munich Economic Summit as well as at the THE WORK OF THE BMW AG EBERHARD VON KUENHEIM new series of events Island Dialogues and Europe, FOUNDATION United in Diversity, we host important discussions about the design of our globalised society and argue JOBLINGE – Working together to reduce youth for a strong and effective Europe. unemployment In 2007, the foundation collaborated with the Boston READ MORE ABOUT THE WORK OF THE BMW FOUNDATION HERBERT QUANDT AND STORIES OF OUR WORK AT: Consulting Group on launching the JOBLINGE pro­ ject. The project gives unemployed young people who w ww.bmw-stiftung.de have no school leaving certificate or who are resist­ ant to training the opportunity to earn themselves a trainee position or job through their own efforts. The young people are selected as part of a non-profit pro­ject and then receive six months of individual support from voluntary mentors and a full-time team. The project became independent in 2012. The umbrella organisation of JOBLINGE is continuing to implement the project as a social franchise. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Foundations 157 6 .4 Many BMW AG employees work on the initiative as student teachers gain a realistic view at an early stage voluntary mentors. In the period under report, BMW of what happens in day-to-day classroom life. provided just under 40 internships and 14 trainee positions to JOBLINGE. In addition, since 2009 the In the 2013/2014 school year, 125 teaching workBMW Group has been supporting the project with shop tandems were in place in 68 secondary schools donations and by purchasing shares. and high schools at four different locations in Germany (Munich, Wurzburg, Erlangen-Nuremberg and In 2013, JOBLINGE saw considerable growth, in Passau). particular after new branches and locations had been opened in Essen, Offenbach and Wiesbaden (GerJunge Vor!Denker – Thinking ahead and discovermany). Further locations are being set up in Haming the joy of responsibility burg and Stuttgart. Philosophising about such topics as sustainability CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP lets children learn and understand things in context. The JOBLINGE project has so far supported almost They ask themselves questions such as “How much 6.1 Our management approach 1,500 disadvantaged young people. The percentage is enough?” or “What do we need to enjoy life?” The of young job seekers who found training positions Junge Vor!Denker project promotes social respon6.2 Corporate Citizenship or jobs rose from over 60% in 2012 to over 65% in sibility based on the interplay between knowledge, 6.3 Cultural engagement 2013. philosophy and action. 6.4 Foundations tat:funk – Schools learn from student initiatives Sixty teachers had been trained in how to impleIn this school radio project, high school children ment the project by the end of 2013. The book in the upper grades produce their own radio proWie wollen wir leben? Kinder philosophieren über gramme. In the process, they learn not only about Nachhaltigkeit (How do we want to live? Children journalistic principles but also how to independently philosophise about sustainability), a collection of plan and implement a project. philosophical texts, was published by oekom in 2012. The second, revised edition will be published at Over 100 schools have integrated tat:funk into their the beginning of 2014. At the same time, the newly lessons since its launch in 2002 and 260 radio proopened BMW Group children’s crèche Strolchegarten grammes have been produced. A total of 143 teachers in Munich will begin to train its team in the philosohave attended the tat:funk teacher training course. phy of sustainability. Lehr:werkstatt – New methods of teacher training VERANTWORTUNG UNTERNEHMEN – ACTING RESPONIn the Lehr:werkstatt (teaching workshop), a highly SIBLY TO OPEN UP A FORUM BETWEEN BUSINESS AND motivated student teacher works in tandem with a SOCIETY mentor teacher for an entire school year. This gives both parties the opportunity to reflect on what they How can companies and organisations act sustainhave observed in the classroom setting and to collabably, to their own benefit on the one hand, but at the orate on trying out new things. In this way, the same time to the benefit of society? The VerantworPrevious Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Foundations 158 6 .4 tung Unternehmen initiative aims to find answers to OUTLOOK this question. In 2013, the third year of the initiative was completed with ten companies and organisaThe BMW Foundation Herbert Quandt will continue to purtions. Since 2010, 29 companies have taken part in sue its strategy of internationalisation in 2014 by setting the initiative and have implemented projects in their up new locations in Istanbul and Moscow. The future topic own core business areas. “resources and security” will be on the foundation’s agenda, with an innovative global dialogue format focusing primarThe Eberhard von Kuenheim Foundation can look ily on the newly influential powers in Asia, Africa and Latin back on a successful year in 2013. For instance, the America. foundation’s initiative Verantwortung Unternehmen completed its third year, with ten companies and In the coming years, the Eberhard von Kuenheim Foundation organisations participating. The Lehr:werkstatt pro­ plans to expand its ongoing projects in Bavaria and CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ject expanded to four locations in Bavaria and both throughout Germany. As an enabler of social responsibility the tat:funk school radio project and the JOBLINGE forums, the foundation will collaborate with strong partners 6.1 Our management approach project continued to thrive as independent entities. and experts from industry, society and politics to develop pro­jects that will open up new channels for creating 6.2 Corporate Citizenship innovative solutions and answers to the questions posed 6.3 Cultural engagement FOUNDATION ÜBER DIE STIFTUNG by today’s society. After all, the joy of responsibility is what EBERHARD VON This BMW AG foundation motivates people. 6.4 Foundations KUENHEIM STIFTUNG was established in honour of Eberhard von Kuenheim, For 2014, the joint Sinnvestition project of the two foundaBEREICHE who was Chairman of the tions plans to set up an initial Mission Related Investment – Education Board of Management Fund (MRI fund) on education. Foundations can invest their – Work and S ­ upervisory Board for funds in the certainty that the very high requirements placed – Sustainability many years. on foundation asset management will apply. DATEN 2000 Founded in the year 11 employees in 2013 READ MORE ABOUT THE WORK OF BMW AG’S EBERHARD VON KUENHEIM FOUNDATION AT: w ww.kuenheim-stiftung.de Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Foundations 159 FIGURES, FACTS AND OBJECTIVES 1 Sustainability management — p. 162 2 Product responsibility — p. 168 3 Group-wide environmental protection — p. 172 4 Supplier management — p. 183 5 Employees — p. 184 6 Corporate Citizenship — p. 200 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 160 Explanatory notes Within the chapters the topics are no longer organised by subheadings. The order in which the indicaon figures, facts tors are presented is largely based on the GRI. and ­objectives Performance indicators that are shown in charts are not repeated in the form of tables. This eliminates redundancies and saves space. The Sustainability Targets are listed at the end of each chapter. In addition to the new strategic Sustainability Targets 2020, General Directions and Measures and Results from financial year 2013 have FIGURES, FACTS AND This section contains the strategic Sustainability been listed. The measures shown have been selected OBJECTIVES Targets 2020, relevant measures and results from according to their relevance and are representative 2013 as well as the sustainability indicators of the of a large number of measures taken to increase 1 Sustainability management BMW Group. the BMW Group’s sustainability performance at all 2 Product responsibility locations. The sustainability key figures include the follow3 Group-wide environmental ing production sites of the BMW Group: Berlin, protection Dingolfing, Eisenach, Landshut, Leipzig, Munich, 4 Supplier management Regensburg (Germany), Steyr (Austria), Goodwood, Hams Hall, Oxford, Swindon (UK), Rosslyn (South 5 Employees Africa), Spartanburg (USA), Rayong assembly plant 6 Corporate Citizenship (Thailand), Chennai assembly plant (India) and BMW Brilliance Shenyang (China). The indicators are arranged according to the chapter structure of the SVR 2013 Sustainability management, Product responsibility, Group-wide environmental protection, Supplier management, Employees and Corporate Citizenship. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page 161 1 Financial figures in € million 09 10 11 12 13 Change in % Revenues 50,681 60,477 68,821 76,848 76,058 – 1.00 Capital expenditure 3,471 3,263 3,692 5,240 6,687 27.6 Depreciation and amortisation 3,600 3,682 3,646 3,541 3,739 5.6 Operating cash flow 4,921 8,149 8,110 9,167 9,450 3.1 Profit before financial result 289 5,111 8,018 8,275 7,986 – 3.5 Profit before tax 413 4,853 7,383 7,803 7,913 1.4 Net profit 210 3,243 4,907 5,111 5,340 4.5 FIGURES, FACTS AND OBJECTIVES BMW Group revenues fell by 1.0% to €76,058 million compared to the previous year (2012: €76,848 million). Cross-segment revenue eliminations rose due to the strong new leasing business. In addition, the devaluation of some key currencies such as the US dollar, the Japanese yen, the Australian dollar and the South African rand led to a slight decrease in revenues despite an increase in volume. Net of currency effects, revenues rose by 1.9%. The profit before financial result amounted to 1 Sustainability management €7,986 million (2012: €8,275 million) in the reporting period. 2 Product responsibility GRI G3 Indicator EC1 3 Group-wide environmental protection 4 Supplier management BMW Group value added in % 5 Employees c Employees 46.8 d 6 Corporate Citizenship a Providers of finance 9.3 Government/public sector 16.1 b Shareholders 8.9 Group 18.8 Minority interest 0.1 a) Net value added 24.8 b) Cost of materials 55.2 c) Depreciation and amortisation 9.1 d) Other expenses 10.9 Net value added by the BMW Group in 2013 increased by 1.3% to €19,215 million and remains at a high level. The majority of the net value added (46.8%) is again applied to employees. The proportion applied to providers of finance fell to 9.3%, mainly due to lower refinancing costs in the financial services business on inter­ national capital markets. The government/public sector (including deferred tax expense) accounted for 16.1%. The proportion of net value added applied to shareholders, at 8.9%, was higher than in the previous year. Other shareholders take a 0.1% share of net value added. The remaining proportion of net value added (18.8%) will be retained in the Group to finance future operations. GRI Indicator EC6 Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page 162 1 Return on capital employed in € million Earnings for RoCE purposes Capital employed Return on capital employed in % 13 121 13 12 13 12 BMW Group 8,320 8,113 35.178 21.4 23.0 Automobiles 7,624 10.165 63.3 73.7 Motorcycles 9 511 16.4 1.8 1 The previous year’s figures were adjusted to comply with the amended IAS 19. RoCE describes the profitability of the operational business. It is measured on the basis of the segment profit before financial result and the average level of capital FIGURES, FACTS AND employed. The strategic RoCE target is 26%. OBJECTIVES GRI G3 Indicator EC1 1 Sustainability management 2 Product responsibility Current tax expenses Pension provisions 3 Group-wide environmental in € million in € million protection 3,000 6,000 4 Supplier management 2,500 5,000 2,000 4,000 5 Employees 1,500 3,000 6 Corporate Citizenship 1,000 2,000 500 1,000 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 338 1,430 2,868 2,908 2,435 2,972 1,563 2,183 3,8131 2,303 1 The previous year’s figures were adjusted to comply with the amended IAS 19. Current tax expenses include €222 million in expenses from previous reporting periods (2012: expenses of €128 million). Pension provisions decreased compared to year-end 2012 from €3,813 million to €2,303 million. This was mainly due to rising discount rates in GRI Indicators EC1 and EC3 Germany and the USA. GRI Indicators EC1 and EC3 Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page 163 1 Research and development expenditure Contract portfolio of financial services segment in € million and in € per employee in 1,000 units 5,000 4,500 4,500 4,000 4,000 3,500 3,500 3,000 3,000 2,500 2,500 2,000 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 in € million 2,448 2,773 3,373 3,952 4,792 3,086 3,190 3,592 3,846 4,130 FIGURES, FACTS AND € per employee 1 26,974 31,181 36,998 41,275 47,939 OBJECTIVES The Financial Services segment continued to benefit from its attractive 1 B  ased on the average number of people employed during the financial year (not including trainees and students gaining work experience). product portfolio in 2013, posting profitable growth. The number of leasing and financing contracts in place with retail customers and dealerships 1 Sustainability management rose by 7.4% to 4,130,002 contracts, thus reaching a new record level (2012: In order to offer our customers top quality products and innovative technol3,846,364 contracts). 2 Product responsibility ogies, we employed a total of 11,359 people in 2013 in our global research and innovation network, at 12 sites in five countries. In the reporting 3 Group-wide environmental period, expenditure on research and development rose by 21.3% to €4,792 protection million (2012: €3,952 million). The research and development expenditure ratio was 6.3 %, up 1.2 percentage points on the previous year (2012: 5.1%). 4 Supplier management 5 Employees 6 Corporate Citizenship Public sector grants: public subsidies in the form of reduced Public sector grants: allowances from public institutions ­taxes on assets and consumption-based taxes in € million in € million 48 90 40 75 32 60 24 45 16 30 8 15 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 27 36 47 45 45 14 30 13 19 73 Production costs were reduced by €45 million due to public subsidies in the form of reduced taxes on assets and consumption-based taxes (2012: Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page €45 million). 164 1 Vehicle production of the BMW Group by plant in 2013 in 1,000 units kl j i a h g b f e c d a) Dingolfing 342.6 g) Dadong1 126.9 FIGURES, FACTS AND b) Spartanburg 297.3 h) Tiexi 1 88 OBJECTIVES c) Regensburg 295.5 i) Rosslyn 65.6 d) Munich 247.3 j) Graz (Magna Steyr)2 125.6 1 Sustainability management e) Leipzig 186.7 k) Goodwood 3.4 Oxford 176 Assembly plants 51.5 2 Product responsibility f) l) 3 Group-wide environmental BMW Brilliance joint venture. 1 2 Contract production. protection In the reporting period, the BMW Group’s production network imple4 Supplier management mented a number of model launches, started series production of the BMW i3 and further expanded the number of international sites. In spite 5 Employees of these many challenges, new records in production volume were achieved. The highly flexible production network balanced out regional sales fluctu­ 6 Corporate Citizenship ations by adapting the production programme. GRI G3 Indicator EC9 Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page 165 1 Sales volume of the BMW Group by vehicle 09 10 11 12 13 Sales volume – Automobiles BMW 1 1,068,770 1,224,280 1,380,384 1,540,085 1,655,138 MINI 216,538 234,175 285,060 301,526 305,030 Rolls-Royce 1,002 2,711 3,538 3,575 3,630 Total 1,286,310 1,461,166 1,668,982 1,845,186 1,963,798 Sales volume – Motorcycles BMW2 87,306 98,047 104,286 106,358 115,215 1 Includes vehicles from the BMW Brilliance joint venture (2009: 43,702 vehicles, 2010: 53,701 vehicles, 2011: 94,400 vehicles, 2012: 141,165 vehicles, 2013: 198,542 vehicles). FIGURES, FACTS AND 2 not including Husqvarna, sales volume until 2013: 59,776 vehicles. OBJECTIVES In 2013, the BMW Group delivered 1,963,798* vehicles of the BMW, MINI and Rolls-Royce brands, more than ever before in the company’s history (2012: 1,845,186* vehicles/+6.4%). In spite of continuing volatility on many markets in Europe in particular, the company consolidated its leading position in the premium segment 1 Sustainability management worldwide. All three vehicle brands achieved new record sales. 2 Product responsibility GRI G3 Indicator A4 3 Group-wide environmental protection BMW Group sales volume of vehicles by region and market 4 Supplier management in 1,000 units 09 10 11 12 13 5 Employees 6 Corporate Citizenship Europe 761.9 791.2 858.4 865.4 859.5 of which Germany 267.5 267.2 285.3 287.4 259.2 Asia 1 183.2 286.3 375.5 493.4 578.7 of which China 90.6 169.6 233.6 327.3 391.7 Americas 294.2 329.7 380.3 425.3 463.8 of which USA 242.1 266.6 306.3 348.5 376.6 Other markets 47.0 54.0 54.8 61.1 61.8 Total 1,286.3 1,461.2 1,669.0 1,845.2 1,963.8 1 Includes vehicles from the BMW Brilliance joint venture. BMW Group vehicle sales volume rose by 6.4% year on year. In Asia we significantly exceeded the 500,000 units sold mark in 2013, delivering 578,678* BMW, MINI and Rolls-Royce brand vehicles (+17.3%). Sales on the Chinese mainland increased by 19.7% to 391,713* vehicles sold. The Americas also contributed to our success, with a sales volume of 463,822 vehicles (+9.0%). Sales in the USA rose by 8.1% (376,636 vehicles). In spite of persistently unstable general conditions, vehicles sales of the BMW Group in Europe were almost on a par with the previous year. In 2013, we sold 859,546 vehicles on this market (–0.7%). GRI G3 Indicator A4 Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page 166 1 BMW Group stakeholder dialogue – stakeholder survey 20131 01 CO2 emissions and climate change 02 Alternative drivetrain technologies 03 Energy supply/renewable energy 04 Product safety 05 Efficient use of resources and recycling management 06 Future mobility/mobility services 07 Environmental and social standards in the supply chain 08 Anti-corruption/compliance 09 Water 10 Demographic change FIGURES, FACTS AND 11 Human rights OBJECTIVES 12 Biodiversity 13 Further education and training 1 Sustainability management 14 Occupational health and safety 15 Corporate Citizenship 2 Product responsibility 16 Work-life balance 3 Group-wide environmental 17 Diversity protection 18 Donations/sponsoring 4 Supplier management 19 Corporate volunteering 5 Employees Very important Important Less important Not important No comment 1 In August and September 2012, an online stakeholder survey was carried out with a total of 88 stakeholders (mainly sustainability experts). In 2013, the results of the 2012 online stakeholder survey were 6 Corporate Citizenship reviewed and expanded based on telephone interviews with 12 selected experts from different regions and a range of focal areas (e.g. NGOs, universities, companies). Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page 167 2 Coverage rate of the production locations with quality and ­environmental management systems as a % of production location workforce 100 80 60 40 20 09 10 11 12 13 100 100 100 100 100 FIGURES, FACTS AND GRI Product responsibility management approach OBJECTIVES 1 Sustainability management 2 Product responsibility Development of CO2 emissions of BMW Group cars in Europe (Index: 1995 = 100; Basis: Fleet consumption of newly registered cars in Europe [EU-15] measured on the basis of the New European Driving Cycle in accordance with 3 Group-wide environmental the ACEA self-commitment) protection 110 4 Supplier management 105 100 5 Employees 95 6 Corporate Citizenship 90 85 80 75 70 65 60 55 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 091 10 11 12 13 101.0 102.4 101.0 98.6 96.7 96.7 92.9 92.9 94.8 90.0 88.6 80.0 73.3 71.4 70.0 69.0 66.0 63.0 1 Measured only on EU-27 basis from 2009 onwards. The BMW Group reduced CO2 emissions of newly sold cars in Europe by more than 37% between 1995 and 2013. In 2013, our vehicle fleet achieved an average fuel consumption in Europe (EU-27) of 4.8 litres of diesel/100 km, 6.2 litres of petrol/100 km and average CO2 emissions of 133 g/km (internal calculation). We also lead the field among German manufacturers, with CO2 emissions from our vehicle fleet of 139 g/km. This also applies to the premium segment. Efficient Dynamics Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page gives us a competitive advantage, in particular in markets with a CO2-based vehicle tax. Our goal is to reduce CO2 emissions of our vehicle fleet by at least a further 25% between 2008 and 2020. GRI Indicator A7 (Sector Supplement) 168 2 Fuel savings of BMW Group vehicles sold in the US (according to CAFE1) in mpg2 34 33 32 31 30 29 28 27 26 25 FIGURES, FACTS AND 24 OBJECTIVES 23 22 1 Sustainability management 21 20 2 Product responsibility 19 3 Group-wide environmental 18 protection 17 4 Supplier management 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 133 5 Employees 6 Corporate Citizenship Fleet value of cars sold Fleet value of light trucks sold (X3/5/6/Active Hybrid 6) 1 CAFE: Corporate Average Fuel Economy. 2 mpg: miles per gallon. 3 BMW Forecast, not yet officially confirmed. The Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) value represents the sales-weighted fuel economy of a manufacturer’s fleet of vehicles weighing less than approximately 3,850 kilograms (10,000 pounds), manufactured for sale in the USA. If a manufacturer falls below the specified lower limit, penalties must be paid to the government. Current Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) legislation is valid until 2016. The subsequent legislation will cover the period from 2017 to 2025, with a review in 2021 to verify its viability. The BMW Group supports the legislation. The BMW Group’s Efficient Dynamics Strategy calls for fuel economy technologies to be made available to all customers worldwide as soon as possible. GRI Indicator A7 (Sector Supplement) Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page 169 2 CO2 emissions of BMW Group automobiles (EU-27) Average noise emissions of BMW Group vehicles1 in g/km CO2 Share of models in % of vehicles sold in EU-27 in 2013 160 60 150 50 140 40 130 30 120 20 110 10 09 10 11 12 13 < 71 dB 71 dB to > 74 dB 74 dB 150 148 145 138 133 28 46 26 FIGURES, FACTS AND OBJECTIVES In 2013, the vehicle fleet achieved an average fuel consumption in Europe 1 W  eighted model average for noise emissions (logarithmic average) for noise produced by accelerating while passing (values of type evaluation; in accordance with EU Directive 92/97/EC). (EU-27) of 4.8 litres of diesel/100 km, 6.2 litres of petrol/100 km and average emissions of 133 g/km of CO2. 1 Sustainability management GRI Indicator A8 (Sector Supplement) GRI Indicator A7 (Sector Supplement) 2 Product responsibility 3 Group-wide environmental protection 4 Supplier management Fuel efficiency and CO2 emissions of the most efficient and best-selling models in 2013 5 Employees l/100 km l/100 km g/km CO2 g/km CO2 Manual Automatic Manual Automatic 6 Corporate Citizenship t­ ransmission t­ ransmission t­ ransmission t­ ransmission Most efficient models worldwide BMW i3 (with range extender) – 0 (0.6) – 0 (13) MINI One D, MINI Cooper D and BMW 116d EfficientDynamics Edition 3.8 – 99 – Best-selling models in Germany BMW X3 xDrive20d 5.6 5.6 149 147 BMW 320d Touring 4.7 – 4.8 4.7 – 4.7 124 – 125 123 – 124 Best-selling models in the EU-27 BMW X3 xDrive20d 5.6 5.6 149 147 BMW 520d Limousine 4.8 – 4.9 4.7 – 4.9 125 – 130 123 – 129 GRI Indicators A6, A7 (Sector Supplement) Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page 170 2 Ratio of plastic recyclates in vehicles1 Average distribution of materials in BMW Group vehicles1 in % in % 25 gh i ef d 20 15 c 10 a 5 11 12 13 b 15 15 20 a) Steel and iron 50 f) Textiles 1 1 R  ecyclate share in thermoplastic materials. The vehicle with the highest share of recyclates FIGURES, FACTS AND is shown. b) Non-ferrous metals 25 g) M.O.N. 3 1 OBJECTIVES c) Thermoplastic resins 12 h) Other 2 In the area of polymers in particular, importance is placed on developing d) Elastomers2 4 i) Operating fluids 3 closed material cycles. For thermoplastic resins, for example, up to 20% of 1 Sustainability management the materials used come from secondary sources. The share of thermoplase) Duroplastic resins 2 tic resins used in vehicle production has increased considerably in recent 2 Product responsibility years (from 8% to 17%), and, with it, the absolute volume of recyclates 1 C  alculation of representative vehicles as in 2012: BMW 1 Series, BMW 3 Series, BMW 5 deployed. ­Series, BMW 5 Series Gran Turismo, BMW X3, BMW X5, Rolls-Royce. 3 Group-wide environmental 2 Such as tyres, seals. 3 Modified organic natural materials. protection GRI Indicator EN2 4 Supplier management Steel and iron still make up the largest proportion by weight of materials used in BMW Group vehicles. The overall material mix has changed little 5 Employees since 2012. The influence of materials used in Project i is not yet measurable due to the small number of units produced so far. 6 Corporate Citizenship GRI Indicators EN1, EN2, A10 (Sector Supplement) Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page 171 3 BMW Group input/output assessment for 2013 vehicle production Input Output Raw materials1 Vehicles Steel 2,361,000 t BMW Group vehicles produced in Tsd. 1,880.8 Plastics 523,900 t Vehicles produced (contracted) in Tsd. 125.6 Aluminium 468,800 t Total waste 680,299 t Magnesium 7,500 t of which recyclable 669,610 t Operating fluids 2 62,448 t of which waste for disposal 10,689 t Water 4,105,937 m3 Total wastewater 2,825,825 m3 Energy 4,721,174 MWh CO2 emissions 1,322,316 t FIGURES, FACTS AND Volatile organic compounds (VOC) 2,992 t OBJECTIVES NOX 598 t CO 380 t 1 Sustainability management SO2 7t Particulates, dust 60 t 2 Product responsibility 3 Group-wide environmental Due to the fact that internal reporting has a different scope, this figure excludes BMW Brilliance (China) but includes Magna Steyr. 1 2 Operating fluid for products (e.g. engine and gear oil, brake and cooling fluid, cooling agent, fuel for production refuelling). Due to data capture by the central purchasing system, this figure excludes protection BMW Brilliance (China) and Magna Steyr. 4 Supplier management We reduce our environmental impact and the level of resources we consume by integrating environmental management into all production processes. We see this as an ongoing process. Our goal is to reduce our consumption of resources and emissions per vehicle produced by an average of 45% by 2020 (compared to 2006). The 5 Employees parameters we use to measure this are energy, water, process waste water, waste for disposal, solvent emissions and CO2. We improved resource efficiency by an average of 6.6% in the reporting period. Since 2006, we have reduced our use of resources and emissions levels per vehicle 6 Corporate Citizenship produced by an average of over 40% (41.4%). GRI Indicators EN1, EN3, EN4, EN8, EN16, EN20, EN21, EN22 Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page 172 3 Certified environmental management systems in production facilities of the BMW Group Site Environmental management systems Year of certification Berlin plant ISO 14001/EMAS February 2012 Dingolfing plant ISO 14001/EMAS February 2012 Eisenach plant ISO 14001/EMAS February 2012 Goodwood plant, GB ISO 14001 February 2012 Hams Hall plant, GB ISO 14001 February 2012 Landshut plant ISO 14001/EMAS February 2012 Leipzig plant ISO 14001/EMAS February 2012 Munich plant ISO 14001/EMAS February 2012 FIGURES, FACTS AND Oxford plant, GB ISO 14001 February 2012 OBJECTIVES Regensburg plant ISO 14001/EMAS February 2012 Rosslyn plant, South Africa ISO 14001 February 2012 1 Sustainability management Spartanburg plant, USA ISO 14001 February 2012 Steyr plant, Austria ISO 14001/EMAS February 2012 2 Product responsibility Swindon plant, GB ISO 14001 February 2012 3 Group-wide environmental Wackersdorf plant ISO 14001/EMAS February 2012 protection Chennai plant, India ISO 14001 February 2012 4 Supplier management CKD production Jakarta, Indonesia ISO 14001 May 2013 CKD production Cairo, Egypt ISO 14001 August 2011 5 Employees CKD production Kaliningrad, Russia ISO 14001 August 2011 6 Corporate Citizenship CKD production Kulim, Malaysia ISO 14001 November 2013 CKD production Manaus, Brazil ISO 14001 Planned 2015 CKD production Rayong, Thailand ISO 14001 February 2012 BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd., Shenyang, China (Joint Venture) ISO 14001 December 2012 SGL Automotive Moses Lake, USA (Joint Venture) ISO 14001 Planned 2014 SGL Automotive Wackersdorf (Joint Venture) ISO 14001 Planned 2014 Magna Steyr Fahrzeugtechnik Graz, Austria (contract production) ISO 14001/EMAS July 2012 1 National standard introduced. Environmental management systems are in place at all BMW Group production facilities worldwide as well as in the central planning departments. Apart from the Manaus CKD plant, these systems are certified in accordance with ISO 14001. In addition, the German and Austrian plants were certified by external auditors to confirm compliance with the European environmental management standard EMAS. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page 173 3 Energy consumption in detail in MWh4 09 10 11 12 13 Total energy consumption (upper heating value in case of fossil fuels) Total energy consumption 3,635,755 4,072,217 4,278,582 4,549,788 4,721,174 Total energy consumption in detail (upper heating value in case of fossil fuels) Electricity (external source) 1,491,182 1,654,956 1,702,157 1,790,534 1,910,065 Community heating 294,696 319,270 200,808 249,123 316,532 from renewable energy sources in %1 16 18 28 36 48 FIGURES, FACTS AND Fossil fuels OBJECTIVES Fuel oil 37,403 43,828 12,176 12,622 14,023 Natural gas 1,533,764 1,756,760 2,034,529 2,169,059 2,165,362 1 Sustainability management of which CHP losses 98,874 110,511 211,680 210,514 191,840 2 Product responsibility Non-fossil fuels 3 Group-wide environmental Biogas (landfill gas) 278,706 288,402 328,912 328,450 315,192 protection of which CHP losses 91,600 86,100 91,600 103,422 94,486 4 Supplier management Regenerative fuels 5 Employees Solar energy (photovoltaics) 4 3 02 1143 142 6 Corporate Citizenship 1 C  onservative calculation from the country-specific shares. Method adapted for Germany and Austria by using the transparency data in supplier invoices. Share increased compared to 2012 due to higher volumes of green electricity purchased in Germany and the UK. 2 No contribution to energy supply due to maintenance work. 3 Commissioning of a new system in 2012. Further systems planned. 4 Corresponds to 3600 MJ. Our vision is to achieve a completely carbon-neutral energy supply for the BMW Group. With this in mind, we set ourselves the goal of becoming a leader in the use of renewable energy by 2020. At the same time, each year we are reducing our energy consumption per vehicle produced with the aim of improving energy efficiency by 45% by 2020 (base year 2006). In 2013, in spite of extensive in-house production (e.g. CFK production) as well as the setting up and launch of new structures worldwide, such as the new smelter at the Landshut plant, we were able to further reduce energy consumption per vehicle produced to 2.36 MWh (–2.1%). Between 2006 and 2013, we thus reduced energy consumption per vehicle produced by 31%. The BMW Group is increasingly using its own combined heat and power systems (CHP) to generate electricity at its production plants. Energy efficiency at the BMW Group was consistently calculated net of the additional consumption required for conversion due to the increasing use of CHP systems. This figure was 286,326 MWh in 2013. In addition, due to the increasing significance of contract production, we only took account of the BMW Group’s own production plants and the vehicles produced there when calculating the environmental efficiency indicators. This will ensure that we continue to present resource efficiency figures of the BMW Group’s own production capacities in a transparent manner. GRI Indicators EN3, EN4, EN5 Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page 174 3 Energy consumption per vehicle produced Water consumption per vehicle produced1 in MWh/vehicle in m3/vehicle 3.0 3.0 2.8 2.8 2.6 2.6 2.4 2.4 2.2 2.2 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 2.841 2.721 2.431 2.411 2.361 2.662 2.402 2.252 2.222 2.182 1 E  fficiency indicator = energy consumption minus CHP losses divided by the total number of 1 These figures refer to the production sites of the BMW Group. FIGURES, FACTS AND vehicles produced, not including the vehicles from the Magna Steyr contract production plant. 2 Efficiency indicator = water consumption divided by the total number of vehicles produced, OBJECTIVES not including the vehicles from the Magna Steyr contract production plant. Improved energy efficiency led to a further reduction in energy consumption per vehicle produced to 2.36 MWh (–2.1%). Water consumption per vehicle produced was reduced by a further 1.8% 1 Sustainability management to 2.18 m³ (2012: 2.22 m³). High capacity utilisation of plants as well as GRI Indicator EN3 continuous improvements in water management at all production sites were 2 Product responsibility responsible for this drop. 3 Group-wide environmental GRI Indicator EN8 protection 4 Supplier management Water consumption1 5 Employees 6 Corporate Citizenship 09 10 11 12 13 Water consumption in m3 3.222.376 3.418.816 3.678.738 3.910.923 4.105.937 of which drinking water in % 91 88 88 86 of which groundwater in % 9 12 12 14 of which surface water in % 0 0 0 0 of which rainwater in % 0 0 0 0 1 These figures refer to the production sites of the BMW Group. Water consumption rose in 2013 compared to 2012 by 5.0%. This rise in consumption was disproportionately lower than the increase in production of 7.0%. GRI Indicator EN8 Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page 175 3 BMW Group CO2 footprint in t CO2 09 10 11 12 13 Total emissions1 1,644,100 1,961,348 2,715,364 61,603,503 64,019,874 Scope 1: Direct greenhouse gas emissions Total emissions 357,793 409,911 450,828 484,612 492,798 Emissions of company-owned production sites 291,562 340,131 370,241 395,012 399,4732 Company vehicles 63,109 65,974 76,120 84,633 88,695 Company-owned planes 3,122 3,806 4,468 4,966 4,630 Scope 2: Indirect greenhouse gas emissions FIGURES, FACTS AND Total emissions 847,500 933,097 858,785 862,214 922,8432 OBJECTIVES Electricity/heat purchased by companyowned production sites 847,500 933,097 858,785 862,214 922,8432 1 Sustainability management Scope 3: Indirect greenhouse gas emissions 2 Product responsibility Total emissions 438,807 618,340 1,405,751 60,256,678 62,604,233 Logistics 3 307,000 466,027 1,195,887 1,247,100 1,383,774 3 Group-wide environmental Business trips 3 30,360 48,450 108,492 111,971 113,388 protection Employees’ commuter traffic4 101,447 103,863 101,372 113,505 122,584 4 Supplier management Upstream chain5 – – – 12,592,090 13,274,865 Utilisation phase 6 – – – 45,251,958 46,696,786 5 Employees Disposal 5 – – – 940,054 1,012,836 6 Corporate Citizenship 1  ootprint not including emissions from utilisation phase and upstream chain emissions. F 2 Currently applicable VDA emission factors applied. 3 Emissions figures from 2011 and 2012 are not directly comparable to previous years due to refinement of the calculation method. 4 Extrapolation from the table “Means of transport used by BMW employees and indirect CO2 emissions from employees’ commuter traffic”. 5 Emissions from supply chain and disposal processes are calculated based on the carbon footprints of representative vehicles from the product lines. 6 The fleet emissions are extrapolated from the average fleet emissions of the main sales markets of the BMW Group. The calculation was based on an average mileage of 150,000 km. We aim by 2020 to be the leaders in using renewable energy to supply our locations. To achieve this, we use the most environmentally and economically sustainable energy resource at each location. Some of the main measures taken in this process are continuous increases in energy efficiency, use of highly efficient combined heat and power systems (CHP) as well as the use of electricity supplied from renewable sources. In spite of an increase in the number of vehicles produced (comparison of vehicle production not including contract production at Magna Steyr) of 7.0%, this led to an increase in CO2 emissions from vehicle production of just 5.2% (Scope 1 and Scope 2 including emissions from CHP losses, not including company cars and company-owned airplanes). The emissions were calculated for 2013 using the current VDA emission factors. If the previous VDA factors had been applied, the reduction in total CO2 emissions from the production network would have been 0.9%. In addition, we fulfil our responsibilities along the entire value chain. With Efficient Dynamics, we are continuously reducing CO2 emissions of the new vehicles we sell worldwide. As a result, we were able to further reduce average fleet emissions per kilometre in 2013. Global sales volume rose by 6% in the year under review. Through the application of Efficient Dynamics, the increase in emissions caused by this rise in volume was limited to just 3%. Upstream emissions also make a considerable contribution towards Scope 3 emissions. For this reason, we collaborate with our suppliers to identify and lever resource efficiency potential. For instance, in 2013, we joined the Supply Chain programme of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) in order to achieve greater transparency with regard to resource efficiency and to work together to derive CO2 savings potential. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page GRI Indicators EN16, EN18 176 3 CO2 emissions per vehicle produced VOC emissions per vehicle produced in t/vehicle in kg/vehicle 0.95 2.50 0.90 2.25 0.85 2.00 0.80 1.75 0.75 1.50 0.70 1.25 0.65 1.00 09 10 11 12 132 09 10 11 12 13 FIGURES, FACTS AND 0.941 0.891 0.751 0.721 0.681 1.841 1.661 1.751 1.781 1.591 OBJECTIVES 1  Efficiency indicator = CO2 emissions minus CHP losses divided by the total number of ve1 Efficiency  indicator = CO2 emissions minus CHP losses divided by the total number of vehicles produced, not including the vehicles from the Magna Steyr contract production plant. hicles produced, not including the vehicles from the Magna Steyr contract production plant. 1 Sustainability management 2 Calculations based on updated VDA emissions factors. If the VDA factors used in previous years were applied there would have been a year-on-year reduction of 10.5%. In 2013, solvent emissions decreased significantly by 10.7% to 1.59 kg per 2 Product responsibility vehicle produced. This is mainly due to the retrofitting of the paint shop in Improved energy efficiency, the use of highly efficient and environmentally the Chinese Dadong plant with an exhaust air purification system. 3 Group-wide environmental sustainable combined heat and power systems (CHP) as well as renewable energy led to a reduction in CO2 emissions per vehicle produced in the protection GRI Indicator EN20 reporting period of 5.6% to 0.68 tonnes. 4 Supplier management GRI Indicators EN16, EN18 5 Employees 6 Corporate Citizenship Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page 177 3 Number of CO2 emissions allowances allocated by the CO2 emissions of locations participating in the EU Emissions EU Emissions Trading System Trading System in t in t 400,000 400,000 350,000 350,000 300,000 300,000 250,000 250,000 200,000 200,000 150,000 150,000 100,000 100,000 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 FIGURES, FACTS AND OBJECTIVES 271,599 271,599 307,744 330,576 171,554 134,582 145,854 187,443 194,077 293.9981 1 4  ,201 tonnes of emissions relevant for EU emissions trading from operation of BMW-owned 1 Sustainability management In the 2nd period (2013 – 2020) allocation, free emissions allowances were planes are included in this figure as of 2013. strongly reduced compared to the previous period. From 2013 onwards, 2 Product responsibility only usable heat volumes can receive allowances, electricity generation is The increase in emissions is due to the expansion of plants subject to the no longer included in free allowances. In addition, free allocations as part emissions trading system in the 2nd commitment period (2013 – 2020). 3 Group-wide environmental of the EU Emissions Trading System are being reduced during the commitprotection ment period from 80% in 2013 to 30% in 2020. 4 Supplier management 5 Employees Wastewater1 6 Corporate Citizenship 09 10 11 12 13 Total wastewater m3 2,130,771 2,427,754 2,557,493 2,535,980 2,825,825 of which process wastewater in m3 778,371 854,013 935,750 896,137 882,978 of which wastewater from sanitary facilities in m 3 1,352,400 1,573,741 1,621,743 1,639,843 1,942,847 Total heavy metals and heavy metal compounds in kg 314 322 463 474 465 COD2 in kg 1,108,934 1,442,109 1,681,776 1,617,183 1,770,577 AOX3 in kg 57 69 81 77 79 1 The key performance indicator “Process wastewater” is measured by the wastewater treatment in BMW Group plants. Together with the wastewater from sanitary facilities at the plants, this is the figure for total wastewater. Due to factors such as evaporation, the water input does not correspond to total wastewater. 2 COD = Chemical Oxygen Demand. 3 AOX = Adsorbable Organic Halides in water. Materials input into wastewater should be limited to volumes that will not overtax natural decomposition processes. For all of our plants, we have introduced our own BMW-specific wastewater standards, which exceed local regulations in many cases. Previous Next Contents Home GRI Indicator EN21 chapter chapter page 178 3 Process wastewater per vehicle1 Waste for disposal per vehicle produced in m /vehicle 3 in kg/vehicle 0.70 14.0 0.60 12.0 0.50 10.0 0.40 8.0 0.30 6.0 4.0 09 10 11 12 13 2.0 0.642 0.602 0.572 0.512 0.472 09 10 11 12 13 1 T  he key figures refer to production wastewater. FIGURES, FACTS AND 2 Efficiency indicator = process wastewater divided by the total number of vehicles produced, 11.031 10.491 8.491 6.471 5.731 OBJECTIVES not including the vehicles from the Magna Steyr contract production plant. 1 Efficiency  indicator equals waste for disposal divided by the total number of vehicles ­produced, not including the vehicles from the Magna Steyr contract production plant. Process wastewater per vehicle produced was down 7.8% to 0.47 m per 3 1 Sustainability management vehicle produced. The transfer of the paint shop in Spartanburg to a waterless colouring process as well as continuous improvements at all l­ocations Non-recyclable production waste was significantly reduced in 2013, by 2 Product responsibility (especially in Oxford and Shenyang) played a significant role in this 11.4% to 5.73 kg per vehicle produced. The main contributing factor here decrease. was the reduction of waste for disposal by almost a quarter (23.3%) at the 3 Group-wide environmental Landshut plant. protection GRI Indicator EN21 GRI Indicator EN22 4 Supplier management 5 Employees Waste 6 Corporate Citizenship in t 09 10 11 12 13 Total waste 450,513 564,117 594,791 664,752 680,299 Hazardous waste for recovery 12,073 14,987 18,413 19,979 21,884 Hazardous waste for disposal 8,570 9,772 8,720 8,127 7,668 Non-hazardous waste for recovery 425,066 534,188 562,482 633,394 647,725 Non-hazardous waste for disposal 4,804 5,171 5,176 3,252 3,022 Materials for recycling 437,139 549,175 580,895 653,373 669,609 Metals for recycling (scrap) 377,700 428,175 449,900 494,894 500,589 Waste for disposal 13,374 14,943 13,896 11,379 10,690 The BMW Group aims to avoid waste. Unavoidable waste by-products are tested for reuse, material recycling and other uses. Recycling of waste is always given ­priority over waste disposal. In this way, the proportion of materials for recycling or recovery increased again in 2013, reaching over 98% of total waste volume. GRI Indicator EN22 Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page 179 3 Land development 09 10 11 12 13 Size of property in m2 29,075,131 28,524,493 28,666,818 29,421,179 29,268,154 Land development in % 17.8 18.8 18.8 19.0 19.7 Means of transport used by BMW Group employees and indirect CO2 emissions from employees’ commuter traffic FIGURES, FACTS AND 101 112 123 13 OBJECTIVES in % in t CO2 in % in t CO2 in % in t CO2 in % in t CO2 1 Sustainability management Cars 45 43,414 45 43,008 47 53,036 50 59,882 2 Product responsibility Public transport 16 4,816 16 4,947 17 3,738 17 3,914 3 Group-wide environmental Plant bus 33 13,049 33 12,867 30 15,869 27 13,432 protection Bicycle/on foot 6 0 6 0 6 0 6 0 4 Supplier management Total 100 61,279 100 60,823 100 72,643 100 77,228 5 Employees 1  eadquarters, including Research and Innovation Centre Munich; the Munich, Dingolfing, Regensburg and Berlin plants account for 59% of employees of the BMW Group and 81% of employees H in Germany. 2 Headquarters, including Research and Innovation Centre Munich; the Munich, Dingolfing, Regensburg and Berlin plants account for 60% of employees of the BMW Group and 81% of employees 6 Corporate Citizenship in Germany. 3 Headquarters, including Research and Innovation Centre Munich; the Munich, Dingolfing, Regensburg, Landshut, Leipzig and Berlin plants account for 64% of employees of the BMW Group and 90% of employees in Germany. As in the previous year, the basis for calculation here was headquarters, including Research and Innovation Centre Munich as well as the Munich, Dingolfing, Regensburg, Landshut, Leipzig and Berlin plants. This accounts for 63% of employees of the BMW Group and 90% of employees in Germany. Mobility patterns changed slightly in 2013 compared to 2012. Current surveys and calculations from the Landshut and Leipzig plants as well as the Research and Innovation Centre show that more employees are now travelling to work by car. The increase in CO2 emissions compared to 2012 is mainly due to a further increase in employee numbers and the shift towards travelling to work by car. The slightly altered utilisation profile of carriers led to an increase in overall average CO2 emissions per employee and day of production and/or per kilometre travelled per person to 4.6 kg of CO2 per employee per day as well as 99 grams of CO2 per kilometre travelled per person (2012: 4.5 kg of CO2 per employee per day as well as 94 grams of CO2 per kilometre travelled per person). GRI Indicators EN7, EN17, EN29, A9 (Sector Supplement) Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page 180 3 Carriers and CO2 emissions1 09 10 11 12 13 Inbound (material provision of the plants and spare parts delivery) Transport capacity in million tkm 2,673 3,810 9,072 10,703 11,560 CO2 emissions in t 201,376 320,526 518,157 547,049 580,616 Outbound (distribution vehicles and spare parts) Transport capacity in million tkm 9,942 15,088 18,854 20,195 22,226 CO2 emissions in t 106,040 145,501 677,730 700,051 803,158 FIGURES, FACTS AND Total (inbound and outbound) OBJECTIVES Transport capacity in million tkm 12,615 18,898 27,926 30,898 33,786 CO2 emissions in t 307,416 466,027 1,195,887 1,247,100 1,383,774 1 Sustainability management Percentage share of carriers in total (inbound and outbound) in terms of transport volume and CO2 emissions 2 Product responsibility tkm g CO2 tkm g CO2 tkm g CO2 tkm g CO2 tkm g CO2 3 Group-wide environmental protection Sea 78.0 14.0 79.9 14.1 78.9 51.3 79.2 53.1 78.9 51.6 4 Supplier management Road 15.8 73.4 13.3 61.2 11.9 24.2 10.7 20.2 12.4 23.1 Rail 6.0 7.1 6.3 7.3 8.2 5.5 8.9 4.6 7.5 3.8 5 Employees Air 0.2 5.5 0.5 17.4 1.0 19.0 1.2 22.1 1.2 21.5 6 Corporate Citizenship 1  igures refer to BMW and MINI, excluding Rolls-Royce automobiles. Conversion factor for CO2 emissions from road, rail and sea freight according to Tremod. Conversion factors from sea freight are reported F back directly by shipping companies. Since the 2011 financial year, the scope has expanded significantly and currently comprises: inbound volumes (material supplies to plants and spare parts delivery) are included for BMW and MINI vehicles in Germany, the UK, the USA, South Africa, China, Thailand, India and CKD/SKD locations as well as for delivery of spare parts to the parts supply centre ZTA in Dingolfing. Outbound volumes (distribution of vehicles and spare parts) are included up to arrival at the distribution centres in the markets worldwide as well as for some markets up to arrival at the dealerships. Compared to 2012, transport volume increased by around 9.4%. This is due on the one hand to an increase in the number of BMW and MINI vehicles produced and sold and on the other hand to the extension of the system boundaries due to the addition of more transport volume. For example, since 2013, additional inbound air and sea transports have been included in the figures. In addition it is now possible for the transport of about 40% of all vehicles sold worldwide from the distribution centres to the dealerships to be included in the figures. Compared to the previous year, total CO2 emissions increased by around 11%, leading to an increase in CO2 emissions per unit of around 3.7%. Based on the system boundaries of 2012, CO2 emissions per unit decreased by over 5%. This was mainly the result of a significant 17% decrease in air freight volume to plants outside Europe. Shifts in the shares of the different transport carriers as a proportion of total transport volume are mainly due to changes in system boundaries; for example, when distribution of vehicles to dealerships takes place by truck, this leads to an increase in road freight volume. GRI Indicators EN16, EN29, A9 (Sector Supplement) Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page 181 3 Ongoing expenditure on environmental protection Investment in environmental protection1 in € million in € million 75 160 70 140 65 120 60 100 55 80 50 60 45 40 40 20 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 FIGURES, FACTS AND OBJECTIVES 48.6 54.8 63.1 67.0 71.9 Germany 15.4 21.7 32.6 50.9 78.6 Entire production network 134.4 148.1 Figures for German production sites. 1 Sustainability management Figures for German production sites. 2 Product responsibility In line with the increase in production, ongoing expenditure on environ1 Calculation of integrated environmental investments according to VDA standard. mental protection increased further in 2013. 3 Group-wide environmental In 2013, we expanded our production structures for new launches and for GRI Indicator EN30 extra capacity for production of BMW, MINI and Rolls-Royce vehicles and protection we invested in our production plants for BMW i. An important aspect in 4 Supplier management these investment decisions was to take into account environmental considerations with a view to increasing resource efficiency. In 2013, this led to a Share of vehicles shipped by rail from BMW Group plants1 further increase in investment in environmental protection, in particular 5 Employees in % in Germany (approx. 55%), but also in the entire BMW Group production network (approx. 10%). 6 Corporate Citizenship 70 60 GRI Indicators EN7, EN17, EN29, A9 (Sector Supplement) 50 40 30 20 10 09 10 11 12 13 47.0 49.5 53.1 56.9 60.7 1 Excluding Rolls-Royce automobiles. Vehicles for export from the BMW plant in Leipzig are now transported by rail to the port. This led to a further increase in the average volume of rail transport of BMW Group vehicles from the plants to 60.7%. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page GRI Indicators EN29, A9 (Sector Supplement) 182 4 Regional mix of BMW Group purchase volumes in 2013 in %, basis: production material e f g d c a b a) Germany 47 e) Africa 2 FIGURES, FACTS AND b) Rest of Western Europe 19 f) Asia/Australia 2 OBJECTIVES c) Central and Eastern Europe 17 g) China 1 d) NAFTA (+ MERCOSUR) 12 1 Sustainability management 2 Product responsibility As a global company, the BMW Group continued to develop and expand its international relations with suppliers. This shifts our value added along 3 Group-wide environmental the supply chain even more strongly towards the respective sales markets. Here, too, local suppliers were selected according to the BMW Group susprotection tainability requirements. 4 Supplier management GRI Indicator EC6 5 Employees 6 Corporate Citizenship Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page 183 5 BMW Group employees at end of year1 BMW Group apprentices as at 31 December Number Number 120,000 5,000 100,000 4,500 80,000 4,000 60,000 3,500 40,000 3,000 20,000 2,500 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 Total 96,230 95,453 100,306 105,8762 110,3513 Total 3,915 3,798 3,899 4,266 4,445 FIGURES, FACTS AND Employees in Germany Employees international OBJECTIVES 1,357 young people began their vocational training at the BMW Group 1 F  igures exclude suspended contracts of employment, employees in the non-work phases of pre-retirement arrangements and low income earners. in 2013. The number of vocational training places in Germany remained ­constant compared to the previous year, at 1,200. Worldwide, a total of 1 Sustainability management 2 Of whom 35.2% are tariff-bound production employees of the BMW Group. 3 Of whom 35.1% are tariff-bound production employees of the BMW Group. 4,445 trainees were employed by the company on the reporting date. 2 Product responsibility The number of employees in the BMW Group had increased worldwide GRI Indicator LA1 3 Group-wide environmental by the end of 2013 by 4.2% to a total of 110,351 employees (2012: 105,876 employees). The high demand for our vehicles as well as upcoming chalprotection lenges led to focused recruiting of skilled experts for development and production of new technologies such as electromobility. 4 Supplier management GRI Indicator LA1 5 Employees 6 Corporate Citizenship BMW Group employees 09 10 11 12 13 Workforce according to segment Automobiles 89,457 88,468 91,517 96,518 100,682 Motorcycles 2,796 2,814 2,867 2,939 2,726 Financial Services 3,882 4,053 5,801 6,295 6,823 Other 95 118 121 124 120 Share of employees with fixed-term contracts1 in % 1.5 2.0 3.1 3.8 3.9 1 Excluding apprentices, interns and students. GRI Indicator LA1 Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page 184 5 Share of employees per country with production site(s) Share of women in the workforce per country with production in 2013 site(s) in 2013 in % in % i j a) Germany 15.1 gh ef d b) UK 14.0 c c) USA 25.3 d) Austria 9.9 b a e) South Africa 19.0 f) India 8.9 g) Thailand 35.7 h) China 45.9 i) Brazil 38.4 FIGURES, FACTS AND a) Germany 71.6 f) India 0.6 j) Other countries 32.8 OBJECTIVES b) UK 6.0 g) Thailand 0.3 c) USA 6.6 h) China 1.3 The share of women in the workforce varies strongly in the different func1 Sustainability management d) Austria 3.0 i) Brazil 0.2 tional areas: the share of women in production-related activities is less than 10%, while it is over 20% in sales-related activities. e) South Africa 3.2 j) Other markets 7.2 The employee share and share of women is therefore lower in produc2 Product responsibility tion-intensive countries. 3 Group-wide environmental Nearly three-quarters of employees at BMW Group production sites work in GRI Indicator LA13 protection Germany, followed by 6.6% in the USA and 6.0% in the UK. 4 Supplier management GRI Indicator LA1 5 Employees 6 Corporate Citizenship Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page 185 5 Share of female employees in total workforce of BMW AG/ Share of female employees in management positions at BMW Group BMW AG/BMW GROUP in % in % 18 11 12 13 17 16 Supervisory Board 15.0 20.0 20.0 15 14 Board of Management 0.0 12.5 12.5 13 Non-tariff employees 12 BMW AG 9.1 10.0 10.9 BMW Group 11.8 12.71 13.8 09 10 11 12 13 1 Figures for 2012 adjusted due to data cleansing. FIGURES, FACTS AND OBJECTIVES BMW AG 13.1 13.2 13.5 14.2 14.5 The term “non-tariff employees” primarily refers to managers, which is why BMW Group 15.2 16.1 16.81 17.4 it is listed here as the third category of management positions. The share of 1 Sustainability management women also increased in the non-tariff area in 2013. At BMW AG, the share Figures for 2012 adjusted due to data cleansing. of women rose by 9.0%, at the BMW Group by 8.7%. 1 2 Product responsibility Social diversity at the BMW Group is an integral part of our sustainabilGRI Indicator LA13 3 Group-wide environmental ity strategy and makes an important contribution towards the company’s protection efficiency. With this in mind, the BMW Group’s Diversity Concept has an important role to play in the company’s strategic direction, in which providing opportunities for women is one of the three dimensions of diversity 4 Supplier management (along with an international workforce and a good age mix). The share of women in the overall workforce continued to increase. The 5 Employees share of women at BMW AG, for example, rose from 14.2 to 14.5% and at the BMW Group from 16.8 to 17.4%. 6 Corporate Citizenship GRI Indicator LA13 Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page 186 5 Share of employees at BMW AG from Europe (without Germany) BMW AG employees according to age group divided into and from non-EU countries functions and gender1 in % in % c < 30 years 30 – 50 > 50 years b old years old old 2011 total 9.6 66.8 23.6 2012 total 10.9 65.3 23.8 2013 total 12.5 64.1 23.5 direct2 14.2 62.3 23.5 a indirect3 11.3 65.2 23.4 male 11.3 64.2 24.5 FIGURES, FACTS AND a) From Germany 91.5 OBJECTIVES female 20.2 62.9 16.9 b) Europe (without Germany) 3.8 c) Non-EU countries 4.7 1 Figures refer to employees with permanent contracts. 1 Sustainability management Clock-controlled production employees. 2 3 All employees without clock control. As at 31 December 2013, employees from 99 different countries worked for 2 Product responsibility BMW AG. Demographic change in 2013 is also reflected in the age structure of the BMW AG workforce. The share of employees under 30 years old rose, while 3 Group-wide environmental the share of employees between the ages of 30 and 50 fell slightly. The share protection of employees over 50 years of age remained at a similar level to the previous year. 4 Supplier management GRI Indicator LA13 5 Employees 6 Corporate Citizenship Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page 187 5 Share of local employees in management positions at major company locations in % 10 11 12 13 Munich site 99.5 99.2 98.8 98.8 Dingolfing site 99.6 99.7 99.7 99.7 Berlin site 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Landshut site 100.0 100.0 100.0 99.2 Leipzig site 100.0 100.0 100.0 98.2 Regensburg site 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 UK 91.1 92.5 92.5 89.3 USA 88.3 90.9 91.2 89.0 FIGURES, FACTS AND Austria 90.8 88.8 83.0 84.7 OBJECTIVES South Africa 89.7 91.5 89.2 89.0 China1 43.0 43.3 28.4 63.0 1 Sustainability management India 45.0 56.0 54.8 59.5 Thailand 65.2 70.4 68.0 75.0 2 Product responsibility 3 Group-wide environmental Including employees of the joint venture BMW Brilliance Automotive, which is not consolidated in the BMW Group. 1 protection “Local” refers to managers with local contracts. Persons sent to work at the location who do not have a local employment contract are not included. Such persons 4 Supplier management are reflected in the difference from 100% in each case. GRI Indicator EC7 5 Employees 6 Corporate Citizenship Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page 188 5 Share of employees with disabilities at BMW AG Profit-sharing scheme at BMW AG by year of payment1 in % in % of monthly salary/in % of personal base value (from 2011) 6 200 5 175 4 150 3 125 2 100 1 75 09 10 11 12 13 10 11 12 13 14 5.4 6.0 5.1 6.0 5.9 none 98.02 153.0 152.6 162.8 FIGURES, FACTS AND Due to the significant decline in profits, in 2009 and 2010 BMW AG employees did not receive OBJECTIVES The figure for severely disabled employees is based on the statutory requireany bonuses for 2008 and 2009. ments in accordance with the German Social Insurance Code (SGB IX). In 1 New employees receive full bonuses after four years of employment. 2 New bonus system from 2011 based on personal base value. addition, the BMW Group awarded contracts amounting to around €22 mil1 Sustainability management lion to workshops for the severely disabled in 2012. Around €6 million of this figure can be written off in accordance with the compensatory levy act. Since the 2010 financial year (payout in 2011), bonuses at BMW AG have 2 Product responsibility been determined according to a uniform system across all hierarchical The contract volume was at around the same level as in the previous year. ­levels. Starting in the 2011 financial year (payout in 2012) this system 3 Group-wide environmental GRI Indicator LA13 was also introduced for employees worldwide as a standardised corporate protection success component in nearly all BMW Group companies. The consistency of this component is thus ensured both hierarchically (from production 4 Supplier management worker to board member) and geographically (worldwide). This portion of the bonus depends on the earnings performance of the BMW Group and is 5 Employees accordingly calculated according to these three parameters: Group earnings after tax, after-tax return on sales, and dividends. Including the post-tax 6 Corporate Citizenship return on sales in the calculation of bonuses (including for the Board of Management and the upper executives) in particular ensures an orientation towards the profitable, and hence sustainable, growth of the BMW Group. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page 189 5 Share of employees represented by a trade union or falling under collective agreements1 in % 09 10 11 12 13 Germany3 100 100 100 100 100 UK 2 – 75 94 86 86 China (plant) – 100 100 100 100 Austria3 100 100 100 100 100 South Africa – 46 51 61 61 USA (no collective agreements exist) 0 0 0 0 0 1 Figures from the UK, China and South Africa only available from 2010 onwards. 2 In 2012, all employees from central functions as well as the Goodwood plant were included in the calculation. The figure for the UK is therefore not directly comparable with those of previous years. If the same method were applied, the share would also be 86% in 2011. FIGURES, FACTS AND 3 Excluding executives. OBJECTIVES In the BMW Group, institutionalised operational co-determination is implemented Group-wide according to the applicable national regulations. In all BMW AG plants and branches as well as in Austria and the UK, elected works councils observe co-determination for the employees. In China and South Africa, employees are 1 Sustainability management represented by local workers’ representatives, while at the company locations in the USA no collective agreements exist. 2 Product responsibility GRI Indicator LA4 3 Group-wide environmental protection 4 Supplier management 5 Employees 6 Corporate Citizenship Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page 190 5 Employee attrition rate BMW AG1 Total number of employees leaving BMW AG, by reason for as a % of the workforce leaving1 6 Number 5 6,000 4 5,000 3 4,000 2 3,000 1 2,000 1,000 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 4.592 2.74 2.16 3.87 3.47 FIGURES, FACTS AND Total 3,009 1,753 1,389 2,561 2,371 1 Number of employees on unlimited employment contracts leaving the company. OBJECTIVES 2 Increase due to voluntary termination agreements during the global financial crisis 2008/2009. Number dismissed by employer. Voluntarily left company (termination or suspension of employment contract by employee). Pension, death, pre-retirement part-time working arrangements. 1 Sustainability management At 3.5%, the attrition rate was slightly lower in 2013 than in 2012. Retirement continues to be the primary reason for attrition. The actual attrition 1 Figures refer to employees with permanent contracts. 2 Product responsibility rate is still very low, demonstrating the effectiveness of the proven programmes and measures of the BMW Group geared toward positioning itself The decline in the number of employment contract terminations on the 3 Group-wide environmental as an attractive employer. part of the employer, as well as the decline in the number of employees protection voluntarily leaving the company led to an overall decrease in total number GRI Indicator LA2 of employees leaving, despite an increase in the number of retirements 4 Supplier management (pensions, pre-retirement part-time working arrangements). The share of women in the total number of people leaving the company (2,371) was 11.6% 5 Employees in 2013. The share of women among newly recruited employees was 16.9%. 6 Corporate Citizenship GRI Indicator LA2 Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page 191 5 Average weekly working time by country1 in hours 09 10 11 12 13 Germany Industry-wide collective agreement for the Bavarian metal and electronics industries 35.0 35.0 35.0 35.0 35.0 Industry-wide collective agreement for commercial workers and employees of the Saxony metal and electronics industries 38.0 38.0 38.0 38.0 38.0 Non-tariff employees 40.0 40.0 40.0 40.0 40.0 Austria (Steyr plant) 38.5 38.5 38.5 38.5 38.5 USA (Spartanburg plant) 40.0 40.0 40.0 40.0 40.0 UK (Oxford plant) 37.0 37.0 37.0 37.0 37.0 FIGURES, FACTS AND South Africa (Rosslyn plant) 40.0 40.0 40.0 40.0 40.0 OBJECTIVES 1 Usual weekly working time according to employment contract, without part-time work. 1 Sustainability management The average weekly working time in Germany is 40 hours for non-tariff employees, and up to five hours less in Bavaria and Saxony due to the provisions of collective 2 Product responsibility agreements there. At BMW Group plants abroad the weekly working time is similar to Germany. 3 Group-wide environmental protection 4 Supplier management Alternative work forms at BMW AG1 in hours 5 Employees 09 10 11 12 13 6 Corporate Citizenship Part-time employees 3,133 3,709 3,825 3,948 3,966 in % of total number of employees 4.5 5.3 6.0 5.8 5.7 Teleworking positions 7,636 9,209 11,717 15,235 18,094 in % of total number of employees 10.9 13.2 16.4 22.5 25.9 Sabbaticals 704 498 450 514 511 in % of total number of employees 1.0 0.7 0.6 0.8 0.7 Parental leave 1,313 1,600 1,513 1,674 1,968 in % of total number of employees 1.9 2.3 2.1 2.5 2.8 1 Figures refer to employees with permanent and part-time contracts. Part-time work is an important part of the flexible work time instruments at the BMW Group, particularly in view of the increasing demand for structures that allow for a good work-life balance as well as models adapted to different life phases. The number of part-time employees remained unchanged. The number of employees on teleworking models continues to increase. GRI Indicator LA1 Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page 192 5 Average days of further training per BMW Group employee1 Average training hours at the BMW AG Academy, by employee Number category1 4.0 hours/employee 3.5 11 12 13 3.0 2.5 Non-tariff Employees 21.5 27.1 31.2 2.0 “Meister” 1.5 (master craftsmen) 24.2 32.5 40.7 Tariff 2 12.7 16.2 17.0 09 10 11 12 13 Days of further training for managers in the BMW Group Number 17,605 16,123 18,843 1.6 2.6 3.6 3.7 3.5 1 Until 2008: BMW AG Performance Centres. FIGURES, FACTS AND 2 (w/o “Meister”) + trainees + other. 1  ata retrieved by direct capture of the number of participants as well as a small share by D OBJECTIVES qualified extrapolation. The BMW Academy founded in 2009 unites vocational training and further 1 Sustainability management In 2013, the BMW Group increased expenditure on further education and training for all company locations in Germany and the UK under one roof. training to €288 million (+2% compared to the previous year). Average days This facilitates the coordination of training courses and generates synergies of further training per employee were at a similar level to previous years. through the use of shared resources. The BMW Group’s training offensive 2 Product responsibility was able to expand on its figures from 2013. Both the average amount of time spent on training as well as expenditure were at a similar level to the 3 Group-wide environmental GRI Indicator LA10 previous year. This trend can be observed throughout the whole company. protection In addition to classical training courses and e-learning, brand new education programmes were launched, such as bachelor’s and master’s degrees in 4 Supplier management cooperation with universities. The BMW Group invests continuously in training its managers worldwide. 5 Employees GRI Indicator LA10 6 Corporate Citizenship Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page 193 5 Investment in further education and training1 at BMW Group BMW Group personnel costs per employee1 in € million in € 300 90,000 250 85,000 200 80,000 150 75,000 100 70,000 50 65,000 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 1432 179 246 282 288 72,349 83,141 84,887 89,140 89,895 FIGURES, FACTS AND 1  MW Group investments are dependent on the current need for further education and trainB 1  igures exclude suspended employment contracts, employees in non-work phases of pre-reF OBJECTIVES ing, which may lead to year-on-year fluctuations. tirement part-time arrangements, trainees, students and low income earners. 2 In difficult economic conditions, training programmes focused on select target groups and priority topics during the 2009 financial year. 1 Sustainability management Maintaining a competitive level of expenditure on personnel plays a major role in the success of the BMW Group. In addition to focusing on The BMW Group sees targeted employee training as an investment in the cost, the aim is also to increase efficiency at all levels of the business. The 2 Product responsibility future. For this purpose, investment in education and further training was high degree of motivation amongst employees and the positive corporate increased by 2% in 2013. At the same time, building up and maintaining approach towards the workforce are maintained and underscored by a com3 Group-wide environmental skills expertise within the Group’s workforce are key aspects of strategic bination of rewards determined individually on the basis of performance protection corporate governance. and success. 4 Supplier management GRI Indicator LA10 5 Employees 6 Corporate Citizenship Share of performance-related compensation in BMW AG salaries, by employee category1 In % of salary group 11 12 13 Upper management 55 – 66 54 – 70 53 – 69 Middle management 38 – 42 37 – 40 37 – 40 Lower management 10 – 11 10 10 1  he definition focuses on the target value and has thus changed compared to the previous T years. Performance-based remuneration comprises a personal bonus and a corpor­ ate earnings-related bonus. The amount of the personal bonus depends on personal performance as well as achievement of the individual’s targets. The amount of the corporate bonus depends on the company’s performance. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page The variable part of remuneration increases as more responsibility is taken within the company. 194 5 Group-wide BMW Group employee survey in 2013 Savings for BMW Group resulting from suggestions for in % improvement Overall satisfaction 89 in € million 0 100 80 70 Attractiveness as employer 91 60 0 100 50 Additional social benefits 85 40 0 100 30 Job security 87 09 10 11 12 13 0 100 FIGURES, FACTS AND 56.8 67.4 77.9 36.9 38.8 OBJECTIVES A Group-wide employee survey is conducted every two years. In 2013, the survey was conducted on the basis of a representative sample. 89% of those surveyed were satisfied on the whole with the BMW Group. Very posiGroup-wide idea management at the BMW Group improves the company’s 1 Sustainability management tive ratings were also given to attractiveness as an employer (91%), social competitiveness and is a worldwide tool to involve and empower employees, benefits (85%) and job security (87%). The next Group-wide survey will take giving them the opportunity to contribute their ideas and have an impact 2 Product responsibility place in the summer of 2015. The results will be available online. on change within the company. Internal marketing campaigns were carried out in 2013 to further establish this tool. In Germany, for example, the participation rate in 2013 was 7.3%, up 23.7% on the previous year. 9,400 ideas 3 Group-wide environmental were submitted, an increase of 19.8%. protection Group-wide idea management led to savings of €38.8 million in 2013 resulting from suggestions for improvement. In general, strong fluctuation 4 Supplier management is possible as certain ideas may make a larger contribution to the savings achieved in some years than in others. In 2013, the course was set for 5 Employees implementation in the UK at the beginning of 2014 of the updated ideas management concept already introduced in Germany. The UK will be the 6 Corporate Citizenship first international location to introduce the concept. Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page 195 5 Occupational health and safety management systems at BMW Group sites Plant occupational health and safety certification Occupational health and Most recent year of certification safety management system Berlin plant OHSAS 18001 December 2011 Dingolfing plant OHRIS May 2012 Eisenach3 OHRIS OHSAS 18001 planned 2014 Goodwood plant, GB1 HS(G) 654 Introduced Hams Hall plant, GB 1 HS(G) 65 4 Introduced Landshut plant OHRIS October 2012 Leipzig plant OHRIS March 2013 Munich plant OHRIS April 2012 FIGURES, FACTS AND OBJECTIVES Oxford plant, GB 1 HS(G) 65 Introduced Regensburg plant OHRIS June 2012 1 Sustainability management Rosslyn plant, South Africa OHSAS 18001 December 2011 Spartanburg plant, USA OHSAS 18001 February 2013 2 Product responsibility Steyr plant, Austria OHSAS 18001 December 2012 3 Group-wide environmental Swindon plant, GB 1 HS(G) 65 4 Introduced protection Wackersdorf plant5 OHRIS June 2012 Chennai plant, India OHSAS 18001 January 2013 4 Supplier management CKD production Jakarta, Indonesia OHSAS 18001 January 2014 5 Employees CKD production Cairo, Egypt OHSAS 18001 August 2011 CKD production Kaliningrad, Russia6 National standard Introduced 6 Corporate Citizenship CKD production Kulim, Malaysia OHSAS 18001 December 2012 CKD production Manaus, Brazil National standard Introduced CKD production Rayong, Thailand OHSAS 18001 January 2013 BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd., Shenyang, China2 (Joint Venture) OHSAS 18001 January 2011 SGL Automotive Moses Lake, USA (Joint Venture) OHSAS 18001 Planned 2014 SGL Automotive Wackersdorf (Joint Venture) OHSAS 18001 Planned 2014 Magna Steyr Fahrzeugtechnik Graz, Austria (contract production) OHSAS 18001 July 2012 1 OHSAS certification planned 2015. 2 Includes the Dadong, Tiexi and Powertrain plants. 3 OHSAS 18001 certification in 2014. 4 HS(G) 65, Successful health and safety management, British Government guidelines on safety at the workplace. Does not require certification. 5 Jointly certified with BMW Regensburg plant. 6 GOST (state standard specification) 12.0230-2007 SSBT. At present, OHRISand OHSAS-certified occupational health and safety management systems are in place at 19 of our 28 production plants (including joint ­ventures and contract production in Jakarta, Cairo, Kaliningrad, Kulim, Manaus and Graz). Six additional facilities work with systems that meet national standards. OHSAS certification was introduced at the Indonesia plant in January 2014. Further certification is planned for the Eisenach plant and the SGL Automotive joint venture Previous Next Contents Home locations in Moses Lake and Wackersdorf in 2014 as well as for the plants in the UK in 2015. chapter chapter page GRI Indicator LA8 196 5 Occupational safety at BMW AG/BMW Group1 number/number of participants 09 10 11 12 13 Total accidents BMW AG (number) 4,619 4,458 3,941 4,128 4,413 Accidents BMW AG with days absent from work (number) 3032 3482 7443 6393 5393 Accident frequency rate4 BMW AG 3.2 3.7 7.9 6.6 5.3 Fatal accidents BMW AG (number) 0 0 0 0 0 Safety training by BMW AG occupational safety association 2,098 1,419 1,059 4,315 2,387 Web-based training in occupational safety at BMW Group5 11,935 15,902 FIGURES, FACTS AND Other training courses in OBJECTIVES occupational safety at BMW Group5 16,513 10,892 Employees at BMW Group (number) 10,626 9,611 1 Sustainability management Employees of third-party companies (number) 5,887 1,281 2 Product responsibility BMW Group risk assessments 6 16,891 19,967 21,612 26,040 26,462 3 Group-wide environmental 1 Figures for BMW AG excluding branches. protection 2 Occupational accidents with more than three days absence from work. 3 Occupational accidents with at least one day of absence from work. 4 Number of occupational accidents per one million hours worked (up to 2010 – occupational accidents with more than three days of absence from work; up to 2011 – with at least one day of absence). 4 Supplier management 5 Training courses captured in 2012 for the first time. 6 Safety assessments of workplaces, including with regard to possible ergonomic and health strains (ABATech method). Figures are cumulative and apply to the BMW Group. 5 Employees There have been no fatal accidents at the BMW Group for the last eight years. Continuous improvements in workplace safety and special safety training are bearing 6 Corporate Citizenship fruit. In addition to training by the occupational safety association, a large number of internal training courses is carried out, data on which has been captured since 2011. A total of 10,892 employees of the BMW Group as well as employees of third-party companies took part in safety training. In addition 3,984 people underwent training in first aid in Germany alone. From 2011 onwards, the system no longer bases its calculations of the accident frequency rate on reportable occupational accidents (>3 days absence from work) but on all occupational accidents with absence from work of more than one day. These figures are presented in this report. GRI Indicators LA7, LA8 Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page 197 5 Sickness rate at BMW AG Total days of work missed at BMW AG1 in % Number 5.0 18,000 4.5 16,000 4.0 14,000 3.5 12,000 3.0 10,000 2.5 8,000 6,000 09 10 11 12 13 4,000 2,000 4.3 4.6 4.5 4.4 4.3 FIGURES, FACTS AND 09 10 11 12 13 OBJECTIVES The sickness rate at BMW AG (4.3%) is again lower than the previous year’s level (4.4%). Thus, the sickness rate was reduced for the third consecutive Total 13,7272 16,6202 15,8923 12,7373 14,8533 time. 1 Sustainability management Due to a notifiable work accident. 2 Product responsibility Due to a notifiable accident on the way to or from work. 1 Figures for BMW AG, excluding branches. 3 Group-wide environmental 2 Days of absence from work due to notifiable occupational accidents and/or accidents on the way to or from work (> 3 days of absence from work). protection 3 Days of absence from work due to notifiable occupational accidents and/or accidents on the way to or from work with at least one day of absence from work. 4 Supplier management The number of occupational accidents with days absent from work dropped 5 Employees by 15.6% in 2013 compared to the previous year. The correlating increase in days absent from work was 29.4%. The average duration of absence from 6 Corporate Citizenship work per occupational accident was 14.9 days, the figure for the previous year was 9.7 days. GRI Indicator LA7 Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page 198 5 Accident frequency rate at BMW AG Accident frequency rate at BMW Group by region1 per one million hours worked per one million hours worked 8.0 Accident frequency 7.0 6.0 Germany (BMW AG excluding branches) 5.3 5.0 North America 2 2.2 4.0 South Africa3 3.3 3.0 UK4 3.6 2.0 Austria 5 4.8 1  ccupational accidents with at least one day of absence from work per one million hours O 09 10 11 12 13 worked. 2 Spartanburg plant, Financial Services, sales centres. 3 Rosslyn plant, Financial Services, sales centres. FIGURES, FACTS AND Oxford plant, Swindon, Hams Hall, Goodwood, Financial Services, sales centres. 4 3.11 3.61 7.12 5.82 4.82 5 Steyr plant. OBJECTIVES 1  ccupational accidents with more than three days of absence from work (calendar days) per O one million hours worked. Occupational accidents at BMW AG (excluding branches) are currently cap1 Sustainability management 2 Occupational accidents with at least one day of absence from work per one million hours tured on a region-specific basis as well as in the regions of our production worked (data covers around 85% of BMW Group employees due to system constraints). sites. Gradual application to other BMW Group locations (e.g. dealerships, 2 Product responsibility regions with CKD plants) is planned over the coming years. Occupational safety takes absolute priority at the BMW Group and is firmly 3 Group-wide environmental anchored in all work processes in production. GRI Indicator LA7 A new method of calculating the accident frequency rate was introduced on protection 1 January 2011. This system no longer bases its calculations on reportable occupational accidents causing more than three days absence from work, 4 Supplier management but on all occupational accidents with absence from work. A large number of measures to reinforce the culture of safety contributed 5 Employees to a reduction in the Group-wide accident frequency rate of 5.8 (2012) to 4.8 (2013). 6 Corporate Citizenship GRI Indicator LA7 Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page 199 6 BMW Group donations worldwide in 2013 Donations in the field of politics In %, total amount €8,481,660 1 in € def 700,000 c 600,000 a 500,000 400,000 300,000 b 200,000 100,000 09 10 11 12 13 a) Science/Education 34.3 d) Politics 2.6 FIGURES, FACTS AND b) Society/Community 52.1 e) Environment/Sustainability 0.3 565,274 603,145 430,517 427,442 223,701 OBJECTIVES c) Culture 8.4 f) Sport 2.3 The BMW Group supports the work of the democratic parties CDU, CSU, 1  he sum indicated here does not include either cause-related marketing or sponsorship and T 1 Sustainability management does not contain the projects and activities carried out in the context of the company’s social SPD, FDP and Bündnis90/Die Grünen (Green Party). All BMW Group and cultural commitment. donations (above 10.000 €) for each year are published by name in the 2 Product responsibility accounts included in the party financing report of the President of the German Federal Parliament. In 2013 the procedure for supporting political The BMW Group focuses its activities in the area of donations on society 3 Group-wide environmental and the community as well as science and education, providing targeted parties was successively changed. In the past, the BMW Group has mainly protection donated vehicles for use free of charge. The parties provide the BMW Group support of projects connected with the company’s core competencies and with confirmation of receipt of a donation by stating the corresponding activities. Donations made by the BMW Group in 2013 were approximately value or rental rate. In 2013, this procedure was temporarily continued 4 Supplier management 12% lower than in 2012. The main reason for this was that some funded for the CSU due to different contractual periods. From 2014 onwards, the projects came to an end. BMW Group will support the socio-political work of this party as well as 5 Employees the other parties by way of individual topic-based cooperation projects that GRI Indicators EC1, SO6 are subject to the clear sponsorship regulations of the BMW Group. Vehicle 6 Corporate Citizenship donations in 2013 amounted to a value of €201,314 (CSU: €143,371, CDU: €16,232 FDP: €11,000, SPD: €9,108, Green Party: €21,603). In addition to vehicle donations, the CSU received a cash donation of €250 for a district association in 2013. International political donations by the BMW Group are only made in clearly defined and exceptional cases which are subject to the respective legal framework conditions. Expenditure on international political donations in 2013 amounted to around 0.9% of total expenditure on inter­national donations (2012: around 0.4%). GRI Indicator SO6 Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page 200 6 Amount of expenditure on social commitment, by type of activity in € thousand 40,000 35,000 30,000 25,000 20,000 15,000 10,000 5,000 FIGURES, FACTS AND 09 10 11 12 13 OBJECTIVES Total 7,619 26,591 36,846 31,979 28,944 1 Sustainability management Commercial activities Donations/contributions in kind Community investment 2 Product responsibility The activities of the BMW Group in the area of corporate social respon3 Group-wide environmental sibility are divided into three main areas. Firstly: monetary donations protection and donations in kind. Secondly: community investment. Community investment refers to investment in project initiatives conceived in-house, ­cooperative endeavours and partnerships as well as corporate volunteering 4 Supplier management by BMW Group employees. And thirdly: commercial activities, i.e. sponsorship and cause-related marketing. 5 Employees Total expenditure on corporate citizenship activities of the BMW Group decreased compared to the 2012 financial year. The main reasons for the 6 Corporate Citizenship decline in expenditure on corporate citizenship in 2012 were previous cases of one-off project funding which no longer applied in 2013, as well as ­projects whose social impact was not measurable. GRI Indicator EC1 Previous Next Contents Home chapter chapter page 201 Sustainability targets in the area of sustainability management Group Strategy Number ONE/Sustainability strategy Sustainability targets 20201 General directions2 Measures and results 20133 Status The BMW Group is the world’s most Group Strategy Number ONE: Group EBT ­successful and sustainable premium Growth: Our aim is to tap into existing and new The BMW Group continued on its successful course in 2013 and posted a new record result in earnings before tax provider of individual mobility business fields, to focus on the entire value due to a strong increase in vehicle sales. Despite greater investment in future technologies, increased intensity of chain and in particular to grow profitably competition and higher personnel costs, earnings before tax rose at Group level by 1.4% to €7,913 million (2012: €7,803 million). As forecast for 2013, earnings before tax were on a par with the previous year, in line with our expecShaping the future: Keeping close contact to tations. our customers during the entire life cycle and along the entire value chain in order to grow Vehicle sales of two million units (original target: two million units by 2020, already revised to 2016) profitably All three brands – BMW, MINI and Rolls-Royce – achieved record sales in 2013; as a result, the company further Profitability: Our aim is to continuously increase established its position as a leading manufacturer of premium automobiles worldwide. 1,963,798 BMW, MINI and the value of the BMW Group in its competitive Rolls-Royce vehicles sold. environment in the long term Access to technologies and customers: Stra­ Motorcycle sales tegic cooperation with the best partners is part Although the majority of motorcycle markets contracted considerably during the reporting period, our Motorcycles of our Strategy Number ONE segment broke its previous sales volume record in the year under report. We handed over 115,215 BMW motorcycles to customers worldwide. Sustainability strategy: Profitability of 8 – 10% in Automobiles segment as well as Return on Equity (RoE) of 18% in FS segment Derivation of Group sustainability strategy from (EBIT margin) all divisions, including development and integraThe EBIT margin in the Automobiles segment was 9.4%. This means that we were within our forecast target range of tion of corresponding objectives. 8–10% due to the high demand for our premium vehicle brands. Further development of sustainability manageThe Financial Services segment can look back on a successful year 2013. The return on equity (RoE) of 20.2% ment including stakeholder dialogue exceeded the target of at least 18% and was thus in line with our expectations. International expansion of external sustainability Listing on external sustainability ratings (DJSI, CDP, FTSE4Good) network In 2013 again, the BMW Group was able to hold its position as one of the most sustainable carmakers. The company was again listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI, Europe and World). This makes the BMW Group the only company in the automotive industry to be listed among the top three for 15 consecutive years. We achieved a record result in 2013 in the Global 500 Rating of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), leading the industry with 100 out of 100 possible disclosure points as well as a performance rating in the “A” range. In addition, the BMW Group was again listed on the British FTSE4Good index in 2013. 1 L  ong-term strategic targets. Mainly includes aims, not smart targets. 2 Overarching measures the BMW Group has defined to achieve the strategic Sustainability Targets 2020. 3 Targets, measures and results in 2013 that contribute to achieving the 2020 targets. On track Target achieved Target not yet achieved Measures required Ongoing 202 Sustainability targets in the area of sustainability management Group Strategy Number ONE/Sustainability Strategy Sustainability targets 20201 General directions2 Measures and results 20133 Status Integration of sustainability in all company divisions Sales division: Sustainability aspects integrated into sales training, green building integrated into Retail Standards Europe for new buildings, contractual agreement on human rights/ILO core labour standards integrated into all dealership contracts in the European region. Purchasing division: Sustainability risk management process refined, range of training programmes for purchasers and suppliers expanded. HR division: We reviewed our HR strategy and set up a global organisational structure as the basis for coordination of strategic HR topics. Production division: By integrating environmental management into all production processes, we were able to reduce our consumption of resources by around 40% compared to 2006. This means that we have come closer to meeting our ambitious target (–45%) for 2006–2020. Development division: In line with the product development process, targets were derived for new vehicle projects and agreement on sustainability targets/implementation in series production was agreed on for ongoing projects. In addition, the BMW i3 project was completed, with the vehicle going into production in autumn 2013. Financial division: Concept development for sustainability strategy continued. International expansion of external sustainability network Ongoing engagement in the main sustainability networks (WBCSD, econsense, UN Global Compact) in 2013 through intensive on-site participation and contribution of content. A prime example is our active work (with Board member participation) in WBCSD projects (e.g. Sustainable Mobility II and Action 2020). The BMW Group is also lead sponsor of SustainAbility and GlobeScan’s The Regeneration Roadmap project to identify a business road map for sustainability until 2020. The final report on this, Changing Tack, was published in 2013. The results will be used to fine-tune our strategy internally. Raising employee awareness of sustainability (training) In 2013, we rolled out an interactive Web-based training programme on sustainability. This enables our employees as well as dealers and suppliers to practice sustainable thinking and action. Over 2,200 people have completed this training programme so far. A total of around 7,600 employees took part in face-to-face courses on sustainability in 2013. This number includes our introductory courses (around 5,700 participants) for new employees as well as the annual environmental protection and health and safety courses (around 1,900 participants). In addition all our trainees also complete causes with sustainability topics (among others Clean Production, occupational health and safety, Health management). 1  ong-term strategic targets. Mainly includes aims, not smart targets. L 2 Overarching measures the BMW Group has defined to achieve the strategic Sustainability Targets 2020. 3 Targets, measures and results in 2013 that contribute to achieving the 2020 targets. On track Target achieved Target not yet achieved Measures required Ongoing 203 Sustainability targets in the area of sustainability management Stakeholder dialogue Sustainability targets 2020 General directions Measures and results 2013 Status Continuation and expansion of our Continuous and systematic identification and A large number of stakeholder events (e.g. in Munich, Leipzig, Amsterdam, London, Warsaw and Johannesburg) on comprehensive ongoing dialogue with prioritisation of relevant stakeholders current topics such as the BMW i3, electromobility, mobility services, sustainable supply chains and energy supply various target groups on strategically at our locations. Implementation of a range of stakeholder diarelevant topics at German and logue activities face-to-face and group dialogue with capital market representatives as part of Socially Responsible Investment international locations Roadshows in the financial centres of Europe and the USA Systematic communication of results within the company as well as derivation of measures and Dialogue with political stakeholders, e.g. as part of the Delhi Sustainable Development Summit, at the UN Convenintegration into processes to further develop tion on Climate Change COP19 in Warsaw and the Future Responsibility Conference of the FAZ Institute in Munich. strategy Telephone interviews carried out with a range of stakeholders as part of the BMW Group materiality analysis. Group-wide employee survey. E xpansion of communication with stakeholders via social networks. Risk management Sustainability targets 2020 General directions Measures and results 2013 Status Continuation and ongoing further develop­ Identify and assess the main risks to the In addition to our ongoing task of identifying the main risks and reporting on our risk position to the Board of Management of risk management processes/ BMW Group ment, we carried out the following measures in 2013: methods in order to secure the continuing Derive risk strategies (reduction, avoidance, Development of risk catalogues that make risk situations transparent across divisions. existence of the BMW Group in the long run transfer) and track implementation of measures by identifying threats at an early stage Development of an IT tool that optimises the recording and reporting of risks in the network, including the required Continuously monitor effectiveness and measures, and promotes cooperation and mutual exchanges. practic­ability of processes/methods On track Target achieved Target not yet achieved Measures required Ongoing 204 Sustainability targets in the area of product responsibility CO2 emissions (fleet) Sustainability targets 20201 General directions2 Measures and results 20133 Status The BMW Group will have reduced CO2 Further refinement and penetration of Further refinement of Efficient Dynamics technology and electrification emissions of the European new vehicle Efficient Dynamics measures In order to further pursue reductions in fuel consumption and CO2 emissions, our focus in 2013 remained on lowering fleet by at least 50% by 2020 (base year: running resistance (in particular with regard to aerodynamics and weight), improving drivetrain efficiency, optimising Increasing electrification of vehicles 1995) energy and heat management as well as electrification (see “Electromobility” section for more details). Electric drivetrains to round out product ­portfolio These measures have enabled us to reduce CO2 emissions of our newly sold cars in Europe by more than 37% compared to 1995. The value for the EU fleet in 2013 was 133 g/km. At the end of 2013, 39 vehicle models had maximum emissions of 120 g/km. Electromobility Sustainability targets 20201 General directions2 Measures and results 20133 Status By 2020, the BMW Group will be the leader BMW i3 incl. 360° ELECTRIC approach Development of the world’s first series-produced electric car with a carbon passenger compartment in taking a holistic approach to premium (BMW i3) Implement sustainability throughout the life electromobility Development of the first BMW Group electric vehicle under the sub-brand BMW i is complete and series production cycle has started. In late July 2013, the BMW i3 was launched simultaneously in the three cities London, New York and Implement networking of vehicles, services, Beijing. European sales of the BMW i3 started in November 2013. The fully electric-powered BMW i3 displays an mobility services to create customer value innovative vehicle concept tailor-made for electromobility, including a passenger compartment made of CFRP. Energy management (Professional Wallbox) also in households 1  ong-term strategic targets. Mainly includes aims, not smart targets. L 2 Overarching measures the BMW Group has defined to achieve the strategic Sustainability Targets 2020. 3 Targets, measures and results in 2013 that contribute to achieving the 2020 targets. On track Target achieved Target not yet achieved Measures required Ongoing 205 Sustainability targets in the area of product responsibility Mobility patterns Sustainability targets 20201 General directions2 Measures and results 20133 Status The BMW Group will have permanently Flexible use: Roll-out of car-sharing service Car-sharing service DriveNow established changed mobility patterns in selected DriveNow; further cities in Germany, Europe, Financial 2013 was very successful for DriveNow. Just in time for the turn of the year 2013/2014, the car-sharing joint metropolitan areas by 2020 by introducing the USA and Asia to be added venture of the BMW Group and Sixt SE welcomed its 200,000th customer (Dec. 2012: 75,000) and hence almost integrated mobility services tripled its number of users in only 12 months. Develop parking solutions: Roll-out of ­ParkNow and ParkatmyHouse Innovation focused in 2013 on expanding offerings to better meet the needs of the customer. DriveNow therefore Establish intermodal solutions: Interlink differintroduced new usage, vehicle and pricing models as well as flexible insurance options. In collaboration with selectent mobility services ed partners, special leisure packages were developed for shopping, skiing or spa visits, which, following Munich, are to be expanded to other cities. All of these offers can be booked spontaneously directly in the car. The fully electric-powered BMW ActiveE models introduced to the Berlin and Munich fleets in June 2013 were also in high demand. The fleet now consists of nine premium BMW and MINI brand models and will be extended further in 2014 with the addition of the BMW i3. Development and implementation of services for mobility support in the future/mobility services Drivers in the greater San Francisco area can use our ParkNow service to locate free parking spaces in multi-storey car parks, saving not only time but also fuel and doing both their finances and the environment a favour. ParkNow also offers other useful services, for example tips on where to find a car wash or the availability of bicycles for hire in the respective ParkNow locations. With the BMW i3, ParkNow LongTerm is also being introduced to help customers rent a long-term parking space with charging station. Further development of car-to-car communication* to avoid road congestion and reduce emissions The research project Sichere Intelligente Mobilität – Testfeld Deutschland (Safe intelligent mobility – testing ground Germany), completed in 2013, examined the potential of communication between vehicles from different carmakers. The BMW Group participated in the field tests with over 120 vehicles, both cars and motorcycles. BMW is a member of the steering committee of the Car2Car Communication Consortium, which is collaborating with various stakeholders to roll out the new technology. In 2013, the project KoSys was launched with the aim of equipping the infrastructure in a European corridor with Car2Car technology (via Wi-Fi and also mobile phone). BMW is pursuing mobile phone communication as introductory scenario and is participating in the initiative via the Converge funding project. * Car-to-car communications are considered a promising opportunity to improve safety and traffic flow thanks to inter-car communication as well as communication with the surrounding infrastructure. 1  ong-term strategic targets. Mainly includes aims, not smart targets. L 2 Overarching measures the BMW Group has defined to achieve the strategic Sustainability Targets 2020. 3 Targets, measures and results in 2013 that contribute to achieving the 2020 targets. On track Target achieved Target not yet achieved Measures required Ongoing 206 Sustainability targets in the area of product responsibility Mobility patterns Sustainability targets 20201 General directions2 Measures and results 20133 Status Reduction of environmental impact of motorised private transport in urban areas* The BMW Group is cooperating with around 30 partners on the joint research project UR:BAN. In this project, the BMW Group is involved in the area of networked traffic systems, working on the sub-project Urban Streets. In 2013, the backend and vehicle volumes were specified for the realisation of the “Green Wave Wizard” and agreed amongst the partners in the UR:BAN project (MAN, Continental and others). On this basis, technical implementation (backend and vehicle volumes) was begun as prerequisite for the field tests scheduled in 2014. * Fuel efficiency is optimised by traffic-light prediction – information and speed control recommendations are provided to the driver and the engine is automatically controlled. Assessment of environmental impact of car-sharing and electric-car-sharing systems in urban areas* For the cooperation project started 2012 and funded by the German Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation and Nuclear Safety a first wave of surveys was conducted in mid-2013. In order to obtain answers to the question of how car-sharing systems are affecting mobility and the environment in urban areas, the user surveys were supplemented by an innovative mobility tracking system. Over 4,000 DriveNow customers were surveyed directly in the car-sharing vehicles. The ministry is planning to host a large-scale event in July 2014 to present the results of the first wave of the survey. * A n assessment of the influence of car-sharing systems on mobility patterns, degree of motorisation, overall environmental footprint and leverage effects for the introduction of electromobility. Product safety Sustainability targets 20201 General directions2 Measures and results 20133 Status Increase vehicle safety by integrating Develop preventive measures, particularly for Development of preventive measures to improve product safety ­active and passive safety systems passenger, partner and pedestrian protection Series development of preventive pedestrian protection to fulfil the expected New Car Assessment Programme (NCAP) requirements based on the results of the EU-funded project Assessment methodologies for Pedestrian and Cyclist Safety Systems (AsPeCSS). In addition, the BMW Group introduced in 2013 an initial version of preventive pedestrian protection as an option for all new vehicles. 1 L  ong-term strategic targets. Mainly includes aims, not smart targets. 2 Overarching measures the BMW Group has defined to achieve the strategic Sustainability Targets 2020. 3 Targets, measures and results in 2013 that contribute to achieving the 2020 targets. On track Target achieved Target not yet achieved Measures required Ongoing 207 Sustainability targets in the area of product responsibility Life cycle approach Sustainability targets 20201 General directions2 Measures and results 20133 Status Carry out Life Cycle Engineering in the Agree on sustainability targets along the entire Life Cycle Engineering over the entire life cycle of the vehicle product development process to ensure value chain in vehicle projects Continuation of Life Cycle Engineering for BMW i8 and finalisation for BMW i3 with production start in September sustainability over the entire life cycle of 2013. This includes selecting suppliers according to their use of sustainable materials, optimising the range and Environmentally friendly product development: the vehicle energy consumption of BMW eDRIVE, setting up resource-efficient production structures in Landshut and Leipzig, Integrate ecological sustainability in accordance with ISO TR 14062 (Design for Environment) a strategic partnership between the BMW Group and Naturstrom AG to offer a renewable electricity package to BMW i customers, further refinement of the recycling concept. Use holistic accounting with LCA as the meas­ uring and control instrument in new product In line with the product development process, sustainability targets were derived for new vehicle projects or agreed lines for ongoing projects and integrated into the development of the series. Product recycling Sustainability targets 20201 General directions2 Measures and results 20133 Status Further development of recycling soluSeparate CFRP from end-of-life vehicles and Separation of CFRP from vehicles earmarked for recycling using a handling device developed by the BMW Group tions for carbon-fibre-reinforced plastic reuse in new products in the Recyclingund Demontagezentrum (RDZ) Munich (CFRP) and reuse of carbon fibres in new Develop a technical concept for using high-voltImplementation of a technical concept for the use of high-voltage batteries products age batteries in storage systems (second life) Used high-voltage batteries from vehicles Development of component parts for BMW vehicles or other applications from recycled CFRP should be reused as second-life batteries in energy storage systems, for example for temporary storage of electricity from photovoltaic panels 1  ong-term strategic targets. Mainly includes aims, not smart targets. L 2 Overarching measures the BMW Group has defined to achieve the strategic Sustainability Targets 2020. 3 Targets, measures and results in 2013 that contribute to achieving the 2020 targets. On track Target achieved Target not yet achieved Measures required Ongoing 208 Sustainability targets in the area of group-wide environmental protection Renewable energy Sustainability targets 20201 General directions2 Measures and results 20133 Status By 2020, the BMW Group will be the Further develop an integrated energy manageEnergy strategy leader in the use of renewable energy ment system (transparency of consumption, With our energy strategy launched in 2012 and its five specific areas of action, we laid the foundation for implementain production and value creation targets management, monitoring) tion of further measures to achieve our targets. The BMW Group uses the most environmentally friendly and susContinuous improvement of ongoing operations tainably profitable energy resource at each production plant. The share of renewable energy as a percentage of total electricity consumption at the BMW Group increased to 48% in 2013 (compared to 36% in the previous year and Plan and implement energy-efficient property, 28% in 2011). It is one of our primary targets to further increase this percentage in the future. plants and technologies Implement projects to use renewable energy (e.g. wind, solar) Raise awareness, train and motivate managers and employees Resource consumption Sustainability targets 20201 General directions2 Measures and results 20133 Status The BMW Group will reduce water, Timely consideration of environmental aspects Clean Production Strategy energy, waste snd solvents per vehicle when making investment decisions As we improved efficiency by 41.4% between 2006 and 2013, we were able to come closer to our 2020 reduction by 45% by 2020 (base year 2006) target of 45%. Continuous monitoring of all relevant environmental key indicators The comparative figures for 2013 were as follows: Ambitious targets Energy consumption: Down by 2.1% from 2.41 to 2.36 MWh/vehicle compared to 2012 Selective transfer of in-company best-practice (down 31% compared to 2006) approaches to the entire production network Water consumption: Down by 1.8% from 2.22 to 2.18 m³/vehicle compared to 2012 (down 33.1% compared to 2006) Process wastewater: Down by 7.8% from 0.51 to 0.47 m³/vehicle compared to 2012 (down 42.7% compared to 2006) Waste for disposal: Down by 11.4% from 6.47 to 5.73 m³/vehicle compared to 2012 (down 69.7% compared to 2006) VOC emissions: Down by 10.7% from 1.78 to 1.59 kg/vehicle compared to 2012 (down 36.7% compared to 2006) 1 L  ong-term strategic targets. Mainly includes aims, not smart targets. 2 Overarching measures the BMW Group has defined to achieve the strategic Sustainability Targets 2020. 3 Targets, measures and results in 2013 that contribute to achieving the 2020 targets. On track Target achieved Target not yet achieved Measures required Ongoing 209 Sustainability targets in the area of group-wide environmental protection Transport logistics Sustainability targets 2020 General directions Measures and results 2013 Status The BMW Group will optimise transport Development of concepts for traffic avoidance Higher percentage of low-emissions modes of transport used volumes, increase the share of low(capacity utilisation) This led to a further increase in the average volume of rail transport of BMW Group vehicles from the plants to 60.7% emissions modes of transport and capacity (previous year: 56.9%). In addition, measures to reduce air freight volume were introduced in 2013. This led to a 17% Switch to environmentally friendly modes of utilisation in new vehicle transport decrease in air freight volume to plants outside Europe. transport Inbound: A new rail-based transport concept for transport of freight to and from plants in the USA went into operation in 2013. As a result, up to 20,000 containers per year are now transported by rail instead of by road. This will lead to a reduction in CO2 emissions by around 60%. Outbound: In mid-2013, all vehicles for export from the BMW plant in Leipzig (around 30,000 vehicles per year) were transported to the seaport of Bremerhaven by rail instead of by road. This results in a reduction in CO2 emissions of over 1,000 tonnes per year. Increased capacity utilisation in new vehicle transport To further increase the share of rail transport, upcoming invitations to bid for transport contracts will be assessed to ensure concentrated deliveries from specific countries. In 2013, for instance, supply of finished vehicles to the Spanish market was shifted to rail transport. This means that some 7,000 vehicles per year will be shifted from truck to rail transport. Optimise transport volume A concept was developed to optimise container management. Overarching management of container transports as well as optimum employment of reusable containers used to transport vehicle parts for production minimises container inventories and empty transports. Implementation is planned for 2014. Environmental/health and safety management system Sustainability targets 2020 General directions Measures and results 2013 Status Implementation and continuous Develop uniform retail-specific processes, The German BMW branches successfully passed the first certification audits in June 2013. optimisation of a retail-specific integrated standards, tools and documents In addition, six further European BMW dealerships were certified in accordance with ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 environmental and health and safety Roll-out and implement at the participating in 2013: Vienna, Zurich, Rome, Milan, Madrid and Barcelona. management system in accordance with locations of the BMW Group’s retail network ISO 14001 and BS OHSAS 18001 in companies of the BMW retail network On track Target achieved Target not yet achieved Measures required Ongoing 210 Sustainability targets in the area of supplier management Supply chain Sustainability targets 2020 General directions Measures and results 2013 Status Efficient supply chain that applies the Systematically identify and implement business Risk management: As part of the continuous improvement of the risk filter system, special risk assessments same ambitious sustainability standards opportunities resulting from sustainability for all product groups were carried out in addition to the annual update of data. worldwide Ensure compliance with environmental, social Training courses: Successful training of 777 operational purchasers and commodity managers (over 80%) and governance standards on sustainability, continuation of two-day certificate course with the University of Ulm, with a total of 40 course ­participants. In collaboration with all main players, including competitors, civil society and government, find Resource efficiency: Joined CDP Supply Chain to identify potential improvements in energy and water solutions for critical supply chains and empower ­consumption on the part of our suppliers. suppliers Stakeholder dialogue event: In December 2013 the BMW Group organised a Stakeholder dialogue on s­ ustainability in the supply chain and in resource production to receive input for the further refinement and ­improvement of its strategy and measures. On track Target achieved Target not yet achieved Measures required Ongoing 211 Sustainability targets in the area of employees Preparing for the future Sustainability targets 20201 General directions2 Measures and results 20133 Status The BMW Group reduced the number of Accident prevention measures Occupational health and safety occupational accidents and improved the Company-wide coverage by occupational safety management systems Health management health of its employees. The BMW Group Further education and training At present, OHRISand OHSAS-certified occupational health and safety management systems are in place at 19 of has the right skill set to face the challenges our 28 production plants; the other facilities work with systems that meet national standards. Further certification is of the future planned for plants in the UK in 2014 and 2015. BMW AG dealerships were also OHSAS 18001-certified in 2013 as part of a matrix certification. Accident frequency rate The accident frequency rate is 4.8 occupational accidents with days absent from work per one million hours worked. Securing and maintaining capacity to perform and employability Introduce and implement Gesundheitsmanagement 2020 (Health Management 2020) In 2013, we completed and evaluated the pilot phase of the Health Management 2020 programme and prepared for its roll-out. The programme represents an integrated approach to health management within the company. In 2013, we placed particular focus on the topic of bowel cancer prevention at our German locations. A physical health campaign that ran for several weeks, Aktionswochen der Psychischen Gesundheit also offered talks, seminars and workshops on topics such as relaxation techniques, stress management and addiction prevention. Today for Tomorrow and ergonomics With our Today for Tomorrow project, we are gradually adapting our production lines to suit our ageing workforce. The Today for Tomorrow approach was established in the BMW Group’s value-added production system. The knowledge gained from this project is now being implemented across other German and international BMW Group locations (e.g. South Africa and the USA). Employee recruitment and training Further education days We invested €288 million in further education and training. On average, each employee completed a total of 3.5 days of further education and training in 2013. 1  ong-term strategic targets. Mainly includes aims, not smart targets. L 2 Overarching measures the BMW Group has defined to achieve the strategic Sustainability Targets 2020. 3 Targets, measures and results in 2013 that contribute to achieving the 2020 targets. On track Target achieved Target not yet achieved Measures required Ongoing 212 Sustainability targets in the area of employees Leadership Sustainability targets 20201 General directions2 Measures and results 20133 Status The BMW Group takes an integrated Implementation of regular employee surveys Employee survey approach to leadership for motivated In 2013, the survey was conducted on the basis of a representative sample. 89% of those surveyed were satisfied on Permanent further development of the employees the whole with the BMW Group. Very positive ratings were also given to attractiveness as an employer (91%), social BMW Group’s manager training programme benefits (85%) and job security (87%). Manager training In view of current corporate strategy and HR development requirements we revised and updated the Corporate ­Leadership Programme in 2013. Our aim here is to encourage all managers to continuously examine their approach to leadership, and to increase their effectiveness as leaders. Diversity Sustainability targets 20201 General directions2 Measures and results 20133 Status With its diverse workforce, the BMW Group Consistent implementation and permanent Area of action “Gender” is internationally successful and is increasfurther development of Group-wide diversity In accordance with the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code, the BMW Group’s Diversity ing its innovative strength strategy Concept aims to bring the share of women in management positions into line with the overall employee structure. We produce a regular progress report on the achievement of this target. The number of female managers increased from 12.7% in 2012 to 13.8% in 2013. The share of women on the ­Supervisory Board is currently 20% (previous year: 20%). Since July 2012, there has been one female member of the BMW Board of Management (12.5%). Area of action “Cultural background” We enhance cultural diversity by focusing on recruiting new employees at our locations in the growth markets and by recruiting employees from other countries to work in Germany. Area of action “Age/experience” The number of years each employee works for the BMW Group is increasing. This is due to earlier entry into the company and later exit due to the rising retirement age, for example. To make sure that employees of different ages and in different life phases can contribute their particular strengths to the full, we introduced extensive programmes for flexible and mobile working. To complement this, we raise the awareness among managers of the challenges posed by mixed-age teams. When setting up new locations or divisions we recruit people from a range of ages. 1 L  ong-term strategic targets. Mainly includes aims, not smart targets. 2 Overarching measures the BMW Group has defined to achieve the strategic Sustainability Targets 2020. 3 Targets, measures and results in 2013 that contribute to achieving the 2020 targets. On track Target achieved Target not yet achieved Measures required Ongoing 213 Sustainability targets in the area of employees Attractive employer Sustainability targets 20201 General directions2 Measures and results 20133 Status The BMW Group is considered an Attractive young talent programmes Young talent programmes attractive employer To enable future employees to meet the increasing challenges faced in the multinational context, periods abroad are Fair and above-average remuneration either obligatory or optional parts of all programmes. At the end of 2013, around 240 young potentials were taking part in the ongoing, practice-oriented bachelor’s and master’s programmes funded by the company in Germany. Around 220 doctoral candidates are currently studying for their PhDs with the BMW Group. Remuneration Our remuneration is aligned with the upper third of the respective labour market worldwide. The BMW Group thus pays considerably above the local minimum wage. In addition to a fixed salary, our employees receive a variable share in the company’s profits. Due to the positive ­business development in 2012, employees took home a profit share in 2013 that was almost as high as the record level of the previous year. This amount was equivalent in Germany to around 2.5 months’ salary. Positioning as an attractive employer on the labour market Trendence Graduate Barometer Germany 2013: number two in business and engineering, number four in IT. Universum Graduate Survey 2013: number two in business and engineering, number 1^1 in IT. Global Reputation Institute 2013 (Global RepTrack 100): number one (across industries and worldwide). Trendence Europe’s Top 500 Employers 2013: number nine in business, number five in engineering. Universum World’s Most Admired Employers 2013: number 14 in business, number five in engineering (thus the top automotive company and top German company). Trendence Pupil Barometer Germany 2013: number four (thus the top automotive company). Trendence Young Professional Barometer Germany 2013: number one in the categories business, engineering and IT. Universum Professional Survey Germany 2013: number two in business, number one in engineering, number four in IT 1  ong-term strategic targets. Mainly includes aims, not smart targets. L 2 Overarching measures the BMW Group has defined to achieve the strategic Sustainability Targets 2020. 3 Targets, measures and results in 2013 that contribute to achieving the 2020 targets. On track Target achieved Target not yet achieved Measures required Ongoing 214 Sustainability targets in the area of Corporate Citizenship Corporate Citizenship Sustainability targets 20201 General directions2 Measures and results 20133 Status Based on its core competencies, the Corporate citizenship with a focus on interculCorporate Citizenship BMW Group is a leader in intercultural tural communication and social inclusion In 2013, our main focus was on the areas of intercultural innovation and social inclusion. The Intercultural Innovation communication Award (IIA) is a one-of-its-kind project to support innovative concepts that work towards solving intercultural tension Corporate volunteering with a focus on rewarding employees for their volunteering activities and conflict. Around 175,000 people have already benefited from the financial and advisory services provided by the Intercultural Innovation Award projects. Corporate citizenship of our two foundations BMW Foundation Herbert Quandt and EberCorporate volunteering hard von Künheim Foundation In 2013 again, the BMW Group bestowed corporate citizenship awards on its employees worldwide. This is the company’s way of thanking those employees who do voluntary work in their free time. Employees from 11 countries took part in the competition. In 2013 again, four projects were presented with the award, each of them focusing on different aspects of corporate citizenship. The projects range from setting up an inclusive football team, to a recycling project in Cairo, as well as the support of refugees and migrants, to weekend/holiday care of disabled children and adolescents. Foundations A key instrument in the work of the Foundation Herbert Quandt in 2013 was its international Young Leaders programmes. The programmes motivate managers to take social responsibility a step further, beyond their professional tasks. The Eberhard von Künheim Foundation’s JOBLINGE project gives unemployed young people who have no school leaving certificate or who are resistant to training the opportunity to earn themselves a trainee position or job through their own efforts. In 2013, JOBLINGE saw considerable growth, in particular once new branches and locations had been opened in Essen, Offenbach and Wiesbaden, for instance. For details of each of our foundations’ projects, please refer to their websites (www.bmw-stiftung.de, www.kuenheim-stiftung.de) or their reports. 1  ong-term strategic targets. Mainly includes aims, not smart targets. L 2 Overarching measures the BMW Group has defined to achieve the strategic Sustainability Targets 2020. 3 Targets, measures and results in 2013 that contribute to achieving the 2020 targets. On track Target achieved Target not yet achieved Measures required Ongoing 215 APPENDIX About this report — p. 217 Assurance Report — p. 219 Global Reporting Initiative — p. 222 Imprint — p. 229 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 216 About this report The Figures, facts and objectives chapter provides a transparent list of targets achieved as well as the sustainability figures used in monitoring, together with explanatory texts. The report is published in German and English. For reasons of clarity and to avoid double references, generic references to the masculine in this document should be understood as referring to both sexes. REPORTING PERIOD APPENDIX The BMW Group Sustainable Value Report (SVR) The reporting period is the 2013 calendar year. The 2013 has been published to provide stakeholders with effective date for all facts and figures is 31 December About this report comprehensive information about the company’s 2013. For the sake of completeness and to ensure ­sustainability strategy and the progress made in inteinformation is up-to-date, some of the data we have Assurance Report grating sustainability into its corporate processes. captured up to March 2014 (editorial deadline) have Global Reporting Initiative also been included. The Figures, facts and objectives chapter generally maps the figures for 2009–2013 Imprint Topics have been selected and weighted in accord­ (with the exception of newly added key figures). They ance with the findings of a systematic materiality refer to the entire BMW Group with its three brands process see Chapter 1. Where appropriate, references BMW, MINI and Rolls-Royce. There are, however, are also provided to supplementary information in some exceptions concerning site-specific topics and the Annual Report or on other BMW Group websites. local sustainability programmes. Wherever this is the case, the entity the figures apply to is specified Each chapter starts with a one-page overview of the accordingly, e.g. BMW AG. Any targets that were met main facts. In 2013, these included progress made, in 2012 are not mentioned again in the 2013 Sustaina forecast of future objectives as well as the key perable Value Report. formance indicators (KPIs) used internally to control and monitor the BMW Group’s sustainability The last SVR was published in May 2013 as a comperformance. bined print and online report covering financial year 2012. Previous Contents Home chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— About this report 217 CONFORMS TO GRI STANDARDS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS The BMW Group’s Sustainable Value Report 2013 The BMW Group SVR contains various forward-looking has been compiled in accordance with the Global statements about future developments which are based on Reporting Initiative (GRI G3.1) guidelines. Secthe current status of the BMW Group’s assumptions and tor-specific aspects have also been considered on forecasts. They are thus subject to a variety of predictable the basis of the GRI Automotive Sector Supplement and unpredictable risks, uncertainties and other factors, so (Pilot Version 1.0). To what extent GRI indicators that the actual outcome, including the company’s financial are met is shown in the GRI Index. At GRI level A+ and assets position, its development or performance could (GRI checked), this SVR 2013 meets the maximum differ considerably. The BMW Group makes no commitment requirements detailed in the GRI guidelines. to update such forward-looking statements or to adapt them to future events or developments. THE COMPREHENSIVE GRI INDEX IS AVAILABLE FOR DOWNLOADING FROM APPENDIX THE INTERNET AT: About this report www.bmwgroup.com/svr Assurance Report Global Reporting Initiative UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Imprint The BMW Group committed to implement the principles of the UN Global Compact in 2001, and in this report once again reports on progress achieved in complying with these principles. References to the Global Compact principles have been integrated into the GRI Index. THIRD-PARTY VERIFICATION The entire report (the texts of all six chapters as well as Figures, facts and objectives) were audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers Assurance Report. In addition, indicators from the areas of environmental protection and occupational health and safety were audited by external auditors and experts in accordance with ISO 14001, EMAS and OHSAS. Previous Contents Home chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— About this report 218 Independent Assurance Report TO BMW AG, MUNICH We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance engagement on the information in the Sustainable Value Report of BMW AG, Munich (hereinafter: the Company), for the business year from 1 January to 31 December 2013 (hereinafter: the Report).1 MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY APPENDIX The Company’s Board of Managing Directors is responsible for the proper preparation of the Report in accordance with the criteria stated in the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3.1 (pp. 7 to 17) of the Global Reporting IniAbout this report tiative (GRI): Assurance Report – Materiality, Global Reporting Initiative – Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Imprint – Sustainability Context, – Completeness, – Balance, – Clarity, – Accuracy, – Timeliness, – Comparability and – Reliability. This responsibility includes the selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare the Report and the use of assumptions and estimates for individual sustainability disclosures which are reasonable in the circumstances. Furthermore, the responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintaining systems and processes relevant for the preparation of the Report. 1 Our engagement applied to the German version of the Report. This text is a translation of the Independent Assurance Report issued in German language – the German text is authoritative PAGE 1 OF 3 Previous Contents Home chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Independent Assurance Report 219 PRACTITIONER’S RESPONSIBILITY Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on our work performed as to whether anything has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the information in the Report of the Company for the business year 2013 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the above mentioned criteria of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3.1 (pp. 7 to 17) of the GRI. We also have been engaged to make recommendations for the further development of sustainability management and sustainability reporting based on the results of our assurance engagement. We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. This Standard requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the assurance engagement, under consideration of materiality, to provide our conclusion with limited assurance. APPENDIX In a limited assurance engagement the evidencegathering procedures are more limited than for a reasonable assurAbout this report ance engagement (for example, an audit of financial statements in accordance with § (Article) 317 HGB (“Handelsgesetzbuch”: “German Commercial Code”)), and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance Assurance Report engagement. The procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s judgement. Global Reporting Initiative Within the scope of our work we performed amongst others the following procedures: Imprint – Inquiries of personnel responsible for the preparation of the Report regarding the process to prepare the reporting of sustainability information and the underlying internal control system; – Inspection of documents regarding the sustainability strategy as well as understanding the sustainability management structure, the stakeholder dialogue and the development process of the Company’s sustainability program; – Inquiries of personnel in the corporate functions that are responsible for the individual chapters of the Report; – Recording of procedures and inspection of the documentation of the systems and processes for collection, analysis, validation and aggregation of sustainability data as well as its testing on a sample basis; – Performance of site visits as part of the inspection of processes for collecting, analyzing and aggregating selected data: – in the corporate headquarter in Munich, – in the production plant in Dingolfing (Germany), – in the production plant in Leipzig (Germany), – in the production plant in Tiexi (China), – in the production plant in Dadong (China); PAGE 2 OF 3 Previous Contents Home chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Independent Assurance Report 220 – Analytical procedures on data in the Report; – Comparison of selected data with corresponding data in the Company’s Annual Report 2013; – Gaining further evidence for selected data in the Report by inspection of internal documents, contracts and invoices/reports from external service providers. CONCLUSION Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the information in the Report of the Company for the business year 2013 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the above mentioned criteria of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3.1 (pp. 7 to 17) of the GRI. APPENDIX EMPHASIS OF MATTER – RECOMMENDATIONS About this report Without qualifying our conclusion above, we make the following recommendations for the further development of the Company’s sustainability management and sustainability reporting: Assurance Report Global Reporting Initiative – Further formalization of the internal control system for sustainability information especially regarding earlier reporting; Imprint – Further harmonization of worldwide reporting systems to facilitate sustainability information collection, – Stronger focus of the Report content based on the results of the materiality analysis, especially with regard to the new G4 Guidelines of the GRI. Munich, May 13, 2014 PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Hendrik Fink ppa. Christian Fischl Wirtschaftsprüfer (German Public Auditor) PAGE 3 OF 3 Previous Contents Home chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Independent Assurance Report 221 Global Reporting Initiative APPENDIX About this report Assurance Report Global Reporting Initiative Imprint Previous Contents Home chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Global Reporting Initiative 222 GRI Index The following GRI Index is an abbreviated version. Please go to bmwgroup.com/svr to access the complete GRI Index including comments in the version that was referred to by GRI for auditing purposes. UNGC Profile Reported Reference Principles 1. Strategy and Analysis 1–10 1.1 Statement from the Board of Management -5, 6 1.2 Impacts of operational activity, key risks and opportunities -12, 26–31, 39–41, 72–75, 97–100, 110–113, 142–144 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organisation -1 2.2 Primary brands, products and services -7, AR 3 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation -AR 198–199 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters -225 2.5 Countries where the organisation operates -7, AR 198–199 2.6 Ownership structure and legal form -7, AR 18, 82–84 2.7 Markets served -7, AR 198–199 2.8 Company profile/Scale of the organisation -7, 162–163, AR 4 2.9 Significant changes regarding size, structure or ownership -C 2.10 Awards -19, 49, 53, 67, 115, 148 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period -217 3.2 Date of most recent previous report -217 3.3 Reporting cycle -217, C 3.4 Contact persons for questions regarding the report -229 3.5 Process for defining report content -14, 20–25, 161, 217 3.6 Boundary of the report -163, 217 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the report -14, 217–218, C 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures -AR 198–199 3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases of calculations -C 3.10 Restatements of information -C 3.11 Changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary or measurement methods -161, 217 3.12 GRI Content Index -223–227 3.13 External assurance for the report -219–221 This indicator is reported in full. This indicator is partially reported. / This indicator is not reported. C = Comments on this indicator; these may be found in the GRI Index online at www.bmwgroup.com/svr AR = AR stands for the BMW Group Annual Report 2013 (pdf version), available online at: annual-report2013.bmwgroup.com 223 All core indicators are printed in bold. UNGC Profile Reported Reference Principles 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 1–10 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation -AR 168–177, 32–35, 132, 186, 166–195 4.2 Independence of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board -AR 168–171 4.3 Number of independent members in the highest governance body -AR 168–171 4.4 Co-determination right of employees and shareholders -117–119, 34, AR 166, 86 4.5 Linkage between executive compensation and achievement of sustainability goals -13, 116–117, 194, AR 185–194 4.6 Process in place to avoid conflicts of interest -33, AR 166, 172–175, C 1–10 4.7 Qualifications and expertise of the highest governance body regarding economic, environmental and social topics -AR 155–157, 164–165 1–10 4.8 Values, mission statements, principles and codes of conduct of the organisation relevant to sustainability -12–17, 33, 98, 72, AR 179, C 4.9 Oversight of the sustainability performance and relevant risks by the Board of Management -16, 26–31 4.10 Assessment of the performance of the Board of Management regarding sustainability -13 7 4.11 Precautionary approach -15, 36–68, 69–93, 97 1–10 4.12 Support for external economic, environmental and social activities -18, 23, 99 4.13 Memberships in associations and advocacy organisations -23 1–10 4.14 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation -14, 20–25 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders -20–25 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement -20–25 1–10 4.17 Key stakeholder topics -14, 167, C UNGC Indicator Reported Reference Principles Economic 1, 6, 7 Management approach -11–12, 15–16, 26–35, 97–100, 162–167, 202–204, C EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed -162–163, 200–201, AR 57 7 EC2 Financial implications due to climate change -27, 42–48, C 1, 6 EC3 Organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations -163, AR 72 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government -164, AR 99 1 EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level compared to local minimum wage -113–116, 214, C EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of locally based suppliers -97–98, 183 6 EC7 Procedures for local hiring and local senior management -134, 185, 187, 189, C EC8 Development/impact of infrastructure investments and services -141–159 EC9 Indirect economic impacts -165, 183, 184 Environmental Protection 7, 8, 9 Management approach -15–16, 26–35, 38–64, 71–92, 81–85, 168–182, 205–210 8, 9 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume -171–172 8, 9 EN2 Percentage of used materials that are recycled materials -171, C This indicator is reported in full. This indicator is partially reported. / This indicator is not reported. C = Comments on this indicator; these may be found in the GRI Index online at www.bmwgroup.com/svr AR = AR stands for the BMW Group Annual Report 2013 (pdf version), available online at: annual-report2013.bmwgroup.com 224 All core indicators are printed in bold. UNGC Indicator Reported Reference Principles 8 EN3 Direct energy consumption -172, 174, 175 8 EN4 Indirect energy consumption -174, C 7, 9 EN5 Energy savings -73, 76–80, 174–175, C 8, 9 EN6 Energy-efficient products and services -42–49, 73 8, 9 EN7 Reduction of indirect energy consumption -76–80, 85, 174, 180 8 EN8 Total water withdrawal -175 8 EN9 Water sources affected by withdrawal of water -C 8, 9 EN10 Percentage of water recycled and reused -90–91, C 8 EN11 Production plants in protected areas -92–93, 180 8 EN12 Significant impacts upon biodiversity in protected areas -92–93 8 EN13 Habitats protected and restored -92–93 8 EN14 Strategies for managing impacts on biodiversity -92–93 8 EN15 Endangered species in areas affected by operations of the organisation / C 8, 9 EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions -172, 176–178, C 8 EN17 Other relevant greenhouse gas emissions -176, 180 7, 8, 9 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved -42–48, 76–80, 176, C 8 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances -C 8 EN20 NOX, SOX and other significant emissions -172, 177 8 EN21 Total water discharge -172, 178, C 8 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method -172, 179, C 8 EN23 Significant spills -C 8 EN24 Cross-border transport or treatment of hazardous waste -179 8 EN25 Areas impacted by the organisation’s discharges of water and runoff -C 7, 8, 9 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate harmful environmental impacts of products -41–48, 55–56, 58–64, 205, 209, C 8, 9 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category -56, C 8 EN28 Significant fines and sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws -AR 76, C 8 EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products, goods, materials and members of the workforce -81–85, 176, 180, 182, 210 7–9 EN30 Environmental protection expenditures and investments -182 Employees 1, 3, 6 Management approach -15–16, 18, 35, 109–113, 117–118, 120–124, 126–135, 184–199, 212– 214, C LA1 Breakdown of workforce by employment type, contract and region and gender 184–185, 192, C 6 LA2 Number and rate of employee turnover 119, 191, C LA3 Benefits provided only to full-time employees -114–119 1, 6 LA15 Parental leave 181–138, 192, C 1, 3 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements -190 1, 3 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes -C This indicator is reported in full. This indicator is partially reported. / This indicator is not reported. C = Comments on this indicator; these may be found in the GRI Index online at www.bmwgroup.com/svr AR = AR stands for the BMW Group Annual Report 2013 (pdf version), available online at: annual-report2013.bmwgroup.com 225 All core indicators are printed in bold. UNGC Indicator Reported Reference Principles 1 LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in occupational health and safety committees -120, C 1 LA7 Injuries, occupational diseases, working days lost, absentee rate and work-related fatalities 197–119, C 1 LA8 Preventive healthcare, counselling and training regarding serious diseases -122–124, 196–197 1 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in agreements with trade unions -120–121, C LA10 Education and further training measures 193–194, C LA11 Skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees -125–129, 212 LA12 Employee performance and career development reviews -C 1, 6 LA13 Diversity in senior management and employee structure -185–187, 189 1, 6 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of male and female employees -113–116, C Human Rights 1–6 Management approach -11, 16, 18–19, 26–31, 98, 101–103, 105, 112–113, 129, 131, 190, 203, C 1–6 HR1 Investment agreements that include human rights clauses -18, 98, C 1–6 HR2 Percentage of suppliers that have undergone screening on human rights -101–103 1–6 HR3 Employee training on human rights 18, 105–106, C 1, 2, 6 HR4 Incidents of discrimination and actions taken -18, 131, AR 76, C 1–5 HR5 Operations with significant risk concerning the freedom of association and collective bargaining 101–103, C 1–5 HR6 Operations with significant risk for incidents of child labour -101–103, AR 198–199, C 1–5 HR7 Operations with significant risk for incidents of forced and compulsory labour -101–103, AR 198–199, C 1, 2 HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained on aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations -18, C 1, 2 HR9 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people -C 1, 2 HR10 Impact assessments/reviews on human rights -18–19, C 1, 2 HR11 Grievances related to human rights -19 Society 10 Management approach -16–19, 23, 26–35, 102, 142–144, 200–201, 215, C SO1 Impacts of operations on local communities and regions -19–25, 27, 75, 142–159, 168, 196, C SO9 Operational activities with negative impact on local community -26–31, 39–41, 72–75, 97–100, 110–113, 142–144 SO10 Avoidance and mechanisms to reduce negative impact on local community -11, 20–25, 32–34, 38–41, 71–75, 96–100, 109–113, 141–144, C 10 SO2 Number of business units analysed for corruption-related risks -32–34, 102, AR 181–183, C 10 SO3 Employee training regarding anti-corruption 33, C 10 SO4 Anti-corruption measures 34, C 10 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying -23, C 10 SO6 Financial and in-kind contributions to political parties and politicians -143, 200, C SO7 Number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour -AR 181–182 SO8 Number of fines for non-compliance with laws -AR 181–182, C This indicator is reported in full. This indicator is partially reported. / This indicator is not reported. C = Comments on this indicator; these may be found in the GRI Index online at www.bmwgroup.com/svr AR = AR stands for the BMW Group Annual Report 2013 (pdf version), available online at: annual-report2013.bmwgroup.com 226 All core indicators are printed in bold. UNGC Indicator Reported Reference Principles Product Responsibility 1, 8 Management approach -16, 26–30, 32–35 38, 41–48, 50–54, 66, 168–171, 205–208, C 1, 8 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed -39–68 1 PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning health and of safety of products -52–56, C 8 PR3 Principles and measures related to product and service information and labelling -52, C 8 PR4 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product information and labelling -C PR5 Customer satisfaction -67 10 PR6 Programmes for compliance with laws, standards and voluntary codes related to marketing -66 communications PR7 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes related to marketing communications -66 1 PR8 Number of substantiated customer data protection complaints -29–30, 66–67, C PR9 Significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use AR 76, C of products Sector Supplement1 A1 Stipulated work hours per week and average hours worked overtime in production -192 A2 Percentage of employees not managed with overtime compensation schemes -C A3 Percentage of major first tier supplier facilities with independent trade union organisations -C A4 Numbers of vehicles sold, broken down by type, fuels, power train technologies and region -166 A5 Compliance of vehicles sold with the respective existing and next defined emissions standards -42–48 A6 Average fuel economy by type of vehicle -170 A7 Average carbon dioxide emissions by type of vehicle -168 A8 Compliance of vehicles sold with the respective existing and next defined noise standard -170, C A9 EN29 – relevant indicator for automotive sector -180 A10 Weight of vehicle and percentage breakdown of generic, recyclate and renewable material of a best-selling vehicle -171 1 GRI Sector Supplement Automotive Sector, Pilot Version 1.0, 2004 This indicator is reported in full. This indicator is partially reported. / This indicator is not reported. C = Comments on this indicator; these may be found in the GRI Index online at www.bmwgroup.com/svr AR = AR stands for the BMW Group Annual Report 2013 (pdf version), available online at: annual-report2013.bmwgroup.com 227 All core indicators are printed in bold. Consumption data Model Urban (l/100 km) Extra-urban (l/100 km) Combined (l/100 km) CO2 emissions (g/km) combined BMW BMW ActiveE 0 0 0 0 BMW 118d 5.1 – 5.4 [5.1 – 5.3] 3.6 – 3.8 [3.7 – 3.9] 4.1 – 4.4 [4.2 – 4.4] 109 – 115 [110 – 116] BMW 520i Sedan 8.4 – 9.0 [8.1 – 8.6] 5.2 – 5.5 [4.7 – 5.1] 6.4 – 6.8 [6.0 – 6.4] 149 – 159 [139 – 149] BMW ActiveHybrid 3 – [5.5] – [6.2] – [5.9] – [139] BMW ActiveHybrid 5 – [6.1 – 6.7] – [6.6 – 7.2] – [6.4 – 7.0] – [149 – 163] BMW ActiveHybrid 7 – [6.0] – [7.2] – [6.8] – [158] BMW X1 sDrive20d EfficientDynamics Edition 5.2 4.1 4.5 119 BMW 730d BluePerformance – [6.8] – [4.9] – [5.6] – [148] BMW X1 xDrive18d 6.5 [6.1] 4.8 [5.1] 5.5 [5.4] 144 [143] BMW 116d EfficientDynamics Edition 4.4 3.4 3.8 99 BMW 320d Touring 5.9 – 6.0 [5.7] 4.0 [4.1] 4.7 – 4.8 [4.7] 124 – 125 [123 – 124] BMW 520d Sedan 5.4 – 5.8 [5.2 – 5.7] 4.0 – 4.4 [4.1 – 4.5] 4.5 – 4.9 [4.5 – 4.9] 119 – 129 [119 – 129] BMW X3 xDrive20d 5.9 – 6.3 [5.4 – 5.8] 4.7 – 5.1 [4.8 – 5.1] 5.2 – 5.6 [5.0 – 5.4] 136 – 146 [131 – 141] BMW C Evolution 0 0 0 0 BMW i3 0 0 0 0 BMW i3 (with range extender) – – 0.6 13 BMW i8 – – 2.1 49 MINI MINI E 0 0 0 0 MINI Cooper S 7.6 – 7.7 [6.8 – 6.9] 4.6 – 4.8 [4.4 – 4.5] 5.7 – 5.8 [5.2 – 5.4] 133 – 136 [122 – 125] MINI One D 3.9 – 4.0 3.1 – 3.2 3.4 – 3.5 89 – 92 MINI Cooper D 4.3 – 4.4 [4.2 – 4.3] 3.1 – 3.2 [3.5] 3.5 – 3.6 [3.7 – 3.8] 92 – 95 [98 – 99] Specifications apply to ACEA markets; Figures in brackets apply to automatic transmission. Fuel consumption and CO2 emissions are dependent on wheel and tyre size. Further, regularly updated information on vehicles can be found on the www.bmw.com, www.mini.com and www.rolls-roycemotorcars.com websites. Fuel consumption is determined in accordance with the ECE driving cycle. Valid for vehicles with a European country specification. All engines comply with at least Euro-5 emissions standards. Further information on the official fuel consumption, specific official CO2 emissions and power consumption of new passenger vehicles can be found in the “Guideline for ­fuel consumption, CO2 emissions and electric power consumption of new passenger vehicles” available from all sales outlets, the Deutsche Automobil Treuhand GmbH (DAT), H ­ ellmuth-Hirth-Str. 1, 73760 Ostfildern-Scharnhausen, Germany and at http: // www.dat.de / angebote / verlagsprodukte / leitfaden-kraftstoffverbrauch.html. 228 Imprint APPENDIX YOUR BMW GROUP CONTACTS: About this report Nikolai Glies THE BMW GROUP ON THE INTERNET Assurance Report Head of Business, Finance and www.bmwgroup.com Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Communications Telephone + 49 89 382-2 45 44 Imprint Fax + 49 89 382-2 44 18 THE BMW GROUP BRANDS ON THE INTERNET E-mail Nikolai.Glies@bmwgroup.com www.bmw.com www.mini.com www.rolls-roycemotorcars.com Kai Zöbelein Sustainability Communications Telephone + 49 89 382-2 11 70 FURTHER INFORMATION AND PUBLICATIONS ARE Fax + 49 89 382-1 08 81 ­AVAILABLE AT: E-mail Kai.Zoebelein@bmw.de www.bmwgroup.com/responsibility Milena Pighi SOCIAL MEDIA: Corporate Citizenship Communications Facebook: www.facebook.com/BMWGroup Telephone + 49 89 382-6 65 63 Twitter: twitter.com/BMWGroup Fax + 49 89 382-1 08 81 YouTube: www.youtube.com/BMWGroupview E-mail Milena.PA.Pighi@bmw.de Google+: www.google.com/+BMWGroup Previous Contents Home chapter page SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2013 ­— Imprint 229 TO BE CONTINUED … Published by Bayerische Motoren Werke Aktiengesellschaft 80788 Munich Tel. +49 89 382-0
