Eijgenhuijsen Precisievervoer This annual COP, covering the period from 1-8-2013 until 31-7-2014, qualifies for the Global Compact Active level. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 / 2014 Table of contents 1. General 3 1.1. Period covered 3 1.2. Scope 3 2. Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) 3 3. Company profile 4 4. Evaluation 2013 / 2014 4 5. Human rights principles 5 5.1. Assessment, policy and goals 5 5.2. Implementation 5 5.3. Measurement of outcomes 5 5.4. Goals 2014 / 2015 5 6. Labour principles 6 6.1. Assessment, policy and goals 6 6.2. Implementation 6 6.3. Measurement of outcomes 6 7. Environmental principles 7 7.1. Assessment, policy and goals 7 7.2. Implementation 7 7.3. Measurement of outcomes 8 7.4. Goals 2014 / 2015 8 8. Anti corruption principles 9 8.1. Assessment, policy and goals 9 8.2. Implementation 9 8.3. Measurement of outcomes 9 2 1. GENERAL 1.1. PERIOD COVERED Period covered by our Communication on Progress (COP) From: July 2013 To: July 2014 1.2. SCOPE This Communication on Progress is applicable to all sites from Eijgenhuijsen Precisievervoer in the Netherlands, namely Ruurlo, Den-Bosch and Drachten. 2. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (CEO) To our stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that Eijgenhuijsen Precisievervoer B.V. keeps supporting the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations. We will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public, using our primary channels of communication. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within one year of joining the Global Compact, and annually thereafter according to the Global Compact COP policy. Sincerely yours, Willem Eijgenhuijsen CEO 3 3. COMPANY PROFILE We have developed value added services for the day-to-day benefit of our customers and for the world around us. We provide a wide range of services as warehousing, site-surveys, pre-configuration and mechanical installation, high-tech transport and of course, reverse logistics. We have customers in many different branches as Fitness and Health, Kitchen equipment, Graphic industry, ICT, medical and office. We are based in the Netherlands. Our head office is in Ruurlo and we do have two other sites in Den-Bosch and Drachten. We participate in the network from Teneso Europe SE. Teneso is a reputable international network for companies who provide solutions for logistic and technical value added services in Europe. For over 100 years, we have placed the emphasis on customer satisfaction, efficiency and social responsibility in the realisation that what we do today also has significance tomorrow. For people, planet and profit. 4. EVALUATION 2013 / 2014 In the paragraphs below we will describe and evaluate the actions we have taken. This evaluation will be done per UN Global Compact principle in the chapters: Human rights principles Labour principles Environmental principles Anti corruption principles In the last chapter the goals for the coming year 2014 / 2015 will be mentioned. 4 5. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 5.1. ASSESSMENT, POLICY A ND GOALS We provide a safe and pleasant working environment for all our employees and where applicable subcontractors. We want our employees to respect and act to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Therefore we have translated the human rights principles into our general policy. We also want our partners to respect and act to the Universal Declarations of Human rights. Therefore the principles are a part of our purchasing policy. We have developed a specific policy (per September 2013) on the theme Corporate Social Responsibility. A part of this policy is Human Rights. 5.2. IMPLEMENTATION We are acting to a Collective Labour Agreement. Therefore a lot of rights regarding to employees are already covered by this agreement. Furthermore we pay attention to issues related to Human Rights in the interviews with our employees. Suppliers are selected and reviewed based on the criteria in the purchasing policy, of which the human rights principles are a part. 5.3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Eijgenhuijsen has a complaint management system implemented. Employees are trained and informed to recognize complaints and comments, including complaints / remarks regarding to human rights principles. Registered complaints are solved and evaluated during internal meetings. No complaints related to human rights have been reported. Also in May 2014 a survey about employee satisfaction has been conducted. Part of this survey were themes as: General satisfaction Working hours Difficulty of the work Career opportunities Rewards and salaries No dissatisfaction has been reported on themes related to the human rights. Suppliers are reviewed on annual basis. When violations are known, actions to the suppliers will be taken. No Human rights Violations have been reported. In 2014 important suppliers have received questionnaires about themes as Quality, Corporate Social Responsibility and Environment. 46% of the questionnaires have been returned so far. All of these suppliers confirmed to act in line with our policy. 5.4. GOALS 2014 / 2015 Regarding to the suppliers we will head on sending out questionnaires to achieve a response rate of at least 75% by the end of July 2015. 5 6. LABOUR PRINCIPLES Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principe 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 6.1. ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS We have conducted a Risk Assessment which will be updated yearly. This Risk Assessment covers issues as working environment and health and safety. This risk assessment is evaluated and based on this evaluation a plan of approach is established. Our main goal is elimination of dangerous situations and providing employees a pleasant, safe and healthy work environment. We also want our partners to respect and act to the Labour Principles. We have developed an ARBO-policy (Dutch OHS) in September 2013. This policy covers subjects as for example: Health and safety Training Emergency Working hours This policy is available for every employee. 6.2. IMPLEMENTATION Eijgenhuijsen is working according to the Dutch law and thereby the Collective Labour Agreement. This ensures similar wages for comparable work within the industry. The management from Eijgenhuijsen has periodically meetings with the department managers and employees to talk about various topics, including the labour principles. Eijgenhuijsen has employed a Health and Safety officer (combined job). Suppliers are selected based on the criteria in the purchasing policy, of which the labour principles are a part. 6.3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES The risk assessment is an important tool for Eijgenhuijsen to monitor and evaluate the performance on working environment, Health and Safety. While Eijgenhuijsen has a relatively small company structure, employees have the opportunity to meet and report to the management directly. However no Labour Violations have occurred in the past, there are a fiduciary and health and safety service available, to make it easier for employees to report issues and get help when needed. Whenever there are any incidents of violations of Labour principles the HR department will record this and will report this to the management. Suppliers are reviewed on annual basis. When violations are known, actions to the suppliers will be taken. 6 7. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Technologies 7.1. ASSESSMENT, POLICY A ND GOALS We are aware our operations have an impact on the environment. We are involving our employees as much as possible in environmental issues and are making them aware of the impact of the operations on the environment. We have developed an environmental policy. This policy is available for all employees and will be made available on the website. Since July 2014 we are ISO 14.001 certified. 7.2. IMPLEMENTATION We do have an environmental management system in place. As part of this management system our environmental aspects are mapped. Based on this list of identified aspects goals have been set and actions have been taken. We are leasing our fleet for a maximum of five years. Therefore the engines are from the latest generation (Euro5 and higher). Thereby the emission is secured. On a major part of the fleet ECO software modification is installed which results in further reduction of emissions. Our drivers regularly attend training. One of the trainings followed by all our drivers is BBS (behaviour based safety). This training encourages to drive more efficient. This fits perfectly with our goal to reduce CO2 emissions. The training organized this year was in a truck simulation centre. By training in a simulator instead of a real truck, no unnecessary kilometres had to be driven. Our drivers are trained to install machines on site. As a result the machines can be used by the customer directly. Therefore we can take back the return in the same movement as the delivery. Good for the customer, good for the environment. TENESO Europe SE is a European network for companies operating in specialized transportation and distribution, such as deliveries, installation and storage of sensitive and valuable materials that require special attention. Eijgenhuijsen is the Dutch partner from TENESO. By working together with partners in Europe, the number of kilometres to be driven can be minimized. This reduces CO2 emissions. The planning is using transport management software to plan the routes as efficient as possible. The software is improved regularly to make optimal routes and reducing the impact on the environment. The planning depends on the orders from the customers. Eijgenhuijsen is making customers aware as much as possible on the extra environmental impact from timeframes and is trying to reduce the number of timeframes. Since 2013 we are working on paperless processes. Paperless working can be achieved by the use of tablets. The drivers can find all information needed and the customer receives, after digitally signing directly the paperwork by e-mail. In this case no paper is being used. We recycle as many materials as possible. An example is the use of our specially developed transport pallet. The reusable pallet will prevent damage while no additional packaging is required. The pallet includes a leveller. Because of this employees don’t have to lift and no additional forklift is needed. Durable for the employees and for the environment. After use, the pallet is stackable, so it takes minimum space in the truck. 7 After delivery we take all our waste from the site of the customer back to our facility. We ensure that it is collected separately. We have our own waste facility that is being emptied periodically by an authorized collection company. 7.3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Environmental performances are discussed during internal meetings and during the annual management review. In the reporting period from this COP no environmental incidents occurred. 7.4. GOALS 2014 / 2015 For 2014 / 2015 we are focussing on: Decrease of CO2 emission Measuring energy consumption more detailed Decrease of use of paper (10%) Performing audits at the suppliers with the most environmental impact 8 8. ANTI CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 8.1. ASSESSMENT, POLICY A ND GOALS We stand for fair business and for this reason any kind of corruption is avoided. We are committed to comply to all relevant (anti-corruption) laws. 8.2. IMPLEMENTATION The employees are instructed to handle according anti-corruption laws. Due to cross linkages in our financial system financial corruption can easily be identified. Twice a year Eijgenhuijsen is subjected to statutory external audits. Both of these methods are used to identify suspicious corrupt behaviour. 8.3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES We have never been involved in any legal cases related to corruption and bribery. We are since 2010 “supplier, by appointment to the court of the Netherlands. (bij koninklijke beschikking hofleverancier). 9
