CSR REPORT Imprint CONTENT / Please mail feedback to / Camilla Simonsen /cas@siteimprove.com/ Written by / Maria Løkkegaard Alempiew Jessica O’Sullivan Camilla Simonsen Mike A. Nygaard Amy Millard Kitty Ng Design and layout by / Norbert Dobrotka /6 4-5 PAGE 6-15 PAGE 16-29 PAGE LETTER FROM HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR THE CEO RIGHTS 30-37 PAGE 38-39 PAGE 40-44 PAGE ENVIRONMENT ANTICHARITY AND CORRUPTION PRIZES 45-49 PAGE GOALS RECAP report also includes the ideas sound working environment. and goals we have for 2014/15. These people are the force of the 1/6 Our main focus this year has company, and we believe that once again been accessibility, providing a stable and positive as we are still firm believers that working environment will ensure everyone has the right to access a better quality of work as well the web. We believe this is a basic as a strong determination. human right and hence a focus area where Siteimprove has the In an attempt to secure a positive ability to make a difference. working environment, Siteimprove has taken the initiative of creating LETTER FROM Knowing that 20 percent of the our own soccer team. Furthermore, THE CEO population has a disability, we we held a pedometer challenge have fulfilled our goal from last along with multiple social events year to hire a second accessithat strengthen the bond between bility expert, Kevin Rydberg, in our employees. This ensures that our US office. Kevin has more the heart of Siteimprove keeps than 20 years of experience in beating healthily. the accessibility field, so we plan on utilising his experience going In the effort to minimise our carbon forward. We have worked hard footprint, we have encouraged the last year to develop new initieach other to ride bikes to work, Welcome to Siteimprove’s fourth atives toward a more accessible take public transportation or report to the UN’s Global Compact, web for our clients, through online even carpool. We have planted an important initiative that we webinars and a new PDF checker. trees in Malawi through the UK joined in 2010. Global Compact Furthermore, we now provide ‘Fruitful Office’ program, and we is a program that has received online accessibility certification are recycling paper, cardboard, worldwide recognition, which is courses to our customers, so the plastic and cans with considwhy its 10 Principles function as first private company to do in the eration to the environment. We the framework of our Corporate US. We have now expanded the have also begun sponsoring the Social Responsibility (CSR) work courses to cover the UK, Germany, Hammerhead shark in an effor our primary markets in the Sweden and Denmark as well. fort to protect this endangered UK, US, Sweden, Germany and species. These are merely some Denmark. A sound working of our steps towards lowering environment Co2 emissions and contributing We are very proud to show the While our focus lies within actowards a cleaner environment progress we have made in regards cessibility, we are dedicated to this year. to CSR, and to demonstrate which providing our employees with a goals we have achieved. This psychologically and physically 4 52 Charity and fundraising Developing CSR initiatives is a rately responsible. We still hope As a new angle within our CSR, we continuous journey for Siteimprove, that other IT-companies will be have chosen to extend our focus and we know that our job is not encouraged to share our vision on charity and fundraising. We done yet. We want to increase of contributing to a sustainable received a prize for our last CSR our ambitions and spread our information society for all. report, which made us even more initiatives to all of our offices. enthusiastic about developing We want to work with CSR in MORTEN EBBESEN our efforts in regards to being new ways, and ensure that our CEO Siteimprove a socially responsible company. indirect influence through our We have collaborated with the supply chain is socially respon‘Family-to-Family’ NGO, we have sible. With this CSR report, we put on our running shoes for the want to share our journey with Syrian Refugees, and we have you and demonstrate that even a hosted a cake sale fundraising Software as a Service company for ‘Children In Need’. can be both socially and corpo5 52 2/6 HUMAN RIGHTS Accessing the web has gone continue to work for and support from being a superfluous utility the rights of those affected by to becoming a necessity in the websites with poor accessibility. increased digitisation of our As such, we have come up with society. To us at Siteimprove, various initiatives to improve digital this means that web access has accessibility. You can read more become a basic human right. about this below, as well as our plans for the coming year. Having a disability should not exclude anyone from accessing the internet. Since one fifth of the Global Compact population is estimated to have a principles 1-2 disability, it is our firm belief that it 1. The company should supwill prove essential for businesses port and respect the protection and organisations private as of internationally declared human well as public to increase the rights, and accessibility of their websites. 2. Ensure that the company does not contribute to the violation As online self-service solutions of human rights increase, we at Siteimprove 6 52 Turn > WHY make it more DIFFICULT? Experts on Accessibility Since the accessibility issues that survey asking them about their At Siteimprove, we have provided companies experience on their accessibility efforts and how our tools to help identify website acwebsites have only grown over tool has helped them. The results cessibility issues since 2007. This time, our US office also hired an of the survey were overwhelminghas been a great asset for our Accessibility consultant last year, ly positive as many Siteimprove customers, but we have learned Kevin Rydberg. With experts like customers find our tool helpful in that many find it difficult to solve these, we are even more capable making their websites accessible. accessibility problems. Due to this, of assisting our customers to This confirms our belief that digin 2011, Siteimprove DK hired Senior help them make their websites ital accessibility is an important eAccessibility Specialist, Helene accessible to everyone. focus area. In the survey, our Nørgaard Bech, to educate and To further understand the needs customers commented: provide support to our customers. of our clients, we rolled out a “IT'S HARD TO MAKE SURE EVERYTHING IS CORRECT IF IT IS NOT YOUR AREA OF EXPERTISE!” /UK CLIENT/ “We don’t have an accessibility specialist. One on the web team looks through the Siteimprove accessibility reports monthly to identify areas we need to improve.” /UK CLIENT/ 10 52 “SITEIMPROVE HELPS US TO CREATE A BETTER WEB FOR ALL.” /SE CLIENT/ These quotes clearly state that website accessibility problems accessibility is far from an easy such as websites that require the fix. Accessibility takes time which user to activate various features is why we believe that our servicby using the mouse, or important es make a significant difference information that is embedded in in helping companies provide graphics on a site making it imposaccessible websites. sible for a screen reader to identify. Web Accessibility is Jacob says that he is happy to help an Eye-Opening anybody who works to increase Experience focus on digital accessibility. ThereWe work actively to put digital fore, he often takes active part in accessibility issues on the public Siteimprove customer events, as and private agenda, informing well as participating in our other people about challenges that various projects such as our 2012 disabled users experience when accessibility documentary that navigating the web and utilising we produced together with the self-service solutions. As true Danish Institute for Human Rights. believers of the fact that firsthand experiences are one of the best methods for teaching, we have begun collaborating with a Danish consultant, Jacob Nielsen, who has been blind almost his whole life. Jacob uses the web every day and is often challenged by websites with poor accessibility. During his talks he often points out common 11 52 41/ 24/ WHITEPAPERS WEBINARS BLOG POSTS 10/ Helping people see clearly In Februar y 2014, we identimakes it easier for businesses fied a pilot group of customers and organisations to ensure that from Denmark, Germany and all web content, including the Great Britain in order to test the often forgotten PDFs, are meeting American initiative within the accessibility standards. European market. The feedback was overwhelmingly positive and Accessibility Workshop in we are contemplating rolling out London the program in 2014 for all EuroIn an effort to contribute to pean customers as well. educating the UK on digital accessibility, Siteimprove UK held Siteimprove’s PDF a website workshop in October Checker 2013, which was attended by Siteimprove’s online As part of our continued focus on over 80 customers over two days. Accessibility Certification accessibility and making the web The overall topic was website Program more accessible for everyone, we accessibility, and as such one In 2013, we introduced a free are constantly looking for new of Siteimprove’s senior e-Acof charge accessibility certificaways to improve our accessibility cessibility specialists was there tion program for Siteimprove’s product offering. One major area teaching the latest methods US customers. The certification in which we have made substantial in ensuring accessible websites. is designed for customers who improvements this year is within want to enhance their web skills, the field of checking Portable Siteimprove Collaborates best practices and develop their Document Formats (PDFs) for with Swedish ETU Siteimprove-specific product possible accessibility issues. In early 2014, Siteimprove SE entered training and knowledge on into collaboration with the Swedish accessibility. It is a common misunderstandAccessibility consultancy firm ing that PDFs are inaccessible ETU that provides companies with The two courses, technical and but in fact, a PDF is a document an overview of accessibility issues non-technical, are offered online for mat that can be greatly on their websites. They help provide and available for the participant accessible to many users. Here a tailored solution to the individual any time anywhere. Each course at Siteimprove we know that accompany, using the Siteimprove consists of a series of videos and cessibility can seem overwhelmAccessibility tool along with their corresponding quizzes. The cusing, and so, one major product personal assistance. tomer has to pass all quizzes with enhancement we focused on and at least an 80 percent final score released in early 2014 was the to be awarded a certificate that ability to check PDFs on websites they can display (and show off) for accessibility. in their office. In April 2014, 248 With an easy and simple layout, customers had passed the test. the new product enhancement 13 52 Global Accessibility Awareness Day (GAAD) In May 2013, Siteimprove kindly asked our customers to perform a series of website accessibility tasks. For each customer who participated, we donated money to various charities for blind people. After the event, one of the customers told us that: “It was frustrating! I definitely have new appreciation for accessibility and why it is so important. Two very popular news sites were selected for the test. One of the sites is known for being accessible and it was a breeze to navigate through. There were a few instances where I couldn’t navigate as smoothly as I wished, but I was very impressed by the ”skip to content” feature. The second site, which I assumed would be accessible, was very difficult to navigate and I quickly found myself in a never-ending keyboard loop. This GAAD experience will certainly kickstart our team’s work towards making our website more accessible.” MARIAN DOUCETTE Web Architect County of Huron Canada In Denmark, we chose to donate the money to ‘Dansk Blindesamfunds Ungdom’ (Danish Blind Youth Society) for the children’s canoe trip in Sweden. Afterwards, they told us that: “The trip was a great success! The weather was wonderful and luckily, no one fell overboard! In the evening, we joined a big barbecue dinner with live music on the camping site, which wouldn’t have been possible for us without your donation. We returned home the next day, tired but happy!” MARK SONNE Dansk Blindesamfunds Ungdom 14 52 Dansk Blindesamfunds Ungdom canoeing in Sweden Accessibility Advisory Board In November 2011, Siteimprove assembled an Accessibility Advisory Board consisting of various stakeholders, many of which work for large Danish public organisations. Since the assembly of the board, it has provided us with a forum in which to receive feedback on how we can improve our services. We convene throughout the year to remain up to date and have invited the board to act as BETA testers on several occasions in connection with planning and developing new features in our Accessibility tool. 15 52 PEOPLE COME FIRST We Believe IN our EMPLOYEES WOMEN MEN 38/107 69/107 New hires since May 2013 50 Average age 32Y9M16D Average time of employment 2Y2M25D Management division W54% M46% CUSTOMERS USERS 1,904 35,522 We are Close TO YOU UNITED States Minneapolis Employees / 48 Customers / 1,091 Users / 19,431 DENMARK Copenhagen Employees / 39 Customers / 225 Users / 7,405 UNITED KINGDOM London Employees / 11 Customers / 432 Users / 6,913 Sweden Malmö Employees / 4 Customers / 99 Users / 1,406 GERMANy Berlin Employees / 5 Customers / 57 Users / 367 our successes (both small and big) work began in 2014. It is estimated with each other. that by the end of 2014, employees 3/6 In the past year we once again broke will be able to enjoy a ‘Bavarian’ all records in terms of growth and beer-style garden where fresh air new hires. We went from 76 to 107 is in abundance and employees employees across our offices in Loncan socialise. don, Minneapolis and Copenhagen. Our success adds a lot of energy and positivity to the organisation, but it also brings a fast pace and continuous changes, which may LABOUR affect the work environment in RIGHTS both positive and negative ways. In order to keep track of the general employee satisfaction we rolled out an annual workplace assessGlobal Compact ment (AWA) for the fourth time in principles 3-6 February 2014. 3. The company should support The results of the AWA build the the right to unionize and effectively foundation for the evaluation of goals recognise the right of collective for the next year, and also help us bargaining pinpoint which areas to focus on in 4. Support the eradication of 2014 in order to make Siteimprove all forms of forced labour an even better workplace. 5. Support the effective eradication of all forms of child labour Physical work 6. Eradicate discrimination in environment respect to employment and occuThe physical work environment is pation the base of our company and our employees deserve only the best. Siteimprove’s success relies 100 Every year, we look to improve the percent on every single employee working environment and in 2013, and therefore it is fundamental to the US office took the biggest step our success that everybody is in by moving the entire office. This the game with all they have got. has resulted in much more suitable We believe that happy people work conditions for all employees. better, and we enjoy finding new ways and reasons to improve the In 2013, we set a goal to have a patio working environment and celebrate in our Copenhagen office and this 22 52 Nominated for best place facility in Copenhagen. This is a to work in Minneapolis fun way to exercise and unwind in We are very proud to announce the company of great colleagues. that for the third year in a row, In the spring of 2014, Siteimprove Minnesota Business Magazine has US signed up a softball team named the US office as one of the with the local softball league in ‘100 Best Companies to Work For’. Bloomington, MN. We see this as a great way to support an active Pru Health: Prevention and social lifestyle for the paris the best cure! ticipating employees and have Whilst Siteimprove strives to help therefore decided to cover the and motivate employees to utilise league’s fees so the employees their potential in the workplace, can play free of charge. we also recognise the importance of a healthy work – life balance. Pedometer challenge – let’s get moving! Siteimprove provides private Siteimprove DK decided that it was healthcare to every employee in time to get up and get moving. In the UK. Our provider -Pru Healththat spirit, a four day pedometer not only caters for any employee's challenge was arranged. Every medical needs, but also embodies employee wore a pedometer, measthe idea that prevention is the best uring their every step, and with a cure, offering excellent benefits luxurious spa treatment prize so and rewards for daily activities close they could almost feel the with exercise. We have been massage, motivation was not an members of Pru Health for over issue. Other incentives included a year now, and the benefits have diplomas, inspiring posters around contributed to many employee's the office and goodie-bags for all sporting achievements. daily winners that contributed towards making the challenge a Health and Sports big success. This is a new tradition In the fall of 2013, a dozen Danish at Siteimprove, and one which Siteimprovers decided to get to we look forward to expanding in know each other on a whole new 2014 and 2015. level by creating a Siteimprove DK soccer team. The players meet up twice a month for a few hours of adrenalin pumping soccer playing in a central indoors 23 52 WINNER WALKED 47,552 Steps /out of 420,662 24 HOURS Average step length 45CM Participants 35 Total length 189.3Km • The employees felt less stressed values, business model, work in 2013 compared to 2012 ethics, requirements, company • HR-responsible employees apand history. This program allows Psychological work pointed in all offices us to bring on a large number of environment • Improvement in clear expectations new employees whilst embracing Siteimprove never sleeps and and goals the spirit of Siteimprove and better therefore the pace is high, which utilising the resources required for can lead to stress. A wide range training. The feedback from the of initiatives were implemented in Employee Satisfaction employees has been extremely 2013 and 2014 to help keep a good The AWA 2014 showed that the positive and as a result, we have work-life-balance, and the latest overall job satisfaction across started to have new employees AWA findings proved that we are all markets grew positively and from Siteimprove’s other offices moving in the right direction as that a stunning 96 percent of flown in to participate. employees indicated that they employees stated that they are feel less stressed compared to either satisfied or very satisfied. Between June 2013 and June 2014, last year. Management will keep the UK office ran over 16 training focusing on the subject, as will the Training and Competence sessions. We are lucky enough to employees who were appointed Development have a wealth of knowledge and HR-responsible. At Siteimprove, we care about experience across all three offices the personal development of our (UK, Denmark and USA), and we Another positive result of the employees, and we are passionchannel this through internal AWA in 2014 was that employees ate about investing in our work training to empower the rest of feel that management has gotten force. We believe that improving the Siteimprove community. better at communicating goals the teams’ personal skills will and expectations, and that the enable them to expand their job We are proud of the fact that all wellbeing of the employees has skill repertoires which both benEuropean sales staff members improved. Employees feel that they efits Siteimprove as well as their participated in a three day sales can come to management with future employability. There is also training program in London in their problems and concerns to the added benefit of stimulating January 2014 and that a total of a greater extend. We expect that the mind and improving morale 63 per cent of the Danish full time this improvement also reflects through learning new things and staff have received competence positively on the level of stress. taking on new challenges. development in the period May 2013 to May 2014. In 2014, we Finally, we are doing our best to With a growth rate close to 100 have external training plans for nurture a culture where all Sitepercent per year, the US office the Customer Experience team improvers not only watch out has decided to implement a two and office management and we for themselves, but also for their week on boarding program dewill expand the US on-boarding colleagues and that they raise a signed to give new employees program to the EU markets in red flag if the pace gets too high. a better understanding of our order to provide new hires with 25 52 better training and to meet the Social events in the US plans for EU market expansion. office: The AWA results reflect the • A summer party where the entire satisfaction of employees with office and their significant other regards to Siteimprove meeting went on a boat cruise around Lake their training needs. Minnetonka • A Halloween pumpkin carving Knowledge Sharing contest Knowledge sharing has not always • A winter holiday party in downbeen Siteimprove’s strongest suit, town Minneapolis with car service which has caused some frustration before and after the event in line among the employees. To bridge with Siteimprove’s strong stand this gap we introduced a ‘new on drinking and driving ideas’ forum in 2013 in our cus• A roller derby game tomer relationship management system that allows sales staff to After the boat cruise, Steve Hennigs, give their input and vote on their Senior Product Specialist, said: favourite ideas, thereby influenc“I am grateful that our leadership ing the development process to places a premium on the ‘work a higher degree. Additionally our hard, play hard’ culture. It was project manager and head of great seeing everyone and meeting development now present every some new people on this year’s sprint (development cycle) to all Social Activities cruise. Here’s to another year of employees in order for everybody At Siteimprove, we place a high success and next year we may to get a better understanding of value on employee satisfaction, need a bigger boat! ” the coming releases. and one way in which we assure this remains high is through the planning of numerous social activities. These activities are a great opportunity for employees and their families to spend time together. Throughout 2013 and 2014, we arranged a number of social events, which is a great way for management to show their appreciation, and for everyone to get to know each other outside the offices. We definitely work hard and play hard! 26 52 Social events in the Social events in the UK • A Halloween pumpkin carving Copenhagen office: office: contest • A circus themed party where • A summer party with bowling, • A Christmas party at the Artillery all employees learnt new circus cocktails and flamingos, 1950’s Gardens HAC in London skills such as juggling, tightrope style at the All Star Lanes in Hol• An ‘Into the wild’ costume day walking and acrobatics. born. Followed by dinner at the in favour of “Children in Need” • A gala held at the National South Kensington Gardens fundraising Day Aquarium Denmark to celebrate • Santa’s little helpers costume day Siteimprove’s 10-year anniverfor the “Save the Children” cause sary. With well over 100 people in attendance employees and their partners the event was the roaring success with guests enjoying personalised behind the scenes tours, as well as being treated to an exclusive threecourse meal whilst surrounded by floor to ceiling tanks. • A Halloween pumpkin carving contest • A festive Christmas party driving go-karts, followed by a restaurant dinner, cocktails and all night dancing • A Mexican Friday Bar 27 52 WHERE can we do BETTER Support & Acknowledgement The AWA 2013 indicated a decrease in support and acknowledgement from management. We have added a significant amount of new people to the Siteimprove family in the past year, and combined with the US office relocation there is no doubt that every single manager Profit Sharing on all markets has been extremeSince 2011, a yearly bonus based ly busy. However, this is not an on a percentage of Siteimprove’s excuse, and as mentioned earlier, annual profits has been divided Siteimprove relies 100 percent between all employees based on on every single employee, and length of service seniority. The therefore it is fundamental to our purpose of the Profit Sharing success that everybody is in the program is to recognise and award game with everything they have. the staff’s efforts and hard work. In 2014, management will focus The program will continue in 2014, on doing everything they can to allowing us to once again share help everyone be successful in the company’s success with all their role. of our employees. 29 52 MAKING THE WORLD a BETTER PLACE that we buy our electricity from wind turbines. Through this, we 4/6 furthermore contribute to the construction of the new wind turbines on Avedøre Holme. You can read more about our commitment to the environment and our green initiatives below. Siteimprove DK travels on ENVIRONMENT two wheels At Siteimprove Denmark, we are very committed to reducing our carbon footprint. As a result, and in a bid to aid the well-being of Global Compact principles our co-workers, everyone in the 7-9 Copenhagen office is encouraged 7. The company should support to ride their bike to work. a careful approach to environmental challenges With the infrastructure in Co8. Take initiatives to promote penhagen developed to make increased environmental responsiit easier to ride a bike, it is not bility only the healthy option but the 9. Encourage the development smart option, especially since it and dispersion of environmentally is often both faster by bike, and friendly technologies easier to find a parking spot. An internal poll actually showed that At Siteimprove, we are very 70 percent of our employees ride committed to minimising our their bike to the office, whilst 27 carbon footprint, which is why percent takes public transport we strive to live up to climate and the last 3 percent arrives to and environmental principles. the office by foot. Due to this commitment, we have since the beginning of 2011 While Siteimprove does not wish to been a member of a climate partdictate that all of our co-workers nership with Denmark’s largest should ride their bike to work, we energy producer; DONG Energy. do find it important to increase This climate partnership means awareness of a healthier lifestyle. 32 52 33 52 34 52 More people – More Space Preserving the Beautiful During 2013, Siteimprove US Nature of the World employee numbers grew from 18 Interior landscaping is great for to an impressive 31. This growth buildings and people. Although pushed the limits of our 5,500 the effects may be subtle, plants Carpooling ft. Minneapolis office to a point are fundamental in a tranquil and Since the office move in January where it was no longer possible stress relieving work environment. 2014, a few US Siteimprovers have to uphold the level of comfort ‘Enterprise Plants’ supplies the been carpooling to work for envifor our employees that we feel Siteimprove UK office with leafy ronmental, ethical and financial they deserve. As a result, we friends from near and far. reasons. Two colleagues make the started looking for a new space trip together four days a week, in October 2013. Through our work with Enterprise and sometimes more colleagues Plants, we are also contributing join in as well. The roundtrip is on After researching all the different to efforts and projects on a much average 30.5 miles/ 50 kilometers options the Twin Cities have to larger scale. Over the past year a day, amounting to 122 miles/200 offer, a 14,000 ft. office in the we have helped towards safekilometers a week. This great 8000 Tower in the Normandale guarding forests in Central and initiative saves both gas and the Lake Office Park in Bloomington South America, in turn protecting environment. was selected – almost tripling the some rare breeds of animals such square footage. The 8,000 Tower as Pygmy Elephants, Orangutans, Prestigious green award is a ‘Class A’ office building and Proboscis Monkeys, Silver-leaf for our Data Center offers a ton of amenities, including monkeys and macaques! Being a SaaS-company, Siteima free-to-use gym, covered parking, prove is very concerned with the daycare, an outdoor patio, and inevitable CO2-emissions caused several restaurants. by our many servers. The new building is a much more For more than ten years, our energy efficient building and offers data center Interxion has worked a more comfortable and tranquil actively with optimising energy indoor climate due to multi zone efficiency, reducing CO2-emisHVAC and high efficiency windows. sions and minimising their overall The noise levels are also handled environmental impact. more efficiently in the new space with a sound absorbing dropped Interxion have proven to be exceiling, a white noise system, and perts in their field, as they were 28 private offices. appointed Denmark’s greenest We started working out of the data center both in 2013 and 2013. new office on January 2, 2014. 35 52 We planted 24 Fruitful Office Fruit is available to employees in every Siteimprove office. In the UK, the fruit is delivered by fruit trees the company ‘Fruitful Office’ in that plants trees in Malawi. As a MALAWI result of our fruit consumption, Siteimprove UK planted 24 fruit /AFRICA trees in Malawi, Africa, during the period July 2013 to December 2013. The UK team is proud of this achievement, and it makes eating from the fruit basket even more enjoyable! Going Green! Literally! Siteimprove is passionate about preserving the environment and endeavour to do so at any given opportunity, whether it be through creating a more environmentally friendly office environment, or educating the employees on being pro-eco! We also have a ‘Head of Recycling‘, who is constantly looking for new ways we can be more green! To kick start our ‘Going Green’ campaign in 2013, Siteimprove UK invested in 14 eye-grabbing illuminous green recycling bins. They are stationed all around the office, leaving no room for stray paper! With the excellent effort of the UK team, we were able to recycle 14 bin loads of paper within the first few months. 36 52 Siteimprove mats. We say ‘new’ but, ironically, and the Hammerheads these mouse mats have been made In 2013, Siteimprove Denmark enfrom old, disused car tyres! tered into a sponsorship agreement with the newly opened National Remarkable Mouse Mat is an inAquarium Denmark, which is the novative UK eco-manufacturing largest aquarium in Northern company, driven by a passion and Europe. As a sponsor, we were belief that the environment needs also given the chance to choose to be treated with care. They make an endangered species close to economically viable, good quality our heart that we could support. ‘new life’, cool everyday products. After a lot of fun discussion, we chose to support the Hammerhead Shark, which features on the WWF (World Wide Fund for Nature) and the IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources) list of endangered species. We chose this animal not only because we are dedicated to protecting the marine environment around us, but also because of the close relationship between the Hammerhead’s name and what we here at Siteimprove do best – which is helping our customers hit website errors on the head! As a sponsor, we get entry passes that we use to spoil our customers and employees. Something Old, Something New Each UK team member has recently been treated to brand new mouse 37 52 FIGHTING CORRUPTION 5/6 AntiCorruption Global Compact principle 10 10. Businesses should work against all forms of corruption including extortion and bribery In spite of us working in a low risk market, we at Siteimprove have a very firm policy in regards to corruption and bribery. In the event that an employee should receive a present, or any form of bribery from a supplier or customer, the employee must notify his or her manager immediately. Failure to report may have consequences for future employment. 39 52 HELPING WHERE WE CAN Siteimprove Receives CSR impressed the panel of judges, Award for Social Responand Birgitte Mogensen, chairper6/6 sibility son of Danske Revisorers CSR At Siteimprove, we proudly look Committee, said: back on the year 2013 as being the year we received our first CSR “Siteimprove has chosen to conaward. In September, FSR – Danske centrate their efforts on making Revisorer (Danish Accountants), the web accessible to people who granted us with the award of Best are e.g. visually impaired or have Emerging CSR Report at their ana physical disability. Being web nual conference 'Revisordøgnet'. specialists, Siteimprove sees it as CHARITY AND We share the award with Dansk their joint responsibility to support PRIZES Almennyttigt Boligselskab, which the development of accessible is a Danish housing association. websites, and they have delivered a solid presentation of that work Our dedicated focus on making in their CSR report. ” the web available to everyone Siteimprove principles 1. Provide clear guidelines as to how our CSR work progresses and especially in regards to what we can do better from year to year 2. Strive to keep focusing on charity and provide a helping hand wherever we can. At Siteimprove, we believe in good karma. We value charity work and giving back to the communities around us. In this spirit, employees across all our offices have been volunteering to participate in charity events and supporting charity organisations. You can read about these activities in the sections following. 41 52 In 2010, Siteimprove joined The At Siteimprove, we are excited and locations were targeted due to UN Global Compact, which is the honored to receive such recognithe limited resources available in largest voluntary corporate retion and appreciation for our CSR the community, especially in light sponsibility initiative in the world. focus. We are a passionate and of the average per capita income Hereby, we committed to meeting goal-orientated company, and we in Kermit, WV, which is less than certain standards in the areas will continue to work hard and $15,000, with approximately 10 of human rights, labour rights, hopefully earn our right to more percent of the community living environment and anti-corruption, awards in the future. under the national poverty line. as well as creating yearly CSR The Shop/Pack/Ship program reports. Chief of Communications Family-to-Family connects Siteimprove staf f and Markets, Camilla Simonsen, Siteimprove’s US office collabfamilies with partner families in says: orates with Family-to-Family economically-depressed commu(F-to-F), a 501 ©(3) nonprofit nities through a monthly box of “We perceive it as one of our core organisation based in New York non-perishable groceries and basic social responsibilities to create with a primary focus on nationtoiletries. Families were matched awareness and increase focus on al hunger and poverty relief in based on the ages of the children the approximately 20 percent of the US. Currently, Siteimprove to ensure ’hand-me-downs’ were the Danish population that daily is assisting 11 partner families available as well as to assist staff experience severe difficulties when in three different communities in teaching their own children utilising the web and self-service (Kermit, WV; New Orleans, LA; about charitable giving. Our first solutions.” and Hopkins Park, IL) through the box was packed in December 2013 Shop/Pack/Ship program. These and we will continue onwards with a one-year commitment. 42 52 Siteimprove UK goes wild But that was not all, another ex‘Children in Need’ fundciting and exhilarating event on Copenhagen Charity Run raising Day the day was Siteimprove’s London for Syrian Refugees In November 2013, Siteimprove 2013 Office Olympics. Precision, In September 2013, a number of UK embraced their inner child, power and strength were themes Danish Siteimprovers were acdonned animal onesies (much for the day as employees comtively involved in raising money to the amusement of twitter peted to see who could score the for Syria through a charity run for followers) and raised money for most baskets in a minute and who Dan Church Aid’s Syrian Refugee the wonderful charity ‘Children had the best arrow accuracy in Program. This project caught the in Need’. darts all at 50p per play! The attention of Siteimprove CEO animal onesies turned out to be Morten Ebbesen, who decided to Siteimprove UK kicked off proexcellent for mobility, but the support the cause along with the ceedings with a cake sale. The humungous feet did put some at rest of the Copenhagen office. irresistible selection of cakes to a slight disadvantage, but rules The run was a huge success and indulge in attracted people from are rules! The wild and whacky enough money was raised to feed near and far, and in no time at all day was a roaring success and no less than 4,600 refugees for a selling frenzy erupted and items over 300 pounds was raised for an entire day! sold like hotcakes! Children in Need! 43 52 Save the Children vide the Wish Child with themed The UK Siteimprove team certainly entertainment and games during is not deterred by the prospect of their flight including a beach ball, looking silly, especially not when a pair of sunglasses, candy, Legos, there are donations for a great and other fun games. In addition cause at stake! to these items, Siteimprove also wrote personalised cards to each In December 2013, they embraced child to help them through their the festive season dusting off their struggles. holiday jumpers and attending work looking like nothing less than Santa’s little helpers! This was all in the name of a worthy cause – Save the Children. Airplane Travel Bags for Children with Life-Threatening Conditions In 2014, Siteimprove US increased its charitable giving through the installation of quarterly community engagement events that collaborate with local philanthropic endeavours. For the first quarter, they partnered with Make-A-Wish’s Minnesota Chapter, an international 501 © w(3) nonprofit organisation focused on granting wishes for children diagnosed with life-threatening medical conditions. Because over 75 percent of Minnesota Wishes involve travel, with a majority to a beach location, Siteimprove staff packed approximately 50 ’Airplane Travel bags’. These ’Airplane Travel Bags’ pro44 52 Goals PAST AND Present Goals achieved Goals for Human Rights 2013/14 2014/15 Contribute to making public and private webPDF accessibility checker was released in Continue development on the Siteimprove sites more accessible April 2014. Accessibility tool to support private and public webmasters in quality assuring accessible We hired an accessibility expert to support websites. the US team and US/Canadian customers. Plan to offer the Accessibility Certification to Included a question in our yearly customer all European customers in 2014. satisfaction survey asking whether they have hired a disabled user because of our initiatives. Produce more blogs and whitepapers on accessibility. We took part in the GAAD in May 2013 and donated the money raised to the Danish Blind Participation in GAAD May 2014, to further Youth Society. increase awareness. In May 2013, our UK office raised funds for the The UK team will be offering the Accessibility Royal National Institute of the Blind. Certification course free to all clients and prospective clients. Free consulting and education We completed 24 webinars across all markets. Continue our focus on providing customers with free webinars as needed. UK office Accessibility Workshop completed in October 2013 with over 120 customers subUK event in October 2014 for clients and poscribing to the event and material. tential clients. With expert speakers providing workshops and round table discussions. Partnership within accessibility We started collaborating with the Swedish Establish a partnership with a UK or US NGO accessibility consultancy firm ETU. promoting accessibility. Collaboration with Danish consultant Jacob Continue to work closely with the disabled Nielsen, who has been blind almost his entire life. community in regards to accessibility. Facilitation of network Continue to be in contact with the Accessibility Advisory Board. 46 52 Goals achieved Goals for LABOUR Rights 2013/14 2014/15 The Psychological Work environment Performance reviews for all employees across Increase levels of support and acknowledgeall markets. ment from management. Online workplace assessment completed on In 2014, we will expand the US on-boarding all markets. program to the EU markets in order to provide new hires with better training. HR-responsible employees have been appointed in all offices. Decrease stress levels further in 2014/15. A decrease in stress levels compared to the Complete more events on health and physical previous year. activities Events completed on health and physical Increase overall job satisfaction across all activities: markets even further. • DHL participation 2013 • Pedometer challenge Increased job satisfaction across all markets The Physical Work Environment US expanded their new office by adding adFinish ongoing work on the outdoor patio at ditional footage. the Copenhagen office. To upgrade UK office facilities: Water dispenser and improvements to the lunch area and game room. Employee Welfare Weekly (UK + US) and biweekly (DK + SE + DE) Continue weekly/biweekly staff meetings staff meetings Social events Continue to prioritise fun social events in The number of social events has exceeded the the offices. expectations with an average of four events per office in the past year. Improve in-house knowledge sharing. Internal training completed for sales staff The UK office has external training plans for on all markets. the Customer Experience team and office management in 2014. UK decided to offer private health care to UK Thorough update of all employee handbooks. employees. UK plans to continue the programme throughout 2014/15. Bonus Scheme Profit sharing from 2013 completed among all The board has once again decided on profit Siteimprove employees in June 2012. sharing from 2014 to all Siteimprove employees based on length of service. 47 52 Goals achieved Goals for Environment 2013/14 2014/15 Reducing carbon footprint DK office rides bikes and uses public transTo provide a “Bicycle emergency kit” for DK portation to get to work. employees containing: a bicycle pump, puncture repair kits and bicycle lamps. US carpooling four days a week saving both gas and the environment. Continue successful climate partnership with DONG Energy. Climate partnership with DONG Energy still going strong. Continuous collaboration with green primary suppliers. Environmental policy Started sponsoring the Hammerhead shark at the National Aquarium Denmark in order to help preserve the species. Helped safeguarding forests in Central and South America. Planted 24 fruit trees in Malawi, Africa. Recycling policy Recycling system for bottles, cans, paper and Use recycled materials for office supplies to cardboard. a larger extent. 48 52 Charity Goals achieved Goals for and prizes 2013/14 2014/15 Awarded ‘Best Emerging CSR Report’ by FSR US: Establish an employee run board that can Danske Revisorer (Danish Accountants). decide which social activities we participate in. Siteimprove will give the board monetary Siteimprove US started collaborating with budget and the ability to ask employees to the non-profit organisation Family-to-Family volunteer up to three full work days per year. to help families who have limited resources. We partnered with Make-A-Wish Minnesota, granting wishes for children diagnosed with life-threatening medical conditions by packing 50 “Airplane Travel Bags”. Raised money for Syrian refugees through a charity run in Copenhagen. Held a fundraising day for the charity ‘Children in Need’. Funny Christmas jumpers’ day in the UK office. December 2013 for Save the Children. 49 52 www.siteimprove. com / co.uk / de / dk / se
