MENSAGES Message from the Message from the Board of Directors 1.1 CEO 1.1 Pedro Parente Edemir Pinto Chairman of the Board of Directors Chief Executive Officer Confidence and innovation Our passion for our customers In 2013 uncertainty about the global economic outlook Another manifestation of our long-term vision was the Our greatest passion is doing the best for our customers. These initiatives will transform the market in the long term. persisted and there was unprecedented turbulence on implementation of BM&FBOVESPA’s Sustainability Policy, In 2013 this commitment was present in actions by BM&FThe seeds planted by the Exchange in past years are bearthe home front toward the end of the first half. Peaceful aligned with the company’s strategic principles. Its strucBOVESPA that will literally change history. ing fruit. IPOs resumed in 2013, for example, despite the protests organized via social networks multiplied on the ture is divided into four lines: environment, corporate govadverse conditions prevailing at home and abroad, and streets and in the headlines, although at times a small ernance, market, and social. The policy approved by the trading volume in the equity segment set a new historical For the first time in 45 years the Exchange implemented an number of demonstrators unfortunately overstepped the Board of Directors formalizes the guidelines for the activirecord. The actions we are taking now, such as implemenenhancement to its best known index, the Ibovespa, which bounds of socially responsible behavior. The findings of ties conducted for a long time by the company, which has tation of a single integrated clearinghouse, investment is the benchmark index for the Brazilian capital markets. many opinion surveys conducted during the year showed been a pioneer in this area: it was the first exchange to sign in PUMA and the access market for SMEs, are creating a With this change the index more accurately reflects the that an overwhelming majority of Brazilians disapproved up to the UN Global Compact, participate in the Global Respringboard for the Exchange to take further qualitative portfolio of the most relevant companies listed on BM&Fof the excesses committed by this minority. porting Initiative (GRI), and commit to the Principles for Releaps in the near future. BOVESPA, among other advantages. The enhancements The relative pessimism about Brazil that took hold of the sponsible Investment (PRI). Since 2011 we have published As planned, in 2013 BM&FBOVESPA implemented its Suswere made to its methodology after long reflection and markets at that time did not contaminate BM&FBOVESPA, annual reports containing both financial and non-financial tainability Policy, which applies to all employees, interns consultation of market participants, specialists and acawhich has weathered storms of all kinds during its more information in equal measure. and other internal and external stakeholders. Our firm demics, in a complex process characteristic of adjustments than 100 years of history. On the contrary, our company’s Our partnership with the federal administration enabled of this magnitude. commitment to sustainability and the encouragement confidence in Brazil emerged far stronger from the epiBM&FBOVESPA to host new auctions of road and airport of best practice in this area has a long track record. Since In 2014 the markets will begin to enjoy the benefits of sode. Demonstrating the maturity of the nation’s system concessions, which will drive investment growth and de2011 we have published integrated annual reports simulclearinghouse integration and of CORE, the new unified of government, the democratic institutions constructed velop the nation’s infrastructure. These events are eloquent taneously containing financial and non-financial disclorisk management system, innovations that constitute wain the past several decades ensured that the tide of prodemonstrations of the contribution the capital markets can sures. We became a signatory to the UN Global Compact in tersheds in the world’s exchange industry. In 2013 BM&Ftest soon returned within the limits of socially acceptable make to the development of Brazil and the improvement of 2004 and we were the first exchange in an emerging counBOVESPA successfully delivered the equities module of behavior. the lives of all Brazilians through the trust deposited in them try to commit officially to the Principles for Responsible Inthe PUMA Trading System, an integrated trading platform The Exchange proceeded with its plan to invest more by institutions and through financial innovation. vestment (PRI), a UN initiative led by institutional investors, developed in partnership with CME Group. In this way the than R$1 billion. This is the largest investment plan in its Finally, despite the more challenging business environand to participate in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Exchange is distributing the benefits of its very substanhistory and will result in an even more solid and competment experienced at the end of 2013 based on the local tial investment plan throughout the segments in which it On various fronts and in the various segments of its proitive company. The markets will gain in security and reliand international macroeconomic data BM&FBOVESPA is operates, and building up market reliability, security and duction chain, the Exchange strives to develop and imability. In addition to the world-class infrastructure we are strongly positioned to capture the opportunities that arise. solidity. Through its products, such as the Ibovespa, and prove the markets it manages, so that the company can building and delivering to the markets, BM&FBOVESPA Moreover, we believe that investment in products and its infrastructure, in the shape of PUMA and clearinghouse fully perform its mission of contributing to the developreinforced its commitment to innovation and quality in technologies is a key factor in growing and diversifying the integration, the Exchange is also helping to promote the ment of Brazil and of the nation’s business organizations. customer service. Exchange’s revenue streams, enhancing the quality of the liquidity of the assets traded in its environments. With the aim of always doing the best, BM&FBOVESPA also We launched new products and strengthened our marservices provided, and consolidating the efficiency and soBM&FBOVESPA also achieved significant progress in marmade changes to its organizational structure, which now ket development actions, a hallmark of the Exchange. lidity of the Brazilian capital markets. ket development. In collaboration with other entities it has two departments dedicated exclusively to improving We participated actively in the creation of the Mergers We are confident that the development of BM&FBOVESPA’s launched the Mergers & Acquisitions Committee (CAF), the quality of the services provided and building stronger & Acquisitions Committee (CAF), Brazil’s takeover panel, strategic plan will continue to bear fruit in the years ahead, Brazil’s takeover panel, based on voluntary affiliation. To relationships with customers. set up with the support of the World Bank. In addition, strengthening the Exchange and the nation. this innovation it added the announcement of a series of we worked with the government to lay the foundations measures to attract investment in small and medium enfor an important access market that will enable small and terprises, as part of a project in which government particiEdemir Pinto medium enterprises to raise funds through public offerPedro Parente pation has been highly important. Chief Executive Officer ings on the Exchange. Chairman of the Board of Directors 2 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 3 CONTENTS profile 6 Strategies and Risk Management 10 About This Report 16 Corporate Governance 20 People Management 30 Sustainability 42 Market Strengthening 54 Education and marketing the markets 62 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 68 operational and financial performance 74 operational and financial 86 GRI table of contents 154 4 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 5 Profile 2 .2 | 2.7 | 2.8 BM&FBOVESPA: one of the world’s largest exchanges Bolsa de Valores, Mercadorias e Futuros S.A. – BM&FBOVESPA S.A. is a public company. Its stock trades under ticker symbol BVMF3 on Novo Mercado, a special listing segment for companies committed to best practice in corporate governance. BVMF3 is also tracked by the Ibovespa, IBrX-50, IBrX and ITAG indexes, among others. 2.1 ¦ 2.6 Headquartered in the city of São Paulo, the company has representative offices in the United States (New York), United Kingdom (London) and China (Shanghai) to support local market participants and prospect for potential investors. 2.4 ¦ 2.5 Group companies 2.3 The group’s corporate structure is currently as follows: BM&FBOVESPA MARKET BM&FBOVESPA SUPERVISION UK LTD (BSM) BRAZILIAN COMMODITIES BM&FBOVESPA USA EXCHANGE INC. (BBM) BM&FBOVESPA RIO DE JANEIRO SETTLEMENT STOCK EXCHANGE BANK BM&FBOVESPA INSTITUTE Excellence and global benchmark BM&FBOVESPA’s prime objectives are managing organized markets for the trading of stocks, bonds and derivatives, as well as providing registration, clearing and settlement services, and above all acting as central counterparty to guarantee cash settlement of all transactions performed in its environments. The company offers a range of products and services, including environments for trading in stocks, bonds, spot foreign exchange, equity derivatives, financial 6 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 7 profile assets, indexes, rates, agricultural commodities and lationships with other exchanges and regulatory bodSocial investment focusing on community developBest Investor Relations by a Latin American Comspot currencies, among others. It lists companies and ies, as well as helping to prospect for new clients and ment is also a priority for BM&FBOVESPA as a signapany in the US Market 2.10 other issuers of securities, acts as a central securities disseminating information on the Brazilian market. tory to the United Nations Global Compact, a strateIn the IR Magazine Awards – US 2013, BM&FBOVESPA depository, manages securities lending transactions, gic policy initiative for businesses around the world won the award for Best IR by a Latin American Comand licenses software. to promote sustainable global economic growth by pany in the US Market. Announced at a ceremony in BM&FBOVESPA UK LTD supporting ten internationally accepted principles in BM&FBOVESPA has a diversified and integrated busiNew York, the award winners are chosen after extenness model, offering a complete custody system. A wholly-owned subsidiary headquartered in Lonthe areas of human rights, labor relations, the envisive research involving various media, as well as interTransactions are processed in an exclusively elecdon. The office was opened in 2009 and since then ronment and anti-corruption. views with investors and analysts from the internatronic environment, enabling clients to buy and sell has promoted the Exchange and its markets, prodIn line with this strong commitment BM&FBOVESPA tional community. Transparency and independence stocks, transfer market risk via hedging, arbitrage ucts and services to institutional investors in the Euseeks to embed the concept of sustainability in its are hallmarks throughout the process, enhancing the prices between markets and/or assets, diversify and rope, Middle East and Africa region (EMEA). The office products and services, involving all business areas of credibility and prestige of these awards. allocate investments, and leverage positions. is responsible for BM&FBOVESPA’s relations with regthe company. An example of this policy of inducing ulators, governments and exchanges in the region, as best practice is the development of “green” indicators The company’s globalization strategy to expand marwell as helping to prospect for new clients. such as the Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) and Best Companies for Shareholders ket access is implemented via a partnership with CME Group and permanent dialogue with exchanges in the Carbon Efficient Index (ICO2). For the fourth consecutive year BM&FBOVESPA won Asia and other Latin American countries. Reaffirming the strategic importance of this theme, the Best Company for Shareholders prize in the catRio de Janeiro Stock Exchange (BVRJ) the company has implemented a Sustainability Polegory Corporate Governance awarded by Capital BVRJ is an inactive stock exchange. BM&FBOVESPA icy approved by the Board of Directors and strucAberto magazine. BM&FBOVESPA Market Supervision (BSM) holds 99 membership shares in BVRJ, representing tured into four pillars — market, environmental, soan equity interest of 86.09%. Since 2004 it has let out cial, and corporate governance. The policy applies BSM is a civil association set up to oversee the operapart of the physical space in its headquarters for the to all employees, interns, trainees and other staff of Exchange of the Year tions of BM&FBOVESPA and its participants in accorholding of events. BM&FBOVESPA, as well as its stakeholders. For the second year running, BM&FBOVESPA has redance with CVM Instruction 461/2007. It is not consolidated in the company’s financial statements. As the only exchange in operation in Brazil, BM&Fceived the Exchange of the Year Award for South BOVESPA recognizes its duty to raise public awareAmerica, in the category of Exchanges and CCPs, given BM&FBOVESPA Institute ness of the importance of saving and investing for by the Futures & Options World (FOW) magazine. Brazilian Commodities Exchange (BBM) A public-interest civil society organization created in the long term. Its financial education programs serve This year, FOW International Awards recognition 2007 for the purpose of integrating and coordinating this purpose by encouraging greater self-provision. BM&FBOVESPA is the holder of 203 membership went to the industry’s best in derivatives and risk the company’s social investment projects. Not conshares in BBM, representing an equity interest of BM&FBOVESPA had 1, 430 employees and 89 trainmanagement, which have innovated and invested in solidated in the company’s financial statements. 50.12%. BBM is a non-profit civil association whose ees in 2013. The company’s market value was R$21.8 spite of the economic downturn. objectives are to develop and operate systems for the billion on December 31. There were no changes in its trading of commodities, goods, services and securiEncouraging best practice size, structure or equity ownership during the year. 2.9 ties in the cash, forward and futures modalities with a view to forming a nationwide market for agricultural By sharing and disseminating values such as corpocommodities with modern price formation mecharate governance, a commitment to business sustainRecognition of transparency and effinisms and an organized commercial system. ability and management excellence, which differenticiency 2.10 ate Brazilian companies and attract investors from all parts of the world, the Exchange strives to increase Transparency Trophy BM&FBOVESPA Settlement Bank the liquidity of the stock issued by listed companies. In 2013, for the fifth consecutive year, BM&FBOVESPA BM&FBOVESPA Settlement Bank, set up in 2004 as The launch of the Exchange’s new electronic platform was awarded the Transparency Trophy in the catea wholly-owned subsidiary of BM&F, facilitates the has increased its technological and trading capacity. gory Public Companies with Annual Sales of up to clearing and cash settlement of transactions perTogether with other initiatives, this significant enR$5 Billion by the National Association of Finance, formed in its trading environments and functions as hancement will contribute to the growth of its marAdministration & Accounting Executives (Anefac), an important risk mitigation and operational support ket participants and the expansion of investment in the Accounting, Actuarial & Financial Research Inmechanism. the Brazilian economy. stitute Foundation (Fipecafi) and Serasa Experian. In addition to ranking among the 20 most transparent The company maintains its commitment to the princompanies in the Brazilian economy, the Exchange ciples of transparency and ethics consolidated by its was elected Best in Category by Anefac. BM&FBOVESPA USA Inc. special listing segments for issuers with high stanA wholly-owned subsidiary headquartered in New dards of corporate governance (Novo Mercado, Level York with a representative office in Shanghai. Its mis1, Level 2). sion is to represent BM&FBOVESPA abroad through re8 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 9 Strategies BM&FBOVESPA: security, robustness and and Risk transparency Management 1.2 In 2013, in line with the tendency seen in recent years, BM&FBOVESPA reaffirmed its commitment to invest heavily to upgrade its technology infrastructure and increase operational efficiency. At the same time the company worked on internal initiatives, focusing on cutting operating costs, growing and diversifying revenue, and increasing the efficiency of its risk management system. It also unremittingly pursued continuous process improvement. BM&FBOVESPA launched strategic initiatives such as the announcement of changes to the methodology for calculating the Bovespa Index (Ibovespa) so that it more accurately reflects the performance of the Brazilian capital markets, and proposals for its listing segments as part of a broad discussion with governmental and private entities to facilitate IPOs by small and medium enterprises. In 2013 the company also changed its pricing policy with the aim of making it more efficient for all segments. The main changes were in pricing for the cash equity market (rebalancing between trading and post-trading fees for institutional investors and day traders; an increased per-volume discount for day traders; and a graded reduction in trading fees per global volume band) and for the fixed-income market (reductions in the public offering registration analysis fee, the permanence, custody and account maintenance fees, and the trading fee for new fixed-income security issues). In 2013 BM&FBOVESPA approved its Sustainability Policy, with a structure divided into four pillars of action: environmental, corporate governance, market, and social, maintaining its commitment to develop a growing array of initiatives that positively differentiate the company. 10 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 11 Strategies and Risk Management BM&FBOVESPA reaffirms its 2014 adjusted expense Market security and efficiency initiatives designed to promote local markets inucts and services with a global reach; bolster the libudget of between R$595 million and R$615 million, ternationally, such as BRAiN – Brasil Investimenquidity of commodity derivatives; and dynamize the BM&FBOVESPA has a diversified and vertically inteand its 2014 investment budget of between R$230 miltos e Negócios, an institution created to coordiorganized over-the-counter market. grated business model encompassing trading and lion and R$260 million. In 2015 the budget is expected nate and promote Brazil as Latin America’s main post-trading of equities, derivatives and other secuto be between R$190 million and R$220 million. global investment and business hub. rities. Products and services Part of this investment will result, among other things,  Social and environmental promotion activiAnother factor that differentiates the company in its in the implementation of the project to integrate the ties – The Exchange has a long tradition of social The Exchange believes strongly in the development commitment to excellence is constant investment in four existing clearinghouses (equities, derivatives, investment through the BM&FBOVESPA Institute. and growing sophistication of the Brazilian capital the following: foreign exchange and other assets, especially bonds) It also sponsors a number of initiatives with the markets and their participants. For this reason it has into a new, highly secure and robust unified platform aim of encouraging listed companies to place introduced new products and services and pursued based on a faster data processing architecture with sustainability on their business agendas. These greater liquidity for existing products.  Self-regulation and market supervision – the capacity to handle more than 10 million orders Through BM&FBOVESPA Market Supervision include the Report or Explain recommendation Some products and services have already displayed per day and calculate risk in real time. This efficiency (BSM), an independent organization that acts as that listed companies state in the Reference strong growth in 2013, such as Agribusiness Credit will further strengthen BM&FBOVESPA’s strategic an ancillary arm of CVM, Brazil’s securities and Form whether they publish a regular sustainabilNotes (LCAs), Real Estate Investment Funds (FIIs) and position, as well as fostering market growth and soexchange commission, in the sphere of securiity report and if not, why not. Projects include the securities lending. Others promise development in phistication. Furthermore, the new risk management ties market surveillance, the Exchange promotes BM&FBOVESPA Athletics Club, the Job Training 2014, including fixed-income and international inmodel (CORE, short for Close Out Risk Evaluation) regulation and assures the proper functioning of Association, and the Socio-Environmental Investdex ETFs. has the potential to become the new international the markets and participants, bolstering market ment Exchange (BVSA). benchmark in central counterparty risk management. The company will also continue to improve the seintegrity and investor protection. curities lending service in 2014 in terms of tax treatFinally, in 2013 BM&FBOVESPA continued to focus on • BSM is also responsible for the Operational Qualment and the efficiency of the settlement process for Strategic drivers controlling expenses and on its commitment to guarification Program (PQO), which certifies the qualthese transactions. The service will remain superior to antee shareholders a return on capital, using most of In 2014 BM&FBOVESPA’s strategy will focus on projity of the services provided by brokerage houses, those of other countries inasmuch as BM&FBOVESPA the cash generated from operations to distribute divects to grow and diversify revenue; assure operational encompassing customer registration, order exeacts as counterparty to and guarantees all securities idends and buy back shares. excellence by continuously improving systems and cution, settlement, risk management, informalending transactions. processes, especially in risk management; strengthen tion security and business continuity. relations with investors, brokerage houses and issuAnother product line is the cross-listing of products  Issuer relationships, promotion and superviers by offering high-quality services and products; licensed by other exchanges, especially derivatives. Technological innovation sion – BM&FBOVESPA constantly invests in the and further enhance its already high standards of In 2013 the Exchange launched the Mini Crude Oil The success of BM&FBOVESPA’s activities depends maintenance and development of a favorable self-regulation. Futures Contract (WTI) Based on CME Group Light on constant enhancement, on the integration of its environment for companies to raise funds. The Sweet Crude Oil Futures. Grounded in the premise of strengthening existing trading and post-trading platforms, and on the flextotal number of companies currently listed on all products and services and developing new solutions ibility to create solutions and respond to its customspecial corporate governance segments is 195, of with high growth potential, the company aims to Risk management ers’ requirements. The prime goal of the company’s which 134 are listed on Novo Mercado. expand its new issuer motivation and prospecting investment in cutting-edge technology is high per International promotion of its markets – As activities; encourage companies to raise capital by The Exchange is a global benchmark in risk and colformance, assuring security, speed and cost effectivepart of its commitment to develop the markets, listing on the Bovespa Mais access segment; extend lateral management, currently administering four ness for market participants. BM&FBOVESPA actively participates in a range of access to new types of investors by launching prodclearinghouses (for equities and fixed income, derivaThe integration of (equities, derivatives, fixed income and foreign In 2013 The new data center, BM&FBOVESPA’s postexchange), so that credit and debit balances BM&FBOVESPA scheduled for completion -trading services will can be totally or partially offset for multilateral began registein first-half 2014, will unify result in enhanced openetting purposes; the development of an inteIn parallel with the clearinghouse integration ring over-thethe company’s main data rating efficiency and grated risk model and a single collateral pool; project, in 2013 equities and equity derivatives -counter derivatives trades with iBalcão, centers in a scalable envinumerous benefits for and complete modernization and simplificatrading migrated to the BM&FBOVESPA PUMA its new OTC system. The first derivative ronment that will support participants, such as ortion of the technology infrastructure. Trading System, a multi-asset electronic trading available for registration is the Non-Dethe growth of its business ganization of the postMigration of the processes for derivatives platform developed in partnership with CME liverable Foreign Exchange Forward wiin the years ahead, as well -trading environment by type of process insregistration, clearing and settlement to the Group. thout the guarantee feature. as mitigating risks and tead of type of product; rationalization and new single clearinghouse structure is scheAdapted to the characteristics of the Brazilian In 2014 BM&FBOVESPA will add a new improving the availability standardization of rules, processes, requireduled for first-half 2014. Once this first stage market and the needs of participants, the system registration module to this platform, and operational security ments and documentation; the establishment is completed, migration of the equities cleapresents low latency and high performance, with offering flexibility and speed to particiof its technology infrasof a single settlement window for all markets ringhouse will begin. a round trip time (RTT)) of less than 1 millisecond. pants in the OTC market. tructure. 12 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 13 Strategies and Risk Management tives, foreign exchange, and other assets) considered BM&FBOVESPA’s clearinghouses have accounts with systemically important by the Central Bank of Brazil. the Central Bank of Brazil for the settlement of all These clearinghouses act as the central counterparty transactions executed, avoiding exposure to com(CCP) for all trades executed via their systems. mercial bank credit risk. The clearinghouses have an advanced risk management structure that stands out among the similar Safeguards models operated in various countries. To assure adequate mitigation of the risks assumed, each of BM&FBOVESPA’s clearinghouses has its own Central counterparty risk management system and its own safeguards – reThrough its clearinghouses BM&FBOVESPA acts as sources and mechanisms that can be used to cover central counterparty to all trades in the equity marlosses relating to settlement failure by one or more ket (cash, forwards, options, futures, securities lendparticipants, such as the collateral pledged by market ing), derivatives market (futures, forwards, options, participants, generally in the form of margin deposits, swaps), foreign-exchange market (spot dollar), govfunds specifically set up for this purpose, special asernment bond market (cash, forwards, repos, loans) sets, and co-responsibility for settlement assumed by and corporate bond market (cash, loans). brokerage houses and clearing members or agents. By acting as central counterparty, the Exchange asBM&FBOVESPA’s equities and derivatives clearingsumes responsibility for the settlement of transachouses are responsible for settlement and risk mantions executed through its systems and/or registered agement relating to approximately 85% and 90% of with them. As such it intermediates between the parthe total Latin American equity and derivatives marties to each transaction, acting as buyer to all sellers kets respectively. and seller to all buyers for settlement purposes. On December 31, 2013, the collateral pledged by parThus if participants fail to discharge their obligations ticipants totaled R$214.4 billion. to the clearinghouses, by not making payments on time or not delivering assets, for example, BM&FRegulation and supervision BOVESPA must activate safeguards and ultimately have recourse to its own funds. To manage the risks BM&FBOVESPA’s clearinghouses have a robust reguinherent in this function, the CCP focuses on calculation and supervision structure based on exchange lating, controlling and mitigating its credit-risk expoself-regulation, on constant assessment and supervisure to participants. sion of its risk management and settlement models by the Central Bank of Brazil, and on CVM’s supervision of the securities markets, including derivatives. Risk calculation and individualized collateral requirements Risk control follows a specific methodology for each market. Risk is calculated using a stress testing model in quasi-real time (several times during the day), and additional collateral or margin deposits are required whenever necessary. Risk calculation and collateral requirements are individualized for each beneficiary owner. Collateral is posted to custody accounts managed by the clearinghouses themselves, and beneficiary owners’ accounts are completely and effectively segregated from each other. 14 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 15 About This BM&FBOVESPA: constantly updating and Report 3.5 enhancing its indicators This annual report details the performance of BM&FBOVESPA and all operations conducted between January 1 and December 31, 2013, at its head offices in São Paulo, Brazil. The previous report was published in 2013 and referred to the company’s operations in 2012. 3.1 ¦ 3.2 ¦ 3.3 ¦ 3.6 ¦ 3.8 The consolidated financial statements were prepared and are presented in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), applied to the 2013 annual balance sheet and retroactively to the previous year in order to permit comparisons between the two periods. 3.9 No significant restatements or changes have been made with regard to 2012 that influence the comparability of the data and information provided in previous reports. Similarly, there have been no significant changes in the size and structure of the company or its capital structure, and no specific restrictions have been made to the scope, boundaries or measurement methods used. 3.7 ¦ 3.10 ¦ 3.11 This is the fifth consecutive annual report published by BM&FBOVESPA in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative guidelines (GRI 3.1), to comply with Level C requirements. BM&FBOVESPA has not tested the contents of this Annual Report for materiality. However, this publication presents the key data and information gleaned from all areas of the company. It presents information on relations with all stakeholder groups, including employees, contractors, suppliers, market participants, shareholders, government and regulators, among others. 3.5 ¦ 3.9 For computing and updating of indicators, the production of this Annual Report was supported by a firm of communication consultants, especially with regard to social and environmental themes, and reviewed by BM&FBOVESPA’s Sustainability Committee and Executive Board. 16 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 17 about this report The financial statements were audited by Ernst & Young Terco Auditores Independentes S.S., replacing PricewaterhouseCoopers Auditores Independentes in compliance with article 31 of CVM Instruction 308/99, as amended by CVM Instruction 509/11, which requires auditor rotation. Although auditor rotation is mandatory only every ten years, the company prefers five-year rotation as more in line with best practice in corporate governance, and therefore engaged a new audit firm for FY 2013. 3.13 The 2013 Annual Report will remain available online on the BM&FBOVESPA website (www.bmfbovespa. com.br) and has been printed only in a summarized version on certified paper with vegetable oil-based ink to minimize the environmental impact of this publication. The GRI Content Index is on page 154. 3.12 For more information about this report, contact Investor Relations at the email address ri@bmfbovespa. com.br. 3.4 18 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 19 Corporate BM&FBOVESPA: transparent management, disciplined Governance 4.1 regulatory environment and respect for shareholder rights Governance structure BM&FBOVESPA seeks constantly to enhance corporate governance, adopting best practices and assuring the alignment of interests between the company, its top management, its minority shareholders, market participants, and other stakeholders. Respect for best practice in corporate governance is all the more imperative for the company’s long-term success in light of its widely dispersed equity ownership structure and its institutional responsibility to the development of the markets it manages. Reflecting its commitment to ethics and efficiency, in 2013 BM&FBOVESPA once again won the Transparency Trophy and a Best Companies for Shareholders Award in the category Corporate Governance, as well as winning the IR Magazine Award for Best IR by a Latin American Company in the US Market. Transparent management, a disciplined regulatory environment and respect for the rights of shareholders maximize value creation by the company and provide related parties with elements for informed strategic decision making. General and Extraordinary Shareholder Meetings 4.4 Meetings of the company’s shareholders are convened at least two weeks in advance for the first call and one week in advance for the second call. In addition to the powers established by law or by the company’s articles of incorporation and bylaws, extraordinary shareholder meetings are empowered, among other things, to decide on the appropriation of annual earnings and their distribution to shareholders; approve grants of incentive stock options or the issuance of stock to executives and employees of the company and its subsidiaries and affiliates. 20 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 21 Corporate Governance To facilitate and encourage participation in shareThe Board of Directors has 11 members, six of whom Board, which are established by the Compensation and policy for compensation and benefits to be asholder meetings, BM&FBOVESPA allows electronic are independent. All members serve concurrent twoCommittee, includes fixed and variable components signed to top management, committee members proxy voting and authorizes some of its executive year terms and can be re-elected. This body is reas well as long-term incentives, currently consisting and other advisory bodies. Also acts as an advisory officers to receive proxy forms with specific instrucsponsible for setting and enforcing global strategies, of the Stock Options Program approved by the AGM. body on improvements to the personnel managetions to vote on items of business. In addition, the overseeing the system of internal controls, including ment model. Three board members, two of whom are Each year the Chairman conducts a formal assesscompany’s website provides channels for contact approval and enforcement of the annual budget, independent. ment of the Board of Directors as a body, analyzing its via the Ombudsman (www.bmfbovespa.com.br/omconvening general meetings, presenting proposals strategic focus, decision-making process, motivation Risk Committee – Analyzes and monitors market, libudsman), which compiles data and information for on the appropriation of annual earnings, appointing, and alignment of interests, among other items. quidity, credit and systemic risks in the markets manreview by the Executive Board and Board of Directors dismissing and monitoring executive directors, and aged by the company, with a strategic and structural at the end of each quarter, and a Contact IR channel choosing independent auditors. 4.3 focus. Four board members. available via the Investor Relations portal (http:// Advisory Committees to the Board of Directors The Board of Directors holds regular meetings every Securities Intermediation Industry Committee – ri.bmfbovespa.com.br). two months but can be convened whenever necesThe Audit Committee, Governance & Nomination Assesses the problems affecting intermediary instiEmployees are offered regular opportunities to exsary. In 2013 it met 18 times. Committee, Compensation Committee and Risk tutions that participate in the markets managed by press their opinions through the organizational cliCommittee report to the Board of Directors in an adIn 2013 the Annual General Meeting elected a new BM&FBOVESPA and takes suggestions to the Board, mate survey (“Opinião de Valor”). In addition, employvisory capacity. Their members serve two-year terms. Board of Directors. Pedro Pullen Parente was elected with the objective of helping to strengthen these inee-related decisions, findings and recommendations to succeed Armínio Fraga Neto as Chairman of the Audit Committee – Evaluates and approves the stitutions. are frequently submitted to the Board of Directors. Board. structure of internal controls, and the internal and More information on the Board of Directors and its The new members of the Board are Alfredo Antônio external auditing processes, including nomination committees can be found in the Corporate GoverBoard of Directors Lima de Menezes, André Santos Esteves, José de of the independent audit firm; examines the finannance section of the Investor Relations portal (http:// Menezes Berenguer Neto, Luiz Fernando Figueiredo cial statements and quarterly financial reports. Five ri.bmfbovespa.com.br> Corporative Governance). BM&FBOVESPA is governed by a Board of Directors members. and an Executive Board. The members of the Board of and Luiz Nelson Guedes de Carvalho. Five members Directors are elected by the Annual General Meeting were re-elected: Candido Botelho Bracher, CharGovernance & Nomination Committee – Develops les Peter Carey, Claudio Luiz da Silva Haddad, José corporate governance, evaluates the adoption of Executive Board of Shareholders (AGM). The Board of Directors then appoints the members of the Executive Board. All Roberto Mendonça de Barros and Marcelo Fernandez best practices, and selects and nominates candidates Appointed by the Board of Directors, BM&FBOVESPA’s members of both Boards serve two-year terms. AcTrindade. to the Board of Directors and Executive Board. Three Executive Board consists of the Chief Executive Officording to the company’s bylaws, no member of the All members of the Board are experts in economics, fiboard members, two of whom are independent. cer and four other executives. Board of Directors may be appointed to the Executive nance, environmental management and social investCompensation Committee – Reviews, proposes and The Executive Board executes the strategic guidelines Board or those of its subsidiaries and affiliates. 4.2 ment. Their remuneration and that of the Executive oversees adjustments to the parameters, guidelines established by the Board of Directors and monitors Independent Independent Independent Independent Independent Independent Director Director Director Director Director Director Board of Directors Executive Board Pedro Pullen Marcelo Alfredo André Santos Candido Charles Peter Claudio Luiz José de Menezes José Roberto Luiz Fernando Luiz Nelson Edemir Cícero Augusto Daniel Eduardo Luis Otávio Parente Fernandez Antônio Lima Esteves Botelho Carey da Silva Berenguer Mendonça Figueiredo Guedes de Pinto Vieira Neto Sonder Refinetti Saliba Furtado Trindade de Menezes Bracher Haddad Neto de Barros Carvalho Guardia Chairman, Board Vice-presidente Chief Executive Chief Operating Chief Financial Chief Product & Chief Information of Directors Officer Officer Officer Investor Relations Officer Officer 22 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 23 23 Corporate Governance the results. It also establishes guidelines of its own segments report their socio-environmental actions  Complying with all laws, rules and regulations The bylaws also determine that the management of for BM&FBOVESPA’s operational, socio-economic and to the market. Another UN-sponsored initiative to that prescribe a minimum age for work, and not BM&FBOVESPA, including members of the Board of sustainability-related activities, as well as performing which BM&FBOVESPA belongs is Sustainable Stock employing children aged under 14. Directors, must sign a declaration of adherence to the within its remit all the activities necessary for the orExchanges (SSE), which promotes the adoption of a Insider Information & Trading Policy Manual.  Admitting adolescents as apprentices only when ganization to function properly. sustainability agenda by exchanges and listed compreviously registered with public and/or non In addition, the Conflict of Interest & Related Party panies worldwide. The company also has a number of committees -governmental organizations authorized by the Transactions Policy applies to all employees and exthat assist and advise the Chief Executive Officer, inThe company does not perform any activities that competent government agencies. ecutives of BM&FBOVESPA and its subsidiaries and cluding committees representing agribusiness, the pose a threat to health or the environment. Furtheraffiliates.  Guaranteeing school attendance by adolescent capital markets and other important sectors, the more, it requires responsible practices in selecting apprentices aged over 14, and assuring respect The company has put in place formal mechanisms Committee to Enhance Intermediation, the Listing and contracting with suppliers, such as those relating for their labor and social security rights and spefor shareholders to express their opinions to top Committee, the Regulations Committee, the Operato environmental impact, ethical conduct, health and cific stage of development. management through the Investor Relations Departtional Qualification Program Certification Committee, safety, and non-involvement in proven cases of corment. The Ombudsman pursues consensus solutions the Market Risk Technical Committee, the Credit Risk ruption, bribery, forced or slave labor and child labor.  Strictly obeying the laws applicable to combatfor any conflicts among investors and participants in Technical Committee, the Corporative Risk Advisory ing working conditions analogous to slavery, the markets managed by BM&FBOVESPA. Committee, the Index Committee, and the Sustainforced labor and child labor, on pain of immediability Committee. The members and remits of these Corporate responsibility ate unilateral termination of contract. committees are available from the company’s webBM&FBOVESPA seeks to set an outstanding example Institutional representation 4.12 ¦ 4.13 site (www.bmfbovespa.com.br, in BM&FBOVESPA, in corporate responsibility. All employees, interns and Publications). In 2013 no cases of infringement or corruption at BM&FBOVESPA is a member of or signatory to several contractors have formal work contracts. Every effort is BM&FBOVESPA were reported to the Code of Coninstitutions of an economic, environmental and/or made to ensure that individuals are respected in the duct Committee, and no significant fines or nonsocial nature. workplace. No cases of discrimination on grounds of Business drivers 4.8 ethnicity, color, gender, religion, ideology, nationality monetary penalties resulted from non-compliance with laws, rules and regulations in the period. SO4 ¦ SO8  Associate, Group of Institutes, Foundations and BM&FBOVESPA has been undergoing changes and or social status were reported in 2013. seeking to identify internally what defines it as an orEnterprises (GIFE) ganization, its purposes and aspirations. The Mission Abrasca Code  Member, Business for Climate Platform (EmpreStatement, Vision and Values are being drafted. Codes of Conduct sas pelo Clima), FGV – seat on advisory BM&FBOVESPA adheres to the Abrasca Code of board Aspects relating to economic, social and environThe BM&FBOVESPA Code of Conduct establishes Self-Regulation and Best Practice for Publicly Held mental responsibility grounded in the concept of susrules to avoid conflicts of interest, encompassing re Member, Committee for Social Responsibility and Companies, declaring that it applies the principles tainability are constantly evaluated so that they can lationships with external and internal stakeholders, Sustainability FEBRABAN and rules established by the Code except with regard be integrated into the management of the company’s the treatment of privileged information, and securito the standard which calls for a Disclosures Commit Member, GRI Focal Point Brazil Advisory Group business. ties trading. tee to be established, as we have yet to formally creThe Code of Conduct applies to BM&FBOVESPA and ate the Committee.  Member, GRI Stakeholder Council BM&FBOVESPA permanently pursues opportunities to broaden the perspectives for its actions. As a comits subsidiaries and affiliates, and is signed by all em Member, Honorary Council, Carbon Disclosure pany it is committed to socio-environmental responployees. Suspected infringements are reported in Project (CDP), South America sibility, as evidenced by its participation in initiatives writing to the Code of Conduct Committee. Such reConflicts of interest 4.6  Member, Network of Brazilian Women Leaders for such as the UN Global Compact, to which it was the ports are never anonymous. The committee appoints BM&FBOVESPA’s policy on conflicts of interest is Sustainability, Ministry of the Environment first exchange in the world to become a signatory. It a rapporteur to take the necessary steps to investialigned with the requirements of Law 6404/76. Inis also a member of the Carbon Disclosure Project’s gate each report. The Audit Department monitors fringements are reported to the Governance & Nom Member, São Paulo Against Violence Institute – Technical Advisory Council and ranked among the all such cases and submits its findings to the Code ination Committee for analysis. The committee proseat on board top ten companies in the categories Disclosure and of Conduct Committee for analysis. The CEO periodposes corrective action for approval by the Board of  Member, Steering Committee, Ethos Indicators, Performance in CDP’s 2012 Brazil report. 4.9 ically presents decisions, findings and recommendaDirectors. Third Generation tions to the Board of Directors. SO3 BM&FBOVESPA was the first exchange in any emergThe company’s bylaws include several rules de Member, Steering Committee, National Register ing-market country to sign up to the Principles for The Exchange also has a Supplier Code of Conduct, signed to prevent access to certain kinds of informaof Companies Committed to Ethics & Integrity Responsible Investment (PRI), a UN initiative involvwhich covers principles and practices that must be tion by members of the Board of Directors involved (Cadastro Empresa Pró-Ética) ing large asset managers and other financial market part of the day-to-day routine of all those involved, in conflicts of interest with the company, and to agents. As a signatory the exchange not only seeks including:  Member, Sustainability Research Group, Brazilian prevent their participation in Board discussions and to encourage other investors to join the PRI but also Institute of Corporate Governance (IBGC) decisions. recommends that the companies listed on its equity  Member, Technical Advisory Council, Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), South America 24 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 25 Corporate Governance  Signatory, Brazilian Business Compact For Integcially shareholders, brokerage houses, listed compaResponsible practices The Report or Explain initiative enables growing rity & Against Corruption nies, government, investors, analysts and suppliers. numbers of companies to disclose social, environBM&FBOVESPA fosters best practice in transparency mental, governance-related and other non-financial  Signatory, Brazilian National Compact for the The company’s stakeholder engagement initiatives and management through various initiatives, includinformation, for which there is growing demand from Eradication of Slave Labor include application of the AA1000 corporate responing the creation of listing segments for companies the general public as well as investors, in light of their sibility management standard, focusing on accountwith high levels of corporate governance and a num Signatory, Principles for Responsible Investment understanding of the importance of sustainability in ing, auditing and social/ethical reporting; educaber of sustainability indexes. (UN PRI) – member, PRI Engagement Group Brazil business and society. tional campaigns; actions to encourage companies  Signatory, UN Global Compact – member, Braziland individuals to participate in socio-environmental In 2012 BM&FBOVESPA adopted Report or Explain The number of companies listed on BM&FBOVESPA ian Global Compact Committee initiatives such as the Environmental & Social Investguidance recommending that listed companies state that publish sustainability reports or similar docu Signatory, Voluntary Commitment to the UN Susment Exchange (BVSA) and the Em Boa Companhia in item 7.8 of the Reference Form (“Description of ments, or explain why they do not yet do so, increased tainable Stock Exchanges (SSE) initiative (Global (“In Good Company”) website; and regular meetings the company’s relevant long-term relationships not from 203 to 293 between May 2012 and June 2013. Compact, PRI, UNEP-FI, UNCTAD) of its Advisory Committees, set up to build closer ties elsewhere described”) whether they publish a reguBy December 2013, the number of listed issuers that with the markets with the participation of represenlar sustainability report and where it is available, or publish social, environmental and governance-retatives of various industries. explain why not. Institutional participation 4.12 ¦ 4.13 lated information had risen to 157, reflecting growing commitment to and valorization of the sustainAs part of its business strategy, BM&FBOVESPA participates in several domestic and international assoStakeholder relationship channels ability agenda by public companies. ciations or organizations, where it is a project or committee member or invited to share its expertise. Listed Companies Listing segments • Dia da Empresa (”Your Company Day”) Ombudsman • Novo Mercado • Educational Institute BM&FBOVESPA’s Ombudsman is a channel for commu BRAiN – Brasil Investimentos & Negócios (a joint • Corporate Governance Levels 1 & 2 • Market Maker Program nication with stakeholders. The Ombudsman interacts initiative of Anbima, BM&FBOVESPA and Febra• Bovespa Mais • Corporate Governance seals with stakeholders both actively through contacts and Governance indexes • BM&FBOVESPA website ban) – associate member visits, and passively through suggestions and com• Special Corporate Governance Index (IGC) • BVSA portal  Ibero-American Federation of Exchanges (FIAB) • Special Tag Along Index (ITAG) • Em Boa Companhia corporate sustainability plaints received via the internet and by telephone. – member, Executive Committee and Working • Special Corporate Governance Index Novo Mercado (IGC-NM) • Novo Valor sustainability program The Ombudsman prioritizes direct investigation of all Committee • Corporate Governance Trade Index (IGCT) cases, submitting the information and data collected Sustainability indexes Shareholders to the Executive Board and Board of Directors at the  Futures Industry Association (FIA) – associate • Carbon Efficient Index (ICO2) • IR portal end of each quarter. The service is available to all stakemember • Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) • Quarterly earnings reports holders but demand comes mainly from investors,  Brazilian Institute of Corporate Governance • Quarterly fact sheets most of whom are customers of brokerage houses. (IBGC) – sponsoring organization and member of • Integrated reporting Brokerage Houses several committees (Guidelines, Legal, Finance, There are no records of complaints regarding data • BM&FBOVESPA Service Center (CAB) Sustainability, Communication) Employees security or privacy breaches in the period, or of any • Educational Institute • Operational Qualification Program (PQO) • Você em Alta intranet significant fines for failure to comply with the laws  International Organization of Securities Com• BM&FBOVESPA website • Linha Direta complaints and regulations governing the supply and use of missions (IOSCO) – member, Self-Regulatory Or• BVSA portal • Opinião de Valor organizational climate survey products and services. PR8 ¦ PR9 ganizations Consultative Committee (SROCC), • Vitrine das Corretoras online broker search • Novo Valor sustainability program Council of Securities Regulators of the Americas • Em Ação voluntary service portal The Ombudsman responds to all contacts and in(COSRA), and IOSCO Working Group that coordivariably makes sure that both the response and the Government entities nates Brazilian participation solution offered in each case are evaluated. In 2013 • BM&FBOVESPA Market Supervision (BSM) Analysts the Exchange began managing process quality and  World Federation of Exchanges (WFE) – member, • IR portal performance internally. Board, Working Committee, Communications Investors in general • Analyst kit and Regulation Task Forces • Mobile applications The activities of the Ombudsman are described in Suppliers • Electronic Channel for Investors (CEI) quarterly reports addressed exclusively to internal • Supplier Code of Conduct • Financial education courses and programs stakeholders. At the end of each year, however, the • Selection of suppliers based on sustainability criteria • Educational Institute Stakeholder relationships 4.14 ¦ 4.15 ¦ 4.16 ¦ 4.17 • Control of supplier register using assessment and certification based on Ombudsman publishes on BM&FBOVESPA’s website • Linha Direta complaints • Ombudsman Internal Policy for the Acquisition of Goods & Contracting of Services, which a consolidated version of the numbers and data for BM&FBOVESPA maintains mechanisms not only to asincludes a specific item on responsible practices in supplier selection and the four quarters, accompanied by charts comparing • Customer Service (SAP) sure the proper functioning of its business but also to contracting covering environmental impact, ethical conduct, health and them with previous years (www.bmfbovespa.com. • Equity and futures trading simulators safety, and non-involvement in proven cases of corruption, bribery, forced foster best practice in corporate governance among • Novo Valor sustainability program or slave labor and child labor. br/ombudsman). market participants and other stakeholders, espe26 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 27 Corporate Governance Linha Direta BM&FBOVESPA SAP Linha Direta (“Direct Line”) is the company’s new Indicators are monitored monthly by Customer Sercommunication channel, in tune with modern marvice (SAP) to evaluate the satisfaction of brokerage ket practices linked to the concept of corporate govhouse customers and members of the public who ernance. contact BM&FBOVESPA. The findings are described in a management report. They include satisfaction surLinha Direta enables employees, interns and other veys covering the quality of telephone service and members of staff to report infringements of the Code average response time. PR5 of Conduct, or any of the company’s internal policies and norms, safely and with guaranteed confidentialThe number of contacts recorded by SAP in 2013 was ity. The new channel is also available to the general 46,943. Response time averaged 1.77 days. The level public by phone 0800-202-2863. Whistleblowers can of satisfaction with telephone service and service via remain anonymous if they so wish. the internet was 98.5% % and de 70.0% % respectively (excellent, very good and good. More details are presented in the table below. SAP satisfaction survey – telephone service Excellent Very good Good Middling Poor Total 8,794 1,129 298 72 86 10,379 84.73% 10.88% 2.87% 0.66% 0.83% 100% Pesquisa de satisfação SAP – Atendimento via site Excellent Very good Good Middling Poor Total 135 53 22 19 71 300 45.00% 17.67% 7.33% 6.33% 23.67% 100% 28 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 29 People BM&FBOVESPA: proud to belong Management BM&FBOVESPA constantly invests to maximize the potential of human capital, assuring adequate working conditions, professional development plans, quality of life and well-being for its employees. Management of human resources is an integral part of the company’s strategic planning and helps staff in the pursuit of corporate objectives and targets. Processes and guidelines are continuously reviewed to enhance people management and guarantee the “pride of belonging”, creating bonds between all levels of relationship, both internal and external, from staff to customers and suppliers. In 2013 BM&FBOVESPA stepped up its investment and initiatives in organizational climate management and employee and leader training. Organizational climate As part of the evolution of its management model and continuous workplace improvement process, in late 2013 BM&FBOVESPA conducted the second Opinion of Value organizational climate survey to identify opportunities for change, help define new strategies, diagnose the level of employee satisfaction and engagement, and find out about the expectations and aspirations of the workforce. The number of people who took part in the 2013 Opinion of Value Survey was 1,454, which corresponded to a 90% participation rate, outperforming the challenge of reaching 78% when the survey was first launched. In light of these numbers the company believes it is on the right track toward building a better organizational climate, with stronger motivation and made up of professionals who make a difference. Publication of the results will start in February 2014, when action plans will be drawn up to assure continuous improvement of the workplace environment and reinforce the management of organizational climate and engagement. 30 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 31 People Management Leaders Day company achieve its strategic objectives. To do so it In 2013 the company hired 285 people, of whom 189 minimum wage either in 2013 or in previous years. develops mechanisms to encourage staff to stay with were employees, 82 were interns, and 14 were PSN. The lowest salary corresponded to 213% of the fedLeaders Day is a program comprising two tracks – the company over the medium to long term. eral minimum wage for men and 239% for women in structured training activities and optional individual In 2013 the lowest salary paid to an intern corre2011, and to 199% for men and 223% for women in development activities. The program is for executive In 2013, BM&FBOVESPA performed a talent and sucsponded to 186% of the state minimum wage; in 2012. EC5 ¦ LA14 directors, officers, managers and senior specialists, cession mapping and planning exercise involving all the case of employees, the ratio was 177% for men and coordinators and specialists. departments, units and offices. This annual process and 205% for women. It is important to stress that Every single employee of BM&FBOVESPA is covered aims to prepare leaders to guarantee business contino one employed by the company was paid the state by a collective bargaining agreement. LA4 It begins with a detailed external assessment of nuity now and in future. each leader’s competencies using several behavioral tests and exercises. The findings are important Number of employees and interns to enable leaders themselves to identify strengths New Exchange Culture and development needs, but they are also useful to the organization since they supply a basis for other Continuing the New Exchange Culture Project, three program activities. In 2013, 13 new leaders took this priorities were selected in 2013 involving seven imPosition 2013 2012 2011 part of the program. portant initiatives, organized in working groups led by the organization’s executive officers. The results of the assessment are the basis for leaders Executive Officer 34 34 37 to take the parallel training and development tracks. Among these initiatives, it is important to highlight face-to-face training activities for top management In the development track, leaders can optionally be Manager 94 97 94 in a special track involving: assisted by external coaching with the implementation of an individual development plan based on the competencies assessment report. In 2013, 18 leaders  A cultural module designed to reinforce the role Coordinator 171 170 152 participated in this process. of executives as engagers in the process of culAll participants take the training track, which consists tural change; Staff 1,131 1,141 1,172 of face-to-face modules specially designed for the  Strategic planning, a priority linked not only to company by Fundação Dom Cabral, a renowned incorporate efficacy but also to organizational stitution that specializes in executive development. climate management, in partnership with the Intern 89 85 88 The first module of this track is the People ManageWharton School of the University of Pennsylvament Cycle developed on the basis of leader compenia (Philadelphia). Begun in 2012, this process tencies, the company’s people management model, consists of strategic leadership training customand the general findings of the assessment process. ized for BM&FBOVESPA, with the participation of The goal is to clarify the leader’s role and enable the executives in an open strategy program at the Ratio of men’s to women’s basic salary by employee category LA14 participants to swap experiences and do practical exWharton School itself. ercises involving typical everyday real-life situations. The next step following completion of the initial modCategory 2013 2012 2011 Profile of BM&FBOVESPA’s team LA1 ule consists of workshops designed to strengthen the participants’ grasp of the concepts involved. In 2013 At end-2013, the company had 1,430 employees (448 the workshops focused on the people management women and 982 men), and 89 interns (40 women and Executive Officer 85.44% 84.36% 92.12% processes that most require well-qualified managers, 49 men). especially team target management and feedback. The entire workforce was located in the Southeast Region. All except for interns were employed full-time Manager 102.49% 100.81% 101.09% In 2013, the number of leaders trained in the various face-to-face modules of the program was 119. and had indefinite duration employment contracts. The number of people with special needs (PSN) was Coordinator 92.26% 93.39% 93.16% 73 at end-2013, in compliance with the 5% quota reTalent management quirement established by the applicable federal and Given its business model, BM&FBOVESPA aims to restate laws. Of this contingent, 38 are women and 35 Staff 84.18% 85.74% 83.99% tain and attract talented people who can help the are men. 32 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 33 People Management Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other New employee hires diversity indicators LA13 New hires by 2013 2012 2011 gender* Gender & ethnicity 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 (absolute numbers) Male 185 184 227 Men Women Black Black Female 100 119 140 men women Executive Officers 28 28 30 6 6 7 New hires 2013 2012 2011 by age Managers 76 77 70 18 20 24 1 1 Aged 30 214 217 237 Coordinators 125 128 114 46 42 38 2 1 1 1 or less Staff 753 750 784 378 391 388 24 20 21 8 8 10 Aged 31-50 70 84 126 Interns 49 50 54 40 35 34 2 1 Aged 51+ 1 2 4 Total 1,031 1,052 1,052 488 494 491 29 22 22 10 8 10 Separations Separations 2013 2012 2011 by gender * Age & PSN 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 (absolute Male 188 204 180 numbers) Female 108 117 108 Aged 30 Aged Aged 51+ Special or less 31-50 needs (PSN) Separations 2013 2012 2011 Executive Officers 29 28 31 5 6 6 by age Managers 4 6 7 77 80 79 13 11 8 Aged 30 or 152 187 158 less Coordinators 22 21 26 140 136 112 9 13 14 Aged 31-50 123 125 122 Staff 462 475 516 617 612 606 52 54 50 73 72 72 Aged 51+ 21 9 8 Interns 89 85 88 Total 577 587 637 863 856 828 79 84 78 73 72 72 Employee turnover LA2 34 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 35 People Management Turnover rate chain of fitness centers, which grant discounts on Exchange Kids – This initiative enables children aged AGÊNCIA LUZ monthly membership fees and waive enrollment fees 5-11 to find out more about their parents’ workplace, Turnover rate 2013 2012 2011 for employees and interns. Some 614 employees and with a full day of games, recreation and educational by gender (%) interns make use of this benefit. activities. The number of children who participated in 2013 was 170. The theme was Galaxy Trek. They Walking & Running Group – Periodic personalMale 12.25 12.64 13.54 voyaged to different places, such as Toy Planet and ized training for employees and interns, who must Goodness Planet, and received books and comics dotake a physical assessment before participating. The Female 6.83 7.69 8.25 nated by employees, interns and other professionals company subsidizes 50% of the fees charged by the who work with the company to the BM&FBOVESPA outside sports counselors who run this program. Ten Sports & Culture Center, located in Paraisópolis, and people took part in 2013. the Job Training Association. Turnover rate 2013 2012 2011 Flu Vaccine – An annual flu vaccination campaign is Secretaries Day – In 2013 a workshop was held to by age (%) held to protect employees, interns and contractors. commemorate the date, with 35 secretaries parOther forms of prevention are reinforced in addition ticipating. The subject was “Emotional Intelligence Aged 30 or less 12.02 13.16 13.14 to vaccination. This program benefited 1,200 people Espaço Dorival Rodrigues Alves at Work – Lessons of ‘The Devil Wears Prada’”. It inin 2013. Aged 31-50 6.34 6.81 8.25 volved a critical reflection on the key concepts of Checkup Program – Officers, managers and senior emotional intelligence and their implications in the Mais Equilíbrio – Work-Life Balance specialists are encouraged to have a checkup annuworkplace. Aged 51+ 0.72 0.36 0.40 ally if aged 50 or more, and every two years if aged Mais Você – Personal counseling and support from Soccer Tournaments – The traditional Seven-a--Side * Percentages based on number of new hires and employees leaving dur49 or less. The focus is on preventing sickness and ing year divided by total workforce in December of each year. a multidisciplinary team (psychologist, social worker, Soccer Tournament attracted 193 participants in promoting wellness. In 2013 the program had 46 parnutritionist, psychopedagogue, lawyer, physical ther2013. Awards were given to the teams that finished Note: Until 2012 the turnover rate was based on separations during the ticipants. year and final headcount. In 2013 it was based on average new hires and apist, personal trainer, among others) to help employin first, second and third place. separations and average headcount during the year. The rates for 2011 ees and their families deal with difficulties at home, Support for Breastfeeding – This program valorizes and 2012 have since been recalculated using the new methodology in Diversity & Voluntary Service Week – Activities ororder to assure comparability across the entire period. stress, legal problems and parenting. Diets are offered the role of women in society and the labor market, as ganized by HR and Sustainability in 2013 included a for specific situations (e.g. pregnancy, breastfeeding, well as contributing to infant development, through lecture entitled “I don’t want to come out of the mirconvalescence), as well as information on physical fitcomfort and convenience in a space reserved for feror” by a visually impaired female employee, a perQuality of life and benefits LA3 ness. The service is free, confidential and available 24x7 male staff to continue breastfeeding after they return formance by the Job Training Association’s Dance by phone and email. It processed 3,350 cases in 2013. from maternity leave. The space was used by eight Health, leisure, culture and emotional balance are Group, Day in Action, and a competition called Phoemployees in 2013. To commemorate World Breastpart of BM&FBOVESPA’s strategy to stimulate the tographing Diversity. feeding Week, the company promoted a meeting team’s performance and productivity. The company Espaço Dorival Rodrigues Alves – A space for use with mothers for a chat about the importance of offers far more than the legal benefits (prescription by employees, interns and other professionals who breastfeeding for infants, mothers, families, society drug discounts, life insurance, emergency loans, food work with the company to provide more equiliband the environment. Nine women took part. Pension plan ec3 vouchers, meal vouchers, childcare vouchers), includrium and health with comfort and convenience. The The company offers a defined-contribution pension ing options that raise awareness of the importance of Blood Donation Campaign – Conducted annually Dorival Rodrigues Alves Center covers all three pilplan for voluntary participation by all employees. The wellbeing and encouraging everyone to participate in partnership with the blood bank at Hospital Sírio lars of the Quality of Life Program (work-life balance, number of participants totals 1,043. in the Quality of Life Program. Libanês. In 2013, 156 employees participated. wellness, and leisure and culture), offering nutritional guidance, psychological and medical counseling, Points For You – An initiative of the Quality of Life The plan for employees of BM&FBOVESPA enables massage and a mingling area. Program to encourage healthy eating and weight participants and the sponsor to invest more – from Quality of Life Program loss, when necessary, using the Weight Watchers 3.6% to 7% of the monthly salary, with a matching The program has three pillars, comprising interlockmethod. In 2013, 39 people took part. contribution from the company equivalent to 100%. ing activities in work-life balance (Mais Equilíbrio), Mais Saúde – Wellness Employees who leave the company before the specwellness (Mais Saúde), and leisure and culture (Mais ified retirement date can keep their plans according Outpatient Clinics – Healthcare services including Lazer e Cultura). It completed three years in 2013, to the rules stipulated by the bylaws or cancel, in preventive action against diseases, promotion of lifeMais Lazer e Cultura – Leisure & Culture proving that action taken to enhance employees’ which case they can opt to transfer 100% of the acstyle changes and quality of life, diagnosis and treatMother’s Day and Father’s Day – Cultural, leisure well-being contributes significantly to improvements cumulated employee contributions based on length ment, as well as counseling in special cases. The numand integration activities were part of the commemin the workplace climate. The program includes the of service or up to 90% of the accumulated sponsor ber of medical and nursing cases processed in 2013 orations for both dates in 2013. They included excluFacilities Exchange (Bolsa Facilidades), which procontributions; alternatively they can withdraw 100% totaled 12,318. sive theater performances for mothers and fathers vides access to goods and services that contribute to of the accumulated employee contributions and up employee wellbeing through partnerships in sports, Fitness – To encourage its people to keep fit, the employed by the company, plus guests if they wished. to 50% of the accumulated sponsor contributions culture, recreation and leisure. company has an agreement with some units of a Mother’s Day: 300 people. Father’s Day: 400 people. based on length of service. 36 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 37 People Management It is important to note that the company has no Compensation model Measurement starts with self-assessment, which In 2013 employees were again invited to respond to obligations relating to payments in addition to its enables employees to reflect on the challenges a satisfaction survey on the feedback received. The In line with its corporate objectives the company’s contributions as sponsor. Regular contributions are faced during the period and record their percepnumber of voluntary respondents was 772. compensation model aims to assure market-competbooked under personnel expense for the period durtions. The self-assessments are analyzed by manitive pay levels, attract talent, and retain employees in ing which they are due. agers and departmental meetings are then held to the medium to long term. Training LA10 provide feedback. Fixed compensation consists mainly of a salary adIn 2013 the company continued with its employee After these meetings, employees access the perHealth and safety LA3 ¦ LA8 justed annually by a collective bargaining agreement training and development initiatives, delivering formance management system to acknowledge rewith the union that represents the employee’s cateThe company’s workplace and operations present a low ceipt of feedback and finalize the process. They then 401 actions in a range of training modalities with gory. Pay awards may also be granted for merit, prolevel of risk to health and safety. All employees have acprepare and obtain validation of an individual de5,938 participations and 1,523 employees and interns motion or extra qualifications. Such awards are gencess to a corporate health and dental care plan, which velopment plan. trained, for an average of 21 hours per employee. erally granted to recognize and reward performance also covers spouses and children up to the age of 21, and professional development on the basis of regular or 24 for university students. In cases of serious illness individual performance assessments. requiring care not covered by the plan, benefits may be granted on the basis of an individual analysis. LA8 Variable compensation consists of semiannual payAverage outs in accordance with the company’s profit sharing No. of No. of Total Employees can also use two outpatient clinics located Training No. of training program (PLR), which establishes potential monthly employees training training on the company’s premises at Praça Antonio Prado modality participations hours per salary multiples depending on the company’s key trained actions hours and Rua XV de Novembro, and staffed by physicians employee performance indicators and the employee’s seniority and nursing technicians every day of the week. The and individual performance assessment. All employfocus is on occupational medicine but urgent care is ees are eligible for variable compensation under the also available. The company also has discount agreerules of the PLR program. Leadership ments with pharmacies. In company 119 10 1,280 4 training Long-term compensation basically consists of stock To discuss matters relating to accident and occupaoptions granted under the company’s Stock Option tional disease prevention, the company has a specialPlan to align the interests of executives with the ized occupational health and safety service (SESMT) company’s objectives and foster retention of key In company 2,223 114 16,714 10 comprising a physician and occupational safety personnel. technician, as well as an Internal Workplace Accident Prevention Committee (CIPA) with 18 members corCorporate responding to 1.25% of the total workforce. LA6 Performance management training (all Online 1,488 15 7,145 4 The CIPA’s main functions are to map all workplace employees) hazards, observe and report risks of accidents, and Performance assessment is a process in which 100% 1,523 provide employees with guidance on accident preof the workforce take part, in line with the personal vention. development proposition established by the comExternal 118 118 3,806 2 pany. The aim is to assure results based on a commitAn Internal Workplace Accident Prevention Week (SIment to merit, considering the planning and target PAT) is organized annually in conjunction with SESMT. dimension (what) and the behavior expected for In its third edition, SIPAT presented health-related aceach level and function (how). LA12 Training tivities designed to encourage more conscious and relating to the positive behavior, including workshops on balanced Each employee’s individual performance assessment company’s In company 2,109 144 10,018 6 diet, physical assessment, mental balance, blood doconsists of three structured formal conversations with the employee’s manager during the year, one in strategic nation, and measurement of blood pressure, blood programs sugar and cholesterol. Employees also benefited from the first quarter dealing with targets (what) and comergonomics inspection blitzes, workstation intervenpetencies (how), and the others in mid-year and at tions with guidance on posture, and a “snooze booth” year-end for assessment and recognition. The results to restore energy. The number of participations durin both dimensions determine the employee’s eligiTotal 1,523 5,938 401 35,157 21 ing the five-day SIPAT in 2013 totalled 2,936. In the bility for the individual portion of the PRL program CIPA elections, 1,051 votes were cast, corresponding agreed with the union. to 74% of the workforce. Five members and four alternates were elected. LA9 38 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 39 People Management In-company and external face-to-face corporate Human rights HR2 training consisted of 232 actions with 2,341 particiIn 2013 the company continued to deliver on its pations. commitment to analyze and accredit suppliers in Online training involved 15 actions and totaled 7,145 accordance with its procurement policy, focusing hours, corresponding to 4 training hours per emabove all on the mitigation of risks relating to corpoployee. The number of participations reached 1,488, rate image, labor claims, child labor and slave labor. compared with 258 in the previous year. The number of suppliers accredited in 2013 totaled 69, representing 58%. The company also invested in specific training for leaders. The number of actions totaled 10, with 119 In addition, the company requires supplier clearance participations and an average of 4 training hours per certificates, credit checks with Serasa Experian, and employee. checks with the Office of the Comptroller General (www.cgu.gov.br) and the Transparency Portal (www. portaltransparencia.gov.br). The standard service Inside the Exchange (Por Dentro da Bolsa) agreement contains clauses prohibiting conditions The special induction program called Por Dentro da analogous to slave labor. Between June 2010 and DeBolsa (Inside the Exchange) trains employees and cember 2013, it had 641 accredited suppliers, 417 of interns in the basic concepts that permeate the exwhom were classified by branch of activity. It should change market, with the aim of assuring the use of be noted that 65% of the suppliers analyzed and aca single language throughout the organization and credited could pose some kind of human rights risk. providing an integrated understanding of its products Although supplier evaluation focuses mainly on tax, and services and how they are processed internally. civil and labor law matters in the federal, state and The program has six modules, with online conmunicipal spheres, the policy calls for notification of tent and face-to-face meetings. The first step is a the responsible manager if any violation of human self-assessment enabling individuals to identify gaps rights is detected, and for appropriate steps to be in their knowledge of the company. taken. To verify these items, moreover, the company requires prospective suppliers to complete a quesThe training modules to be used are identified on the tionnaire prior to a visit to their premises to make basis of these self-assessments and a review of the sure they have a procurement policy and an underrequisite knowledge by the heads of the areas conage apprentice program in place. cerned. As in previous years, in 2013 BM&FBOVESPA regisIn November 2013, to commemorate the first year tered no cases of discrimination on grounds of ethnic of the program, three iPads were raffled among the origin, color, gender, religion, ideology, nationality or trainees who completed the knowledge track as an social origin, and received no reports of child labor encouragement to general participation. The year and slave labor or violation of the rights of indigeended with 503 participants in the Por Dentro da nous peoples. HR4 ¦ HR6 ¦ HR7 Bolsa Program (employees and interns). Education Incentive Program This program facilitates access to higher education (undergraduate and graduate courses) and language courses for professionals with growth potential. The number of participations in 2013 was 200, of which 76 were in MBAs and other graduate courses, 16 in undergraduate courses, and 108 in language courses (English and Spanish). 40 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 41 Sustainability BM&FBOVESPA: a benchmark in sustainability In pursuit of excellence 4.12 ¦ 4.13 For BM&FBOVESPA sustainability is a new business management model in which the social and environmental dimensions, allied with best corporate governance practices, influence the economic dimension positively, adding value to the company. The company has been a pioneer in many aspects of sustainability. In 2004 BM&FBOVESPA was the first exchange in the world to sign up to the UN Global Compact. In 2010 it was the first exchange in any emerging-market country to commit officially to the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), an initiative led by institutional investors from several countries in partnership with the UN Global Compact and the UN Environment Program Finance Initiative (UNEP-FI). In the same year it was the first exchange in the world to become an organizational stakeholder in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), a network that sets internationally accepted reporting standards and develops strategic recommendations to enhance sustainability reporting. Since 2011 BM&FBOVESPA has issued Annual Reports containing both financial and non-financial information in a single document at meetings of the Brazilian Association of Capital Market Analysts & Investment Professionals (APIMEC). To encourage analysts and investors to take socio-environmental and corporate governance issues into account in their assessments of stock prices and investment decisions, in 2012 BM&FBOVESPA adopted Report or Explain guidance recommending that listed companies state in the Reference Form whether they publish a regular sustainability report and if not, why not. The initiative has had extremely positive results: by June 2013, 293 listed companies had published sustainability reports or explained their absence. As a founding signatory of the UN’s Sustainable Stock Exchanges (SSE) initiative, with Nasdaq OMX, the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, the Istanbul Stock Exchange and the Egyptian Exchange, it has endeav42 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 43 Sustainability ored to promote responsible long-term investment Recognition 2.10 “In Good Company” Corporate Sustainability Pro IT Now IGCT – Based on the Corporate Goverand the publication of non-financial information by gram nance Trade Index (IGCT), this EFT tracks the Empresas do Bem 2013, Istoé Dinheiro listed companies. stocks of companies that voluntarily adopt high Em Boa Companhia promotes permanent relationThe National Financial Education Strategy (ENEF), corporate governance standards (listed on the In the Sustainable Stock Exchanges Report on Progships with business organizations through a range developed by BM&FBOVESPA in partnership with Level 1, Level 2 and Novo Mercado segments) ress, published by PRI, the Global Compact, UNCTAD of initiatives, including the sharing of information several public and private entities, once again won and meet the criteria for inclusion established in and Aviva Investors, BM&FBOVESPA was designated by means of publications and face-to-face meetings the Exchange a place on the list of the “Top 50 Comits methodology. as a global reference in sustainability. with experts in sustainability, among others. Eight panies for Good” (50 Empresas do Bem), a survey by events were held in 2013. Elected for a three-year term to the GRI Stakeholder Istoé Dinheiro magazine identifying the 50 initiatives Council, and to chair Focal Point Brazil’s Advisory that are making Brazil more competitive. Details of the sustainability projects implemented by Sustainability Committee, in 2013 BM&FBOVESPA widened its accompanies listed on BM&FBOVESPA can be found at tion to promote transparency in the disclosure of www.bmfbovespa.com.br/emboacompanhia. non-financial information. Emerging-country companies that best report CO2  Carbon Efficient Index (ICO2) – Tracks the stocks emissions of IBrX-50 companies that agree to participate The company also supports several initiatives to Corporate governance and sustainability indexes and BM&FBOVESPA ranked seventh among companies and undertake to submit greenhouse gas invenpromote the insertion of sustainability and private funds in emerging countries that best report carbon emistory data for publication on the “In Good Comsocial investment into the agenda of listed compasions, according to a study by the Environmental InBM&FBOVESPA maintains a number of indexes that pany” website (www.bmfbovespa.com.br/emnies. These include the Socio-Environmental Investvestment Organization, a UK-based climate change track the performance of companies committed to boacompanhia). ment Exchange (BVSA), the Job Training Association, the BM&FBOVESPA Athletics Club, and the BM&Fand finance think tank. sustainability.  Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) – Tracks the BOVESPA Sports & Cultural Center. return on a portfolio of stocks issued by compaCDP Brazil 100 Climate Change Report Governance nies with a recognized commitment to sustainAs promised in the previous year, in 2013 the Board ability. Launched in 2005, the ISE has become a of Directors approved its Sustainability Policy For the second year running BM&FBOVESPA is one of  Special Corporate Governance Index – Novo Merbenchmark for sustainable management pracBM&FBOVESPA, aligned with the company’s stratethe top ten Brazilian companies ranked by the transcado (IGNM) – Tracks a theoretical portfolio comtices in Brazil and worldwide. Companies must gic principles. parency of their disclosure of information on climate prising the stocks of companies that voluntarily complete a specific questionnaire in order to The policy applies to all employees, interns, trainees change strategies and actions, according to the CDP adopt high corporate governance standards and be included in the ISE’s portfolio (www.isebvmf. and other staff of BM&FBOVESPA, as well as exterBrazil 100 Climate Change Report 2013. are listed on the Novo Mercado segment. com.br). nal stakeholders. Its aim is to formalize guidelines Published by the Carbon Disclosure Project, a non Special Corporate Governance Index (IGC) – for action on the theme. Its structure is divided into profit organization that works with thousands of Tracks the stocks of companies listed on Novo four pillars — environmental, corporate governance, companies and more than 722 institutional investors Mercado or classified in Levels 1 or 2 of BM&FIn 2013 the ISE’s board presented the timetable of market, and social. Forty-six meetings were held with (62 of them Brazilian) from 60 countries to tackle cliBOVESPA. activities for the process and announced a partnerexecutive officers and teams in 17 areas that will be mate change, the report surveys large corporations ship with the agency Imagem Corporativa to monitor affected in the first year of rollout.  Corporate Governance Trade Index (IGCT) – news flows involving the companies tracked by the that have adopted or enhanced positive practices Tracks the stocks of IGC companies that meet ISE portfolio. In addition, a face-to-face public hearsuch as reducing energy consumption, implementspecific liquidity criteria, such as actively trading ing was held on the 2014 ISE, as well as workshops on ing automation solutions, and substituting renewFuture commitments in at least 95% of trading sessions during the prethe seven dimensions of the questionnaire. ables for fossil fuels. vious 12 months. Implementation of Sustainability Policy It is important to stress that BM&FBOVESPA chairs  Special Tag Along Index (ITAG) – Tracks a theoretISE’s board (CISE), the highest governance body for In 2014 and 2015, the Sustainability Policy will be imSustainable development initiatives ical portfolio composed of stocks issued by comthe index, comprising representatives of 11 instiplemented in 17 areas of BM&FBOVESPA in accorThe Novo Valor website panies that offer minority shareholders better tutions. dance with the possibilities offered by their roles and www.bmfbovespa.com. terms than those required by law in the event of responsibilities, surveyed during 2013-14. br/novo-valor offers infora sale by majority shareholders. mation on the Exchange’s  IT Now ISE – Based on the Corporate SustainabilManagement aligned with the interests of sustainability and social ity Index (ISE), this exchange-traded fund (ETF) the company and society 4.16 Voluntary Service Program investment indicators and tracks the return on a portfolio comprising stocks BM&FBOVESPA is permanently committed to the In 2014 BM&FBOVESPA will draw up a voluntary serprojects, engaging with inissued by companies with a recognized commitmission of promoting sustainability and private sovice policy for employees, interns and contractors, vestors, companies and broment to social responsibility and sustainability. cial investment in line with its business strategy. as an extension of its Sustainability Policy in the Sokerage houses to promote cial Pillar, bolstering the Exchange’s activities in the the sustainable development of the capital markets, sector and encouraging volunteers to act in an orgaand thereby contributing to the realization of projects. nized manner and in line with its strategies. In 2013 it recorded more than 18,400 hits. 44 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 45 Sustainability In 2013 the Board of Directors approved the Sustainthe Sustainability Committee, responsible for strate Use of ecoefficient equipment – The company Job Training Association ability Policy, structured in four pillars – market, envigic guidelines and approval of macro-initiatives; and uses only energy-efficient light bulbs, smart air The BM&FBOVESPA Job Training Association, a social ronmental, social, and corporate governance: the Sustainability Task Force, which proposes and conditioning and next-generation elevators. investment arm of the Exchange linked to the BM&Fmanages the agenda. The department’s remit also  Green tech – Equipment and computer monitors BOVESPA Institute, was set up to promote social and includes managing the social investment programs that generate less heat and consume less energy economic integration of young people from low-inKey guidelines of the sustainability pillars developed by the BM&FBOVESPA Institute. are prioritized. come households through educational activities. The Exchange has also put several important meaMarket Environmental  Bicycle parking – The Exchange has a bicycle More than job training, the association is responsible • Maintenance of efficient and secure • Adoption of eco-efficiency programs sures in place to promote ecoefficiency. The main inisystems that assure the proper in its facilities, optimizing the use of parking facility with lockers and changing rooms for integral formation of socially excluded young peotiatives are summarized below. functioning of the market water, energy and paper • Supervision and surveillance of all transactions performed • Product and service offerings that add • Management of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions • Adequate management of solid waste, to motivate employees to make sustainability ple to make them citizens capable of shaping their customer value • Encouragement of innovation in products including electronic waste • Promotion of environmental best part of their day-to-day routine in this way. own life courses. To do so they must have experiences and services that help them develop based on their own repertoire practices across its value chain and • Commitment to the development of GHG inventory – BM&FBOVESPA conducted Car pool and bicycle messengers – The Carona among other stakeholders the capital markets • Leveraging Brazilian market growth by   • Fostering the disclosure of offering products and services with an and latent potential, thereby building the capability to its first inventory of greenhouse gas emissions Solidária (“Solidarity Car Pool”) Program encoursustainability practices environmental focus • Developing educational programs and initiatives to transform themselves and their surroundings. popularize products and services in 2010, based on data for 2009. Since 2010 the ages employees to share their cars with co-workGHG inventory has been verified by a third party ers via the Caronetas ride sharing website (www. All programs offered in São Paulo consists of citizenin order to assure evolution of the process. caronetas.com.br/bmfbovespa) and uses the sership workshops, vocational education workshops, vices of bicycle messengers for short distances. and additional workshops. In Rio de Janeiro they Social • Attracting and retaining talent Corporate Governance • Promoting, inducing and assuring best practices in transparency, comprise courses in basic skills, management skills (I, • Developing people • Pursuing quality-of-life improvements accountability and corporate governance The 2012 inventory was released to the public during II and III), and specific skills. • Fostering good social practices across the value chain and • Guaranteeing efficient risk management a Sustainability Week presentation. The company also has a long track record in social • Promoting the adoption of codes of investment. This activity is managed by the BM&Famong other stakeholders conduct Emissions totaled 4,303.20 tCO₂e. As is typical of or• Promoting private social AGÊNCIA LUZ investment • Assuring the adoption of best practice • Encouraging volunteerism in the protection of shareholder rights BOVESPA Institute. ganizations in the financial services industry, the Ex• Commitment to creating shareholder value change’s direct emissions are the least significant in the comparison of all three scopes. The inventory was BM&FBOVESPA Institute SO1 conducted with the support of a consulting firm and The complete text of BM&FBOVESPA’s Sustainability checked by KPMG. Details are available at www.regisThe Institute was established in 2007 to integrate and Policy is available at http://ri.bmfbovespa.com.br, in tropublicodeemissoes.com.br. coordinate BM&FBOVESPA’s social investment projCorporate Governance, Bylaws, Codes and Policies. ects. In 2008 the Institute became a public-interest The 2013 GHG inventory has not yet been produced, civil society organization (OSCIP). as the process will begin in January 2014. The findParticipatory action ings will be published in May. Its remit is to foster the Exchange’s participation in the efforts realized by society to promote sustainable The Sustainability Department acts in four dimendevelopment, focusing on social and economic inclusions:  Selective waste collection and recycling – All sion initiatives, environmental conservation, and the workstations and corridors on every floor of strengthening of civil society. BM&FBOVESPA’s buildings have selective waste  Management of natural resources – focusing Special attention is devoted to children and youth collection bins to enable comprehensive recyon ecoefficiency gains; because this is considered the best way to encourage cling. All materials including batteries are colthe social and economic changes required to build  Products and services – building sustainability lected for recycling. The money earned from a society in which there is more respect for human into the Exchange’s products and services in partthe sale of recycled material is donated to social Programs rights and better living conditions for all. nership with business areas projects chosen by employees, interns and contractors. In 2013 the institution selected by the Through the BM&FBOVESPA Institute, the Exchange • Training for Employability (São Paulo)  Governance – inducing best practice by the marsupports civil society organizations that focus on Basic knowledge in administration, focusing on Voluntary Service Committee was Núcleo Assisket and integrating the concept into internal govhealth and social assistance. In 2013, 12 institutions management and communication. tencial Fraterno, Grupo Mãos Estendidas. ernance; received R$240,000. • Use of certified paper – All publicity material, • Handyman (São Pulo)  Relationships – stakeholder engagement. The São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro Job Training AssociConstruction and building maintenance. This stationery and printing paper used by BM&FBOVESPA are certified by the Forest Stewardship ation, the Socio-Environmental Investment Exchange module teaches students how to build a house, Council (FSC). (BVSA), the Athletics Club, the Sports & Cultural Cenincluding installation of plumbing and electrical Two other multidisciplinary spheres of governance systems, flooring and wall tiles, painting, and carter and the Em Ação voluntary service program are manage sustainability in addition to the department: pentry for formwork. the main initiatives of the BM&FBOVESPA Institute. 46 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 47 Sustainability • Beauty Space (São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro) BM&FBOVESPA Athletics Club stimulate residents to read and take part in cultural Training in hairdressing, makeup, manicure and The BM&FBOVESPA Athletics Club fosters social inactivities. In 2013 the theme was the Culture of Indigpedicure, including knowledge about care of the clusion, develops new talent, and is a home for proenous Peoples. More than 350 children, youngsters body. fessional athletes who constantly represent Brazil in and professionals engaged in social projects particimajor international competitions. pated, including public school teachers. • Vocational Training – Construction Module and Installation Module (Rio de Janeiro) The Club maintains its principal group of athletes in Services provided by Senai/RJ, responsible for the city of São Caetano do Sul (SP), where its TrainEighth Culture Show technical supervision, pedagogy and certificaing Center and headquarters are located on a site tion of both modules. A grand science and culture expo organized by the granted by the city, but it also supports groups in main social organizations and public schools in the Campinas and São José do Rio Preto. area, this event is supported by the BM&FBOVESPA In 2013 students taking the Beauty Space program The BM&FBOVESPA Athletics Club’s Training Center Duda: personal best of 8.31m Fabiana Murer: season’s Institute, which is also on the Organizing Committee. had opportunities for practical experience, providwas designed from scratch as a smart building, with in long jump personal best of 4.73m in pole At the 2013 edition, 8,000 people attended 38 working beauty parlor services to employees of BM&Fan integrated complex comprising an indoor gymvault shops featuring popular dances, visual arts, videoBOVESPA as part of the commemoration of Women’s nasium, outdoor track and complete facilities for the making, music, and performing arts. Month, and to 68 seniors during Seniors’ Week at CRI athletes (weight room, physical therapy, nutrition, Base Category Project Norte (Centro de Referência do Idoso). psychology, changing rooms, press room, adminisThe Base Category Project initiates and trains athtrative offices and storerooms). IBM lectures In April the BM&FBOVESPA Job Training Association letes with the aim of complete development in sports featured in a story published by Bons Fluídos magaIn 2013 the BM&FBOVESPA Athletics Club won the starting at age 6 and potentially reaching high perEvery year IBM volunteers present a series of leczine (Editora Abril). Entitled “Grassroots Prosperity”, it Brazil Trophy for the 12th consecutive year. It was the formance status. tures to interest young people in mathematics, endescribed the Handyman program as an opportunity overall champion with 564 points and the men’s and gineering, science and technical careers. This year The Junior Club, installed at the BM&FBOVESPA to start a career in the construction industry, which is women’s champion with 37 medals (18 gold, 11 silver 42 youngsters from the Job Training Association and Sports & Cultural Center, offers classes for beginners suffering from a scarcity of skilled labor. and 8 bronze). Its athletes were the best of the meet, 37 from the BM&FBOVESPA Sports & Cultural Center in athletics with appropriate equipment for children set new South American and Brazilian records, and took part. The Job Training Association also hosted a Breakfast aged 7-12. qualified for the World Championships. with Partners, which was attended by Tecnisa, SherTraining for children and adolescents aged 12-18 win Williams and Hospital Samaritano. Fourteen of the 32 athletes entered by Brazil for the Em Ação aims to develop three poles that already work with IAAF World Championships in Moscow were from athletics: Instituto Elisângela Maria Adriano (Iema) “In Action” is a social mobilization program for emthe BM&FBOVESPA Athletics Club, including Fabiin São Caetano do Sul; Instituto Vanderlei Cordeiro ployees and others who work at the Exchange, set up BVSA ana Murer, Mauro Vinícius (Duda), Marílson Gomes de Lima (IVCL) in Campinas; and Associação Rio-Preto reaffirm and strengthen the company’s commitWith a format similar to a stock exchange, the Sodos Santos, Thiago Braz, Augusto Dutra and Ana tense de Atletismo (Arpa) in São José do Rio Preto. ment to the community cio-Environmental Investment Exchange (BVSA) ofClaudia Lemos. fers a portfolio of rigorously selected projects run by The Club’s athletes took part in 102 competitions, 44 In 2013, “In Action Day” involved an intervention in NGOs throughout Brazil for online donation in a sein Brazil and 58 abroad, and won 474 medals (389 BM&FBOVESPA Sports & Cultural Center the premises of the BM&FBOVESPA Sports & Culcure and transparent virtual environment. and 85 respectively), of which 238 were gold (196 tural Center and a graffiti workshop with Zezão, an Located in São Paulo City’s Paraisópolis community, and 42). internationally recognized artist. Employees, interns In 2013 BVSA listed five new projects run by Brazilian the BM&FBOVESPA Sports & Cultural Center fosand contractors and their families participated in the organizations, with budgets ranging from R$30,000 ters integral development for youngsters aged 6-18 Keila Costa: new transformation of this space, which became more FOTOS: AGÊNCIA LUZ to R$100,000, and classified according to the eight Brazilian triple through sports, art and culture. The Center houses colorful and vibrant as a result of their activities. Millennium Development Goals established by the jump record the Norberto Bobbio Library with some 2,500 titles. UN: eradicate extreme poverty and hunger, achieve For the second consecutive year the CEO of the ExThe main activities that took place there in 2013 are universal primary education, promote gender equalchange, who is also the president of BM&FBOVESPA described below. ity and empower women, reduce child mortality, imInstitute, hosted an annual lunch to celebrate with prove maternal health, combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and volunteers and recognize the time and energy they other diseases, ensure environmental sustainability, Sixth Library Week donate during the year to the initiatives of the Em and develop a global partnership for development. Ação program. The staff of libraries and other institutions in the With official support from UNESCO, the website www. Paraisópolis community hold this annual event to bvsa.org.br currently has eight projects available for donation. More than R$13.2 million has so far been Carlos Chinin: South American raised via BVSA. decathlon record 48 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 49 Sustainability Programs and projects 2013 SO1 2013 Sustainability Milestones 4.16 view the ISE questionnaire in the seven dimensions evaluated, and five thematic workshops. Name 2013 2012 2011 IIRC Proposal Launched January On April 16 the International Integrated Reporting APBM&FBOVESPA 238 young 217 young 252 young participants Em Boa Companhia – Global Reporting Initiative Council (IIRC), a global coalition that promotes the in(GRI) Workshops Job Training Association participants in participants in São in São Paulo and 287 in tegration of financial, sustainability and governance São Paulo and Paulo and 287 in Rio Rio de Janeiro. Free workshops are offered by BM&FBOVESPA in information into mainstream corporate reporting, 254 in Rio de de Janeiro. partnership with GRI on the production of sustainlaunches a proposed new international integrated Janeiro. ability reports in accordance with GRI standards. Five reporting framework at BM&FBOVESPA and in nine workshops are held, with a total of 159 participants. other countries. Socio-Environmental InR$614,000 R$473,000 donated R$543,000 donated to Sustainability Policy Approved vestment Exchange (BVSA) donated to 17 to 15 listed projects. 13 listed projects. February On April 4 the Board of Directors approves BM&Flisted projects. BOVESPA’s Sustainability Policy, aligned with the 2012 Annual Report Published company’s main strategies and targeting internal and For the fifth consecutive year BM&FBOVESPA pubexternal stakeholders. R$64,000 donated to 16 lishes an integrated annual report with financial, new projects first listed social and environmental results according to GRI in January 2012. guidelines. The report is simultaneously presented at May a meeting of the Brazilian Association of Capital MarGreenhouse Gas Inventory BM&FBOVESPA Athletics Team of 57 Team of 79 athletes. Team of 89 athletes, ket Analysts & Investment Professionals (APIMEC). BM&FBOVESPA’s 2012 GHG inventory is published on Club athletes. including Fabiana Murer May 5 during a Sustainability Week presentation. The and Marílson Gomes. inventory is checked by KPMG. Out of 36 athletes March Out of 32 athletes entered for the Em Boa Companhia – Inaugural ISE Workshop ISE face-to-face public hearing entered for the London Olympics, 12 A hearing takes place for public consultation regardTenth consecutive win The inaugural meeting of the 2013 ISE process is held Moscow World were from the Club, ing the 2014 ISE on May 10. of Brazil Trophy, Interior on March 5. Announcements include the 2013 timeChampionships, including Fabiana table of activities and the partnership with Imagem 14 were from the Murer and Marílson Open Games and Corporativa, the agency that monitors news flows inClub, including Gomes. Regional Games. June volving companies tracked by the ISE. Fabiana Murer ISE Workshop: Human Rights The importance and value of the ISE are discussed and Marílson A workshop is held on June 17 to discuss human Eleventh consecutive with executives and experts. Presentations covering Gomes. concepts, case studies and initiatives by other exrights in the corporate sphere, based on a UN report, win of Brazil Trophy, changes around the world are delivered. with presentations covering the UN Guiding Principlus two Brazilian and ples on Business & Human Rights, the key concepts Twelfth two South American Some of the companies that disclosed their answers of ISO 26000 (Social Responsibility), and practical exconsecutive win records. to the ISE questionnaire take part in a panel session on amples of diversity in business organizations. of Brazil Trophy. the advantages of transparency for investors, among other topics. The launch of the process is followed by The workshop is inspired by the 2011 report prea workshop on communication and sustainability for sented to the UN by Special Representative John journalists and other media professionals. Ruggie, who proposed the Protect, Respect and RemBM&FBOVESPA Sports & Average of 743 Average of 800 Average of 800 children edy Framework. Cultural Center children and children and and adolescent users, ISE Workshop: Economic-Financial Dimension adolescent users, adolescent users, with with 930 book loans to April with 477 book 1,045 book loans to 309 people. A workshop called Challenges of the Economic-FinanISE Questionnaire Review Workshops loans to 181 232 people. cial Dimension is held on June 18 to discuss business people. Activities conducted in partnership with the Getulio management aiming at the long term, one of the most Vargas Foundation (FGV) include six workshops to rechallenging aspects of sustainable development. 50 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 51 Sustainability Em Boa Companhia – Seminar on Corporate Reder the Koyoto Protocol Clean Development MechX ray of 2014 portfolio porting anism (CDM) and known as Certified Emission ReISE 2014 portfolio by numbers The new portfolio comprises 51 stocks issued by 40 ductions (CERs). The credits purchased come from On June 20 the Brazilian Business Council for Sustaincompanies, representing 18 sectors and worth an small-scale renewable energy projects registered able Development (CEBDS) and BM&FBOVESPA host aggregate R$1.14 trillion in market cap, equivalent with the UN. • 100% of the companies in the portfolio the Brazilian Seminar on Corporate Transparency & to 47.16% of the total market value of the companies Sustainable Development to discuss the state of the Em Boa Companhia – Report or Explain Workshop listed on BM&FBOVESPA (based on closing prices on publish sustainability reports. art in corporate reporting models, focusing specifiNovember 26, 2013). A workshop called Sustainability: A Strategic and • 95% use the GRI guidelines as a basis for their cally on the introduction of integrated reporting. The Urgent Agenda is held on October 7 to encourage All but one of the 37 stocks in the 2013 portfolio were sustainability reports. seminar is attended by representatives of several secsustainability reporting and clarify doubts on the reselected for the 2014 portfolio. In 2013, 22 of the 40 tors from Brazil and abroad. topic. companies represented by the new portfolio autho• 93% maintain the direct involvement of rized disclosure of their questionnaire answers (14 PRI in Person top management in the production of their out of 37 in 2012). July sustainability reports. BM&FBOVESPA takes part in the annual conference of The ISE process was again externally audited by BM&FBOVESPA launches Sustainability Policy the UN-supported Principles for Responsible InvestKPMG, which helped make it even more credible. • 100% have formally inserted a commitment ment (PRI), held at Cape Town, South Africa. The company begins internal and external dissemito sustainable development in their strategies. nation of its Sustainability Policy. The policy is aligned 53rd General Assembly and Annual Meeting of with its strategic principles and applies to all employthe World Federation of Exchanges (WFE) December • 98% have programs to raise awareness ees, interns, trainees and other staff, as well as stakeBM&FBOVESPA participates in a panel session at the Social Responsibility Day and educate the public on sustainable holders. Its aim is to formalize guidelines for action Mexico meeting to launch the Sustainable Stock Exdevelopment. on the theme. The Exchange donates part of the fees earned on a changes State of Disclosure Report. day’s equity trading to the private social investment Its structure is divided into four pillars — environmen• 95% have a Sustainability Department that projects listed on BVSA. In annual terms 50% of its tal, corporate governance, market, and social – plus a donations are distributed equally to all projects and reports to top management. new mission: “Promote sustainability and private soNovember 50% to the projects chosen by brokerage houses via cial investment aligned with strategy, contributing to COP-19 • 58% have a Sustainability Committee that a voting hotsite. the institutional strengthening of BM&FBOVESPA”. BM&FBOVESPA participates in the 19th UN Climate reports to the Board of Directors. Em Boa Companhia – GRI Post-Conference Change Conference, COP-19, at Warsaw, Poland, on A GRI post-conference meeting is held in partnership November 18-22, as an observer with the Brazilian with BM&FBOVESPA on July 29 to present and discuss delegation led by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The changes to the requirements for defining the strucconference brings together negotiators from 195 ture and content of G4 GRI sustainability reporting. countries to discuss ways to address the problems caused by global warming. 30th Annual Session of ISAR (International StanAugust dards of Accounting & Reporting) Report or Explain Update Launch of Best Practice Guidance for Policymakers The number of companies publishing sustainability & Stock Exchanges on Sustainability Reporting Inireports or explaining why not has increased by 90, tiatives, November 6-8, Geneva, Switzerland. Transwhich represents growth from 45.31% to 66.29% in lated into six languages, the official UN document the proportion of companies joining the Report or is the first initiative deriving from the agreement esExplain initiative. tablished by Sustainable Stock Exchanges (SSE), to which BM&FBOVESPA is a signatory. 2014 ISE Seminar October A seminar called The Impact of Sustainability on Greenhouse Gas Emission Offset Reputation and Investor Decisions presents the BM&FBOVESPA offsets unreducible 2011 and 2012 ninth ISE portfolio, to remain in force between JanGHG emissions by purchasing 7,148 carbon credits uary 6, 2014, and January 2, 2015. The event is at(or 7,148 metric tons of CO2 equivalent) created untended by 168 people. 52 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 53 Market BM&FBOVESPA: promoting liquidity and security for Strengthening investors State-of-the-art technology BM&FBOVESPA invests continuously in new technology and launches products and services to offer instruments that are more effective and secure, and to increase liquidity for investors and participants in its markets. In 2013 BM&FBOVESPA unveiled its new Operations Control Center, assuring faster and more efficient communication to meet the needs of participants. The new Operations Control Center was named Arminio Fraga Neto in recognition of the leadership and valuable contributions made by the outgoing Chairman of the Board. The highlights in 2013 were completion of the certification stages of the clearinghouse integration project and of migration from Mega Bolsa to the BM&FBOVESPA PUMA Trading System, the launch of iBalcão, new contract launches, changes to the Ibovespa methodology, the preparation of proposals to facilitate IPOs by small and medium enterprises, a program of incentives to attract more individual investors, and pricing policy changes. Clearinghouse integration The post-trading integration project is a BM&FBOVESPA initiative to create an integrated clearinghouse, which will consolidated the activities of its four existing clearinghouses – equities, derivatives, bonds and foreign exchange – into a new unified platform. 54 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 55 Market Strengthening The introduction of new technologies, concepts and In 2013 the migration of equities and equity derivaThe changes align the methodology for the ExIn the variable income markets, the securities lending solutions is revolutionizing important services protives trading from Mega Bolsa to the BM&FBOVESPA change’s flagship index with best practice in other system (BTC) expanded thanks to the improvements vided by the Exchange and enhancing the company’s PUMA Trading System was finalized as planned. Mock countries and adapt the Ibovespa to current condimade in the previous year, and the company intensicompetitiveness in the global arena. trading sessions were held throughout the year to tions in the capital markets, as well as making it more fied its market maker programs for options on other validate all solutions that interact with the PUMA robust in light of the growth expected for Brazil. securities with high liquidity. It also stepped up the One of the highlights of this project is CORE (CloseTrading System, including internal and external tests. marketing of Real Estate Investment Funds (FIIs). Out Risk Evaluation), a system developed to minimize the risks to which a central counterparty is exposed As a result, all trading in derivatives, spot foreign exIn response to market demand, Unsponsored Level I Initiatives for small and medium enterprises while maximizing efficiency and robustness. change, equities and equity derivatives is integrated Brazilian Depository Receipts (BDRs) began trading in into a single platform with high processing capacity Considering the importance of SMEs to the national the exchange market. The new unified platform is extremely secure and and very low order latency, which is world-class, with economy and the challenges they face in pursurobust, and based on a faster data processing archiAnother highlight in 2013 was the launch of crystal a round trip time (RTT) of less than 1 millisecond. ing sustainable forms of financing, representatives tecture with the capacity to process more than 10 sugar and anhydrous ethanol derivatives, making of government and the private sector have joined million trades per day and calculate risk in real time. BM&FBOVESPA the world’s first exchange to offer the forces to discuss alternatives ways of fostering the productive sector a complete portfolio of sugar-enThe migration process will involve one clearinghouse iBalcão growth of SMEs via the capital markets. ergy commodities; and of new derivatives referencat a time, with the new platform taking over operaIn 2013 BM&FBOVESPA began registering over-theIn 2013 the Brazilian Industrial Development Agency ing the average rate for one-day repurchase agreetions and positions for the clearinghouse concerned, counter derivatives trades with iBalcão, its new OTC (ABDI), the National Development Bank (BNDES), ments, backed by federal government bonds. after which it will be deactivated. The derivatives segsystem. The first derivative available for registration BM&FBOVESPA, the Securities & Exchange Comment will be first, followed by equities. The requireThe following products were launched in 2013: is the Non-Deliverable Foreign Exchange Forward mission (CVM) and the Brazilian Innovation Agency ments for foreign exchange and bonds are being without the guarantee feature. Forwards in more (FINEP) established the Small Offerings Technical considered and may potentially entail a later supplethan 20 currencies are available to participants in Committee. The project was presented to the Finance  Cash-Settled Crystal Sugar Futures Contract mentary phase. this market for registration with the new system. Ministry in July.  Anhydrous Fuel Ethanol Futures Contract with In 2013 a survey was conducted to check the stage Registration can be retroactive, and orders can be Physical Delivery of participant preparedness with regard to the decorrected and cancelled. velopment of the new clearinghouse (derivatives Program of incentives to attract more individual in Futures Contract Referencing the Average Rate segment) and to provide input for preventive acvestors for One-Day Repurchase Agreements (OC1) tion, support and risk mitigation. Implementation of Operating efficiency To drive growth in the number of retail investors and  Call Option on the Index of the Average Rate for the derivatives phase is planned for the first quarter Ibovespa methodology encourage direct participation by individuals in the One-Day Repurchase Agreements (ITC) of 2014. cash equity market as a means of disseminating a In September 2013 BM&FBOVESPA announced  Put Option on the Index of the Average Rate for Clearing activities involve several areas of the Exculture of investment and long-term savings, BM&Fchanges to the Bovespa Index (Ibovespa) methodolOne-Day Repurchase Agreements (ITC) change, such as settlement, risk control, collateral BOVESPA decided to grant a certain amount of credit ogy for implementation in two stages. The portfolio management, pricing, the central securities deposito brokerage houses based on the number of new in U.S. Dollar Spread Futures Contract Referencing that will be in force between January and April 2014 tory, registration, the integrated broker management vestors originated by these institutions, the balance One-Day Repurchase Agreements (DCO) will be obtained using the average of the weightsystem (SINACOR), and IT. This means the projects are of their custody holdings, and the length of time new U.S. Dollar Swap with Reset Referencing One-Day ings defined on the basis of the old and new meth interrelated and occur simultaneously. investors trade through their accounts. The program Repurchase Agreements (SCS) odologies. From May 2014 the weighting system entered into force on September 30, 2013, and is All information on BM&FBOVESPA’s post-trading inteused for the index will be based solely on the new  Forward Rate Agreement on One-Day Repurscheduled to end on September 30, 2018. gration project is available from the website http:// methodology. chase Agreements Structured Transaction (FRO) ipn.bmfbovespa.com.br. The changes include free float weighting, reformula Foreign Exchange Forward tion of the negotiability index, new criteria for incluProducts and services sion, permanence and exclusion, and a limit on the  Cash-Settled Mini Crude Oil Futures Contract PUMA Trading System In 2013 BM&FBOVESPA intensified fixed-income opBased on CME Group Light Sweet Crude Oil (WTI) number of stocks issued by any one company to be erations by facilitating access to the bonds issued by Futures Contract The multi-asset trading platform developed in partincluded in the Ibovespa portfolio. the National Treasury via incentives for brokerage nership with CME Group is one of the linchpins of The documents “New Methodology for the Bovespa houses that distribute this product, and exempting BM&FBOVESPA’s growth, since it will replace all existIndex” and “Manual of Definitions & Procedures for investors from exchange fees when they trade fedMarket makers ing trading systems with far higher processing capacBM&FBOVESPA Indices” are available from the weberal government bonds. ity than current market levels. Market makers are participants who undertake to site www.bmfbovespa.com.br, in Markets, Equities, Indices, Bovespa Index – Ibovespa. guarantee minimum liquidity and facilitate price discovery for a certain number of assets accredited for this purpose, playing a key role in the efficiency of the capital markets. 56 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 57 Market Strengthening In 2013 BM&FBOVESPA held competitive biddings to FOTOS: AGÊNCIA LUZ select market makers for the following products:  Cash-Settled Crystal Sugar Futures Contract  Cash-Settled Hydrous Ethanol Futures Contract  S&P 500 Futures Contract Settled in Cash to the CME Group S&P 500 Quotation  Cash-Settled Mini Crude Oil Futures Contract Based on CME Group Light Sweet Crude Oil (WTI) Futures Contract ALTUS ALUPAR ANIMA BIOSEV  Options on the Stocks of BM&FBOVESPA S.A. – Bolsa de Valores, Mercadorias e Futuros (BVMF3), and Usinas Siderúrgicas de Minas Gerais S.A. – Usiminas (USIM5)  Options on the Stocks of Companhia Siderúrgica Nacional (CSNA3), PDG Realty S.A. Empreendimentos e Participações (PDGR3), and Cyrela Brazil Realty S.A. Empreendimentos e Participações (CYRE3)  Options on the Stocks of OGX Petróleo e Gás Participações S.A. (OGXP3), and Itaú Unibanco Holding S.A. (ITUB4) BB SEGURIDADE CPFL CVC  Options on the Stocks of Banco Bradesco S.A. (BBDC4), Gerdau S.A. (GGBR4), and Banco do Brasil S.A. (BBAS3)  Options on Bovespa Index (IBOV) Resumption of IPOs For the equity market BM&FBOVESPA offers four special listing segments: Novo Mercado, Corporate Governance Levels 1 and 2, and Bovespa Mais, each with specific corporate governance requirements in addition to the mandatory standards established by Brazilian corporation law (Lei das SAs). LINX NORTEC QUÍMICA SER EDUCACIONAL Em 2013, 10 companies made initial public offering and three more companies listed on Bovespa Mais – Altus Sistema de Automação, Cia. Águas do Brasil, and Nortec Química. Market development events BM&FBOVESPA constantly holds conferences, lectures, seminars, forums and workshops to strengthen the markets it manages. The 2013 highlights included the following events: SMILES TUPY 58 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 59 Market Strengthening  Risk Management and Commodity Trading ConTreasury Direct Issuers ference To foster investment in Treasury Direct, BM&FIn 2013 BM&FBOVESPA published a new Pricing Pol International Conference on Corporate GoverBOVESPA ceased charging the 0.01% exchange fee icy for Issuers, changing some operational procenance on purchases of federal government bonds as of Jandures and fees but not raising any prices then in force. uary 2, 2013.  IPO Forum  IPO Immersion Course OTC market Equities and fixed income  Ibero-American Federation of Exchanges (FIAB) BM&FBOVESPA also decided to make changes to the Seminar In the Bovespa segment, BM&FBOVESPA lowered the prices charged in the organized over-the-counter exchange fee for trading in the cash equity market, (OTC) market. Exchange fees and settlement fees  Seminar on CVM Guidance for Public Companies extending to all day traders the volume band diswere altered to assure better alignment with the  Seminar on Outlook for Agribusiness in 2013-14 count policy hitherto applicable to high-frequency prices charged in the exchange market. The changes  Workshop on Integrated Reporting – Outlook traders (HFTs). published will enter into force for transactions perand Role of IR formed as of January 2014. Per-volume exchange fees were also gradually re Workshops on BDRs, ETFs and Securities Lending duced across the board, benefiting all investors. In the fixed-income market, changes were made to Market data feed the public offering registration analysis fee, the perThe Exchange waived the fee for the BM&F segment Pricing policy manence, custody and account maintenance fees, market data feed solely to non-professional customBM&FBOVESPA has been making efforts to enhance and the exchange fee for new fixed-income security ers or brokerage houses and distributors, such as its Pricing Policy in order to assure an even more issues in October 2013. “home broker” online trading systems and small decompetitive product offering, increase the liquidity The changes were implemented in two stages, the vices (tablets, smartphones etc.), between June and of its markets and attract new investors. first in April and the second in December 2013. December 2013. With 800 attendees, a Seminar on the Outlook for Agribusiness in 2013-14 was held by BM&FBOVESPA and the Agriculture Ministry in São Paulo. 60 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 61 Education and BM&FBOVESPA: disseminating knowledge marketing the to thousands of people markets BM&FBOVESPA Educational Institute Since 1987 the BM&FBOVESPA Educational Institute has been the leading center of capital markets education for the Brazilian economy. It has trained more than 50,000 people in the period. In line with the company’s strategy of fostering a culture of long-term investment, and with its commitment to bringing investors and issuers together in a single environment, the BM&FBOVESPA Educational Institute acts to develop the financial markets by means of education and training. Targeting a wide variety of groups, from beginners in investment to executives, the Educational Institute’s courses range from introductory concepts to the most complex solutions for the training of professionals. Its knowledge base originates in BM&FBOVESPA’s various fields of expertise, and the solutions it offers encompass both continued education for financial market professionals and the development of companies, based on the principles of best practice in corporate governance and sustainability. In addition to acting as the main center of education and training for its markets, the BM&FBOVESPA Educational Institute offers two free MBA courses for market professionals: an MBA in Capital Markets & Derivatives, and an MBA in Financial Risk Management. In partnership with UBS Business School, it also offers an MBA in Economics, Financial Information & Capital Markets for Journalists, for media professionals who specialize in covering economic, financial and business affairs. In 2013 the Educational Institute hosted the Sixth International Financial & Capital Markets Conference. More than 700 people took part in the leading event of its kind in Latin America, placing Brazil in the forefront of the debate on global economic trends. 62 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 63 Education and marketing the markets BM&FBOVESPA Educational Institute’s operating Courses/programs No. of courses Participants ROBERT SHILLER /AGÊNCIA LUZ segments Online 513 4,069 Financial education PQO certification 96 2,506 Education is a major driver of the nation’s development. For this reason the BM&FBOVESPA Educational In-company 49 1,665 Institute devotes significant efforts to programs and projects in which information and financial educaFace-to-face 67 1,194 tion are key words, including Educar, Dinheiro no Bolso, and TV Educação Financeira (videos available Por Dentro da Bolsa 69 1,056 from YouTube), as well as simulators and online and MBA 1 21 face-to-face courses. Total 807 10,796 Robert Shiller, Nobel Economics Laureate in 2013, addresses the Sixth International Financial & Capital Markets Conference. Capital and derivatives markets Education, training and specialization for profesMain financial education programs Educar – This program, whose name means “EducatThe Educational Institute seeks to introduce course sionals in the financial services industry (brokerage ing”, delivers financial education lectures and courses Visits to the Exchange – Located on the ground floor participants to the most innovative elements in houses, banks, investment funds and companies). free of charge to different audiences of children, of the building on Rua XV de Novembro, the Rayknowledge of the financial markets. It has its own The offering also includes specific training courses to youth and adults. Its 325 courses had 14,940 particmundo Magliano Filho Visitor Center welcomes 450 faculty of experts and an infrastructure of classrooms operate the systems managed by the Exchange and ipants in 2013. people a day on average. Visitors watch a 3D instituand study labs. Its library has a large collection and to impart the skills professionals require in order to tional video, presentations and a mock trading sescomputerized access to facilitate the work of reperform in compliance with the standards of excelsion. The number of visitors totaled 97,039 in 2013. searchers. It also has a Memory Center, responsible lence demanded by the markets. for documenting, safekeeping, conserving and disseminating the history of BM&FBOVESPA. BM&FBOVESPA Vai até Companies Você – True to its name, the Specializing in the education and training of pro“BM&FBOVESPA Goes Where fessionals who operate in the markets managed by You Are” program consists of BM&FBOVESPA, the Educational Institute offers a visits to institutions (comparange of products tailored to the needs of companies nies, universities and assoand staff in terms of content, workload and methciations), trade shows and odology, including face-to-face, distance and mixed other events to disseminate delivery courses, training sessions, seminars, preseninformation about the inTurma da Bolsa – “Exchange Kids”, consisting of a fitations, and 100% customized in-company training. vestment options offered by nancial education portal for children and programs the Exchange. In 2013 the aired by the Futura TV channel, ended 2013 with program benefited 5,721 people. 8,582 registered children and recorded 7,461 visits. Certification Desafio BM&FBOVESPA – A challenge competition FOTOS: AGÊNCIA LUZ The BM&FBOVESPA Educational Institute offers certification of brokerage house professionals in back that simulates the capital markets for students of office, risk management, compliance, trading, sales public and private high schools throughout São and technology. This certification is one of the rePaulo State. The project has involved more than quirements of the Operational Qualification Pro15,000 people since its creation. In 2013 the number gram (PQO). of schools enrolled reached 373 and the number of participants was 1,907. The number of participants in the courses delivered by the Educational Institute in 2013 totaled 10,796. In 2013 the BM&FBOVESPA Educational Institute moved to new premises with more modern classrooms and integrated spaces. 64 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 65 Education and marketing the markets Courses and institutional presentations – In addition Simulator No. of participants Digital communication – The company’s website In 2013, submissions to the 25th edition of the BM&Fto Educar, the Exchange offers online courses on per(www.bmfbovespa.com.br) offers information on the BOVESPA Journalism Awards comprised 135 stories sonal finance and the stock market, as well as instituFutures 90,873 Exchange’s products and services for investors and produced by 93 professionals and published by 30 tional presentations. The tables below show the numthe main participants in its markets, as well as convehicles in several states. Folhainvest 906,807 bers of participants and accesses in 2013. tent for the general public and potential investors. In Six journalists won awards in five categories: NewspaUol Invest 293,578 2013 it recorded 21,464,627 visits. pers São Paulo/Rio de Janeiro; Magazines São Paulo/ BM&FBOVESPA also offers a wealth of audiovisual maRio de Janeiro; Print Media Other Capitals & Interior; Institutional presentation attendees Total 1,291,258 terial via YouTube (www.youtube.com/bmfbovespa) Online Media; and Derivatives. Primary school students 100 on financial education and the products traded in Press Awards – An initiative of the Education Adviits markets. The videos posted to this channel were sory Committee, these awards recognize the role of High school students 2,650 viewed 550,180 times in 2013. the press in disseminating information about the University students 6,326 Facebook users are offered financial education and capital markets and explaining to the general pubsustainability tips, the Educational Institute’s syllalic why they are important. The information on risks, Companies 1,318 bus, recommended videos etc. The number of folopportunities and rights published by the press help lowers on Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn totaled people make better-informed investment decisions. General public 2,744 231,582 in 2013. Dinheiro no Bolso – “Money In Your Pocket”, a TV Stories published during the period specified in the Total 13,138 program in competition format for young people Several free apps can be downloaded from BM&Frules compete for awards to journalists in three catproduced by Futura channel in partnership with BOVESPA’s website with information on its markets, egories: Newspapers, Magazines, and Digital Media. BM&FBOVESPA, encourages the new generations real-time indexes, stock quotes, commodities and fuWinners are announced annually. Contestants must “How to Invest in Shares” course participants to consume consciously and manage their assets tures, as well as charts and news (www.bmfbovespa. enroll via the committee’s website (www.comiteresponsibly, transmitting concepts in economics, ficom.br, in Services, Information Services). The apps deeducação.cvm.gov.br). The eighth edition was Total 7,236 nance, investment, the stock market, credit and enare also available from all the main social networks. held in 2013. trepreneurship in an attractive and playful manner. CVM & BM&FBOVESPA Essay Competition – For young university students enrolled in undergraduate Online course accesses courses recognized by the Education Ministry (MEC), Marketing the markets rewarding academic production and encouraging reFinancial Education BM&FBOVESPA is a benchmark in the production of search on the capital markets. & Personal Finance 73,127 material on the markets it manages, and develops an array of products offering information about these Stock Market 67,340 markets. Total 140,467 Publications – BM&FBOVESPA produces several electronic bulletins with different types of information on its markets and indexes. Users can register to receive Online chat participants email notifications when bulletins are available on the website. Total 589 The Exchange also periodically publishes educational leaflets about its markets and services, supporting material for the various courses it offers, and the Nova Awards and competitions Simulators – The Exchange has created simulators in Bolsa magazine, as well as the Annual Report. BM&FBOVESPA continuously encourages activities partnership with several institutions to enable anythat contribute to the dissemination and developone to learn how to invest in stocks, bonds or derivaAll this material can be accessed on the website www. bmfbovespa.com.br, in BM&FBOVESPA, Publications. ment of the Brazilian market. The following initiatives tives, and how to diversify and grow a portfolio. The are worth highlighting in this context. user receives a virtual amount of cash and can simulate securities trades in real time, create an investBM&FBOVESPA Journalism Awards – Created in 1988 ment portfolio, and win prizes. www.bmfbovespa.com.br/revista No 17/ 2013 to recognize the media’s contribution to the developENSAIO AS BOAS AÇÕES DE DIVIDENDOS ESPORTE O FUTEBOL RUMO À PROFISSIONALIZAÇÃO jORNALISMO TROPA DE ELITE ment of the capital and derivatives markets in Brazil. A VOLTA DOS IPOs “ABRIR CAPITAL NO NOVO MERCADO 66 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA MULTIPLICOU O VALOR DA EMPRESA” Alberto Menache, Presidente da Linx annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 67 ENVIRONMENTAL BM&FBOVESPA: example of climate change PERFORMANCE strategies Adopt best management practices to climate change is a major priority for BM&FBOVESPA. The company monitors water and energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions and waste reduction on a monthly basis to mitigate its environmental impact. Greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) In 2010 BM&FBOVESPA produced its first inventory of greenhouse gas emissions using 2009 data and began reporting GHG to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). The 2012 inventory was made available in May 2013, testifying to the company’s commitment to assuring the progress of corporate climate change initiatives. The inventory covered all member companies of the BM&FBOVESPA group, and was checked by KPMG. GHG emissions totaled 4,303.2 metric tons of CO₂e in 2012. The company again posted its 2012 GHG inventory to the Public Emissions Registry, an initiative of Brazil’s GHG Protocol Program, again winning a Gold Seal for filing a complete inventory verified by an independent third party (http://registropublicodeemissoes.com.br). The inventory showed that the use of generators remained the main stationary source of direct GHG emissions, accounting for 87% of the total. There were no material changes in emissions of natural gas and LPG. Emissions from fire extinguishers and cooling gas were calculated on the basis of the amount of gas used to recharge equipment in the buildings on Rua Florêncio de Abreu and Praça Antonio Prado. 68 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 69 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE It should be noted that cooling gas is recharged evated under the Koyoto Protocol Clean Development Most documents are printed on both sides of the ery two years. The last recharge was in 2012, when in Mechanism (CDM) and known as Certified Emission page and in monochrome. Employees must touch a addition a certain amount of HFC-125 was accidenReductions (CERs). proximity reader with their ID badge to release print tally released from the clean agent system on the site jobs, which are deleted from the queue after 60 minThe credits purchased by BM&FBOVESPA were generwhere the new data center is being built. These two utes to avoid waste. ated by the following small-scale renewable energy factors explain why HFC-125 gas accounted for such projects registered with the UN: a large proportion of Scope 1 emissions (73.9%). Annual Report Own fleet emissions were calculated by taking fuel expenditure and estimating average consumption  Central Energética do Rio Pardo – Cogeneration For the fifth consecutive year the company is pubin liters. Emissions from electricity consumption rose Project (Cerpa) lishing an integrated annual report according to 9.56% compared with 2011, owing to expansion of the GRI guidelines, featuring financial results alongside  BT Geradora de Energia Elétrica S.A. – Ferradura national grid (the mean factor was 0.0292 tCO2e/MWh socio-environmental data and information on corSmall Hydro Power Plant in 2011 and was altered to 0.0653 tCO2e/MWh in 2012). porate governance, sustainability and management  Araputanga Centrais Elétricas S.A. – Arapucel best practice. The main sources of Scope 3 emissions identified Small Hydroelectric Power Plants Project were third-party logistics, air travel, employee commuting, taxis, and mileage refunds.  Rialma Companhia Energética III S.A. – Santa EdEnvironmental performance indicators wiges III Small Hydro Power Plant Emissions due to executive air travel and mobile sources accounted for the largest proportion Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source (in gigajoules) en4 (95.97%), followed by fugitive emissions (2.48%) and GHG emission offsetting is one more step in the prowaste management (1.55%). en29 cess begun in 2009, when the Exchange produced its Fonte de energia 2013 2012 2011 In 2013 there were no fines or non-monetary sancfirst GHG inventory to identify, manage and reduce tions for non-compliance with environmental laws the environmental impact of its activities and conEnergy source 83.618 81.478 79.696 and regulations. en28 tribute voluntarily to the global effort to achieve climate stability. The 2013 GHG inventory has not yet been produced. The process is scheduled to begin in January 2014, Energy saving due to conservation and efficiency improvements (in gigajoules) en5 and the results will be available in May. Taxi policy Improvements 2013 2012 2011 BM&FBOVESPA’s policy restricting the use of taxis has Deactivation of extra bulbs on stairs in Praça AnInitiatives to mitigate environmental impact in significantly reduced annual CO2 emissions by this tonio Prado and Rua XV de Novembro buildings 210 210 210 2013 EN18¦ EN26 source, from 86.04t (493,048.1 per km traveled) in 2011 to 66.38t (380,037.4 per km) in 2012 and 66.09t Deactivation of an elevator in Praça Antonio Emission offsets (378,675 per km) in 2013. Prado building during offpeak hours 21 21 21 BM&FBOVESPA reiterates its commitment to reduce Rules on weekend use of air conditioning 92 92 92 GHG emissions voluntarily. As in previous years, in 2013 the company did not establish a reduction tarOutsourcing of printing Replacement of halogen with LED bulbs – Rayget but undertook a number of initiatives to reduce mundo Magliano Filho Visitor Center (Rua XV de Developed in the previous year, the project to outor optimize emissions. Novembro) 53 27 source printing yielded significant results in terms of GHG emissions that cannot be reduced are offset ana reduction in paper consumption in the buildings on Installation of photocells for staircase lighting nually. This initiative is retroactive to 2011 and 2012, Praça Antonio Prado and Rua XV de Novembro. – Rua XV de Novembro building and Rua João and is also geared to fostering best practice in susBrícola entrance (Praça Antonio Prado) 11 At end-2013 both had only 63 printers, compared tainability among listed companies. with 179 before the project was implemented. AnDeactivation of extra bulbs on facade of Praça In 2013 BM&FBOVESPA offset unreducible 2011 and nual paper consumption fell by 42.17% or 164,459 Antonio Prado building and in colocation area 72 2012 GHG emissions by purchasing 7,148 carbon pages, from 390,919 to 225,560 – 20,643 in color credits (or 7,148 metric tons of CO2 equivalent) cre(9.15%) and 204,918 in gray scale (90.85%). Total 459 350 323 70 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 71 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Total volume of water withdrawn by source en8 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method en22 2013 2012 2011 Non-hazardous waste (in metric tons) Total water consumption (m3/year) 37.758 39.479 41.659 Sole source is water utility (Sabesp). 2013 2012 2011 Type Disposal Weight (t) Disposal Weight (t) Disposal Weight (t) Direct and indirect GHG emissions and electricity consumption – Scopes 1 & 2 (in metric tons of CO2) EN16¦ EN19 ¦ EN20 Restaurants, organic & Landfill 102.9 Landfill 110.5 Landfill 100.4 non-recyclable (WCs) 2012 2011 2010 Electricity 1,631.24 675.79 1,024.10 Recycling Sold 60.2 Sold 81.0 Sold 82.0 Fire extinguishers 1.92 1.53 24.94 Total 163.1 191.5 182.4 Own fleet 11.30 12.33 9.68 Natural gas 6.12 6.09 5.17 Hazardous waste (in metric tons) Cooling gas 482.84 282.36 86.6 2013 2012 2011 Type Generators 71.23 42.82 28.47 Disposal Units Disposal Units Disposal Units LPG 0.88 0.88 0.70 Toner cartridges Returned 187 Returned 219 Returned 292 Total direct and indirect emissions (tCO2e) 2,205.53 1,021.80 1,179.66 (units) Notas Correct Bulbs (units) Decontaminated 4,155 Decontaminated 6,969 1,835  O inventário de emissões de GEE de 2013 ainda não foi elaborado, pois o processo começará em janeiro de 2014. O resultado estará disponível a partir disposal de maio.  Consumo de 482,84 tCO2e de gases refrigerantes em 2012 referente ao gás refrigerante R-22, que, apesar de considerado um GEE, não é incluído no Total units 4,342 7,188 2,127 Protocolo de Quioto por já ser regulado pelo Protocolo de Montreal, que restringe emissões de gases prejudiciais à camada de ozônio.  Quaisquer emissões de GEE decorrentes de operações fora do território nacional são de relato opcional e desagregado no Registro Público de Emissões do Programa Brasileiro GHG Protocol. Desta forma, as emissões de Escopo 2 da BM&FBOVESPA contemplam emissões ocorridas em outros países onde a companhia possui instalações. Em 2011, as emissões apresentadas representam somente a parcela referente ao Brasil. 2013 2012 2011 Type  A BM&FBOVESPA não emite nenhuma substância destruidora da camada de ozônio, de NOx nem de SOx. Disposal Weight (t) Disposal Weight (t) Disposal Weight (t) Correct Correct Correct Indirect GHG emissions – Scope 3 (in metric tons of CO2) en17 Batteries (weight) 0.0861 0.0873 0.0800 disposal disposal disposal 2012 2011 2010 Outpatient clinic Employee commuting 646.04 509.71 386.13 (weight) Incinerated 0.0480 Incinerated 0.0333 Incinerated 0.0189 Mileage refunds 0.076 2.22 2.58 Third-party logistics 3.2 3 38.33 Total peso 0.1341 0.1206 0.0989 Notes Taxis 59.5 72.81 65.8  Copiers and printers are leased. Toner cartridges are returned to the leasing company, which is responsible for final disposal. Air travel 1,388.82 1,358.78 1,242.30  Bulbs are counted by unit, not by weight.  Batteries are left in electronic waste collection and recycling bins belonging to C&A stores, which send them to contractors who specialize in deconTotal indirect emissions 2,097.64 1,946.52 1,735.14 tamination. The 2013 GHG inventory has not yet been produced. The process is scheduled to begin in January 2014, and the results will be available in May.  Healthcare waste from outpatient clinics is collected by the municipal government, which is also responsible for incineration.  Correct disposal: batteries and bulbs are sent to firms that specialize in decontamination before disposal.  BM&FBOVESPA also disposed of 170 liters of cooking oil in 2013. 72 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 73 OPERATIONAL BM&FBOVESPA: investments in products AND FINANCIAL and new technology to strengthen its strategic PERFORMANCE position The markets, products and services operated by BM&FBOVESPA had important developments throughout 2013. The stock market has seen a boost in trading activity which led to record high value traded in the wake of an upsurge in turnover velocity and despite an unmoving equity market capitalization. In contrast, while the volumes traded in financial and commodity derivatives were somewhat subdued, the average rate per contract (RPC) went up, raising revenues, primarily because a substantial portion of the volumes correlate with contracts for which we charge U.S. dollar-denominated fees, so that ultimately these revenues were positively influenced by the depreciation of the Brazilian real against the U.S. dollar. A striking note of market performance over the year was that while in the first half of 2013 value traded in cash equities as well as volume traded in financial and commodity derivatives hit record highs, in the second half of the year trading value and volumes plummeted, unveiling a turnabout in the market mood triggered by sinking risk appetite and deteriorating market expectations, as hot money outflows increased. Ultimately, diversified revenue base and innovation in products and services offerings, including securities lending services, exchange traded real estate funds (FIIs), Treasury Direct services, agribusiness credit bills (LCAs), besides the impact of the market making program for options on single stocks and R$23 billion worth of capital raised from equity offerings, the largest outcome in three years, led to a growth of 3.5% in the total revenue over 2012. Moreover, in 2013 we continued to execute our business strategy and in doing so implemented a number of projects and initiatives aimed to support our future growth and strengthen our competitive position. For example, over the year we made significant headway 74 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 75 OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE in advancing our R$ 1.5 billion capital expenditure Operating performance Average equity market capitalization Turnover The average equity market capitalization kept a flat plan (2010-2015), with the delivery of our PUMA TradBovespa Segment velocity line from the prior year. Nonetheless, an analysis by ing System and the start of readiness tests for the desector shines a light on cyclical and non-cyclical conThe value traded in the stock market and equity 70.0% 72.9% rivatives module of the clearing and settlement sys66.6% sumer sector stocks, as well as financial sector stocks derivatives markets (options and forwards) estab63.8% 64.2% tem developed for our new integrated clearing facility, and others, with rallies in these stocks having aclished a new all-time record in 2013, reaching an 2.41 2.41 which is set to implement in the first half of 2014. 2.33 2.37 counted collectively for over 56% of the overall tradaverage of R$7.4 billion per day, an increase of 2.3% 1.83 ing value in terms of sector distribution. However, the As for our market develop plans, a milestone over year-over-year. The analysis of average daily tradanalysis also shows a plunge in market capitalization the year was releasing the new methodology for the ing value for the last five years shows compound in traditional sectors as oil & gas & biofuels, telecom Bovespa Index (Ibovespa), which is set to be impleannual growth rate shot up 8.8%. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 and utilities sector stocks, resulting in an unmoving mented based on a two-phased approach. As the The performance of the cash equity market, with Average Capitalization (R$ trilions) Turnover Velocity (%) average capitalization over 2012. stock market benchmark index, the Bovespa Index a 3.4% year-on rise, was the primary driver of the has a unique strategic importance for it provides the year-over-year surge in average daily trading value, basis for a number of other exchange-traded prodAverage market capitalization by sector (In R$ billions, except as otherwise indicated) explained mainly by heightened turnover velocity, ucts and multiple trading and investment strategies. which went up to 72.9% from 70.0% one year ago, Additionally, we are moving forward with the process Total Part. Total Part. Var. due mainly to greater investor demand for more soIndustry Classification 2012 2013 of revising the pricing policies for markets we oper(%) 2012 (%) 2013 2013/2012 phisticated products, including securities lending ate, introducing new price schedules and broker inand borrowing, coupled with increase in high frecentives, especially day traders. Construction and Transportation 121.07 5.0% 118.83 4.9% -1.8% quency trading. Once again, our unwavering commitment towards Consumer 548.37 22.7% 645.78 26.8% 17.8% In the options market, in turn, the average daily valcontrolling costs and expenses drove us to successue traded in options on single stocks and stock indifully contain the build-up in adjusted expenses below Financial 641.25 26.5% 712.88 29.5% 11.2% ces tumbled 17.8% from the earlier year due mainly the average inflation rate. In addition, we continue to a 19.0% plunge in average daily value traded in to pledge steadfast commitment towards returning Basic Materials 335.19 13.9% 310.92 12.9% -7.2% options on Petrobras and Vale stocks, which, howhigher rates for shareholders by combining cash disever, retained their post as top traded options on tributions and share buybacks effectively and withOil.Gas and Biofuels 330.80 13.7% 239.82 9.9% -27.5% stocks, having accounted for 69.5% of the overall out affecting our solid financial position. value traded in 2013. On the bright side, our marTelecommunications 135.14 5.6% 100.74 4.2% -25.5% The BM&FBOVESPA shares (BVMF3) fell 21.0% yearket making program continues to bear fruit, with on. This performance is aligned with Ibovespa variaoptions on ten new single stocks and options on Utilities 247.24 10.2% 216.49 9.0% -12.4% tion in 2013, which tumbled 15.5%, reflecting market Ibovespa, whose traded value soared 43.8% to uncertainties about the lackluster economic landR$70.1 million from R$48.8 million the year before. Others* 57.92 2.4% 67.90 2.8% 17.2% scape, particularly in the second half of the year. Our market making program aims at providing liquidity to single stocks while widening the range Total 2,416.98 2,413.36 -0.1% Last, but not least, BM&FBOVESPA is well-positioned to capture future growth opportunities the Brazilof option product offerings. *Includes Capital Goods and Services and Information Technology. ian market will certainly continue to offer, though it Bovespa segment – Average Daily Trading Value must be said the economic outlook as 2013 came to (In R$ millions, Bovespa segmentexcept as otherwise – Average indicated) Daily Trading Value (In R$ millions, except as otherwise indicated) The year-on average daily number of trades ina close became more challenging in light of the present macroeconomic conditions in Brazil and overcreased again jumping 14.0% year-over-year, nearly seas, of investor sentiment and current flow of investCAGR Var. a threefold volume increase from 2009. This growth Markets 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 ment money, all of which adversely affects investors 2009-2013 2013/2012 rate is attributable primarily to greater sophistication and market participants. Nonetheless, we believe our of market participants and increased high frequency investments in product development and technoloCash 4.943,7 6.031,6 6.096,3 6.861,3 7.094,5 9,5% 3,4% trading activity, which despite being highly quantitagy infrastructure are key factors for the future growth tive uses small orders, driving down the average tickand diversification of our revenue base, for the imForward 96,5 147,4 118,0 103,4 91,5 -1,3% -11,5% et size per trade. We should note that in preparation provement of our services, and will be critical in conof our future growth, the throughput capacity of our solidating the efficiency and strength of the Brazilian trading systems far exceeds current volumes. Options 245,0 307,9 276,3 280,1 230,3 -1,5% -17,8% capital markets. It is our firm belief the development On a year-over-year comparison of overall value and implementation of our business strategy will Total 5.286,8 6.488,6 6.491,6 7.250,7 7.417,7 8,8% 2,3% traded by investor group, foreign investors continue continue to bear fruit in the years ahead. to top the rank, having accounted for 43.7% of the 76 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 77 OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Bovespa segment – Average Daily Number of Trades (In R$ thousands, except as otherwise indicated) Average daily volume traded in ETFs Average daily volume traded in FIIs – Number of (In R$ millions) Investors CAGR Var. Markets 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 97.1 101.2 2009-2013 2013/2012 115.9 31.7 Cash 270.6 349.8 476.5 653.0 780.0 30.3% 19.4% 99.3 35.3 19.4 14.6 Forward 1.3 1.6 1.1 1.0 0.8 -12.4% -19.7% 48.7 7.8 28.5 1.5 3.7 18.6 0.9 Options 60.4 79.3 89.6 126.4 108.5 15.8% -14.1% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total 332.3 430.6 567.2 780.4 889.3 27.9% 14.0% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 ADTV (R$ millions) Number of investors (thousands) BM&F Segment The rise in quarterly average rate per contract (RPC) overall value traded for the year, which translates into The year closed with a total of 17 equity offerings (10 for financial and commodity derivatives contracts is a 10.6% year-on build-up in active trading and subIPOs, 7 follow-on offerings) with aggregate gross proThe average daily volume traded (ADTV) in finanexplained primarily by the following factors: stantially explains the growth in value traded on marceeds of R$23.0 billion, the largest in the last three cial and commodity derivatives markets (BM&F kets comprising our Bovespa segment. The runnersyears. segment) fell 1.8% as compared to the prior year,  The average RPC for Brazilian-interest rate conup were local institutional investors, who accounted whereas an analysis of average daily trading voltracts rose 4.2% year-over-year, to R$1,046 (versus Two featured products in recent years has been exume for the last five years shows compound annual R$1,004 previously) due mainly to greater concenfor 32.8% of the overall trading value. change-traded funds (ETFs) and exchange-traded growth rate (CAGR) of 17.0%. Nonetheless, the avertration of trading in longer-term Brazilian interest Trading activity by retail investors accounted for real estate funds (FIIs), which in the first, the average age rate per contract climbed 7.6% year-over-year, rate contracts (5th standard maturity date, or lon17.9% of the overall value traded (from 15.2% a year daily value traded tumbled 14.3% over 2012 and the which ultimately favored an increase in revenues ger) which we charge at higher average RPC, for ago), whereas the segment’s average number of acsecond increased 116.4% year-over-year. Additionfrom trading fees. which we charge comparatively higher fee rates; tive retail investors jumped to 632.0 thousand from ally, regarding FIIs, the number of investors surged 603.9 thousand in the earlier year, a 4.6% year-on rise 4.2% year-on-year to 101.2 thousand, practically The volume of trading in Brazilian-interest rate con A 15.0% year-on surge in average RPC charged in number of active retail investors. composed by individuals, as 2013 came to a close. tracts, the most actively traded contract group in for trades in forex contracts, coupled with a 21.3% the segment, shrank 3.6% as compared to the earsurge in average RPC for U.S. dollar-denominated lier year, having accounted for 65.2% of the overall interest rate contracts, in either case explained by Distribution of average daily trading value by investor category (In R$ billions) volume traded. The analysis of average daily trad10.5% year-on average appreciation of the Braziling volume for the last five years shows compound ian real against the U.S. dollar, since our rates for 0.1 0.1 annual growth rate surged 21.8% for this contract these contracts are denominated in U.S. dollars. 0.2 0.1 0.6 0.5 0.1 0.5 0.6 group. In turn, the average daily volume traded in Other variables contributing to the rise in average 0.4 forex contracts, the second contract group more acRPC include volume distribution between futures 1.9 2.3 2.9 3.2 1.8 tively traded in the segment, kept a virtual flat line and options contracts, intraday trading volumes 1.4 2.2 2.2 2.3 2.4 from the prior year. and volume distribution by type of investor. 1.6 1.7 1.4 1.3 1.1 Average daily volume (ADV) (In thousands of contracts except as otherwise indicated) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Retail Institution Foreign Financial Institutions Companies and Others CAGR 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (2009-13) Equity Offerings (In R$ billions) Interest Rates in BRL 843.5 1,683.6 1,797.2 1,925.7 1,856.7 21.8% IPOs 74.4 FX Rates 447.1 540.6 495.5 493.9 494.1 2.5% 70.1 Follow on Stock Indices 80.0 89.4 123.3 143.1 113.6 9.2% 14.5 45.9 34.3 Interest Rates in USD 78.3 89.7 145.2 149.8 155.9 18.8% 30.4 22.2 18.0 23.0 Commodities 10.2 12.9 13.2 11.2 9.2 -2.7% 8.8 13.9 15.1 13.2 5.7 4.3 8.5 26.8 63.2 10.8 9.3 4.5 5.4 15.4 55.6 7.5 23.8 11.2 7.2 3.9 17.3 Mini Contracts 52.6 75.6 114.4 165.7 208.2 41.0% 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010* 2011 2012 2013 OTC 9.3 12.9 11.7 9.2 10.1 2.1% * Data for 2010 do not include the oil reserves assignment Brazil’s Government agreed with Petrobras in an oil-for-shares swap implemented within the ( ) scope of the Petrobras offering, which however was not extended to the investing public. Total 1,521.0 2,504.7 2,700.6 2,898.7 2,847.8 17.0% 78 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 79 OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Average rate per contract (RPC) (In Brazilian reais) lending is used by investors that develop and impleAverage annual financial value of open interest ment stock market strategies as securities borrowers positions (In R$ billions) (short-sellers) and by investors that look for addition40.8 Var. al return as lenders. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2013/2012 30.2 32.0 Treasury Direct platform 20.5 Interest Rates in BRL 0.979 0.889 0.918 1.004 1.046 4.2% 12.7 Tesouro Direto (Treasury Direct) is a platform developed in collaboration with the Brazilian Treasury, FX Rates 2.161 1.928 1.894 2.205 2.535 15.0% which we operate for the trading of government bonds and debt securities through the Internet. Trad2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Stock Indices 1.620 1.564 1.614 1.524 1.761 15.6% ing on this platform has sustained the uptrend of the last few years. The average financial value of government bonds and debt securities held in custody at Dealings on the Treasury Direct platform Interest Rates in USD 1.357 1.142 0.941 1.015 1.231 21.3% our central securities depository (CSD) climbed 9.0% 9.0 9.8 year-on-year to hit R$9.8 billion as the year closed Commodities 2.307 2.168 2.029 2.239 2.534 13.2% 6.1 95.1 in 2013. The average number of investors dealing 84.3 3.9 through the Treasury Direct platform rose 12.7% to 2.9 64.4 Mini Contracts 0.176 0.128 0.129 0.116 0.119 3.0% 95.1 thousand from 84.3 thousand one year ago. 36.3 42.3 With the goal of diversifying revenues, we have been encouraging the growth of Treasury Direct dealings OTC 1.655 1.610 1.635 1.769 1.409 -20.4% through our distribution channels. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Average number of investors (thousands) Average 1.365 1.134 1.106 1.191 1.282 7.6% Average value under custody (R$ billions) Financial performance which were counterbalanced by a 2.3% upsurge Revenues in average trading value. Total revenues (before PIS/COFINS and services taxes The volume distribution by investor category shows Securities lending  Other operating revenues. Other operating revdeduction) for the year ended December 31, 2012, trading activity by financial institutions picked up to enues hit R$429.7 million, a 10.4% rise from the Our securities lending services showed strong growth amounted to R$2,370.2 million, rising 3.5% year-overaccount for 35.9% of the overall yearly volume, for year-ago, and accounted for 18.1% of total revin 2013, with the average financial value of open inyear due primarily to revenue increases from operathe first time outperforming institutional investors, enues, as a result primarily of changes in revenue terest positions having soared 27.5% year-over-year. tions in the segment for financial and commodity dewhose share of overall volume traded dropped to line items unrelated to trading and clearing acAdditionally, over the last five years this market hit rivatives as well as other revenues unrelated to trading 32.7% from 34.5% one year ago. tivities, as follows: compound annual growth rate of 33.8%. Securities and clearing activities, counterbalanced, however, by decrease in revenues from the Bovespa segment. Distribution of average daily trading volume (ADTV) by investor category (buy and sell sides) − Securities lending. Revenues of R$102.2 million  Revenues from trading and clearing fees – BM&F (4.3% of total revenues) soared 32.6% year-over(In millions of contracts) year due mainly to a 27.9% year-on rise in finansegment. This line item increased 5.9% year-overyear totaling R$916.5 million, and accounted for cial value of open interest positions at year-end, 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.1 0.3 38.7% of total revenues, as a result mainly of a whose average reached R$40.8 billion. 0.1 0.2 0.2 7.6% year-on climb in average RPC, which, how− Depositary, custody. Revenues of R$116.3 million 1.4 ever, was not fully captured due to a 1.8% tumble (4.9% of total revenues) went up 13.2% year-on1.2 1.4 1.1 in volumes traded within the segment. year explained mainly by a 4.6% increase in av0.1 0.2  Revenues from trading and clearing fees – erage number of custody accounts (assets held 0.6 1.4 1.7 in custody at our central securities depository) 1.9 1.9 Bovespa segment. This line item gave back 1.0% 0.7 year-over-year totaling R$1,024.0 million, and acas well as the higher revenues derived from opcounted for 43.2% of total revenues. This fall is erating the Treasury Direct platform and from 1.3 2.0 2.0 1.9 1.8 explained by a 4.5% margin drop (to 5.422 basis registration of transactions in agribusiness credit 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 points from 5.676 basis points one year ago) atbills (locally known as LCAs, Letras de Crédito do Financial Institutions Institutional Foreign Retail Companies Central Bank tributable primarily to changes in pricing policy, Agronegócio). 80 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 81 OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE − Trading Participant access. A 7.4% fall in revenues  Marketing and promotion. This expense line hit (composed mainly by R$64.8 million in tax paid overtal cash collateral pledged by market participants (to (to R$47.4 million) from access fees charged from R$15.0 million plummeting 22.0% year-on-year seas that we recognized under equity in results of R$2,073.0 million at year-end from R$1,134.2 million member brokerage firms is attributable primarily due primarily to the reprioritization of our marinvestee, of which R$3.7 million refers to temporary one year ago) whose contra asset accounts are cash to changes in status correlated with the range of keting campaigns for the year and cuts in advercredits to be used by the Company in the future). equivalents and financial investments. Non-current services they provide to market participants. tising expenses. liabilities closed the year at R$3,886.9 million and In addition, deferred income tax and social contriconsist primarily of R$1,426.2 million worth of debt  Taxes. This expense line totaled R$55.9 million, a bution totaled R$546.5 million, and break down as issued abroad (global senior notes) plus deferred 32.1% upsurge from the earlier year due mainly to follows: Expenses income tax and social contribution amounting to taxes paid on income from dividends earned on Expenses totaling R$797.2 million rose 4.5% yearR$2,295.8 million. our equity investment in the CME Group shares (a over-year. Set forth below is a discussion of the prin Recognition of deferred tax liabilities of R$555.6 R$51.0 million tax payment in 2013 versus R$37.4 cipal changes in operating expense line items. million related to temporary differences attributmillion the year before). able mainly to amortization of goodwill for tax Shareholders’ equity totaled R$19,298.9 million as  Sundry expenses. This expense line hit R$55.7 purposes, with no impact on cash flow; and of December 31, 2013, consisting mainly of capital  Personnel and related charges. This expense line million, down 13.7% year-on-year attributable stock totaling R$2,540.2 million and capital reserves  Recognition of deferred tax assets amounting to totaled R$356.1 million, up slight 0.6% year-onprimarily to a R$15 million transfer of proceeds of R$16,056.7 million. R$9.2 million related to temporary tax losses and year. However, this comparison is hampered due from fines to BM&FBOVESPA Market Surveillance other temporary credits to be used by the Com(BSM) by the end of 2012 designed to fund the to a R$27.5 million provision we recognized in pany in the future. Other financial information 2012 in connection with our employees’ healthoperations of BSM. Capital expenditures care plan. As adjusted to eliminate the provision, this line item would have recorded a 9.1% year-on Equity in results of investees Main Line items of The Audited Consolidated BalWe capitalized investments on the order of R$289.2 rise in expenses with personnel, reflecting mainly ance Sheet Statement as of December 31, 2013 million in 2013, including R$278.6 million related to the annual wage increase prescribed under our Our net share of gain from the equity-method investinvestments in technology infrastructure and IT rement in CME Group shares went up 14.8% from one Total assets as of December 31, 2013, amounted to collective bargaining agreement and a fall in capsources, particularly as related to the new integrated year ago, totaling R$171.4 million, where R$64.8 milR$25,896.7 million, up 7.2% year-on-year. Cash and italized personnel expenses related to ongoing clearinghouse, whereas R$10.6 million refer to investlion were provisioned as recoverable tax paid abroad. cash equivalents, including financial investments projects (capitalized personnel expenses for 2013 ments in other projects, including modernization and This rise reflects mainly the effects of the currency (current and non-current), totaled R$4,870.8 million came R$9.5 million short of the amount capitalimprovements to our infrastructure. depreciation vis-à-vis the U.S. dollar. and accounted for 18.8% of total assets. Non-current ized one year ago). assets totaled R$21,577.2 million, where long-term  Data processing. The expenses in this line item toreceivables amount to R$1,135.4 million (including 2014 Adjusted Opex Budget; 2014–2015 Capex taled R$111.8 million, up 8.7% year-on-year due Interest income, net non-current financial investments totaling R$820.8 Budget mainly to an increase in expenses with software Net interest income for the year hit R$181.5 million, million), the investments total R$3,346.3 million, and hardware services and maintenance related property and equipment amount to R$423.2 million In December 2013 we announced the 2014–2015 cadown 13.1% year-on-year due primarily to a 34.1% pex budget and the 2014 adjusted opex budget, as to platforms rolled out over the year, including jump in interest expenses (R$118.5 million in 2013) and intangible assets amount to R$16.672.3 million. the equities module of our PUMA Trading System follows: attributable mainly to the currency depreciation Intangible assets consist primarily of goodwill related in April 2013. against the U.S. dollar, as most our interest expenses  The 2014 budget for adjusted operating expensto expectations of future profitability in connection  Depreciation and amortization. The expenses in correlate with debt under global senior notes issued with the acquisition of Bovespa Holding. Goodwill has es has been set within an interval between R$595 this line item totaled R$119.7 million, up 27.6% in a July 2010 cross-border offering. In turn, our inbeen tested for impairment pursuant to a valuation million and R$615 million, indicating growth in year-on-year primarily due to the start of operaterest income was up mere 0.9% virtually keeping a report prepared by an independent specialist firm, line with expected inflation for the year, while tions of our new information technology platsteady line from the prior year. which found no adjustments were required to the carbetween 2012 and 2013 the adjusted expenses forms, in particular, the ensuing additional derying value of goodwill as of December 31, 2013. increased only 2.2%, to R$575.8 million from preciation of the equities module of our PUMA R$563.5 million, significantly below the official Trading System; and the ERP solution implementIncome tax and social contribution inflation; ed in the beginning of 2013. Income before taxes totaled R$1,687.5 million, up Main lines items under Liabilities and Sharehold The capex budget for 2014 has been set within 1.7% year-on-year. ers’ Equity an interval between R$230.0 million and R$260.0  Outsourced services. The expenses in this line item totaled R$46.0 million, down 10.6% year-onThe line item comprising income tax and social conCurrent liabilities amounting to R$2,710.8 soared million, and for 2015 an interval between R$190.0 year primarily on account of a decline in expenses tribution plus deferred income tax and social contri63.2% year-on-year and accounted for 10.5% of total million and R$220.0 million. with advisory and consulting services related to bution totaled R$606.6 million, where current income liabilities and shareholders’ equity as of December strategic projects. tax and social contribution totaled R$60.1 million 31, 2013. This rise is due primarily to a climb in to82 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 83 OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Earnings distributions Additionally, we repurchased in 2014 a total of 37.0 million shares, at average price per share of R$10.02, Our board of directors declared over the year a total or an aggregate of R$370.4 million, thus bringing the of R$719.5 million by way of dividends and interest on aggregate buyback under the 2013-2014 buyback shareholders’ equity, meaning an agreement of 80% program to the total authorized repurchases of 60 out of GAAP net income for the nine months period million shares. ended September 30, 2013. Moreover, at the coming annual shareholders’ meeting we are set to submit to Value Added Statement EC1 shareholders an additional distribution proposal in In 2013, BM&FBOVESPA increased its capacity to genethe equivalent of R$145.7, which should total 80% of rate and distribute wealth to its wide range of publics, our GAAP net income for the year ended December with value added in the period at BRL 2,465.4 million, up 31, 2013. 3.8% on 2012. The graph below shows how this amount was distributed, with the highlights being: taxes of BRL 900.9 million in 2013, up 5.7% and including BRL 546.5 Share buyback program million in deferred tax in relation to the amortization of The buyback transactions over the course of 2013 togoodwill with no impact on cash flow; the 19.5% reductaled 43.9 million shares (average price per share of tion to the value distributed to shareholders in 2013, R$12.08) or an aggregate of R$530.6 million, where justified by the payment of 80% of profits in the form of 20.9 million shares have been repurchased within dividends and interest on own capital, compared with the scope of our 2012-2013 share buyback program the 100% of the previous year; and the fact that most (started June 2012), while the remainder, or 23.1 milretained profit was redirected to the share buyback prolion shares, were bought back within the scope of our gram, in line with the Company’s commitment to gene2013-2014 program approved in June 2013. rate value and return of capital for its shareholders. 1074 852 901 865 354 356 216 95 127 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 Taxes Employees Shareholders Outsourced Retained 84 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 85 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Balance sheets December 31, 2013 and 2012 (In thousands of reais) BM&FBOVESPA Consolidated Notes 2013 2012 2013 2012 Assets Current assets 4,245,974 3,387,845 4,319,483 3,536,282 Cash and cash equivalents 4 (a) 1,191,676 36,326 1,196,589 43,642 Financial investments 4 (b) 2,784,750 3,093,547 2,853,393 3,233,361 Accounts receivable 5 52,696 55,093 54,227 56,849 Other receivables 6 80,889 4,654 79,272 4,141 Taxes recoverable and prepaid 19 (d) 120,380 180,442 120,396 180,458 Prepaid expenses 15,583 17,783 15,606 17,831 Noncurrent assets 21,275,216 20,487,000 21,577,176 20,610,832 Long-term receivables 749,413 603,951 1,135,424 808,868 Financial investments 4 (b) 437,367 371,231 820,778 573,636 Deferred income tax and social contribution 19 203,037 132,286 203,037 132,286 Judicial deposits 14 (g) 108,265 97,510 108,665 97,822 Other receivables 6 2,200 2,200 Prepaid expenses 744 2,924 744 2,924 Investments 3,434,624 3,014,319 3,346,277 2,928,820 Investment in associates 7 (a) 3,312,606 2,893,632 3,312,606 2,893,632 Investments in subsidiaries 7 (a) 122,018 120,687 Investment property 7 (b) 33,671 35,188 Property and equipment 8 418,854 356,579 423,150 360,993 Intangible assets 9 16,672,325 16,512,151 16,672,325 16,512,151 Goodwill 16,064,309 16,064,309 16,064,309 16,064,309 Software and projects 608,016 447,842 608,016 447,842 Total assets 25,521,190 23,874,845 25,896,659 24,147,114 See accompanying notes. 87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BM&FBOVESPA Consolidated Notes 2013 2012 2013 2012 Liabilities and equity Current liabilities 2,355,261 1,409,279 2,710,846 1,660,609 Collateral for transactions 17 2,072,989 1,134,235 2,072,989 1,134,235 Earnings and rights on securities in custody 10 49,925 43,975 49,925 43,975 Suppliers 36,679 60,333 45,474 60,562 Salaries and social charges 73,954 73,588 74,911 74,492 Provision for taxes and contributions payable 11 24,755 27,502 25,979 28,358 Income tax and social contribution 1,433 2,564 Interest payable on debt issued abroad 12 42,129 36,882 42,129 36,882 Dividends and interest on equity payable 1,428 1,845 1,428 1,845 Other liabilities 13 53,402 30,919 396,578 277,696 Noncurrent liabilities 3,881,700 3,067,648 3,886,921 3,072,623 Debt issued abroad 12 1,426,193 1,242,239 1,426,193 1,242,239 Deferred income tax and social contribution 19 2,295,774 1,739,644 2,295,774 1,739,644 Provision for tax, civil and labor contingencies 14 83,371 58,232 88,592 63,207 Obligation with post-retirement health care benefit 18 (c) 25,940 27,533 25,940 27,533 Other liabilities 13 50,422 50,422 Equity 15 19,284,229 19,397,918 19,298,892 19,413,882 Capital and reserves attributable to shareholders of BM&FBOVESPA Capital 2,540,239 2,540,239 2,540,239 2,540,239 Capital reserve 16,056,681 16,037,369 16,056,681 16,037,369 Revaluation reserves 21,360 21,946 21,360 21,946 Income reserves 794,773 577,884 794,773 577,884 Treasury shares (955,026) (484,620) (955,026) (484,620) Valuation adjustments – other comprehensive income 680,499 316,397 680,499 316,397 Proposed additional dividend 145,703 388,703 145,703 388,703 19,284,229 19,397,918 19,284,229 19,397,918 Non-controlling interests 14,663 15,964 Total liabilities and equity 25,521,190 23,874,845 25,896,659 24,147,114 See accompanying notes. 88 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Income statements Years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 (In thousands of reais) BM&FBOVESPA Consolidated Notes 2013 2012 2013 2012 Revenue 20 2,098,224 2,034,839 2,131,795 2,064,750 Expenses (767,220) (742,581) (797,160) (763,080) Administrative and general Personnel and related charges (341,772) (341,957) (356,120) (353,880) Data processing (108,659) (99,220) (111,797) (102,805) Depreciation and amortization (117,924) (91,944) (119,661) (93,742) Outsourced services (35,686) (48,641) (45,957) (51,434) Maintenance in general (10,942) (10,013) (11,982) (10,809) Communications (16,688) (17,464) (16,921) (17,635) Promotion and publicity (14,647) (18,758) (15,043) (19,280) Taxes (54,825) (41,909) (55,886) (42,294) Board and committee members’ compensation (8,078) (6,634) (8,078) (6,634) Sundry 21 (57,999) (66,041) (55,715) (64.567) Equity pickup in subsidiaries and associate 7 175,131 157,652 171,365 149,270 Financial result 22 179,357 206,260 181,535 208,851 Financial income 296,487 294,291 300,023 297,217 Financial expenses (117,130) (88,031) (118,488) (88,366) Income before income tax and social contribution 1,685,492 1,656,170 1,687,535 1,659,791 Income tax and social contribution 19 (c) (603,976) (581,880) (606,588) (585,535) Current (57,485) (63,659) (60,097) (67,314) Deferred (546,491) (518,221) (546,491) (518,221) Net income for the year 1,081,516 1,074,290 1,080,947 1,074,256 Attributable to: Shareholders of BM&FBOVESPA 1,081,516 1,074,290 1,081,516 1,074,290 Non-controlling interests (569) (34) Earnings per share attributable to shareholders of BM&FBOVESPA (in R$ per share) 15 (h) Basic earnings per share 0.563638 0.556512 Diluted earnings per share 0.562158 0.555066 See accompanying notes. 89 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statements of comprehensive income Years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 (In thousands of reais) BM&FBOVESPA Consolidated 2013 2012 2013 2012 Net income for the year 1,081,516 1,074,290 1,080,947 1,074,256 Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to net income for the year in subsequent periods 361,917 188,140 361,917 188,140 Exchange rate variation on investment in foreign associate 431,530 240,676 431,530 240,676 Hedge of net foreign investment (183,049) (102,632) (183,049) (102,632) Tax effect on hedge of net foreign investment 62,237 34,895 62,237 34,895 Comprehensive income of foreign associate 51,234 15,180 51,234 15,180 Mark-to-market of available-for-sale financial assets (35) 21 (35) 21 Other comprehensive income not reclassified to net income for the year in subsequent periods 2,185 2,185 Actuarial gains on obligation with post-retirement health care benefit 2,185 2,185 Other comprehensive income for the year 364,102 188,140 364,102 188,140 Total comprehensive income 1,445,618 1,262,430 1,445,049 1,262,396 Attributable to: 1,445,618 1,262,430 1,445,049 1,262,396 Shareholders of BM&FBOVESPA 1,445,618 1,262,430 1,445,618 1,262,430 Non-controlling interests (569) (34) See accompanying notes. 90 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statements of changes in equity Years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 (In thousands of reais) Attributable to shareholders of the parent company Income reserves (Note 15(e)) Revaluation Treasury Equity Proposed Non-controlling Total Capital reserves Legal Statutory shares valuation additional Retained interests equity Note Capital reserve (Note 15(c)) reserve reserves (Note 15(b)) adjustments dividend earnings Total Balances at December 31, 2011 2,540,239 16,033,895 22,532 3,453 800,572 (521,553) 128,257 233,605 19,241,000 16,491 19,257,491 Exchange rate variation on foreign investment 240,676 240,676 240,676 Hedge of net foreign investment, net of taxes (67,737) (67,737) (67,737) Comprehensive income of foreign associate 15,180 15,180 15,180 Mark-to-market of available-for-sale financial assets 21 21 21 Total comprehensive income 188,140 188,140 188,140 Effect on non-controlling interests (493) (493) Realization of revaluation reserve subsidiaries (586) 586 Repurchase of shares 15(b) (16,303) (16,303) (16,303) Disposal of treasury shares exercise of stock options 18 (28,832) 53,236 24,404 24,404 Recognition of stock option plan 18 32,306 32,306 32,306 Approval /payment of dividend 15(g) (226,727) (233,605) (460,332) (460,332) Net income for the year 1,074,290 1,074,290 (34) 1,074,256 Destination of profit: Dividends 15(g) 586 388,703 (984,876) (595,587) (595,587) Interest on equity 15(g) (90,000) (90,000) (90,000) Balances at December 31, 2012 2,540,239 16,037,369 21,946 3,453 574,431 (484,620) 316,397 388,703 19,397,918 15,964 19,413,882 See accompanying notes. 91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statements of changes in equity (Continued) Years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 (In thousands of reais) Attributable to shareholders of the parent company Income reserves (Note 15(e)) Revaluation Treasury Equity Proposed Capital reserves Legal Statutory shares valuation additional Retained Non-controlling Total Note Capital reserve (Note 15(c)) reserve reserves (Note 15(b)) adjustments dividend earnings Total interests equity Balances at December 31, 2012 2,540,239 16,037,369 21,946 3,453 574,431 (484,620) 316,397 388,703 19,397,918 15,964 19,413,882 Exchange rate variation on foreign investment 431,530 431,530 431,530 Hedge of net foreign investment, net of taxes (120,812) (120,812) (120,812) Comprehensive income of foreign associate 51,234 51,234 51,234 Actuarial gains on obligation with post-retirement health care benefit 2,185 2,185 2,185 Mark-to-market of available-for-sale financial assets (35) (35) (35) Total comprehensive income 364,102 364,102 364,102 Effect on non-controlling interest (732) (732) Realization of revaluation reserve subsidiaries (586) 586 Repurchase of shares 15(b) (531,215) (531,215) (531,215) Disposal of treasury shares exercise of stock options 18(a) (8,824) 60,809 51,985 51,985 Recognition of stock option plan 18(a) 28,136 28,136 28,136 Approval /payment of dividends 15(g) (388,703) (388,703) (388,703) Net income for the year 1,081,516 1,081,516 (569) 1,080,947 Destination of profit: Dividends 15(g) 145,703 (815,213) (669,510) (669.510) Interest on equity 15(g) (50,000) (50,000) (50.000) Constitution of statutory reserve 216,889 (216,889) Balances at December 31, 2013 2,540,239 16,056,681 21,360 3,453 791,320 (955,026) 680,499 145,703 19,284,229 14,663 19,298,892 92 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statements of cash flow Years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 (In thousands of reais) BM&FBOVESPA Consolidated 2013 2012 2013 2012 Cash flows from operating activities Net income for the year 1,081,516 1,074,290 1,080,947 1,074,256 Adjustments: Depreciation/amortization 117,924 91,944 119,661 93,742 Gain/loss on sale of property and equipment 432 (202) 432 (202) Software and projects written off 3,620 3,620 Deferred income tax and social contribution 546,491 518,221 546,491 518,221 Equity pickup in subsidiaries and associate (175,131) (157,652) (171,365) (149,270) Variation in non-controlling interests (417) (493) Stock option plan expenses 28,136 32,306 28,136 32,306 Interest expenses 91,636 80,199 91,636 80,199 Provision of impairment of receivables 1,628 1,156 1,628 1,156 Variation in financial investments and collateral for transactions 26,513 (383,112) (83,322) (456,021) Variation in taxes recoverable and prepaid 124,909 9,847 124,909 11,797 Variation in accounts receivable 769 (11,188) 994 (11,491) Variation in other receivables 2,205 7,179 559 8,203 Variation in prepaid expenses 4,380 (3,314) 4,405 (3,313) Variation in judicial deposits (10,755) (3,332) (10,843) (2,774) Variation in earnings and rights on securities in custody 5,950 4,937 5,950 4,937 Variation in suppliers (23,654) 4,295 (15,088) 4,153 Variation in provision for taxes and contributions payable (2,747) (3,506) (2,379) (3,456) Variation in income tax and social contribution (1,131) (1,922) Variation in salaries and social charges 366 14,278 419 14,497 Variation in other liabilities 72,905 37,291 169,304 105,558 Variation in provision for tax, civil and labor contingencies 25,139 3,902 25,385 3,963 Variation in obligation with post-retirement health care benefit 1,717 1,717 Net cash provided by operating activities 1,920,329 1,321,159 1,918,028 1,327,666 93 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Cash flows from investing activities Proceeds from sale of property and equipment 1,092 2,046 1,174 2,103 Payment for purchase of property and equipment (128,860) (67,377) (129,044) (67,557) Dividends received 98,080 124,470 98,080 124,470 Acquisition of software and projects (216,849) (191,815) (216,849) (191,815) Net cash used in investing activities (246,537) (132,676) (246,639) (132,799) Cash flows from financing activities Disposal of treasury shares stock options exercised 51.985 24,404 51,985 24,404 Repurchase of shares (531,215) (16,303) (531,215) (16,303) Changes in financing (316) (316) Interest paid (85,168) (75,723) (85,168) (75,723) Payment of dividends and interest on equity (1,108,630) (1,148,251) (1,108,630) (1,148,251) Net cash used in financing activities (1,673,344) (1,215,873) (1,673,344) (1,215,873) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 448 (27,390) (1,955) (21,006) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 36,326 63,716 43,642 64,648 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 36,774 36,326 41,687 43,642 See accompanying notes. 94 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statements of value added Years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 (In thousands of reais) BM&FBOVESPA Consolidated 2013 2012 2013 2012 1 Revenues 2,334,355 2,256,736 2,370,229 2,289,023 Trading and/or settlement system 1,940,508 1,899,881 1,940,508 1,899,881 Other revenues 393,847 356,855 429,721 389,142 2 Goods and services acquired from third parties 244,621 260,137 257,415 266,530 Expenses (a) 244,621 260,137 257,415 266,530 3 Gross value added (1-2) 2,089,734 1,996,599 2,112,814 2,022,493 4 Retentions 117,924 91,944 119,661 93,742 Depreciation and amortization 117,924 91,944 119,661 93,742 5 Net value added produced by the company (3-4) 1,971,810 1,904,655 1,993,153 1,928,751 6 Value added transferred from others 471,618 451,943 471,388 446,487 Equity pickup in subsidiaries and associate 175,131 157,652 171,365 149,270 Financial income 296,487 294,291 300,023 297,217 7 Total value added to be distributed (5+6) 2,443,428 2,356,598 2,464,541 2,375,238 8 Distribution of value added 2,443,428 2,356,598 2,464,541 2,375,238 Personnel and related charges 341,772 341,957 356,120 353,880 Board and committee members’ compensation 8,078 6,634 8,078 6,634 Taxes, charges and contributions (b) Federal 864,856 817,538 870,039 822,993 Municipal 30,076 28,148 30,869 29,109 Financial expenses 117,130 88,031 118,488 88,366 Interest on equity and dividends 865,213 1,074,290 865,213 1,074,256 Retained net income for the year 216,303 215,734 (a) Expenses (exclude personnel, board and committee members’ compensation, depreciation and taxes). (b) Includes: Taxes, PIS and COFINS, taxes on services, current and deferred income tax and social contribution. See accompanying notes. 95 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS December 31, 2013 and 2012 NOTES TO THE (In thousands of reais) 1 OPERATIONS BM&FBOVESPA S.A. Bolsa de Valores, Mercadorias e Futuros (BM&FBOVESPA) is a publicly-traded corporation having its headquarters in the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS city of São Paulo and whose objective is to carry out or invest in companies engaged in the following activities: Management of organized securities markets, promoting the organization, operation and development of free and open markets for the trading of any types of securities or contracts, that have as reference or objective financial assets, indices, indicators, rates, goods, currencies, energy, transportation, commodities and other assets or rights directly or indirectly related thereto, for spot or future settlement; Maintenance of appropriate environments or systems for carrying out purchases, sales, auctions and special operations involving securities, notes, rights and assets, in the stock exchange market and in the organized over-the-counter market; Rendering services of registration, clearing and settlement, both physical and financial, internally or through a company especially incorporated for this purpose, assuming or not the position of central counterparty and guarantor of the definite settlement, under the terms of applicable legislation and its own regulations; Rendering services of central depository and custody of fungible and non-fungible goods, marketable securities and any other physical and financial assets; Providing services of standardization, classification, analysis, quotations, statistics, professional education, preparation of studies, publications, information, libraries and software on matters of interest to BM&FBOVESPA and the participants in the markets directly or indirectly managed by it; Providing technical, administrative and managerial support for market development, as well as carrying out educational, promotional and publishing activities related to its objective and to the markets managed by it; Performance of other similar or related activities authorized by the Brazilian Securities Commission (CVM); and Investment in the capital of other companies or associations, headquartered in Brazil or abroad, as a partner, shareholder or member pursuant to the pertinent regulations. BM&FBOVESPA organizes, develops and provides for the operation of free and open securities markets, for spot and future settlement. Its activities are carried out through its trading systems and clearinghouses, and include transactions with securities, interbank foreign exchange and securities under custody in the Special System for Settlement and Custody (SELIC). BM&FBOVESPA develops technology solutions and maintains high performance systems, providing its customers with security, agility, innovation and cost effectiveness. The success of its activities depends on the ongoing improvement, enhancement and integration of its trading and settlement platforms and its ability to develop and license leading-edge technologies required for the good performance of its operations. The subsidiary Bolsa Brasileira de Mercadorias is engaged in the registration and settlement of spot, forward and options transactions involving commodities, assets and services for physical delivery, as well as securities representing these products, in the primary and secondary markets. With the objective of responding to the needs of customers and the specific requirements of the market, its wholly-owned subsidiary Banco BM&FBOVESPA de Serviços de Liquidação e Custódia S.A. provides its members and its clearinghouses with a centralized custody service for the assets pledged as margin for transactions. The subsidiaries BM&FBOVESPA (UK) Ltd. located in London and BM&F (USA) Inc., located in the city of New York, USA, and a representative office in Shanghai, China, represent BM&FBOVESPA abroad through relationships with other exchanges and regulators, as well as assisting in the procurement of new clients for the market. 2 PREPARATION AND PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors of BM&FBOVESPA on February 13, 2014. The financial statements have been prepared and are being presented in accordance with accounting practices adopted in Brazil. The preparation of financial statements requires the use of critical accounting estimates and also the exercise of judgment by management in the process of applying the accounting policies of BM&FBOVESPA. Those areas that require higher degrees of judgment and have greater complexity, as well as areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in Note 3(w). (a) Consolidated financial statements The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and are being presented in accordance with accounting practices adopted in Brazil, including the pronouncements issued by the Brazilian Accounting Pronouncements Committee (CPC), and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). The consolidated financial statements include the balances of BM&FBOVESPA and its subsidiaries, as well as special purpose entities comprising investment funds, as follows: 97 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for active and frequent trading (derivative financial Ownership % instruments classified as current assets) or assets designated by the entity on initial recognition as measured at fair value through profit or loss (other financial instruments (Note 4)). Gains or losses arising from the changes in fair value of financial instruments are recorded in the Subsidiaries and controlled entities statement of income in “Financial results” for the period in which they occur. Banco BM&FBOVESPA de Serviços de Liquidação e Custódia S.A. (“Banco BM&FBOVESPA”) 100.00 Loans and receivables Bolsa Brasileira de Mercadorias 53.28 These comprise loans granted and receivables which are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not Bolsa de Valores do Rio de Janeiro – BVRJ (“BVRJ”) 86.95 quoted in an active market. Loans and receivables are included in current assets, except for those with maturity of more than 12 months after BM&F (USA) Inc. 100.00 the balance sheet date (which are classified as non-current assets). The loans and receivables of BM&FBOVESPA mostly comprise customer BM&FBOVESPA (UK) Ltd. 100.00 receivables. Loans and receivables are recorded at amortized cost using the effective interest rate method less any impairment losses. Exclusive investment funds: Available-for-sale financial assets Bradesco Fundo de Investimento Renda Fixa Letters Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives which are classified in this category or not classified in any other. Available-for-sale BB Pau Brasil Fundo de Investimento Renda Fixa financial assets are recorded at fair value. Interest on available-for-sale securities, calculated using the effective interest rate method, is HSBC Fundo de Investimento Renda Fixa Longo Prazo Eucalipto recognized in the statement of income as Finance income. The amount relating to the changes in fair value is record in comprehensive income, net of taxes, and is transferred to the statement of income when the asset is sold or becomes impaired. (b) Individual financial statements The individual financial statements of the parent company have been prepared in accordance with accounting practices adopted in Brazil, issued by Management periodically monitors its outstanding positions and possible risks of impairment of financial assets. Therefore, based on the nature the Brazilian Accounting Pronouncements Committee (CPC), and are published together with the consolidated financial statements. of these assets (mostly highly liquid government securities), BM&FBOVESPA has no significant impairment history. In the individual financial statements (BM&FBOVESPA), subsidiaries are recorded using the equity method. The same adjustments are made both The carrying amount of financial assets is reduced directly for impairment impacting the results on the statement of income. Subsequent to the individual and consolidated financial statements to achieve the same profit or loss and net assets attributable to the shareholders of the recoveries of amounts previously written off are recognized in the income statement. parent company. Fair value 3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING PRACTICES Fair values of investments with public quotations are based on current market prices. For financial assets without an active market or public quotation, BM&FBOVESPA determines fair value through valuation techniques. a. Consolidation The following accounting practices are applied in preparing the consolidated financial statements. (ii) Derivative instruments Initially, derivatives are recognized at fair value on the date the derivative agreement is signed and, subsequently, are measured at fair value, Subsidiaries with the changes in fair value recognized in the income statement. Subsidiaries are all entities over which BM&FBOVESPA has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, generally accompanied by a participation of more than half of the voting rights (voting capital). The existence and effect of potential voting rights currently exercisable or (iii) Hedge of net investments convertible are considered when assessing whether BM&FBOVESPA controls another entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument related to the effective portion of the hedge is recognized in other comprehensive income, net of tax on which control is transferred to BM&FBOVESPA. Consolidation is discontinued from the date on which control ends. effects. The gain or loss related to the ineffective portion is recognized immediately in the income statement. Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealized gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated. Unrealized losses are Any cumulative gains and losses in equity are transferred to the income statement when the hedged foreign operation is partially disposed of or also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of impairment of the assets transferred. The accounting practices of subsidiaries are sold. altered where necessary to ensure consistency with the practices adopted by BM&FBOVESPA. (iv) Hedge effectiveness analysis Associates BM&FBOVESPA adopts the Dollar offset method as the methodology for retrospective effectiveness test on a cumulative and spot basis. For Associates are all entities over which BM&FBOVESPA has significant influence but not control. Investments in associates are recorded using prospective analysis, BM&FBOVESPA uses stress scenarios applied to the range of 80% to 125%. the equity method and are initially recognized at the cost of each purchase. BM&FBOVESPA’s investment in associates includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment. e. Accounts receivable, other receivables and provision for impairment of receivables Trade accounts receivable are amounts receivable for fees and services in the normal course of activities of BM&FBOVESPA. If the collection The share of BM&FBOVESPA in the post-acquisition profits or losses of associates is recognized in the statement of income and its share in is expected in one year or less (or another period that meets the normal cycle of BM&FBOVESPA), the accounts receivable are classified as post-acquisition changes in other comprehensive income recognized in other comprehensive income. The cumulative post-acquisition changes current assets. Otherwise, they are presented as non-current assets. are adjusted against the carrying value of the investment. When the share of BM&FBOVESPA in the losses of an associate equals or exceeds its investment in the associate, including any other receivables, BM&FBOVESPA does not recognize further losses, unless it has incurred Trade receivables are initially recognized at transaction value and adjusted for a provision for impairment of receivables, if necessary. obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate. Unrealized gains arising from transactions between BM&FBOVESPA and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the interest of f. Prepaid expenses BM&FBOVESPA in the associates. Unrealized losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of impairment of the assets Prepaid expenses mainly relate to software maintenance contracts and insurance premiums, and are amortized over the life of the contracts. transferred. The accounting practices of associates are adjusted, where necessary, to ensure consistency with the practices adopted by BM&FBOVESPA. g. Non-current assets held for sale b. Revenue recognition Non-current assets are classified as held for sale when their carrying amount can be recovered principally through a sale transaction and the Revenues from the rendering of services and from trading and settlement systems are recognized upon the completion of the transactions or sale is highly probable. These assets are measured at the lower of the carrying amount and the fair value less costs to sell. the provision of the service, under the accrual method of accounting. The amounts received as annual fees, as in the cases of listing of securities and certain contracts for sale of market information, are recognized pro rata monthly over the contractual term. h. Intangible assets c. Cash and cash equivalents The balances of cash and cash equivalents for cash flow statement purposes comprise cash and bank deposits. Goodwill d. Financial instruments Goodwill represents the positive difference between the amount paid and/or payable for the acquisition of a business and the net fair value of assets and liabilities of the acquiree. Goodwill on acquisitions is recorded in “Intangible assets”. If the difference is negative, representing a (i) Classification and measurement negative goodwill, it is recognized as a gain in the income statement at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment, and BM&FBOVESPA classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables and available indications of possible impairment are reassessed in shorter periods. Goodwill is stated cost less accumulated impairment losses. Recognized for sale. The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired. Management determines the classification of impairment losses on goodwill are not subsequently reversed. the financial assets on initial recognition. Goodwill is allocated to Cash-Generating Units (CGUs) for purposes of impairment testing. The allocation is made to the CGUs that should Considering the nature and objective of BM&FBOVESPA and its financial investment portfolio, these are classified as financial assets at fair benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose. value through profit or loss, designated at inception. Software and projects Software licenses acquired are capitalized based on incurred costs and amortized over their estimated useful life, at the rates mentioned in Note 9. 98 99 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Costs of software development or maintenance are expensed as incurred. Expenditures directly associated with the development of identifiable (iii) Profit sharing and unique software, controlled by BM&FBOVESPA and which will probably generate economic benefits greater than the costs for more than BM&FBOVESPA has semi-annual variable remuneration, organized and paid in cash through the Profit Sharing Program. The program defines one year, are recognized as intangible assets. the potential multiple of monthly salary, based on individual performance indicators, which consider factors specific to each function (job level), and indicators of the overall performance of BM&FBOVESPA, aiming to align the remuneration of employees with the results of the Company. Amortization expense is recognized in the income statement unless it is included in the carrying amount of another asset. In such cases, The provision for the related expense is recognized in income on an accrual basis. amortization of intangible assets used for development activities is included as part of the cost of the other intangible assets. (iv) Other post-employment obligations Expenditures for development of software recognized as assets are amortized using the straight-line method over the assets’ useful lives, at the BM&FBOVESPA offers post-retirement healthcare benefit to the employees who have acquired this right until May 2009. The right to this benefit rates described in Note 9. is conditional on the employee remaining with the Company until the retirement age and completing a minimum service period. The expected costs of these benefits are accumulated over the period of employment or the period in which the benefit is expected to be earned, using the i. Property and equipment actuarial methodology which considers life expectancy of the group in question, increase in costs due to the age and medical inflation, inflation These are recorded at the cost of acquisition or construction less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is calculated under the straight-line and discount rate. The contributions that participants make according to the specific rule of the Health Care Plan are deducted from these method and takes into consideration the estimated useful lives of the assets and their residual value. At the end of each year, the residual costs. The actuarial gains and losses on the health care plan post-employment are recognized in accordance with the rules of IAS 19 and CPC values and useful lives of assets are reviewed and adjusted if necessary. 33 Employee Benefits, based on actuarial calculation prepared by an independent actuary, according to Note 18(c). These obligations are measured annually by qualified independent actuaries. Subsequent costs are included in the carrying amount or recognized as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits will be obtained and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All other repair and maintenance costs are recorded in the q. Loans and financing income statement, as incurred. Loans and financing are measured initially at fair value, less transaction costs incurred, and are subsequently carried at amortized cost. Any difference between the funds raised (net of transaction costs) and the amount repayable is recognized in the income statement over the period Depreciation expense is recognized in the income statement unless it is included in the carrying amount of another asset. Depreciation of fixed of the loans, using the effective interest rate method. assets used for development activities is included as part of the cost of the related intangible asset. r. Foreign currency translation j. Provisions for tax, civil and labor contingencies, contingent assets and liabilities and judicial deposits The items included in the financial statements for each of the consolidated companies of BM&FBOVESPA are measured using the currency of The recognition, measurement, and disclosure of provisions for tax, civil and labor contingencies, contingent assets and liabilities and judicial the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (“functional currency”). The financial statements are presented in Brazilian reais, deposits comply with the criteria defined in CPC 25/IAS 37. which is the functional currency of BM&FBOVESPA. k. Judicial deposits Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into Brazilian reais using the exchange rates prevailing on the dates of the transactions or the Judicial deposits are related to tax, civil and labor contingencies and are adjusted for inflation and presented in non-current assets. date of evaluation when items are remeasured. The foreign exchange gains and losses arising from the settlement of these transactions and from the translation, at the exchange rates at the end of the year, of monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies, are recognized in the l. Collateral for transactions income statement, except when deferred in other comprehensive income relating to a hedge of a net foreign investment. Comprises amounts received from market participants as collateral for default or insolvency. Amounts received in cash are recorded as liabilities and other collaterals are managed off-balance sheet. Both types of collateral received are not subject to interest or any other charges. Exchange differences on the net investments in foreign operations, which have a functional currency different from that of BM&FBOVESPA are recorded under “Equity adjustments” in other comprehensive income of BM&FBOVESPA, and are only taken to the income statement when the m. Other assets and liabilities investment is sold or written off. For the equity pickup calculation, unrealized gains in subsidiaries and associates are eliminated. These are stated at their known and realizable/settlement amounts plus, where applicable, related earnings and charges and monetary and/or exchange rate variations up to the balance sheet date. s. Taxes BM&FBOVESPA is a for-profit business corporation and accordingly its results are subject to certain taxes and contributions. n. Impairment of assets Assets that have an indefinite life, such as goodwill, are not subject to amortization and are tested annually for impairment, and indications of (i) Current and deferred income tax and social contribution possible impairment are reassessed in shorter periods. The assets subject to amortization are reviewed for impairment whenever events or Current and deferred income and social contribution taxes for the year are calculated at 15%, plus a 10% surtax on taxable profit exceeding changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized at the amount by which the R$240 for income tax, and 9% on taxable income for social contribution tax on net profit, and take into account the offset of income and social asset's carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. Recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and its contribution tax losses, if any, limited to 30% of taxable profit. value in use. Deferred income and social contribution taxes are calculated on respective tax losses, and temporary differences between the tax base on For purposes of impairment testing, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (Cashassets and liabilities and their carrying amounts contained in the financial statements. Generating Units (CGU)). Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered impairment are reviewed subsequently for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date. Deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is probable that there will be future taxable profit available to offset temporary differences and/or tax losses. o. Leases Leases of property and equipment in which BM&FBOVESPA retains substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset are (ii) Other taxes classified as finance leases. These finance leases are recorded as a financed purchase, recognizing at the inception of the lease a property and The other taxes charged over trading, clearing and settlement fees and other services were calculated at the rates of 1.65% for PIS and 7.60% equipment item and a financing liability (lease). Property and equipment acquired in finance leases are depreciated over their useful lives. for COFINS, and are recorded in P&L under “Revenues”. A lease in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership remains with the lessor is classified as an operating lease. Operating Banco BM&FBOVESPA calculates PIS and COFINS at the rates of 0.65% and 4%, respectively, and CSLL at 15%. lease payments (net of all incentives received from the lessor) are charged directly to profit or loss. The subsidiaries Bolsa Brasileira de Mercadorias and BVRJ are not-for-profit entities and pay PIS at the rate of 1% on payroll. p. Employee benefits BM&FBOVESPA and its subsidiaries pay Service Tax (ISS) on the services rendered at rates ranging from 2% to 5% depending on the nature (i) Pension obligations of the service. BM&FBOVESPA maintains a defined contribution retirement plan with voluntary participation open to all employees. The Company has no obligations to make additional payments as a sponsor. The regular contributions are included in personnel costs in the period they are due. t. Earnings per share For purposes of disclosure of earnings per share, basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to shareholders of (ii) Share-based remuneration (stock options) BM&FBOVESPA by the average number of shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share are calculated similarly, except BM&FBOVESPA maintains a long-term remuneration plan, structured by options granted to purchase the Company’s shares under the Stock that the quantity of outstanding shares is adjusted to reflect the additional shares that would have been outstanding if potentially dilutive shares Option Plan. The objective is to give the employees of BM&FBOVESPA and its subsidiaries the opportunity to become shareholders of had been issued for granted stock options (Note 15(h)). BM&FBOVESPA, obtaining a greater alignment between its interests and the shareholders’ interests as well as allow BM&FBOVESPA and its subsidiaries to attract and retain their management and employees. The fair value of options granted is recognized as an expense during the u. Distribution of dividends and interest on equity vesting period (the period during which the specific vesting conditions must be met). At the balance sheet date, BM&FBOVESPA reviews its The distribution of dividends and interest on equity to shareholders of BM&FBOVESPA is recognized as a liability in the financial statements at estimates of the number of options that will vest based on the established conditions. BM&FBOVESPA recognizes the impact of any changes to the end of the year, based on the BM&FBOVESPA’s Articles of Incorporation. Any amount above the mandatory minimum dividend is accrued the original estimates, if any, in the income statement, against a capital reserve in equity. only on the date it is approved by the shareholders at an Annual General Meeting. The tax benefit over the interest on equity is recorded in the income statement. 100 101 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS v. Segment information b. Financial investments Operating segments are presented in a manner consistent with the internal reports provided to the Executive Board, which is responsible for making the main operational and strategic decisions of BM&FBOVESPA and for implementing the strategies defined by the Board of Directors. The breakdown of financial investments by category, nature and maturity is as follows: w. Significant accounting estimates and judgments i) Equity pickup BM&FBOVESPA applies the equity method to account for its investments in companies over which it has the ability to exercise significant influence. The judgment of BM&FBOVESPA regarding the level of influence over the investment takes into account key factors such as the ownership percentage, representation on the Board of Directors, participation in defining policies and business strategies and material transactions between the companies. With respect to the investment in CME Group, its financial statements are originally prepared in BM&FBOVESPA accordance with the US generally accepted accounting principles (US GAAP) and adjusted to the Brazilian accounting practices before applying the equity method. More than More than 3 months 12 months ii) Impairment of assets Without Up to 3 and up to and up to 5 More than BM&FBOVESPA tests its assets, specifically goodwill and permanent assets, for impairment annually or when required, in accordance with the Description maturity months 12 months years 5 years 2013 2012 accounting practice described in Note 3(n). The sensitivity analyses are presented in Notes 7 and 9. iii) Classification of financial instruments Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss BM&FBOVESPA classifies its financial assets into the categories of (i) measured at fair value through profit or loss and (ii) available for sale. The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired. Management determines the classification of financial assets at initial recognition. The basis for the original classification of financial assets is described in Note 3(d). Financial investment funds (1) 2,347,806 2,347,806 2,581,259 Interest-bearing account foreign iv) Stock option plan deposits 21,849 21,849 34,457 BM&FBOVESPA offers a stock option plan to its management and employees and service providers. The fair value of these options is recognized as an expense in the period in which the right is vested. Management reviews the estimated amount of options that will vest and subsequently recognizes the impact of changes in initial estimates, if any, in the income statement, matched against “Capital reserve” in equity, Repurchase agreements (2) 6,919 6,919 as stated in Note 3(p). Federal government securities v) Post-retirement health care plan The health care plan obligations depend on actuarial calculations that use a number of assumptions, which are disclosed in Note 18(c). Financial Treasury Bills (LFT) 242,945 156,115 257,903 179,416 836,379 748,766 Changes in assumptions could affect the carrying amount of the obligations related to the health care plan. National Treasury Bills (LTN) 20 20 88,549 4 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AND FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS National Treasury Notes (NTN) 48 48 49 a. Cash and cash equivalents Other investments (3) 9,096 9,096 11,698 BM&FBOVESPA Description 2013 2012 Total financial investments 2,378,751 242,945 163,054 257,951 179,416 3,222,117 3,464,778 Cash and bank deposits in local currency 267 62 Short-term 2,784,750 3,093,547 Bank deposits in foreign currency 36,507 36,264 Long-term 437,367 371,231 36,774 36,326 Cash and cash equivalents Bank deposits in foreign currency – third-party funds (1) 1,154,902 Total 1,191,676 36,326 Consolidated Description 2013 2012 Cash and bank deposits in local currency 417 305 Bank deposits in foreign currency 41,270 43,337 41,687 43,642 Cash and cash equivalents Bank deposits in foreign currency – third-party funds (1) 1,154,902 Total 1,196,589 43,642 (1) Restricted third-party funds for full settlement of the exchange transaction (exchange clearing), settled on January 2, 2014. Cash and cash equivalents are held with top-tier financial institutions in Brazil or abroad. Deposits in foreign currency are primarily in US dollars. 102 103 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED Fair value BM&FBOVESPA applies CPC 40/IFRS 7 for financial instruments measured at fair value, which requires disclosure of fair value measurements by More than More than level based on the hierarchies specified there. 3 months and 12 months Without Up to 3 up to 12 and up to 5 More than The fair value of the main financial instruments is calculated as follows: Description maturity months months years 5 years 2013 2012 Financial investment funds the fair value is determined based on the value of the unit on the last business day prior to the balance sheet date, as disclosed by the corresponding fund administrator. Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss Government securities – valued based on the amounts and prices disclosed by the Brazilian Financial and Capital Markets Association (ANBIMA) Financial investment funds (4) 223,256 223,256 214,813 or, when these are unavailable, on the price determined by management which best reflects the sales value, determined based on information Interest-bearing account foreign obtained from other institutions. deposits 23,038 23,038 34,457 Repurchase agreements valued daily in accordance with the market price of the security. Repurchase agreements (2) 2,023,507 28,062 2,051,569 2,235,579 Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss and derivative financial instruments are classified as level 1, i.e. they have quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets. Federal government securities During the year no impairment loss was recorded for the available-for-sale financial instruments. Financial Treasury Bills (LFT) 288,579 196,252 394,567 294,278 1,173,676 1,139,441 National Treasury Bills (LTN) 9,996 4,308 108,449 122,753 112,849 Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments comprise future interest rate contracts (DI1) stated at their market values. These contracts are included in the National Treasury Notes (NTN) 48 48 49 exclusive fund portfolios which were consolidated (Note 2(a)) and are used to cover fixed interest rate exposures, swapping fixed interest rate for floating interest rate (CDI). Even though these derivatives are designated for hedge, management has opted not to apply hedge accounting with respect to them. Other investments (3) 9,099 9,099 12,691 255,393 2,322,082 228,622 503,064 294,278 3,603,439 3,749,879 The net result between the derivative transactions and the related financial instrument refers to the short position in future interest rate contracts, with market value of R$16,528 (R$5,121 at December 31, 2012). Financial assets available for sale DI1 contracts have the same maturity dates as the fixed interest rate contracts to which they relate. Financial risk management policy Federal government securities BM&FBOVESPA’s policy for cash investments favors alternatives with very low risk, highly liquid and with sovereign risk, whose overall performance is tied to the SELIC / CDI rate, resulting in a significant proportion of government securities in its portfolio, purchased directly, via Financial Treasury Bills (LFT) 31,032 16,148 23,042 47 70,269 55,877 repurchase agreements backed by government securities and also through exclusive and non-exclusive funds. National Treasury Bills (LTN) 116 72 188 948 Sensitivity analysis The table below presents the net exposure of all financial instruments (assets and liabilities) by market risk factors, classified in accordance with National Treasury Notes (NTN) 275 275 293 their rates: 31,148 16,148 23,389 47 70,732 57,118 Exposure to Risk Factors (Consolidated) Total financial investments 255,393 2,353,230 244,770 526,453 294,325 3,674,171 3,806,997 2013 2012 Risk Factor Risk Percentage Percentage Short-term 2,853,393 3,233,361 Floating interest rate Lower CDI / SELIC rate 97.53% 95.40% Long-term 820,778 573,636 Fixed interest rate Higher fixed rate 0.45% 3.59% Foreign exchange Higher dollar exchange rate 1.77% 0.68% (1) Refers to investments in financial investment funds, whose portfolios mainly comprise investments in government securities and Gold Price Lower gold price 0.24% 0.32% repurchase agreements that have the CDI (Interbank Deposit Certificate rate) as their profitability benchmark. The consolidated balances of investment funds are presented according to the nature and maturity of the portfolio in proportion of the net assets invested. Inflation Lower inflation rate 0.01% 0.01% The net assets of the investment funds included in the consolidation of the financial statements are: (i) Bradesco FI Renda Fixa Letters – 100.00% 100.00% R$1,529,024 (2012 R$1,820,865); (ii) BB Pau Brasil FI Renda Fixa – R$340,641 (2012 R$201,652); (iii) HSBC FI Renda Fixa Longo Prazo Eucalipto – R$254,933 (2012 R$106,947); (iv) Araucária Renda Fixa FI – R$ 235,954 at December 31, 2012. (2) Issued by top-tier banks and backed by government securities. (3) Refers mainly to investments in gold. (4) The primary non-exclusive investment funds are: (i) Bradesco Empresas FICFI Referenciado DI Federal, in the amount of R$62,432 (2012 R$214,783); (ii) Araucária Renda Fixa FI – R$101,031; (iii) FI Jacarandá Renda Fixa – R$59,722. The government securities are held in the custody of the Special System for Settlement and Custody (SELIC), the investment fund shares are held in the custody of their respective administrators and the shares are in the custody of BM&FBOVESPA’s Equity and Corporate Debt Clearinghouse. There was no reclassification of financial instruments between categories in the year. 104 105 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE Interest rate risk The breakdown of accounts receivable is as follows: This risk arises from the possibility that fluctuations in future interest rates for the corresponding maturities could affect the fair value of BM&FBOVESPA’s transactions. BM&FBOVESPA Floating-rate position Description 2013 2012 As a financial investment policy and considering the need for immediate liquidity with the least possible impact from interest rate fluctuations, BM&FBOVESPA maintains its financial assets and liabilities indexed to floating interest rates. Fees 10,972 13,379 We present in the table below the possible impacts on profit or loss of a change of 25% and 50% from the probable scenario for the CDI/SELIC rate, Annual fees 5,485 5,323 for the next three months: Vendors Signal broadcasting 11,620 11,282 Trustee and custodial fees 23,592 21,588 Impact on P&L Other accounts receivable 8,704 10,207 Scenario Scenario Probable Scenario Scenario Risk factor -50% -25% Scenario 25% 50% Subtotal 60,373 61,779 Financial investments CDI/Selic 38,813 57,703 76,268 94,520 112,471 Index rates CDI/Selic 4.98% 7.47% 9.96% 12.45% 14.94% Allowance for doubtful accounts (7,677) (6,686) Fixed-rate position Part of BM&FBOVESPA’s financial investments earns fixed interest rates what results in a net exposure to such rates. However, in terms of Total 52,696 55,093 percentage, in view of the amounts involved, the effects on the portfolio are not considered material. Consolidated Currency risk This risk arises from the possibility of fluctuations in exchange rates in connection with the acquisition of inputs, product sales and asset and liability financial instruments could have an impact on the related amounts in local currency. In addition to the amounts payable and receivable in foreign currencies, including interest payments on the senior unsecured notes in the next sixmonth period, BM&FBOVESPA has third-party deposits in foreign currency to guarantee the settlement of transactions by foreign investors and also own funds in foreign currency abroad. At December 31, 2013, the net foreign currency exposure amounted to R$64,049 (negative) (positive R$26,455 at December 31, 2012). In view of the amounts involved, the effects on the portfolio are not considered material. Description 2013 2012 Liquidity risk The following table shows the main financial liabilities of BM&FBOVESPA by maturity, represented by non-derivative financial liabilities, on an Fees 12,287 14,621 undiscounted cash flows basis: Annual fees 5,485 5,323 Vendors Signal broadcasting 11,620 11,282 Without Within 1 From 1 to 2 From 2 to More than maturity year years 5 years 5 years Trustee and custodial fees 23,592 21,588 Other accounts receivable 9,172 10,910 Collateral for transactions 2,072,989 Debt issued abroad (1) 79,947 79,947 240,060 1,596,413 Subtotal 62,156 63,724 (1) Amounts converted @ PTAX sale closing rate Allowance for doubtful accounts (7,929) (6,875) Credit risk and capital management BM&FBOVESPA prefers very low risk investments, where more than 99% of the allocation of assets is linked to government securities with ratings Total 54,227 56,849 set by Standard & Poor's and Moody's of “A-” and “Baa2”, respectively, for long-term issues in local currency and characterized as investment grade, in order to obtain high liquidity and sovereign risk, with overall performance linked to the CDI/SELIC rate. The issue of Senior Notes (Note 12) was linked to increasing our equity interest in CME and the creation of a strategic partnership between the companies. In addition, it serves as a natural hedge for the USD exposure generated by the increased investment in CME Group. The amounts presented above are primarily denominated in Brazilian reais and approximately 90% falls due within 90 days. At December 31, 2013, the amounts overdue above 90 days totaled R$7,682 (R$6,742 at December 31, 2012) in BM&FBOVESPA The provisioning methodology, as approved by management, is based on the analysis of historical losses. Therefore, a provision is estimated based on historical loss experience for established thresholds (i.e. a specific number of days past due) as a percentage of past-due amounts so as to reflect expected future losses. 106 107 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Changes in provision for losses: 7 INVESTMENTS a. Investments in subsidiaries and associates Investments in subsidiaries and associates comprise the following: BM&FBOVESPA Consolidated Balance at December 31, 2011 6,315 6,315 Equity Equity Adjusted %Investment Investment pickup pickup Additions 2,162 2,351 Investees Equity Total shares P&L Ownership 2013 2012 2013 2012 Reversals (1,006) (1,006) Write-offs (785) (785) Subsidiaries Banco BM&FBOVESPA de Liquidação e Balance at December 31, 2012 6,686 6,875 Custódia S.A. 59,028 24,000 6,670 100 59,028 55,143 6,670 5,494 Bolsa Brasileira de Mercadorias 14,437 403 (726) 53,28 7,692 8,079 (387) (641) Additions 1,872 1,982 Bolsa de Valores do Rio de Janeiro Reversals (244) (283) BVRJ 60,674 115 (3,097) 86,95 52,756 55,449 (2,693) 3,390 Write-offs (637) (645) BM&F (USA) Inc. 1,189 1,000 131 100 1,189 937 131 200 Balance at December 31, 2013 7,677 7,929 BM&FBOVESPA (UK) Ltd. 1,353 1,000 45 100 1,353 1,079 45 (61) 6 OTHER RECEIVABLES Other receivables comprise the following: 122,018 120,687 3,766 8,382 Associate BM&FBOVESPA CME Group, Inc. (1) 49,570,587 333,855 2,089,091 5,1 3,312,606 2,893,632 106,518 89,074 2013 2012 Recoverable income tax paid abroad (2) 64,847 60,196 Current assets Dividends receivable CME Group (Note 16) 71,878 3,312,606 2,893,632 171,365 149,270 Receivables related parties (Note 16) 3,307 2,272 Properties held for sale 3,812 Advance to employees 1,814 1,986 Total 3,434,624 3,014,319 175,131 157,652 Other 78 396 Summary of key financial information of subsidiaries and associate at December 31, 2013: Total 80,889 4,654 Consolidated 2013 2012 Current assets Dividends receivable CME Group (Note 16) 71,878 Receivables related parties (Note 16) 285 968 Properties held for sale 3,812 Advance to employees 1,841 2,026 Other 1,456 1,147 Total 79,272 4,141 Noncurrent assets 2,200 2,200 Brokers in court-ordered liquidation (2) Total 2,200 2,200 (1) Balance of accounts receivable from brokers in court-ordered liquidation, which considers the guarantee represented by the equity certificates pledged by the debtor. 108 109 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (1) In July 2010, with the acquisition of a 3.2% interest in CME Group for the amount of R$1,075,119, increasing the ownership interest from Bolsa Bolsa de Valores do 1.8% to 5%, BM&FBOVESPA began to recognize the investment using the equity method in accordance with CPC 18/IAS 28, because Banco Brasileira de Rio de Janeiro BM&F (USA) BM&FBOVESPA CME Group, management understands that the qualitative aspects of the relationship between the two companies indicate the existence of significant Description BM&FBOVESPA Mercadorias BVRJ Inc. (UK) Ltd. Inc. influence of BM&FBOVESPA over CME Group. Assets 406,689 16,541 74,209 1,352 1,807 127,151,174 At December 31, 2013, the fair value of the investment based on the market price of shares was R$3,119,716. Considering that the market value of the investment in CME Group is less than its carrying amount, management of BM&FBOVESPA performed an impairment test as at November 30, 2012, which did not indicate the need to recognize impairment losses on the investment in CME Group. Liabilities 347,660 2,105 13,535 163 454 77,580,587 The impairment test was based on the discounted cash flow method. Considering the expected growth of the industries where CME Revenues 22,026 6,456 8,559 2,019 1,402 6,878,576 Group operates, management projected a cash flow that considers activity-related revenue and expenses expressed in nominal US dollars. Changes in investments: Operating cash flows were projected for the period December 2013 to December 2018. Perpetuity was derived by extrapolating free cash flow for 2018 at a growth rate expected for the US nominal GDP in the long term, namely 4.66% per annum (p.a.). The pre-tax discount Subsidiaries Associate rate used to obtain the present value of cash flows was 11.43% p.a. The two major variables impacting the value in use computed for the investment are the discount and perpetuity growth rates. The sensitivity analyses show that a 100 bps increase in the pre-tax discount rate (from 11.43% to 12.43% p.a.) decreases value in use by Bolsa Bolsa de Valores BM&F CME approximately 13%, while a 25 bps decrease in the perpetuity growth rate (from 4.66% to 4.41% p.a.) decreases value in use by Banco Brasileira de do Rio de (USA) BM&FBOVESPA Group, approximately 5%. The changes in the variables affecting value in use, for purposes of the sensitivity analysis, were determined by Investments BM&FBOVESPA Mercadorias Janeiro BVRJ Inc. (UK) Ltd. Inc. Total reference to a standard deviation of the discount rates over the past four years (which best reflect the existing capital structure of CME group) for the former variable, and a standard deviation of US real GDP at a 30-year historical average for the latter variable. Value in use is less sensitive to changes in projected net revenue. Considering a 10% decrease in the average annual revenue growth from 2014 to Balances at December 31, 2011 49,628 8,720 52,059 646 1,016 2,673,386 2,785,455 2018, value in use decreases by some 4%. None of the three foregoing sensitivity scenarios, when reviewed separately, resulted in amounts less than the carrying value of the investment at December 31, 2013. Equity pickup 5,494 (641) 3,390 200 (61) 89,074 97,456 (2) Refers to recoverable tax paid by the foreign associate, according to Law No. 9249/95 and Revenue Procedure No. 213/02 of the Brazilian Internal Revenue Service (RFB). Exchange variation (3) 91 124 240,462 240,677 (3) In July 2010, BM&FBOVESPA issued debt abroad to protect part of the foreign exchange risk on the investment in CME Group (hedge of net investment) through the designation of a non-derivative financial instrument (debt issuance abroad) as a hedge, as presented in Note Comprehensive income (loss) of 12. We present below the sensitivity analysis to exchange rate variations for the non-hedged portion of the investment in CME Group: associate/subsidiary 21 15,180 15,201 Dividends received (124,470) (124,470) Impact on equity Decrease in Dollar rate Increase in Dollar rate Balances at December 31, 2012 55,143 8,079 55,449 937 1,079 2,893,632 3,014,319 -50% -25% 25% 50% Exchange rate 1.1713 1.7570 2.9283 3.5139 Equity pickup 6,670 (387) (2,693) 131 45 106,518 110,284 Exchange variation (3) 121 229 431,180 431,530 Exchange rate variation on investment in foreign associate (1,656,303) (828,152) 828,152 1,656,303 Exchange rate variation on hedge of net foreign Comprehensive income (loss) of investment 716,836 358,418 (358,418) (716,836) associate/subsidiary (35) 51,234 51,199 Tax effect on exchange rate variation on hedge of net foreign investment (243,724) (121,862) 121,862 243,724 Dividends received / receivable (2,750) (169,958) (172,708) Net effect (1,183,191) (591,596) 591,596 1,183,191 Balances at December 31, 2013 59,028 7,692 52,756 1,189 1,353 3,312,606 3,434,624 110 111 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS b. Investment property This category comprises properties owned by subsidiary BVRJ Bolsa de Valores do Rio de Janeiro for rent, which are carried at cost and Computer depreciated at the rate of 4% per year. Furniture and devices and Fixed assets Changes Buildings fixtures equipment Facilities Other in progress Total Consolidated Balances at December 31, 2011 118,499 16,101 117,672 47,463 35,625 21,804 357,164 Balance at December 31, 2011 36,700 Additions 1,159 26,878 1,233 1,604 36,683 67,557 Depreciation (1,512) Write-offs (22) (56) (368) (1,455) (1,901) Balance at December 31, 2012 35,188 Transfers (Note 9) (848) 18 758 (72) Reallocations/adjustments 4,001 3,474 3,686 12,359 1,060 (24,438) 142 Depreciation (3,098) (2,894) (46,422) (6,075) (3,408) (61,897) Depreciation (1,517) Balances at December 31, 2012 119,380 17,784 100,598 54,998 33,426 34,807 360,993 Balance at December 31, 2013 33,671 Additions 1,449 2,498 13,648 2,694 3,641 105,114 129,044 Rental income from these properties for the year ended December 31, 2013 was R$8,362 (R$7,406 at December 31, 2012). Write-offs (9) (104) (301) (25) (1,167) (1,606) Reallocations/adjustments (21) 21 Transfer to assets held for sale (3,812) (3,812) 8 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Depreciation (2,138) (3,399) (45,135) (7,395) (3,402) (61,469) BM&FBOVESPA Balances at December 31, 2013 114,849 16,779 68,810 50,272 32,519 139,921 423,150 Computer Furniture devices and Fixed assets At December 31, 2013 Changes Buildings and fixtures equipment Facilities Other in progress Total Cost 217,018 49,904 338,424 82,024 80,991 139,921 908,282 Accumulated depreciation (102,169) (33,125) (269,614) (31,752) (48,472) (485,132) Balances at December 31, 2011 116,975 16,010 117,588 47,036 33,177 21,804 352,590 114,849 16,779 68,810 50,272 32,519 139,921 423,150 Net book balance Additions 1,142 26,786 1,233 1,533 36,683 67,377 Write-offs (21) (39) (348) (1,436) (1,844) Transfers (Note 9) (848) 18 758 (72) At December 31, 2012 Reallocations/adjustments 4,001 3,474 3,686 12,359 1,060 (24,438) 142 Cost 223,669 49,052 334,064 79,373 79,638 34,807 800,603 Depreciation (3,011) (2,837) (46,361) (6,010) (3,395) (61,614) Accumulated depreciation (104,289) (31,268) (233,466) (24,375) (46,212) (439,610) Balances at December 31, 2012 117,944 17,750 100,503 54,636 30,939 34,807 356,579 119,380 17,784 100,598 54,998 33,426 34,807 360,993 Net book balance Additions 1,449 2,472 13,596 2,694 3,535 105,114 128,860 In the year, BM&FBOVESPA absorbed as part of the project development cost the amount of R$3,133 related to the depreciation of equipment Write-offs (9) (78) (257) (25) (1,155) (1,524) used in developing these projects. Reallocations (21) 21 Properties with a carrying amount of approximately R$38,831 are pledged as collateral in lawsuits. BM&FBOVESPA is not allowed to assign these Transfer to assets held for sale (3,812) (3,812) assets as collateral for other lawsuits or sell them. Depreciation (2,050) (3,388) (45,102) (7,324) (3,385) (61,249) 113,501 16,756 68,740 49,981 29,955 139,921 418,854 Property and equipment are depreciated over their estimated useful lives. Annual rates of depreciation of property and equipment items at Balances at December 31, 2013 December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: Buildings 2.5% At December 31, 2013 Cost 214,682 49,398 337,389 80,984 78,316 139,921 900,690 Furniture and fixtures 10% Accumulated depreciation (101,181) (32,642) (268,649) (31,003) (48,361) (481,836) Computer devices and equipment 10 to 25% Net book balance 113,501 16,756 68,740 49,981 29,955 139,921 418,854 Facilities 10% Other 11% to 33% At December 31, 2012 Cost 221,333 48,569 333,073 78,333 77,060 34,807 793,175 Accumulated depreciation (103,389) (30,819) (232,570) (23,697) (46,121) (436,596) Net book balance 117,944 17,750 100,503 54,636 30,939 34,807 356,579 Consolidated 112 113 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 9 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Goodwill At December 31, 2012 The goodwill of R$16,064,309 is attributed to expected future profitability, supported by an economic and financial valuation report of the investment. According to the guidelines of CPC 01/IAS 36, the goodwill must be tested annually for impairment, or more frequently when there are Cost 258,082 103,118 292,680 653,880 653,880 indicators that impairment may have occurred. Goodwill is stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Impairment losses recognized on Accumulated amortization (12,622) (193,416) (206,038) (206,038) goodwill are not reversed. Net book balance 258,082 90,496 99,264 447,842 447,842 The assumptions adopted for projecting future cash flows of BM&FBOVESPA, in the BOVESPA cash generating unit (CGU), were based on an analysis of its performance over the past years, on an analysis and expected growth of the industry where it operates, as well as on management’s expectations and strategies. These refer to costs for acquisition of licenses and development of software and systems, with amortization rates from 10% to 33% per year, and for implementation and development in progress of new systems and software. BM&FBOVESPA uses external and independent experts to assist in the measurement of the asset’s recoverable value (value in use). The report presented by such experts did not indicate the need to make negative adjustments to goodwill as of December 31, 2013. In the year, BM&FBOVESPA absorbed as part of the project development cost, the amount of R$17,430 related to amortization of software used in developing these projects. Based on the growth expectations of the Bovespa segment, the projected cash flow considers revenues and expenses related to the segment’s activities. The projection period of these cash flows covers the period from December 2013 to December 2023. The perpetuity was determined by Ongoing projects refer mainly to development of a new electronic trading platform for different kinds and classes of assets (concluded in 2013), the extrapolating the 2023 cash flow at a growth rate corresponding to that expected for the nominal GDP in the long term, of 7.63% p.a. construction of a new business and IT architecture to support integration of the post-trade infrastructure and development of a new OTC Derivatives Recording Platform Management understands that a ten-year projection period is based on the perception that the Brazilian capital market, in the variable income segment, should undergo a long period of growth until the long-term maturity is reached. 10 EARNINGS AND RIGHTS ON SECURITIES IN CUSTODY To determine the present value of the projected cash flow, an average pre-tax discount rate of 16.56% p.a. was used in the period from December These comprise dividends and interest on equity received from listed companies, which will be transferred to the custody agents and by them to 2013 to December 2017. From then on, the discount rate remains stable at 15.24% p.a., capturing the expected inflation changes in the period. their clients, who are the owners of the listed companies’ shares. The two major variables that impact the calculated value in use are discount and perpetuity growth rates. BM&FBOVESPA management carried out sensitivity analyses to determine the impacts of changes in such variables on the calculated value in use. The corresponding pre-tax discount rate 11 Provision for taxes and contributions payable for the entire period is 15.45% p.a., and an increase of 1.10 percentage point (110bps) in such rate (from 15.45% to 16.55% p.a.) reduces the value in use by approximately 12%. As for the perpetuity growth rate, a reduction of 0.50 percentage point (50bps) (from 7.63% to 7.13% p.a.) reduces the BM&FBOVESPA value in use by approximately 5%. The changes in parameters that impact the value in use, for purposes of this sensitivity analysis, were Description 2013 2012 determined based on standard deviation of the discount rates for the past five years, for the first, and a standard deviation of the averages of series of 10 years of changes in the actual Brazilian GDP for the second. The value in use presents a lower sensitivity to changes in projected net revenue. Considering a reduction in the annual revenue growth rate of 15% in the period from 2014 to 2023, the value in use decreases by Taxes and contributions withheld at source 8,036 8,935 approximately 15%. None of the three sensitivity scenarios above, analyzed individually, revealed amounts lower than the investment's book cost as of December 31, 2013. PIS and COFINS payable 14,732 16,426 ISS payable 1,987 2,141 Software and projects BM&FBOVESPA Consolidated Total 24,755 27,502 Cost of software Consolidated generated Software generated Description 2013 2012 internally under internally – Changes development completed projects Software Total Total Taxes and contributions withheld at source 9,139 9,607 Balances at December 31, 2011 127,332 53,150 109,333 289,815 289,818 PIS and COFINS payable 14,845 16,548 Additions 186,884 41,181 228,065 228,065 ISS payable 1,995 2,203 Write-offs (3,620) (3,620) (3,620) Transfers (Note 8) (803) 875 72 72 Total 25,979 28,358 Reallocations/adjustments (55,331) 53,114 2,306 89 89 Amortization (12,148) (54,431) (66,579) (66,582) 12 DEBT ISSUED ABROAD Balances at December 31, 2012 258,082 90,496 99,264 447,842 447,842 In July 2010, BM&FBOVESPA issued senior unsecured notes, with a total nominal value of US$612 million, priced at 99.635% of the nominal value, resulting in a net inflow of US$609 million (equivalent at the time to R$1,075,323). The interest rate is 5.50% per year, payable half-yearly in Additions 232,295 5,117 237,412 237,412 January and July, and the principal amount is due on July 16, 2020. The effective rate was 5.64% per year, which includes the discount and other Reallocations (216,223) 216,223 funding related costs. Amortization (34,264) (42,974) (77,238) (77,238) The updated balance of the loan at December 31, 2013 is R$1,468,322 (R$1,279,121 at December 31, 2012), which includes R$42,129 (R$36,882 Balances at December 31, 2013 274,154 272,455 61,407 608,016 608,016 at December 31, 2012) of accrued interest through the reporting date. The proceeds from the offering were used to purchase shares in the CME Group on the same date. The notes have a partial or total early redemption clause, at the option of BM&FBOVESPA, for the greater of: (i) principal plus interest accrued up At December 31, 2013 to the date and (ii) interest accrued up to the date plus the present value of the remaining cash flows, discounted at the rate applicable to U.S. Cost 274,154 319,342 297,789 891,285 891,285 Treasuries for the remaining term plus 0.40% per year (40 basis points per year). Accumulated amortization (46,887) (236,382) (283,269) (283,269) These notes have been designated as a hedging instrument for the portion corresponding to US$612 million (notional) of the investment in CME Net book balance 274,154 272,455 61,407 608,016 608,016 Group Inc. (Note 7), in order to hedge the foreign exchange risk. Thus, BM&FBOVESPA adopted hedge accounting for net investment in accordance with the provisions of CPC 38/IAS 39. 114 115 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accordingly, BM&FBOVESPA prepared the formal designation of the hedges by documenting: (i) the objective of the hedge, (ii) type of hedge, (iii) the nature of the risk being hedged, (iv) the hedged item, (v) the hedging instrument, (vi) the correlation of the hedge and the hedged item (1) Refer to demand deposits held by corporations at Banco BM&FBOVESPA for the sole purpose of settlement of adjustments and positions of (retrospective effectiveness test) and (vii) the prospective test. transactions carried out within BM&FBOVESPA and the Special System for Settlement and Custody (SELIC) pursuant to BACEN Circular Letter No. 3196 of July 21, 2005. The application of the effectiveness tests described in Note 3(d) (iv) did not indicate ineffectiveness during the year ended December 31, 2013. (2) Refer to open market funding made by Banco BM&FBOVESPA, comprising repurchase agreements maturing on January 2, 2014 (2012 – January 2, 2013) and backed by Financial Treasury Bills (LFT) and National Treasury Bills (LTN). The fair value of the debt, calculated using market data, is R$1,528,652 at December 31, 2013 (R$1,418,205 at December 31, 2012) (Source: Bloomberg). 14 PROVISIONS FOR TAX, CIVIL AND LABOR CONTINGENCIES, CONTINGENT ASSETS AND LIABILITIES AND JUDICIAL DEPOSITS 13 OTHER LIABILITIES a. Contingent assets BM&FBOVESPA has no contingent assets recognized in its balance sheet and, at present, no lawsuits which are expected to give rise to BM&FBOVESPA future gains. 2013 2012 b. Provisions for tax, civil and labor contingencies Current BM&FBOVESPA and its subsidiaries are defendants in a number of judicial and administrative proceedings involving labor, tax and civil Payables – related parties (Note 16) 18,208 15,051 matters arising in the ordinary course of business. Purchase of treasury shares payable 7,672 The judicial and administrative proceedings are assessed by their likelihood of loss (probable, possible or remote), based on an evaluation by Custody agents 5,939 5,348 BM&FBOVESPA and its legal advisors, using parameters such as previous legal decisions and the history of loss in similar cases. Amounts to be transferred – Direct Treasury 3,390 1,974 The proceedings assessed as probable loss are mostly comprised as follows: Advance received from sale of property 8,192 Preferred shares payable 1,838 1,838 Labor claims mostly relate to claims filed by former employees of BM&FBOVESPA and employees of outsourced service providers, on Outsourced services 862 2,119 account of alleged noncompliance with labor legislation; Other 7,301 4,589 Civil proceedings mainly relate to aspects of civil liability of BM&FBOVESPA and its subsidiaries; Total 53,402 30,919 Tax cases mostly relate to PIS and COFINS levied on (i) BM&FBOVESPA revenue and (ii) receipt of interest on equity. c. Legal obligations Noncurrent These are almost entirely proceedings in which BM&FBOVESPA seeks non-levy of additional social security tax on payroll and payments to Payables – related parties (Note 16) 50,422 self-employed professionals. d. Changes in balances Total 50,422 Changes in provisions for contingencies and legal obligations are detailed as follows: BM&FBOVESPA Consolidated Legal Civil Labor obligations Tax Total Description 2013 2012 Balances at December 31, 2011 4,492 7,121 28,579 14,138 54,330 Payables – related parties (Note 16) 17,827 15,000 Provisions 247 5,879 4,552 10,678 Purchase of treasury shares payable 7,672 Provision expenditure (22) (83) (7,609) (7,714) Custody agents 5,939 5,348 Reversal of provisions (4) (940) (944) Amounts to be transferred – Direct Treasury 3,390 1,974 Reassessment of risks (1,551) (1,551) Advance received from sale of property 8,192 Monetary restatement 248 884 1,599 702 3,433 Outsourced services 1,296 2,354 Preferred shares payable 1,838 1,838 Balances at December 31, 2012 4,961 11,310 27,121 14,840 58,232 Demand deposits (1) 111,067 62,941 Provisions 2,848 14,832 6,118 23,798 Repurchase agreements (2) 227,309 175,125 Provision expenditure (57) (2,507) (2,564) Forex transactions (Banco BM&FBOVESPA) 3,837 6,365 Reversal of provisions (2) (572) (574) Other 8,211 6,751 Reassessment of risks (280) (280) Monetary restatement 492 1,793 1,825 649 4,759 Total 396,578 277,696 Balances at December 31, 2013 8,242 24,576 35,064 15,489 83,371 Noncurrent Payables – related parties (Note 16) 50,422 Total 50,422 116 117 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated (ii) collection of Withholding Income Tax (IRRF) relating to the calendar year 2008, since the Brazilian IRS understands that BM&FBOVESPA would be responsible for withholding and paying IRRF on the alleged capital gains earned by non-resident investors in Legal Bovespa Holding S.A., due to the merger of shares of Bovespa Holding S.A. into BM&FBOVESPA. The amount involved in this Civil Labor obligations Tax Total administrative proceeding at December 31, 2013 is R$165,225 (R$153,935 at December 31, 2012). Balances at December 31, 2011 8,248 7,915 28,579 14,502 59,244 (iii) as the successor of Bovespa Holding S.A., the deductibility, for purposes of calculating income and social contribution taxes, of expenses paid by Bovespa Holding S.A. in connection with the commission to intermediary institutions responsible for the secondary Provisions 247 6,327 4,552 11,126 public offering of its shares held in 2007, and the liability for IRRF on part of the payments made to intermediaries who participated in said public offering. The amount involved in this administrative proceeding at December 31, 2013 is R$126,775 (R$117,797 at December 31, Provision expenditure (22) (104) (7,609) (367) (8,102) 2012), assessed as follows: (i) R$118,015 (R$109,676 at December 31, 2012) as possible loss; and (ii) R$8,739 (R$8,121 at December Reversal of provisions (4) (1,344) (1,348) 31, 2012), relating to one-time fine for the non-withholding of income tax at source, as remote loss. Reassessment of risks (1,688) (1,688) (iv) alleged levy of social security tax on options granted under the Stock Option Plan of BM&F S.A., assumed by BM&FBOVESPA and Monetary restatement 727 944 1,599 705 3,975 exercisable by the beneficiaries of the Plan, in 2007 and 2008, as well as one-time fine due to the non-withholding at source of income tax allegedly due on those options. The inquiries of the Brazilian IRS are based on the understanding that the stock options were granted to Balances at December 31, 2012 9,196 12,050 27,121 14,840 63,207 employees in the nature of salary as they represent compensation for services rendered. The amounts involved in these administrative proceedings at December 31, 2013 are: (i) R$86,844 (R$81,118 at December 31, 2012), relating to social security contributions allegedly Provisions 2,848 14,836 6,118 23,802 due, assessed as possible loss, and (ii) R$46,252 (R$43,202 at December 31, 2012), relating to one-time fine for the non-withholding of Provision expenditure (57) (2,536) (2,593) income tax, assessed as remote loss. Reversal of provisions (2) (774) (776) (v) alleged differences in payment of IRPJ and CSLL stemming from questioning of the limits of deductibility of interest on equity paid by Reassessment of risks (375) (375) BM&FBOVESPA to its shareholders in 2008. The total amount involved in this administrative proceeding is R$119,672 (R$ 110,675 at Monetary restatement 982 1,871 1,825 649 5,327 December 31, 2012), including late-payment interest and automatic fine. Balances at December 31, 2013 12,967 25,072 35,064 15,489 88,592 f. Remote losses BM&FBOVESPA, as successor of the former BOVESPA, and subsidiary BVRJ figure as defendants in a claim for property damages and pain Considering the characteristics of the provisions, the timing of the cash disbursements, if any, cannot be predicted. and suffering filed by Naji Robert Nahas, Selecta Participações e Serviços SC Ltda., and Cobrasol Companhia Brasileira de Óleos e Derivados, on the grounds of alleged losses in the stock market sustained in June 1989. The amount attributed to the cause by the plaintiffs is R$10 billion. In relation to property damages and pain and suffering claimed, the plaintiffs plead that BM&FBOVESPA and BVRJ be sentenced e. Possible losses in proportion to their responsibilities. A decision was handed down whereby the claims by the plaintiffs were considered completely unfounded. The proceedings assessed as possible loss are so classified as a result of uncertainties surrounding their outcome. They are legal or This decision was confirmed by the High Court of Justice of Rio de Janeiro State by means of a decision published on December 18, 2009. administrative proceedings for which case law has not yet been established or which still depend on check and analysis of the facts, or even The plaintiffs filed special and extraordinary appeals, both of which were denied. Interlocutory appeals were filed with the High Court of Justice involve specific aspects that reduce the likelihood of loss. and with the Federal Supreme Court of Brazil, and the appeal was granted for appreciation by the High Court of Justice. The appeal is currently pending judgment. BM&FBOVESPA believes that the likelihood of loss in this lawsuit is remote. BM&FBOVESPA and its subsidiaries are parties to tax, civil and labor lawsuits involving risks of loss assessed by management as possible, based on the evaluation of their legal advisors, for which no provision has been recorded. These proceedings comprise mainly the following: On November 29, 2010, BM&FBOVESPA received an assessment notice from the Brazilian IRS demanding the payment of income tax (R$301,686 of principal, plus fine and interest charges) and social contribution tax (R$108,525 of principal, plus fine and interest) that, in the Labor claims mostly relate to claims filed by former employees of BM&FBOVESPA and of outsourced service providers, on account of opinion of the Brazilian IRS, BM&FBOVESPA underpaid in 2008 and 2009 with respect to the amortization for tax purposes of the goodwill alleged noncompliance with labor legislation. The lawsuits assessed as possible losses at December 31, 2013 total R$34,688 in generated upon merger of Bovespa Holding S.A., approved at the Special General Meeting held on May 8, 2008. In October 2011, the BM&FBOVESPA (R$41,881 at December 31, 2012) and R$34,688 on a consolidated basis (R$41,917 at December 31, 2012); Brazilian IRS Judgment Office in São Paulo issued a decision on the challenge presented by BM&FBOVESPA, upholding, in substance, the Civil proceedings mainly relate to aspects of civil liability for losses and damages. The total amount involved in the civil lawsuits assessed assessment notice. BM&FBOVESPA filed an appeal with the Board of Tax Appeals on November 2011, which was denied in December 2013, as possible losses at December 31, 2013 is R$81,315 in BM&FBOVESPA and R$81,911 on a consolidated basis (R$95,812 at December thus upholding the referred to assessment notice. The result consisted of three favorable votes and three votes against the appeal filed by 31, 2012 in BM&FBOVESPA and on a consolidated basis). BM&FBOVESPA, and the casting vote was given by the President of the panel of judges, representing the Brazilian IRS. BM&FBOVESPA will await the publication of the decision in order to analyze, together with its legal advisors, the most adequate appeal strategy to be followed. The amount at December 31, 2013 and 2012 is almost entirely related to the possibility of BM&FBOVESPA being required to deliver its BM&FBOVESPA believes that the risk of loss associated with this tax matter is remote and will continue to amortize the goodwill for tax shares (surviving company of the merger with BM&F S.A.), corresponding to the shares resulting from the conversion of the membership purposes as provided for by prevailing legislation. certificate of a commodities broker in the former BM&F, or indemnify the corresponding amount, if the cancellation of the certificates in the former BM&F is found to be illegal, as alleged by a commodities broker in bankruptcy. BM&FBOVESPA, as the successor of Bolsa de Mercadorias e Futuros BM&F (“BM&F”) and as disclosed in its Form of Reference (item 4.3), figures as a defendant in civil public actions and class actions filed in order to investigate the practice of possible acts of administrative The total amount involved in tax proceeding assessed as possible loss is R$ 577,004 in the parent company and consolidated (R$ impropriety, and to receive compensation for alleged damages to the federal treasury as a result of transactions conducted by the Central Bank 537,333 at December 31, 2012). The main tax proceedings of BM&FBOVESPA and its subsidiaries refer to the following matters: of Brazil in January 1999 in the US dollar futures market run by the former BM&F. On March 15, 2012, those proceedings were deemed valid and convicted most of the defendants, among them, BM&F. The total amount arising from this unfavorable decision is R$7,005 million, from (i) classification of the former BM&F and Bovespa, in the period prior to the demutualization, as taxpayers of the Contribution Tax on which the amount of R$5,431 million may deducted, according to one of the decisions, referring to gains that the Central Bank of Brazil Gross Revenue for Social Security Financing (“COFINS”), which is the subject matter of two declaratory judgment actions pleading the obtained as a result of not using the international reserves. BM&FBOVESPA was also sentenced to pay a civil penalty of R$1,418 million. The declaration that the plaintiffs have no tax obligations owed to the federal tax authorities and seeking non-levy of COFINS on revenue figures were measured in January 1999 and should be adjusted for inflation, plus interest and burden of defeat. BM&FBOVESPA believes that arising from the exercise of the activities for which they were established, the revenue of which does not fall under the concept of billing. these actions are fully groundless and will not recognize in its financial statements any provision for such lawsuits as the risk of loss is remote. The amount involved in the aforementioned proceedings as of December 31, 2013 is R$53,091 (R$50,836 at December 31, 2012). The parties filed appeals which have caused the execution of the trial court judgment to be suspended until the Federal Court of Appeals of the 1st Chapter renders a decision on those appeals. 118 119 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS g. Judicial deposits The changes in treasury shares for the year are as follows: BM&FBOVESPA Consolidated Number Amount Description 2013 2012 2013 2012 Balance at December 31, 2011 52,008,012 521,553 Legal obligations 33,645 27,234 33,645 27,234 Tax 64,922 62,129 65,165 62,213 Purchase of shares Share buyback program 1,732,200 16,303 Civil 4,948 4,700 4,948 4,700 Shares sold – stock options (Note 18) (5,312,707) (53,236) Labor 4,750 3,447 4,907 3,675 Balance at December 31, 2012 48,427,505 484,620 Total 108,265 97,510 108,665 97,822 Purchase of shares Share buyback program 43,912,700 531,215 Shares sold – stock options (Note 18) (5,923,061) (60,809) We highlight the following judicial deposits: (i) R$47,315 (R$44,975 at December 31, 2012) relates to disputes over the classification of the exchanges as subject to payment of COFINS, which are assessed as possible loss by BM&FBOVESPA, as described in item “e” above; and (ii) R$11,425 (R$10,845 at December 31, 2012) refers to cases regarding PIS and COFINS on interest on equity received. Of the total deposits Balance at December 31, 2013 86,417,144 955,026 relating to legal obligations, R$33,208 (R$26,799 at December 31, 2012) relates to the processes in which BM&FBOVESPA claims non-levy of additional social security contribution on payroll and payments to self-employed professionals, and challenges the legality of FAP (an index applied to calculate the occupational accident insurance owed by employers). Average cost of treasury shares (R$ per share) 11.051 Due to the existence of judicial deposits related to tax proceedings assessed as possible losses, the total tax contingencies and legal obligations are less than the total deposits related to tax claims. Market value of treasury shares 955,774 15 EQUITY c. Revaluation reserves a. Capital Revaluation reserves were established as a result of the revaluation of works of art in BM&FBOVESPA and of the properties of the subsidiary BVRJ in 2007, based on independent experts’ appraisal reports. The capital of BM&FBOVESPA is R$2,540,239, represented by 1,980,000,000 registered common shares with voting rights and no par value, of which 1,893,582,856 are outstanding at December 31, 2013 (1,931,572,495 at December 31, 2012). d. Capital reserve This refers substantially to amounts originated in the merger of Bovespa Holding shares in 2008, and other corporate events allowed by the BM&FBOVESPA is authorized to increase its capital up to the limit of 2,500,000,000 common shares, through a resolution of the Board of Brazilian Corporation Law, such as (i) capital increase through merger, (ii) redemption, repayment or purchase of shares, and (iii) events Directors, without any amendment to its Articles of Incorporation. associated with the stock option plan. b. Treasury shares e. Income reserves Share buyback program (i) Legal reserve At a meeting held on June 26, 2012, the Board of Directors approved a new Share Buyback Program, starting on July 2, 2012 and ending on Legal reserve is annually set up with allocation of 5% of net income for the year, capped to 20% of capital. The purpose of the legal reserve is June 28, 2013. BM&FBOVESPA purchased a total of 20,862,700 shares under this Program in the 1 st half of 2013, which represented 34.77% to ensure capital integrity, and may only be used to offset losses and increase capital. of the Program amounting 60,000,000 of common shares. (ii) Statutory reserves At a meeting held on June 25, 2013, the Board of Directors approved a new Share Buyback Program, starting on July 1, 2013 and ending on June 30, 2014. The limit of shares to be repurchased by BM&FBOVESPA is 60,000,000 common shares, representing 3.13% of the total Represent funds and safeguard mechanisms required for the activities of BM&FBOVESPA, in order to ensure the proper settlement and shares outstanding. reimbursement of losses arising from the intermediation of transactions carried out in its trading sessions and/or registered in any of its trading, registration, clearing and settlement systems, and from custody services. By December 31, 2013, BM&FBOVESPA had purchased 23,050,000 shares, representing 38.42% of the total amount estimated in buyback program. Pursuant to the Articles of Incorporation, the Board of Directors may, when the amount of the statutory reserve is sufficient to meet the purposes for which it was originally established, propose that part of the reserve be distributed to the shareholders of the Company. The shares acquired under the Share Buyback Program may be canceled or used in connection with the exercise of the stock options by the beneficiaries of the Stock Option Plan of BM&FBOVESPA. f. Other comprehensive income The purpose of equity adjustments is to record the effects of (i) exchange variation of the investments abroad, (ii) hedge accounting on net foreign investment (Note 12), (iii) comprehensive income of associate and subsidiaries, and (iv) actuarial gain/loss on post-employment health care benefits. 120 121 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS g. Dividends and interest on equity h. Earnings per share As provided for in the Articles of Incorporation, shareholders are entitled mandatory minimum dividends of 25% of net income for the year, adjusted under Brazilian Corporation Law. Basic Consolidated 2013 2012 2013 2012 Numerator Net income for the year 1,081,516 1,074,290 Net income available to shareholders of BM&FBOVESPA 1,081,516 1,074,290 Legal reserve (1) Denominator Dividend calculation base 1,081,516 1,074,290 Weighted average number of outstanding shares 1,918,813,109 1,930,398,048 Dividends 815,213 984,290 Basic earnings per share (in R$) 0.563638 0.556512 Interest on equity 50,000 90,000 Diluted Consolidated Total approved during the year 865,213 1,074,290 2013 2012 Numerator (1) The legal reserve is not required to be set up considering that its amount plus the capital reserves exceed 30% of the Company capital. Net income available to shareholders of BM&FBOVESPA 1,081,516 1,074,290 The dividends and interest on equity approved in relation to P&L for the year are as follows: Denominator Weighted average number of outstanding shares adjusted by effects of stock options plans 1,923,866,237 1,935,428,473 Date of Gross value per Total gross Description Date approved payment share (R$) amount (R$) Diluted earnings per share (in R$) 0.562158 0.555066 Dividends 05/09/2013 06/07/2013 0.084638 163,580 Interest on equity 05/09/2013 06/07/2013 0.025870 50,000 Dividends 08/08/2013 09/30/2013 0.146943 280,670 Dividends 11/07/2013 11/27/2013 0.118341 225,260 16 TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES Dividends (1) 02/13/2014 145,703 a. Transactions and balances with related parties Total proposed/approved in 2013 865,213 Assets / Income / (liabilities) (expenses) Description 2013 2012 2013 2012 Dividends 05/10/2012 07/31/2012 0.116161 224,341 08/07/2012 10/31/2012 Banco BM&FBOVESPA de Serviços de Liquidação e Custódia S.A. (1) Dividends 0.124359 240,065 Accounts receivable 673 1,283 Dividends 11/06/2012 12/17/2012 0.067921 131,181 Interest on equity receivable 2,338 Interest on equity 11/06/2012 12/17/2012 0.046599 90,000 Recovery of expenses 8,314 6,450 Dividends 02/19/2013 04/30/2013 0.201237 388,703 Bolsa Brasileira de Mercadorias (1) Accounts receivable 9 21 Accounts payable (100) (51) Total proposed/approved in 2012 1,074,290 Minimum contribution on membership certificates (fees) (1,159) (1,198) Property rental 23 22 Recovery of expenses 88 92 (1) Proposal for supplementary dividend payment (above the minimum mandatory) relative to income for the fiscal year 2013, to be approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders. BM&F (USA) Inc. (1) Accounts payable (117) Sundry expenses (2,012) (1,839) The management of BM&FBOVESPA did not set up an income reserve for the difference between the amount recognized as equity pickup and the amount received as dividends arising from the interest held in the associate CME Group (Note 7). BM&FBOVESPA (UK) Ltd. (1) Accounts payable (164) Sundry expenses (1,394) (1,208) Bolsa de Valores do Rio de Janeiro (1) Accounts receivable 2 1 Recovery of expenses 25 5 122 123 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 2012 CME Group Dividends receivable 71,878 Management compensation Accounts payable (60,178) Financial expenses (437) Short-term benefits (salaries, profit sharing etc.) 28,943 24,427 BM&FBOVESPA Supervisão de Mercados Severance pay 787 Accounts receivable 276 826 Accounts payable (8,061) (15,000) Share-based payment (1) 12,931 9,529 Donation / Contribution (561) (15,000) Recovery of expenses 3,171 2,801 (1) Represents the expense calculated for the year in relation to the stock options granted to key management personnel, which was recognized Associação BM&F in accordance with the criteria described in Note 18. Accounts receivable 2 115 Contribution (2,173) Recovery of expenses 496 538 17 STRUCTURE OF GUARANTEES BM&FBOVESPA operating as a central counterparty (CCP) manages four clearinghouses considered systemically important by the Central Bank of Other related parties Brazil: the Derivatives, Foreign Exchange and Securities Clearinghouses and the Equity and Corporate Debt Clearinghouse (CBLC). Accounts receivable 7 26 Accounts payable (10) The activities carried out by the clearinghouses of BM&FBOVESPA are governed by Law No. 10214/01, which authorizes the multilateral clearing of Sundry expenses (100) obligations, establishes the central counterparty role of the systemically important clearinghouses and permits the utilization of the collateral Recovery of expenses 91 104 obtained from defaulting participants to settle their obligations in the clearinghouse environment, including in cases of civil insolvency, agreements with creditors, intervention, bankruptcy and out-of-court liquidation. (1) Subsidiaries included in the consolidation process. Through its clearinghouses, BM&FBOVESPA acts as a central counterparty in the derivatives market (futures, forward, options and swaps), spot The main recurring transactions with related parties are described below and were carried out under the following condition: foreign exchange market, government securities market (spot, forwards, repurchase operations, futures and lending of securities), variable income (spot, forward, option, futures and lending of securities) and private debt securities (spot and lending of securities). In other words, by assuming the BM&FBOVESPA pays a minimum monthly fee to Bolsa Brasileira de Mercadorias. The payment that BM&FBOVESPA makes to Bolsa role of a central counterparty, BM&FBOVESPA becomes responsible for the proper settlement of trades carried out and/or registered in its systems, Brasileira de Mercadorias is established by the Articles of Incorporation of Bolsa Brasileira de Mercadorias, pursuant to which the member (as as established in the applicable regulations. is the case of BM&FBOVESPA) must regularly pay fees for membership certificates. Bolsa Brasileira de Mercadorias periodically reimburses BM&FBOVESPA for expenses associated with the resources and infrastructure The performance of BM&FBOVESPA as a central counterparty exposes it to the credit risk of the participants that utilize its settlement systems. If a provided by BM&FBOVESPA to assist in carrying out its activities. participant fails to make the payments due, or to deliver the assets or commodities due, it will be incumbent upon BM&FBOVESPA to resort to its In order to further the development of the market and strengthen the founding member commitment to the development of markets safeguard mechanisms, in order to ensure the proper settlement of the transactions in the established time frame and manner. In the event of a administered by Bolsa Brasileira de Mercadorias, BM&FBOVESPA decided to offer, free of charges, services provided by the Founding failure or insufficiency of the safeguard mechanisms of its Clearinghouses, BM&FBOVESPA might have to use its own equity, as a last resort, to Member that may be necessary for the development of markets administered by Bolsa Brasileira de Mercadorias, in the amount of R$2,970, ensure the proper settlement of trades. for a maximum period of 5 years as from April 2013, upon the previous approval of the Founding Member. The amounts owed by Banco BM&FBOVESPA to BM&FBOVESPA refer to the Company’s funds used by Banco BM&FBOVESPA in The BM&FBOVESPA clearinghouses are not directly exposed to market risk, as they do not hold net long or net short positions in the various performing its activities under a formal agreement signed by the parties. Such amounts are paid upon presentation of a descriptive document contracts and assets traded. However, an increase in price volatility can affect the magnitude of amounts to be settled by the various market prepared by BM&FBOVESPA and approved by Banco BM&FBOVESPA, according to the terms of the agreement. participants, and can also heighten the probability of default by these participants. Furthermore, as already emphasized, the clearinghouses are Other liabilities to CME Group refer to the remaining portion for the acquisition of the perpetual license of modules related to the multi-asset responsible for the settlement of the trades of a defaulting participant, which could result in losses for BM&FBOVESPA if the amounts due surpass class electronic trading platform, PUMA Trading System, which was developed along with CME Group. the amount of collateral available. Accordingly, despite the fact that there is no direct exposure to market risk, this risk can impact and increase the BSM has entered into an agreement with BM&FBOVESPA for the transfer and recovery of costs which establishes the reimbursement to credit risks assumed. BM&FBOVESPA for expenses incurred for resources and infrastructure made available to BSM to assist in the performance of its supervision activities. Such costs are determined on a monthly basis using the methodology specified in the agreement signed by the parties and also Each BM&FBOVESPA Clearinghouse has its own risk management system and safeguard structure The safeguard structure of a Clearinghouse include the activities related to the Mecanismo de Ressarcimento de Prejuízos (Loss Recovery Mechanism) as this mechanism is represents the set of resources and mechanisms that it can utilize to cover losses relating to the settlement failure of one or more participants. administered by BSM. These systems and structures are described in detail in the regulations and manuals of each clearinghouse, and have been tested and ratified by the Central Bank of Brazil (BACEN), in accordance with National Monetary Council (CMN) Resolution No. 2882/01 and BACEN Circular BM&FBOVESPA pays monthly fees to BM&F (USA) Inc. and BM&FBOVESPA (UK) Ltd. to represent it abroad by liaising with other No. 3057/01. exchanges and regulators and assisting in bringing new clients to the Brazilian capital market. Associação BM&F, Associação Bovespa, Instituto BM&FBOVESPA and Associação Profissionalizante BM&FBOVESPA periodically The safeguard structures of the clearinghouses are based largely on loss-sharing model called defaulter pays, in which the amount of collateral reimburse BM&FBOVESPA for expenses associated with the resources and infrastructure provided by BM&FBOVESPA to assist them in deposited by each participant should be able to absorb, with a high degree of confidence, the potential losses associated with its default. performing their activities. Consequently, the amount required as collateral for participants is the most important element in our management structure of the potential market risks arising from our role as a central counterparty. b. Key management personnel compensation For most contracts and operations with assets, the required value as collateral is sized to cover the market risk of the business, i.e. its price volatility Key management personnel include Members of the Board of Directors, Executive Officers, Internal Audit Officer, Corporate Risk Officer, Officer of during the expected time frame for settlement of the positions of a defaulting participant. This timeframe can vary depending on the nature of Banco BM&FBOVESPA and Human Resources Officer. contracts and assets traded. The models used for calculating the margin requirements are based, in general, on the concept of stress testing, in other words, a methodology that attempts to measure market risk into account not only recent historical volatility of prices, but also the possibility of the occurrence of unexpected events that modify the historical patterns of behavior of prices and the market in general. The main parameters used for margin calculation models are the stress scenarios, defined by the Market Risk Committee for the risk factors that affect the prices of contracts and assets traded on our systems. For the definition of stress scenarios, the Market Risk Committee uses a combination of quantitative and qualitative analysis. The quantitative analysis is done with the support of statistical models for estimating risk, such as EVT (extreme value theory), estimate of implied volatilities, GARCH (Generalized Autoregressive Conditional Heteroskedasticity) models, and historical simulations. The qualitative analysis considers aspects related to domestic and international economic and political conditions and their impacts on the markets managed by BM&FBOVESPA. 124 125 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The operations in the BM&FBOVESPA markets are secured by margin deposits in cash, government and corporate securities, letters of guarantee Breakdown 2013 2012 and shares, among others. The guarantees received in cash, in the amount of R$2,072,989 (R$1,134,235 at December 31, 2012), are recorded as a liability under “Collateral for transactions” and other collaterals, in the amount of R$212,316,376 (R$175,347,681 at December 31, 2012) are recorded in memorandum accounts. At December 31, 2013 collaterals amounted to R$214,389,365 (R$176,481,916 at December 31, 2012), as Government securities 322,274 342,942 follows: Letters of guarantee 30,750 36,684 a. Safeguard structure of the Derivatives Clearinghouse Cash amounts deposited 4,000 Shares 3,075 3,177 i) Collaterals deposited by derivatives market participants: Breakdown 2013 2012 Amounts deposited 356,099 386,803 Government securities 118,581,479 85,901,802 Amounts guaranteeing participation of clearing Letters of guarantee 2,796,183 2,696,602 member / trader 252,000 270,500 Shares 4,019,309 3,532,128 Bank deposit certificates (CDB) 1,185,727 933,447 Excess collaterals 104,099 116,303 Cash amounts deposited 701,705 741,243 Gold 56,182 67,677 Patrimônio Especial (Special equity), in the amount of R$45,729 (R$42,245 at December 31, 2012), in compliance with the provisions of article Other 66,000 179,521 5 of Law No. 10214 of March 27, 2001 and article 19 of BACEN Circular No. 3057 of August 31, 2001. Total 127,406,585 94,052,420 ii) Other collaterals b. Safeguard structure of the Equity and Corporate Debt Clearinghouse (CBLC) Joint liability for paying the broker and clearing member that acted as intermediaries, as well as collaterals deposited by such participants. i) Collaterals deposited by the Equity and Corporate Debt Market (CBLC) participants: Fundo de Desempenho Operacional, in the amount of R$1,009,985 (R$1,099,786 at December 31, 2012), composed of funds provided by Breakdown 2013 2012 holders of right of settlement in the Derivatives Clearinghouse (clearing members) and holders of unrestricted right to bargain for the sole purpose of ensuring the operations. This fund has the following position: Government securities 34,423,146 32,749,964 Breakdown 2013 2012 Shares 42,654,968 40,975,737 International securities (1) 1,616,091 2,596,140 Government securities 852,276 919,462 Bank deposit certificates (CDB) 239,198 522,080 Letters of guarantee 141,000 150,800 Letters of guarantee 1,055,421 312,288 Bank deposit certificates (CDB) 5,720 4,946 Cash amounts deposited 212,527 369,910 Shares 10,765 11,074 Other 86,429 193,705 Cash amounts deposited 224 13,504 Total 80,287,780 77,719,824 Amounts deposited 1,009,985 1,099,786 (1) American and German government securities as well as ADRs (American Depositary Receipt). Amounts guaranteeing participation of clearing member / trader 808,500 874,000 Excess collaterals 201,485 225,786 Fundo de Operações do Mercado Agropecuário, in the amount of R$50,000 at December 31, 2013 and 2012, intended to hold funds of BM&FBOVESPA to guarantee the proper settlement of transactions involving agricultural commodity contracts. Fundo Especial dos Membros de Compensação, in the amount of R$40,000 at December 31, 2013 and 2012, intended to hold funds of BM&FBOVESPA to guarantee the proper settlement of transactions, regardless of the type of contract. Fundo de Liquidação de Operações, in the amount of R$356,099 (R$386,803 at December 31, 2012), composed of collaterals transferred by clearing members, intended to guarantee the proper settlement of transactions after the resources of the two previous funds have been used up. This fund has the following position: 126 127 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ii) Other collaterals a. Safeguard structure of the Derivatives Clearinghouse Joint liability for paying the broker and clearing member that acted as intermediaries, as well as collaterals deposited by such participants. i) Collaterals deposited by government securities market participants: Settlement Fund, in the amount of R$395,910 (R$421,786 at December 31, 2012), composed of collaterals transferred by clearing Breakdown 2013 2012 members, intended to guarantee the proper settlement of transactions. Breakdown 2013 2012 Government securities 757,487 1,046,977 Government securities 393,283 416,212 ii) Other collaterals Cash amounts deposited 2,627 5,574 Fundo Operacional da Clearing de Ativos, in the amount of R$40,000 at December 31, 2013 and 2012, intended to hold funds of BM&FBOVESPA to cover losses arising from operational or administrative failures. Total 395,910 421,786 Patrimônio Especial (Special equity), in the amount of R$32,200 (R$29,747 at December 31, 2012), in compliance with the provisions of article 5 of Law No. 10214 of March 27, 2001 and article 19 of BACEN Circular No. 3057 of August 31, 2001. Patrimônio Especial (Special equity), in the amount of R$48,874 (R$45,138 at December 31, 2012), in compliance with the provisions of article e. Guarantee funds 5 of Law No. 10214 of March 27, 2001 and article 19 of BACEN Circular No. 3057 of August 31, 2001. Subsidiaries Bolsa Brasileira de Mercadorias and Bolsa de Valores do Rio de Janeiro (BVRJ) also manage Guarantee Funds, special purpose entities without a legal status. The maximum liability of these Guarantee Funds is limited to the sum of their net assets. 18 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS c. Safeguard structure of the Foreign Exchange Clearinghouse a. Stock options – Long-term benefit i) Collaterals deposited by foreign exchange market participants: BM&FBOVESPA has a Stock Option Plan (“Option Plan”) approved at the Special General Meeting held on May 8, 2008, as amended at the Special General Meeting held on April 18, 2011, by which the employees of BM&FBOVESPA and its subsidiaries are eligible to receive stock Breakdown 2013 2012 options. The Option Plan delegates broad powers to the Board of Directors to approve the granting of options and to manage them through stock option Government securities 4,782,607 3,662,691 programs (“Programs”), which must determine, among other specific conditions: (i) their beneficiaries, (ii) the total number of shares of Cash amounts deposited 1,154,906 4 BM&FBOVESPA to be granted, (iii) the division of the award in batches, if necessary, (iv) the exercise price, (v) the vesting period and deadline for exercising the option, (vi) restrictions on transfer of shares received by exercising the option, and (vii) the resolution of any necessary penalties. Total 5,937,513 3,662,695 The Plan also allows the Board of Directors to approve the granting of options with different conditions to certain beneficiaries (“Additional Options”). The granting or exercise of the Additional Options must necessarily be conditioned to (i) the acquisition by the Beneficiary of shares of BM&FBOVESPA, through the use of own resources and under the percentage, terms and conditions set forth in each Program (“Own Shares”); and (ii) the observance of a period of restriction on the sale of own shares (lock-up). Currently there are seven Programs to grant options under the Option Plan, approved by the Board of Directors. ii) Other collaterals BM&FBOVESPA recognized expenses related to grants of the Option Plan in the amount of R$28,136 in the year ended December 31, 2013 Fundo de Participação, in the amount of R$215,809 (R$214.675 at December 31, 2012), composed of collaterals transferred by Foreign (R$32,306 at December 31, 2012) matched against capital reserves in equity. BM&FBOVESPA considered in this calculation an estimated Exchange Clearinghouse participants, intended to guarantee the proper settlement of transactions. turnover between 11% and 20%, i.e. the estimated number of options which will not vest due to employees who opt to leave BM&FBOVESPA or whose employment is terminated before achieving vested rights to exercise the options. Breakdown 2013 2012 At December 31, 2013, BM&FBOVESPA used 1.69% (1.50% at December 31, 2012) of the total limit of 2.5% of the capital for stock option grants, leaving 0.81% of the capital for new programs. When the options are exercised by the beneficiaries, new shares will be issued, by increasing the capital of BM&FBOVESPA, or treasury shares will be used. Government securities 214,809 214,675 Cash amounts deposited 1,000 The exercise price per share is equal to the average closing price of the 20 trading days preceding the date of grant, subject to vesting periods for its exercise. Total 215,809 214,675 The conditions of the programs provide that the option can be exercised after the expiration of each vesting period, limited to a maximum term set forth in the Program. After the vesting period ends, the option may be exercised wholly or partially. If the option is exercised in part, the holder may Fundo Operacional da Clearing de Câmbio, in the amount of R$50,000 at December 31, 2013 and 2012, intended to hold funds of exercise the remainder within the established exercise period. The option not exercised within the exercise period and under conditions stipulated in BM&FBOVESPA to cover losses arising from operational or administrative failures. the respective programs shall be forfeited automatically, without right to compensation. Patrimônio Especial (Special equity), in the amount of R$45,799 (R$42,295 at December 31, 2012), in compliance with the provisions of article In the event of termination of the beneficiary’s relationship with BM&FBOVESPA because of dismissal or resignation, or upon dismissal or 5 of Law No. 10214 of March 27, 2001 and article 19 of BACEN Circular No. 3057 of August 31, 2001. termination of service agreement without cause or through resignation: (i) vested options can be exercised within the maximum exercise period set forth in the program, and (ii) unvested options shall be forfeited without right to compensation. If the beneficiary dies or becomes permanently disabled from performing his or her normal job in BM&FBOVESPA, the rights arising from the options can be exercised, as appropriate, by the beneficiary or his or her heirs and successors, who may exercise such rights, whether or not the initial vesting periods have ended, for a period of one year from the date of death or permanent disability, after which the rights shall be forfeited without right to compensation. Additionally, due to the merger of BM&F S.A., BM&FBOVESPA assumed the Stock Option Plan issued by BM&F S.A., approved at the Annual General Meeting of BM&F S.A. held in 2007. All the stock options granted under the plan have vested. 128 129 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Total options granted Total options exercised Exercised Fair value of Exercise and Cancelled options at BM&F S.A. Plan BM&FBOVESPA Plan price cancelled and lapsed Exercised Outstanding grant date Vesting (R$ per in prior at at contracts at (R$ per Plan Grant date period share) Granted periods 12/31/2013 12/31/2013 12/31/2013 share) Average market price Number of Average market price Number of options Exercise month (R$ per share) options exercised (R$ per share) exercised BM&F S.A. 12/18/2007 12/18/2009 1.00 6,652,596 (6,652,596) 21.81 12/18/2007 12/18/2010 1.00 6,329,396 (6,276,896) (52,500) 21.54 12/18/2007 12/18/2011 1.00 6,244,396 (6,067,896) (176,500) 21.32 st 1 quarter 13.94 160,000 13.70 2,604,915 nd 19,226,388 (18,997,388) (229,000) 2 quarter 14.05 9,000 13.79 2,043,738 rd 3 quarter 12.38 814,400 2008 Program 12/19/2008 06/30/2009 5.174 1,132,966 (1,085,353) (4,400) (15,088) 28,125 3.71 th 4 quarter 12.65 60,000 11.92 231,008 12/19/2008 06/30/2010 5.174 1,132,966 (1,042,128) (3,150) (30,088) 57,600 3.71 12/19/2008 06/30/2011 5.174 1,132,959 (970,897) (625) (83,737) 77,700 3.71 12/19/2008 06/30/2012 5.174 1,132,959 (790,935) (8,025) (181,062) 152,937 3.71 Total options exercised 229,000 5,694,061 4,531,850 (3,889,313) (16,200) (309,975) 316,362 2009 Program 03/01/2009 12/31/2009 6.60 2,486,750 (2,111,527) (205,013) 170,210 2.93 03/01/2009 12/31/2010 6.60 2,486,750 (1,946,000) (264,550) 276,200 2.93 03/01/2009 12/31/2011 6.60 2,486,750 (1,569,900) (527,440) 389,410 2.93 03/01/2009 12/31/2012 6.60 2,486,750 (702,250) (100,000) (1,082,750) 601,750 2.93 Changes in the consolidated statements 9,947,000 (6,329,677) (100,000) (2,079,753) 1,437,570 Number 2010 Program 01/03/2011 01/03/2011 12.91 3,488,000 (796,375) (207,250) (426,500) 2,057,875 4.50 01/03/2011 01/03/2012 12.91 3,488,000 (844,125) (141,875) (390,125) 2,111,875 4.50 01/03/2011 01/03/2013 12.91 3,488,000 (812,375) (161,250) (328,250) 2,186,125 4.50 Balance at December 31, 2011 22,418,092 01/03/2011 01/03/2014 12.91 3,488,000 (881,125) (286,750) 2,320,125 4.50 13,952,000 (3,334,000) (797,125) (1,144,875) 8,676,000 Stock options granted 15,394,690 Options exercised (Note 15(b)) (5,312,707) 2011 Program 01/02/2012 01/02/2013 10.07 3,180,500 (143,125) (15,000) (1,625,500) 1,396,875 2.79 Options cancelled and lapsed (2,579,990) 01/02/2012 01/02/2014 10.07 3,180,500 (143,125) (147,500) (181,250) 2,708,625 2.79 01/02/2012 01/02/2015 10.07 3,180,500 (143,125) (221,250) (170,000) 2,646,125 2.79 01/02/2012 01/02/2016 10.07 3,180,500 (143,125) (296,250) (120,000) 2,621,125 2.79 Balance at December 31, 2012 29,920,085 12,722,000 (572,500) (680,000) (2,096,750) 9,372,750 Stock options granted 12,122,126 Additional 01/02/2012 01/02/2015 5.04 1,336,345 (4,483) (114,174) (25,208) 1,192,480 4.19 Program 01/02/2012 01/02/2017 5.04 1,336,345 (4,482) (160,438) 1,171,425 4.19 Options exercised (Note 15(b)) (5,923,061) Options cancelled and lapsed (2,648,602) 2,672,690 (8,965) (274,612) (25,208) 2,363,905 2012 Program 01/02/2013 01/02/2014 10.78 2,481,509 (125,000) (37,500) 2,319,009 5.55 Balance at December 31, 2013 33,470,548 01/02/2013 01/02/2015 10.78 2,481,509 (175,000) 2,306,509 5.55 01/02/2013 01/02/2016 10.78 2,481,509 (187,500) 2,294,009 5.55 01/02/2013 01/02/2017 10.78 2,481,509 (187,500) 2,294,009 5.55 9,926,036 (675,000) (37,500) 9,213,536 Additional 2012 01/02/2013 01/02/2016 6.74 1,098,045 (52,833) 1,045,212 6.98 Program 01/02/2013 01/02/2018 6.74 1,098,045 (52,832) 1,045,213 6.98 2,196,090 (105,665) 2,090,425 Total plans 75,174,054 (33,131,843) (2,648,602) (5,923,061) 33,470,548 130 131 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Dilution percentage options. As a result, BM&FBOVESPA used the implied volatility of similar entities (international stock exchanges) as a basis for estimating the 2013 volatility of its shares over periods in which liquidity was sufficient to guarantee the quality of the data gathered; d) In order to determine the volatility applied by the pricing model of the second to fifth grants of the BM&FBOVESPA plan, three measures BM&F S.A. BM&FBOVESPA Total commonly employed in finance were evaluated: (i) implied volatility, (ii) volatility estimated via autoregressive model (GARCH) and; (iii) volatility estimated via exponential weighted moving average (EWMA). Although the exclusive use of implied volatilities, i.e. volatilities computed based on observable market prices offers more accurate estimates, stock options trading had low liquidity on the dates of grant and Grant date 12/18/2007 12/19/2008 03/01/2009 01/03/2011 01/02/2012 01/02/2012 01/02/2013 01/02/2013 lower maturities. Thus, BM&FBOVESPA used the average between the implied volatility observed and the estimated volatility via EWMA model to estimate the volatility of its shares, since the results obtained from using the GARCH model were not satisfactory; Outstanding stock options 316,362 1,437,570 8,676,000 9,372,750 2,363,905 9,213,536 2,090,425 33,470,548 e) The share prices were adjusted in order to reflect the impact of dividend payments; and f) The maximum period for exercising the options granted was used as expiry date of the options. Shares outstanding 1,893,582,856 Other usual assumptions related to option pricing models, such as inexistence of arbitrage opportunities and constant volatility over time were also considered in the calculation. Dilution percentage 0.00% 0.02% 0.08% 0.46% 0.49% 0.12% 0.49% 0.11% 1.77% 2012 b. Supplementary pension plan The pension plan “Fundo de Pensão Multipatrocinado das Instituições do Mercado Financeiro e de Capitais (Mercaprev)” is structured as a defined BM&F S.A. BM&FBOVESPA Total contribution (DC) plan and is sponsored by the following entities: Ancord, BM&FBOVESPA, Sindival, Souza Barros and Talarico, with voluntary participation open to all employees. Grant date 12/18/2007 12/19/2008 03/01/2009 01/03/2011 01/02/2012 01/02/2012 The participant’s monthly contribution is the sum of 1% contribution of a “Unidade Previdenciária UP” (equivalent to R$ 3,000.00 and adjusted through bargaining agreement) plus the percentage chosen by the employee between 1% to 7% of the value above one “UP” up to the limit of the Outstanding stock options 229,000 642,537 3,617,323 10,618,000 12,149,500 2,663,725 29,920,085 participant’s salary. The sponsor’s monthly contribution is a 100% match of the value chosen by the participant. BM&FBOVESPA has no obligation to make payments in addition to its contribution as a sponsor. In the event of termination of employment prior to the expected retirement date, the participant may keep the plan under the rules established by the regulation or request the enrollment cancellation, in which case he or she may opt Shares outstanding 1,931,572,495 for: (i) the portability of 100% of the balance of the reserves composed of the participant’s contributions and according to the length of employment, up to 90% of the balance of the reserves composed of contributions from the sponsor, or (ii) the redemption of 100% of the balance of the reserves composed of contributions from the participant and according to the length of employment, up to 50% of the balance of the reserves composed of Dilution percentage 0.01% 0.03% 0.19% 0.55% 0.63% 0.14% 1.55% contributions from the sponsor. In any of the options above there is no additional cost to BM&FBOVESPA. Effects arising from the exercise of options c. Post-retirement health care benefit 2013 2012 BM&FBOVESPA maintains a post-retirement health care plan for a group of former employees. At December 31, 2013, the actuarial liabilities related to this plan corresponded to R$25,940 (R$ 27,533 at December 31, 2012), calculated using the following assumptions: Amount received from exercise of options 51,985 24,404 2013 2012 (-) Cost of treasury shares disposed of (60,809) (53,236) Discount rate 6.5% p.a. 4.0% p.a. Economic inflation 4.5% p.a. 4.5% p.a. Medical inflation 3.0% p.a. 3.0% p.a. Effect from disposal of shares (8,824) (28,832) Mortality table AT-2000 AT-2000 Average life expectancy in years of a pensioner retiring at age 65: Option pricing model Retirement at the balance sheet date (age 65) 20 years To determine the fair value of the options granted, BM&FBOVESPA took into account in a consistent manner the following aspects: Retirement in 25 years (age 40 today) 20 years a) The model of stock options granted by BM&FBOVESPA permits the early exercise from a future vesting date occurring between the grant date and the expiry date; b) The shares underlying the options pay dividends between the grant date and the expiry date. Accordingly, these options have characteristics of the European model (early exercise is not allowed) until the vesting date and characteristics of the American model (possibility of early exercise) between the vesting date and the expiry date. This type of option is known as “Bermuda” or “MidAtlantic style” options and their price must be between the price of a European option and the price of an American option with similar characteristics. In relation to the dividend payment, there are two impacts on the price of this option: (i) the fall in share prices after the dates on which they become ex-dividend, and (ii) the influence of such payments on the decision to exercise the option early. Considering the aspects above, a modified Binomial method (Cox-Ross-Rubinstein) was used to determine the fair value of the options granted, considering two distinct periods for the possibility of early exercise (before and after the vesting dates). This method produces results which are equivalent to the results of the Black & Scholes model for non-complex European options, having the advantage of combining the characteristics of early exercise and dividend payment associated with the stock option at issue. The main assumptions used in pricing the options were: a) The options were valued based on the market parameters effective on each of the grant dates of the different plans; b) To estimate the risk-free interest rate, the future interest contracts negotiated for the maximum exercise period of the options were considered; c) Since BM&FBOVESPA was a recently listed entity at the time the BM&F S.A. plan was granted and the BM&FBOVESPA plan was granted for the first time, historical volatility did not provide sufficient information on share volatility, considering the contractual term for exercising the 132 133 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The changes in the defined benefit obligation in the year were as follows: 19 INCOME AND SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION TAXES 2013 a. Deferred income and social contribution taxes The balances of deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows: At beginning of year 27,533 BM&FBOVESPA and Current service cost 173 consolidated Past service cost 3,758 Description 2013 2012 Interest cost 2,366 Benefit paid by the plan (822) Tax, civil and labor contingencies 16,554 12,402 Effect of changes in financial assumptions (11,408) Tax loss carryforwards 29,107 29,107 Effect of plan experience 4,340 Exchange variation on issue of debt abroad 120,499 58,262 Other temporary differences 36,877 32,515 At end of year 25,940 Total deferred assets 203,037 132,286 The amounts recognized in P&L are as follows: Goodwill amortization (1) (2,295,347) (1,739,699) Other (427) 55 2013 Total deferred liabilities (2,295,774) (1,739,644) Current service cost 173 Interest on defined benefit obligation 2,367 Deferred taxes, net (2,092,737) (1,607,358) Total included in P&L for the year 2,540 (1) Deferred income and social contribution tax liabilities arising from temporary differences between the tax base of goodwill and its carrying amount on the balance sheet, considering that goodwill is still amortized for tax purposes, but is no longer amortized for accounting purposes as from January 1, 2009, resulting in a tax base smaller than the carrying amount of goodwill. This temporary difference may result in amounts The amounts recognized in comprehensive income are as follows: becoming taxable in future periods, when the carrying amount of the asset will be reduced or settled, thus requiring the recognition of a deferred tax liability. 2013 Effect of changes in financial assumptions (11,408) Changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year: Effect of plan experience 4,340 Past service cost 3,758 BM&FBOVESPA and consolidated Total included in the statement of comprehensive income (3,310) Debt (credit) in Debt (credit) in the comprehensive 2012 income statement income 2013 The sensitivity of the actuarial liability at December 31, 2013 to the changes in key assumptions is as follows: Deferred assets Tax, civil and labor contingencies 12,402 4,152 16,554 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease Deferred assets on tax loss carryforwards 29,107 29,107 Exchange variation on issue of debt abroad 58,262 62,237 120,499 Discount rate (1,636) 1,814 Other temporary differences 32,515 4,362 36,877 Medical inflation 1,914 (1,747) Total deferred assets 132,286 8,514 62,237 203,037 Increase of 1 Decrease of 1 Deferred liabilities Goodwill amortization (1,739,699) (555,648) (2,295,347) Other 55 643 (1,125) (427) Mortality table 1,045 (1,029) Total deferred liabilities (1,739,644) (555,005) (1,125) (2,295,774) Deferred taxes, net (1,607,358) (546,491) 61,112 (2,092,737) 134 135 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS b. Estimated realization period Consolidated Deferred income and social contribution tax assets arising from temporary differences are recorded in the books taking into consideration their probable realization, based on projections of future results prepared based on internal assumptions and future economic scenarios that may, 2013 2012 accordingly, not materialize as expected. Deferred tax assets (including tax loss carryforwards of R$29,107) are expected to be realized in the amount of R$35,244 within one year and Income before income and social contribution taxes 1,687,535 1,659,791 R$167,793 after one year and realization of deferred liabilities is expected to occur after one year. At December 31, 2013 the present value of the deferred tax assets, considering their expected realization, is R$149,225. Income and social contribution taxes before additions and exclusions Since the income and social contribution tax base arises not only from the profit that may be generated, but also from the existence of nontaxable computed at the statutory rate of 34% (573,762) (564,329) income, nondeductible expenses, tax incentives and other variables, there is no immediate correlation between BM&FBOVESPA net income and the income subject to income and social contribution taxes. Therefore, the expected use of tax assets should not be considered as the only Additions: (108,110) (101,589) indicator of future income of BM&FBOVESPA. Stock option plan (9,566) (10,984) The balance of goodwill that is deductible for income and social contribution tax purposes amounts to R$6,406,038 at December 31, 2013 Nondeductible expenses permanent (1) (98,544) (90,605) (R$8,040,296 at December 31, 2012). The realization of the deferred tax liabilities will occur as the difference between the tax base of goodwill and its carrying amount is reversed, that is, Exclusions: 75,264 81,352 when the carrying amount of the asset is either reduced or settled. Equity pickup 58,264 50,752 Interest on equity 17,000 30,600 c. Reconciliation of income and social contribution tax expense Reconciliation of the income and social contribution tax amounts recorded in P&L (Company and consolidated) and their respective amounts at Other 20 (969) statutory rates are as under: Income and social contribution taxes (606,588) (585,535) BM&FBOVESPA 2013 2012 Income before income and social contribution taxes 1,685,492 1,656,170 (1) Refers mainly to R$64,847 of recoverable income tax paid abroad (Note 7). Income and social contribution taxes before additions and exclusions computed at the statutory rate of 34% (573,067) (563,098) d. Taxes recoverable and prepaid Taxes recoverable and prepaid are as follows: Additions: (106,539) (102,015) Stock option plan (9,566) (10,984) BM&FBOVESPA Nondeductible expenses permanent (1) (96,973) (91,031) Description 2013 2012 Exclusions: 75,610 84,202 Equity pickup 58,610 53,602 Prepaid IRPJ/CSLL current year 7,989 24,797 Interest on equity 17,000 30,600 IRRF Financial investments current year 49,252 46,924 Other 20 (969) IRPJ and CSLL tax losses prior years 13,904 79,425 Taxes paid abroad 24,765 17,402 Income and social contribution taxes (603,976) (581,880) PIS/COFINS recoverable 20,138 11,017 Other taxes 4,332 877 Total 120,380 180,442 136 137 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated 21 SUNDRY EXPENSES Description 2013 2012 BM&FBOVESPA Prepaid IRPJ/CSLL current year 7,988 24,797 IRRF Financial investments current year 49,252 46,924 Description 2013 2012 IRPJ and CSLL tax losses prior years 13,904 79,425 Taxes paid abroad 24,765 17,402 Sundry provisions (1) 21,691 7,237 PIS/COFINS recoverable 20,138 11,017 Other taxes 4,349 893 Electricity, water and sewage 9,853 10,498 Contributions and donations 7,760 24,011 Total 120,396 180,458 Travel 4,080 4,900 Expenses with entities abroad 3,406 3,047 Rental 2,427 2,406 e. Transitional Taxation Regime Consumption material 1,394 2,974 Executive Order No. 627, of November 11, 2013, and Revenue Procedure No. 1397, of September 16, 2013, brought significant changes to federal taxation rules, especially with regard to the required adjustments to complete the Transitional Taxation Regime introduced by Law No. 11941, of Minimum trading fees BBM (Note 16) 1,159 1,198 May 27, 2009. The provisions of the Executive Order will become effective as of calendar year 2015, with early adoption being permitted as of Insurance 947 941 calendar year 2014. Transportation 928 1,074 Based on the analysis made by management about the possible tax impacts of new provisions from Executive Order No. 627 (which was not Write-off of intangible assets 3,620 converted into law until the present date), BM&FBOVESPA intends to opt for early application of its features from the calendar year 2014 (art. 71), assuming that the Executive Order be regulated and converted into Law on terms substantially equivalent to the current text in its main aspects. Other 4,354 4,135 20 REVENUE Total 57,999 66,041 BM&FBOVESPA Consolidated 2013 2012 2013 2012 Consolidated Trading and/or settlement system BM&F 916,530 865,874 916,530 865,874 Derivatives 897,098 848,858 897,098 848.858 Description 2013 2012 Exchange 19,424 16,999 19,424 16.999 Assets 8 17 8 17 Sundry provisions (1) 21,795 8,091 Trading and/or settlement system – Bovespa Electricity, water and sewage 10,068 10,723 (1) 1,023,978 1,034,007 1,023,978 1,034,007 Contributions and donations 7,836 24,132 Trading – trading fees 192,985 243,181 192,985 243,181 Travel 4,645 5,476 Transactions – clearing and settlement 804,570 769,221 804,570 769,221 Other 26,423 21,605 26,423 21.605 Rental 3,152 3,024 Consumption material 1,477 3,013 Other revenue 393,847 356,855 429,721 389,142 Securities lending 102,186 77,063 102,186 77,063 Insurance 953 951 Securities listing 47,126 45,625 47,126 45,625 Transportation 959 1,094 Depository, custody and back-office 116,305 102,763 116,305 102,763 Trading participant access 47,705 51,540 47,705 51,540 Write-off of intangible assets 3,620 Vendors – quotations and market information 69,236 67,668 69,236 67,668 Other 4,830 4,443 Bolsa Brasileira de Mercadorias – fees and contributions 5,067 4,931 Banco – financial intermediation and bank fees 22,023 19,708 Total 55,715 64,567 Other 11,289 12,196 20,073 19.844 Deductions (236,131) (221,897) (238,434) (224,273) (1) Basically refers to the provision for contingencies and allowance for doubtful accounts. PIS and COFINS (206,711) (194,022) (208,416) (195.555) Service tax (29,420) (27,875) (30,018) (28,718) Revenue 2,098,224 2,034,839 2,131,795 2,064,750 (1) In April 2013, given changes in the policies governing the spot market, trading and after-trading fees (transactions) for local institutional investors and day traders were rebalanced, and the fees for the other investors were reduced. 138 139 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22 FINANCIAL INCOME (EXPENSES) Bovespa Segment Bovespa Segment covers the various stages of the trading cycle of fixed and variable income securities and equity securities on stock and over-theBM&FBOVESPA counter (OTC) markets. BM&FBOVESPA manages the national stock exchange and OTC markets for trading of variable income securities, including stocks, stock receipts, Brazilian Depository Receipts, stock derivatives, subscription warrants, various types of closed-end investment fund 2013 2012 shares, shares representing audiovisual investment certificates, non-standard options (warrants) to purchase and sell securities and other securities Financial income authorized by the CVM. Income from financial assets measured at fair value 264,884 272,623 BM&F Segment Exchange gains 15,464 7,888 The BM&F segment covers the main steps of the cycles of trading and settlement of securities and contracts: (i) trading systems in an environment Other financial income 16,139 13,780 of electronic trading and trading via internet (WebTrading), (ii) recording, clearing and settlement systems, integrated with a risk management system to ensure the proper settlement of the transactions recorded, and (iii) custodian systems for agribusiness securities, gold and other assets. 296,487 294,291 In addition, this segment includes the trading of commodities, foreign exchange, and public debt, and services provided by BM&FBOVESPA Bank and the Brazilian Commodities Exchange. Financial expenses Interest and exchange variation on foreign debt (91,636) (80,199) Institutional and Corporate Products Segment Exchange losses (15,674) (5,305) Mainly refers to services provided as depository of securities, as well as lending and listing of securities (registration in BM&FBOVESPA systems of Other financial expenses (9,820) (2,527) issuers of securities for trading), data services and classification of commodities, and technological products. (117,130) (88,031) 2013 Consolidated Financial income 179,357 206,260 Institutional and Bovespa BM&F Corporate Products Consolidated Segment Segment Segment Total 2013 2012 Trading and/or settlement system 1,023,978 916,530 429,721 2,370,229 Financial income Deductions (106,470) (92,703) (39,261) (238,434) Income from financial assets measured at fair value 268,336 275,726 Revenue 917,508 823,827 390,460 2,131,795 Exchange gains 15,464 7,888 Other financial income 16,223 13,603 Adjusted expense (214,956) (170,388) (190,421) (575,765) 300,023 297,217 Depreciation and amortization (53,086) (41,008) (25,567) (119,661) Stock options (10,232) (8,858) (9,046) (28,136) Financial expenses Allowance for doubtful accounts and other Interest and exchange variation on foreign debt (91,636) (80,199) provisions (9,116) (8,671) (4,263) (22,050) Exchange losses (15,677) (5,305) Transfer of fines (250) (236) (75) (561) Other financial expenses (11,175) (2,862) Other (22,706) (21,438) (6,843) (50,987) (118,488) (88,366) Total expenses (310,346) (250,599) (236,215) (797,160) Financial income 181,535 208,851 P&L 607,162 573,228 154,245 1,334,635 23 SEGMENT INFORMATION We present below consolidated information based on reports used by the Executive Board for making decisions, comprising the following segments: Bovespa, BM&F, Institutional and Corporate Products. Due to the nature of the business, the Executive Board does not use any information on Equity pickup 171,365 assets and liabilities by segment to support decision-making. Financial income 181,535 Income and social contribution taxes (606,588) Net income for the year 607,162 573,228 154,245 1,080,947 140 141 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25 RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS APPLICABLE IN FUTURE PERIODS 2012 The following accounting standards will be effective for years beginning on or after January 1, 2014 and have not been early adopted. Consolidated Management believes that these standards will not have a significant impact on the financial statements. Amendment to IAS 32 – Financial Instruments: Presentation – This amendment clarifies the financial instruments offsetting criteria in the Institutional and balance sheet. Bovespa Corporate Products Segment BM&F Segment Segment Total IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments – This standard aims at replacing IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. In November Trading and/or settlement system 1,034,007 865,874 389,142 2,289,023 2009, the IASB issued IFRS 9, introducing new requirements for the classification and measurement of financial assets. In October 2010, the IASB amended the standard to include requirements applicable to financial liabilities. In November 2013, the IASB issued a new amendment to Deductions (101,786) (85,202) (37,285) (224,273) include requirements applicable to hedge accounting. Revenue 932,221 780,672 351,857 2,064,750 IAS 36 – Impairment of Assets – This amendment introduces disclosure requirements for measuring the recoverable amount of assets, in connection with IFRS 13. Adjusted expense (231,739) (176,482) (155,266) (563,487) Depreciation and amortization (44,243) (32,954) (16,545) (93,742) 26 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Stock options (12,496) (10,563) (9,247) (32,306) a. At the meeting held on February 13, 2014, the Board of Directors proposed payment of supplementary dividends referring to the year ended Allowance for doubtful accounts and other December 31, 2013, of R$145,703, to be approved at the General Shareholders’ Meeting. provisions (3,054) (2,717) (2,874) (8,645) Other (30,427) (26,497) (7,976) (64,900) b. BM&FBOVESPA concluded the Share Buyback Program approved by the Board of Directors on June 25, 2013 (Note 15(b)) by repurchasing 36,950,000 shares (61.58% of the total expected) for R$370,418 between January 1 and January 29, 2014, observing the blackout period defined in CVM Ruling No. 358. Total expenses (321,959) (249,213) (191,908) (763,080) P&L 610,262 531,459 159,949 1,301,670 Equity pickup 149,270 Financial income 208,851 Income and social contribution taxes (585,535) Net income for the year 610,262 531,459 159,949 1,074,256 24 OTHER INFORMATION a. BM&FBOVESPA seeks advice from insurance brokers to ensure that it has a sufficient level of insurance cover for its size and operations. The main coverage in its insurance policies at December 31, 2013 is shown below: Insurance line Amounts insured Amounts at risk, property damages, buildings and equipment 453,621 Civil liability 109,000 Works of art 16,133 b. Associação Profissionalizante BM&FBOVESPA (APBM&FBOVESPA) is a not-for-profit entity engaged in promoting educational, social welfare and sports activities. The sports-related initiatives included offering support to the BM&FBOVESPA Athletics Club and sponsorship to athletes (these activities were incorporated by specific association, known as Clube de Atletismo BM&FBOVESPA in July 2013). APBM&FBOVESPA is supported by the BM&FBOVESPA Institute, a not-for-profit association that has BM&FBOVESPA as its founding member. APBM&FBOVESPA figures as a defendant in judicial and administrative proceedings involving tax matters, assessed as probable loss, most of which are related to questioning by Brazilian IRS about social security taxes allegedly owed by APBM&FBOVESPA on payments made to third parties and on sponsorships to athletes of the Clube de Atletismo BM&FBOVESPA. If the outcome of these proceedings is not favorable to APBM&FBOVESPA, BM&FBOVESPA may have to provide funds to maintain the activities of such club. The amount involved in said proceedings at December 31, 2013 is R$17,475. 142 143 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 31 DECEMBER, 2013 INDEPENDENT THE SHAREHOLDERS, BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS BM&FBOVESPA S.A. – BOLSA DE VALORES, MERCADORIAS E FUTUROS We have audited the accompanying individual and consolidated financial statements of BM&FBOVESPA S.A. – Bolsa de Valores, Mercadorias e Futuros (the “Company”), which comprise the balance sheet as at December 31, 2013 and the related income statements, statement of comprehensive income, AUDITOR´S statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows for the year then ended, and a summary of significant accounting practices and other explanatory information. Management’s responsibility for the financial statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the individual financial statements in accordance with accounting practices adopted in REPORT Brazil, and of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), and in conformity with accounting practices adopted in Brazil, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Brazilian and international standards on auditing. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether these financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor's judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the Company's preparation and fair presentation of the Company’s financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control of the Company and its subsidiaries. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting practices used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the individual and consolidated financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Opinion on individual financial statements In our opinion, the individual financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of BM&FBOVESPA S.A. – Bolsa de Valores, Mercadorias e Futuros as at December 31, 2013, and its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with accounting practices adopted in Brazil. Opinion on consolidated financial statements In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of BM&FBOVESPA S.A. – Bolsa de Valores, Mercadorias e Futuros and its subsidiaries as at December 31, 2013, and its consolidated financial performance and consolidated cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the accounting practices adopted in Brazil. Emphasis of matter As described in Note 2, the individual financial statements were prepared in accordance with accounting practices adopted in Brazil. In the case of BM&FBOVESPA S.A. – Bolsa de Valores, Mercadorias e Futuros, these practices differ from the IFRS applicable to the separate financial statements solely with respect to the measurement of investments in subsidiaries, affiliates and jointly owned subsidiaries, under the equity method, while such investments would be measured at cost or fair value for IFRS purposes. Our opinion is not qualified in respect of this matter. Other matters Statement of value added We have also audited the individual and consolidated statements of value added for the year ended December 31, 2013, the presentation of which is required by Brazilian corporation law for publicly held companies, and as supplementary information under the IFRS, whereby no statement of value added presentation is required. These statements have been subject to the same auditing procedures previously described and, in our opinion, are presented fairly, in all material respects, in relation to the overall financial statements. Audit of prior year corresponding figures The corresponding figures for the year ended December 31, 2012, presented for comparison purposes, were previously audited by other independent auditors who issued an unmodified opinion dated February 19, 2013. São Paulo, February 13, 2014. ERNST & YOUNG Auditores Independentes S.S. CRC-2SP015199/O-6 Flávio Serpejante Peppe Kátia Sayuri Teraoka Kam Accountant CRC-1SP172167/O-6 Accountant CRC-1SP272354/O-1 145 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Initial information The Audit Committee of BM&FBOVESPA S.A. is a statutory advisory body directly linked to the Board of Directors. It is made up of one board AUDIT member and four independent members nominated every two years by the members of the board, who take into consideration the criteria contained in the applicable legislation and rules and international best practices. Attributions and responsibilities The Board of BM&FBOVESPA S.A. (hereafter referred to as “BM&FBOVESPA”) is responsible for the definition and implementation of processes and COMMITTED procedures aimed at collecting data for the preparation of financial statements, in line with corporate law, accounting practices in Brazil and the relevant rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission of Brazil. The Board is also responsible for the processes, policies and internal control procedures that assure and safeguard securities, for the timely recognition of liabilities and for the elimination or reduction to acceptable levels of the Company’s risk factors. REPORT The purpose of the internal audit is to check the quality of BM&FBOVESPA’s internal control systems and whether the policies and procedures defined by the Board are being met, including those adopted when drawing up financial reports. The independent audit is tasked with examining financial statements with a view to issuing findings on their adherence to the applicable norms. As a result of its work, the independent audit issues a report of recommendations about accounting procedures and internal controls, without prejudicing the other reports that it is required to prepare, such as special quarterly revisions. The functions of the Audit Committee are described in its Internal Regulation, which covers the duties defined in CVM Instruction 509/11. The Audit Committee bases its findings and forms its opinions considering the information received from the Board of Directors; the representations made by the Board of Directors about information systems, financial statements and internal controls; and the results of the work of the Corporate Risk and Internal Controls Department, of the Internal Auditors and of the Independent Auditors. Activities of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee met in 14 ordinary sessions, in which there were 82 meetings with members of the Board of Directors, with internal and independent auditors and with other interlocutors. The Committee met with the Board of Directors five times in 2013. Meetings with Upper Management The Committee met with BM&FBOVESPA’s officers and their respective teams to discuss structures, the functioning of the respective areas, their working processes, the control system’s shortcomings, and improvement plans. The matters most requiring the Committee’s attention included: IT and Information Security – Over 2013, the Audit Committee continued priority monitoring of the progress of Information Technology control processes and of medium and long-term plans of action. In meetings with the Chief Information Officer and his team there were discussions about improvements to IT processes, with the objective of optimizing the availability of systems and the continuous management of business. The Committee discussed with the Audit Department several aspects regarding Information Security, including the results of work executed and of intrusion tests. The Committee was informed of the results of the business continuity tests that were executed in 2013 and monitored by internal audit. The Audit Committee kept itself informed of events during the implementation of the PUMA Trading System for the BOVESPA segment. Financial Management and Reports – There were also discussions with the Financial and Corporate Department and the independent auditors and, when applicable, with the specialized outside auditors, about aspects aimed at assessing goodwill in BOVESPA Holding and the investment in CME. The Audit Committee, with the support of the internal audit, monitored the SAP system implementation process over the year. Contingencies – There was analysis and discussion with the Legal Department (with the participation of the Financial Department, Independent Auditors and responsible lawyers) about the main administrative and legal processes and about respective findings on the likelihood of success in particular but not exclusively the findings on CARF, on the Notice of Infraction involving the deductibility of goodwill at BOVESPA, and the potential effects on the Company of MP 627/13. Human Resources – There were discussions with the Human Resources Department about matters related to the Board of Directors’ remuneration and benefits, such as the Private Pension plan. Internal Controls, Corporate Risk and Other Departments The following practices and procedures recommended by the Audit Committee were monitored over 2013, with the following observations: a) There was the implementation of new corporate and operational risk management policies, which had begun to be defined throughout 2012; at the same time, an area was structured for dealing with compliance with laws, norms and regulations. b) An integrated governance, risk and control (GRC) system was acquired, which will be used by the Internal Control, Compliance and Corporate Risk Department and by the Audit Department. c) A centralized process was established for monitoring communications with the Regulatory Bodies. d) An area was structured to deal with compliance with laws, norms and regulations. e) The Board of Directors on a meeting held on February 13, 2014 approved a document drew up by the Executive Board containing a Policy proposal regarding the treatment of Related Parties. f) It was brought to the attention of the Board of Directors at its February 13, 2014 meeting the anti-Money Laundering Policy approved by the Executive Board. The Committee considered that the Corporate Risk Report met the requirements of CVM Instruction 461 and the Internal Controls Report prepared within the guidelines of art. 3º of BACEN Resolution 2.554. 147 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Committee receives on a regular basis a summary of the communications submitted by the Regulatory Agencies and the Judiciary as regards questions within the scope of the Committee. The Audit Committee recognizes the advances made in Risk Management, Compliance and Internal Controls and maintains the expectation that with the implementation of the main plans of action still in course, significant improvements may be reached within the short term regarding these areas. Independent Audit There was the rotation of independent auditors after the December 31, 2012 balance sheet. The Audit Committee actively participated in analysis of the proposals submitted by companies invited by the Board of Directors, with EY being hired. The Committee met with the independent auditors to inform itself about the policy of maintaining independence during the execution of work and to decide on the non-existence of conflicts of interest in non-Audit work in financial statements eventually requested of it by the Executive Board. The Audit Committee also discussed with the above mentioned independent auditors: risk analysis in the audit they executed; the planning of work seeking to establish the nature, time and extent of the main audit procedures selected; and possible points that require attention and how they will be audited. Furthermore, there were discussions with EY of the results of the audits that it executed regarding Central Counterparty and IT Risk. The auditors’ main conclusions were discussed at the end of work on each Quarterly Information (ITR) special revision over 2013. At the start of the December 31, 2012 audit’s preliminary and final work there was further discussion in specific meetings about the audit’s risk areas and the respective procedures. All of the points that were considered relevant were covered, seeking to assess the potential risks involving financial statements and the mitigation of these risks through audit and control procedures. As well as specific debates about the work of the independent audit into the requirements of CVM Instruction 461, the previous auditors who examined the financial statements of December 31, 2012 also presented the Committee with the points for improving internal controls, identified by them during that audit and segregated according to nature and classified by complexity and impact on the Company’s processes. At the end of the year, the Committee went ahead with the formal assessment of the independent audit, having considered the quality and the volume of the information submitted as being compatible with the first year of work. There were no situations identified that could prejudice the independence of the external auditors. Internal Audit The Audit Committee carried out the technical supervision of the Internal Audit. In 2013 it approved the Annual Internal Audit Plan and carried out periodical monitoring of its execution. The audit reports were submitted to and discussed by the Committee, which considered the scope, methodology and results of the executed work as being satisfactory. The Audit Committee continues to monitor the Plans of Action resulting from the audit points raised in all of the audited areas. At the end of the year, the Committee proceeded with the formal assessment of the internal audit, on which occasion it ascertained significant improvements to the quality of the work executed. Recommendations of the Audit Committee During 2013 the Audit Committee made several recommendations to the Board of Directors, which promptly accepted them. This is ongoing and the following deserves to be highlighted: a training plan focused on management, for the Officer and Managers at the Audit Department, who have completed one year at their jobs. Conclusion The Audit Committee finds that all of the relevant facts that it has been presented with through the work executed and described in this report have been properly disclosed in the Board of Directors’ Report and in the audited financial statements relative to December 31, 2013, recommending their approval by the Board of Directors. São Paulo, February 13, 2014 Nelson Carvalho – Coordinator of the Committee, Financial Specialist and Representative of the Board of Directors of BM&FBOVESPA S.A. Paulo Roberto Simões da Cunha Pedro Oliva Marcilio de Sousa Sérgio Darcy da Silva Alves Tereza Cristina Grossi Togni 148 GRI table of Profile indicators Page Global Compact 1. Strategy and Analysis contents 3.12 Statement from the most senior decision-maker Supportting 1.1 2 to 3 Statement of the organization. Description of key impacts, risks, and 1.2 10 to 14 opportunities. 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. 7 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 6 to 9 Operational structure of the organization, 2.3 including main divisions, operating companies, 7 and 8 subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. 8 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major 2.5 8 operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 8 Markets served (including geographic 2.7 breakdown, sectors served, and types of 6 to 9 customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 6 to 9 Significant changes during the reporting period 2.9 9 regarding size, structure, or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 9 and 44 3. Report Parameters Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for 3.1 17 information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 17 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 17 Contact point for questions regarding the report 3.4 18 or its contents. 3.5 Process for defining report content. 16 to 18 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, 3.6 17 suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. State any specific limitations on the scope or 3.7 boundary of the report (see completeness 17 principle for explanation of scope). 154 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 155 gri table of contents Profile indicators Page Global Compact Internally developed statements of mission Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, or values, codes of conduct, and principles Principles 1 leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other 4.8 relevant to economic, environmental, and 24 and 10 social performance and the status of their 3.8 entities that can significantly affect comparability 17 from period to period and/or between implementation. organizations. Externally developed economic, environmental, Principles 1 Data measurement techniques and the bases 4.12 and social charters, principles, or other initiatives 25,26 and 43 and 10 of calculations, including assumptions and to which the organization subscribes or endorses. techniques underlying estimations applied to 17 Memberships in associations (such as industry 3.9 the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions associations) and/or national/international not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the advocacy organizations in which the organization: Principles 1 GRI Indicator Protocols. 4.13 * Has positions in governance bodies; * 25, 26 and 43 and 10 Participates in projects or committees; * Provides Explanation of the effect of any re-statements substantive funding beyond routine membership of information provided in earlier reports, and dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 3.10 the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/ 17 acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature List of stakeholder groups engaged by the of business, measurement methods). 4.14 26 organization. Significant changes from previous reporting Basis for identification and selection of 3.11 periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement 17 4.15 26 stakeholders with whom to engage. methods applied in the report. Table identifying the location of the Standard 18 and 102 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including 3.12 Disclosures in the report. to 109 4.16 frequency of engagement by type and by 26, 45 and 51 stakeholder group. Policy and current practice with regard to seeking 3.13 18 external assurance for the report. Key topics and concerns that have been raised 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement through stakeholder engagement, and how the 4.17 26 organization has responded to those key topics Governance structure of the organization, and concerns, including through its reporting. including committees under the highest Principles 1 4.1 governance body responsible for specific tasks, 20 to 29 Economic Page Global Compact and 10 such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. Economic performance Indicate whether the Chair of the highest Principles 1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, 4.2 22 including revenues, operating costs, employee governance body is also an executive officer. and 10 EC1 compensation, donations and other community 84 For organizations that have a unitary board investments, retained earnings, and payments to structure, state the number of members of the Principles 1 capital providers and governments. 4.3 22 highest governance body that are independent and 10 and/or non-executive members. Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit EC3 37 plan obligations. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to Principles 1 4.4 provide recommendations or direction to the 21 Market presence and 10 highest governance body. Range of ratios of standard entry level wage Processes in place for the highest governance Principles 1 EC5 compared to local minimum wage at significant 33 Principle 1 4.6 25 body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. and 10 locations of operation. 156 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 157 gri table of contents Environmental Page Global Compact Total number and rate of employee turnover LA2 35 Principle 6 by age group, gender, and region. Energy Benefits provided to full-time employees that Indirect energy consumption by primary EN4 71 Principle 8 LA3 are not provided to temporary or part-time 36 and 38 energy source. employees, by major operations. Energy saved due to conservation and Principles 8 EN5 71 and 9 Labor/management relations efficiency improvements. Percentage of employees covered by collective Principle 1 Water LA4 33 bargaining agreements. and 3 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 72 Principle 8 Occupational health and safety Emissions, effluents and waste Percentage of total workforce represented in Total direct and indirect greenhouse formal joint management-worker health and EN16 72 Principle 8 LA6 38 Principle 1 gas emissions by weight. safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. Other relevant indirect greenhouse EN17 72 Principle 8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and gas emissions by weight. risk-control programs in place to assist workforce Initiatives to reduce greenhouse Principles 7, LA8 38 Principle 1 EN18 70 8 and 9 members, their families, or community members gas emissions and reductions achieved. regarding serious diseases. Emissions of ozone-depleting substances EN19 72 Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Page Global Compact by weight. NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Health and safety topics covered in formal EN20 72 LA9 38 by type and weight. agreements with trade unions. Total weight of waste by type and Training and education EN22 73 Principle 8 disposal method. Average hours of training per year per employee LA10 39 Products and services by employee category. Initiatives to mitigate environmental Percentage of employees receiving regular Principles 7, LA12 38 and 39 EN26 impacts of products and services, and extent 70 performance and career development reviews. 8 and 9 of impact mitigation. Diversity and equal opportunity Compliance Composition of governance bodies and Monetary value of significant fines and total breakdown of employees per category according Principle 1 LA13 34 and 35 and 6 number of non-monetary sanctions for nonto gender, age group, minority group membership, EN28 70 Principle 8 and other indicators of diversity. compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Ratio of basic salary of men to women by Principle 1 LA14 33 and 6 Aspect: Transport employee category. Significant environmental impacts of transporting Social: Human Rights Page Global Compact products and other goods and materials used for the EN29 70 Diversity and equal opportunity organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors HR2 that have undergone screening on human rights 40 Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Page Global Compact and actions taken. Employment Non-discrimination Total workforce by employment type, Total number of incidents of discrimination and LA1 32 to 36 Principles 1, employment contract, and region. HR4 40 2 and 6 actions taken. 158 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 159 gri table of contents Child labor Operations identified as having significant risk for Principles 1, HR6 incidents of child labor, and measures taken to 40 2 and 5 contribute to the elimination of child labor. Forced and compulsory labor Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and Principles 1, HR7 40 2 and 4 measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Social: Society Page Global Compact Community Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts SO1 47 and 50 of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. Social: Society Page Global Compact Corruption Percentage of employees trained in organization’s SO3 24 Principle 10 anti-corruption policies and procedures. Actions taken in response to incidents of SO4 25 Principle 10 corruption. Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total SO8 number of non-monetary sanctions for non25 compliance with laws and regulations. Social: Product Responsibility Page Global Compact Product and service labelling Practices related to customer satisfaction, PR5 including results of surveys measuring customer 28 Principles satisfaction. Customer privacy Total number of substantiated complaints PR8 regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses 27 of customer data. Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for nonPR9 compliance with laws and regulations concerning 27 the provision and use of products and services. 160 annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA annual report 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 161 CREDITS COORDINATION Communications Department Investor Relations Department Sustainability Department COMPOSITION BM&FBOVESPA TRANSLATION AND REVISION Transcreation Ltda. GRAPHIC DESIGN BM&FBOVESPA TYPOGRAPHY GB8 Design e Editoração Ltda. CONTENT CONSULTING The MediaGroup PHOTOS BM&FBOVESPA/Agência Luz CONTACT Investor Relations +55 11 2565-4729/4418/4834/4207 ri@bmfbovespa.com.br RELATÓRIO ANUAL 2013 | BM&FBOVESPA 163
