T O C R E AT E C O L O R F U L L I F E TIANMA MICROELECTRONICS CO.,LTD. Office：64th Building, Jinlong lndustrial Zone, Majialong, Nanshan, Shenzhen 2012 CSR REPORT Tel：(86)755—8622 5773，8622 5777 Fax：(86)755—8622 5772 Website：www.tianma.cn 2012 CSR Report Tianma Microelectronics Co.,Ltd. About This Report Contents (1) Reporting Period (6) The Scope Jan 1st, 2012 – Dec 31st, 2012 The performance index and management policies of this report cover About This Report Chapter Three Environmental Sustainability 29 all entities that are controlled or significantly influenced by the compa(2) Reporting Cycle ny on finance and operation, and in accordance with the scope of Management Letter 01 Section 1 Occupational Health and Safety 30 company’s financial report. About Tianma 05 Section 2 Environmental Protection 34 Annually Tianma CSR 09 Section 3 Government Reward 38 (7) Reporting Basis (3) Brief Introduction This report takes the core and additional indexes of GRI (Global ReportThis is the first annual Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report of ing Initiative) G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines as reference. Chapter Four Win-win With Business Partners 39 Tianma Micro-electronics Co. Ltd. It aims to disclose to our stakeholdChapter One Stable Operation 15 ers the activities and performance of our company in various aspects We are self-evaluating Level C of GRI Application for this report. Section 1 Supply Chain Management 40 Section 1 Corporate Governance 16 of corporate social responsibility, including stable operation, employSection 2 Client Orientation 43 ee caring, environmental sustainability, business partners’ CSR capaciSection 2 Business Ethics 17 ty, community involvement, etc., and to solicit further support from our stakeholders through communication. Chapter Five Community Involvement 45 (4) The Content (8) Expression Statement Chapter Two Employee Caring 19 This report adheres to the principles of materiality, stakeholder Section 1 Eliminating Discrimination 20 For better expression and reading experience, “Tianma Micro-electronAppendix Ⅰ Tianma Milestones 50 inclusiveness and sustainability context as stated by the Global ics Co.” is referred to as “the company” ,”Tianma” or “we” in this report. Section 2 Staff Allocation 20 Reporting Initiative (GRI). Upon comprehensive analysis and Appendix Ⅱ Awards 51 This report has an online version and a printed version. The online Section 3 Wages and Benefits 21 assessment of the operational systems, the major stakeholders are version is available on the official website of Tianma Micro-electronics Section 4 Staff Training and Improvement 22 Appendix Ⅲ GRI Indicator Index 52 identified and surveyed through questionnaires pertinent to their Co. (http://www.tianma.com.cn/). expectations, so that their concerns and needs are revealed and Section 5 Staff Relations and Communication 25 Appendix Ⅳ Reader Feedback 57 ranked according to importance. The topics, contents and indicators Tel：86-755-86225886 to be disclosed in this report are determined through the evaluation Fax：86-755-86225772 and selection by the CSR committee. Email：CSR_office@tianma.cn (5) Data Collection In order to effectively collect information of the company’s performance on aspects of economy, environment and society in 2012, we chose 24 GRI indicators from the G3 Guidelines regard to the status quo of the company. Targeting the chosen indicators, the company launched field research in all branch companies within the scope of the report. Through on-site survey, employee interview, document review and field observation, the range of data collection was determined and the collecting and calculating methods were improved. 2012 CSR ReportTianma Microelectronics Co.,Ltd. Management Letter Tianma reaches the age of thirty at 2013. Standing at the beginning which made me feel gratified. If Tianma’s former contribution to social of another thirty years, Tianma releases her first corporate social responsibilities is like the spring mizzle or the trickling stream, then now responsibility report, which will not only be the summary and they have all gathered to become a river with their strengths revealed, deliberation for the CSR practices of the past thirty years, but also running towards the ocean. serve as the self-motivation and self-encouragement. In our view, social responsibility is not irrelevant to a company, but the During the past thirty years, Tianma has focused on the field of obligation that must be met. We should not only solve the employment small-to-medium size displays, starting with one TN production line, and problem, but also strive to help the employees realize their own value, developed to a large internationalized corporation that owns multiple growing together. We should not only contribute to the social economic production lines including TFT, independently researches and develops development, but also promote the harmonious and sustainable advanced techniques such as AM-OLED and LTPS, and spreads the development among economy, the society and the environment. We marketing network all over the world. When facing those achievements, should not only observe law and discipline, pay taxes with integrity, but we soberly realize that the larger the company grows, the more social also make great effort to build up a harmonious business environment. responsibilities we should take on. Under the new situation and opportuWe should not only innovate the services, persevere in people first, but nity, how to create more corporate value, how to achieve the harmonious also coexist harmoniously and benefit mutually with shareholders, development among the corporation, the society, and the environment, employees, suppliers, clients, and all the business partners. Those are the how to build up a distinguished, venerable and world-class company, are confidence and undertaking of a company with the sense of social all the questions Tianma ponders every day, and also the consideration of responsibility. Tianma people before every conduct. In recent years, the impact of the US economic crisis continues, European It is a solemn promise from Tianma people that we are “New SOE”, and we debt crisis has caused the global economy going downhill, and the should initiatively undertake more social responsibilities. We know it well increasing speed of international trade has dropped, to maintain such that the corporation’s every operation would influence economy, the confidence and undertaking would not be easy. However, we are glad to society and the environment, the harmony of the nature, the harmony of see that they have melted into Tianma’s blood. Our ideal is as what Mr. supply chain, and the harmony between the community and employees, Philip Kotler, father of modern marketing, said “Great companies are and all those are the guarantee of the company’s sustainable developthose that devote themselves to making money as well as solving social ment. Over the past thirty years, adhering to the “Shenzhen Spirit” and problems.” holding on to the corporate dream, we were bold to innovate and In the future, better undertaking social responsibility would no longer be implement, and we kept cultivating. In 2012, Tianma initially raised a an optional deed for a corporation, but the only way to a long lasting claim to systematically construct CSR management system with Tianma’s enterprise. Today, Tianma is on her way, and well prepared to overcome characteristics, carried out a series of work and made an achievement, obstacles, let’s look forward to Tianma’s greater achievement. Chairman: 01 Management Letter Management Letter 02 2012 CSR Report Tianma Microelectronics Co.,Ltd. Management Letter This is Tianma Micro-electronics Co.’s first CSR report. We promise that, We formulated CSR management manual, launched training and and thought. We will innovate the profit model, promote asserts efficienChange”, cooperate with stakeholders, striving for a new win-win henceforth, we would earnestly and annually report on our business education comprehensively; cy; continuously improve excellent operation, deepen management situation. We will concern about social responsibility risk along with our performance and contribution to the environment and the society over innovation, optimize operational processes, raise the efficiency of core suppliers, proactively influence the related parties, especially to strengthWe performed CSR evaluation on ourselves and our suppliers according the previous year to shareholders, suppliers, government, clients, business operation and staff; increase the efficiency of organization, en the implementations of environmental protection, energy conservato EICC Code of Conduct; employees and the community that are concerning us. adapt to the fast development requirement of multi-region and tion and emission reduction, health and safety, protection of employees’ We made proactive explorations in our energy saving and emission multi-task, enhance the ability of value creating. We will constantly interest, and business ethic. We will initiatively communicate with In the past year, the impact of the US economic crisis continues, Europereduction project. We have passed the external audits of OHSAS18001 implement the company’s strategy from the perspective of “5+1+5” stakeholders, trying to fulfill their needs and expectation. We will keep on an debt crisis has caused the global economy going downhill, and the Occupational Health and Safety System and ISO14001 Environmental dynamic strategic. We will adhere to the core value of “People First, training and educating on CSR knowledge, and caring for environmental increasing speed of international trade has dropped, the depression and Management System. Also we have passed the audits of clean producOpenness and diversity, Integrity, Customer Oriented, and Embrace protection and employees’ physical and mental health. complexity of the economy have brought huge challenge to Tianma’s tion and Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emission. global operation. When confronting the difficulties, we persisted in the strategy of “Focusing on Small-to-Medium Size Displays, Developing We attached importance to internal control, enhanced the overall risk In the future, we will continuously increase the investment in CSR, and promote the company’s CSR system in accordance with the global Leading-Edge Technologies, Providing Fast and Personalized Customer management. We launched internal control system construction in 2011, standard. We firmly believe that, our sense of responsibility and mission would lead us to become a distinguished, venerable and world-class Service, Achieving Sustainable Growth.”, adhered to the core value of positively referred to the internal control implementing schedule company. “People First, Openness and diversity, Integrity, Customer Oriented, and requirements for major experimental company deployed by China Embrace Change”, pursued economic profit and protected shareholders’ Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) Shenzhen Securities Regulatointerests, meanwhile, concerned and defended the lawful rights and ry Bureau, initiatively accomplished internal control system construction interests of suppliers, government, customers, employees, the communiahead of schedule; our internal control work done was exclusively ty and other stakeholders. interviewed about and reported by “China Accounting Report”; At present, we have developed to a large internationalized corporation We concerned about employee care, safe operation, public welfare and that owns multiple production lines including TFT, independently the communication with stakeholders; General Manager: Vice President & Chief Accountant, researches and develops advanced techniques such as AM-OLED and CSR Committee Chair: We advocated integrity, incorruption, and formulated employees’ Code LTPS, and spreads the marketing network all over the world. After thirty of Conduct, carried out incorruption education, and effectively promotyears’ practices and development, we know well that the harmony of ed the business ethic awareness of all staffs; natural environment, supply chain, the community and employees is the guarantee for the company’s sustainable growth. Therefore, in 2012, we What is more gratified and encouraging, our effort has received approval and compliment from international top customers, shareholders, governofficially started the construction of CSR management system, and made some achievements: ment, employees, the community and other stakeholders. In 2013, we will stick to “Efficiency & Win-win”, explore and implement We built up the CSR organizational structure, formed a CSR core team; new experience, new approach, exceed ourselves from brand new height We established CSR mission, vision, strategy and five-year develop plan; 03 Management Letter Management Letter 04 2012 CSR Report Tianma Microelectronics Co.,Ltd. Change in Operation Location or Business About Tianma There has been no change in operation location or business within the reporting period. Total Assets Other 7.803 billion CNY There has been no change in scale, structure or ownership of the company within the reporting period. Tianma Micro-electronics Co. Ltd.（The company） Total Revenue 2012 Major Sites: Shanghai Tianma Micro-electronics Co. Ltd.,（Shanghai Tianma） 4.334 billion CNY Chengdu Tianma Micro-electronics Co. Ltd.,（Chengdu Tianma） Major Products: Main Business Revenue 2012 Tianma Micro-electronics Co. was founded in 1983 and was publicly traded on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZ.000050) in 1995. We are a high-tech enterprise specializing in the design, manufacturing, and 4.238 billion CNY supply of high quality LCD and LCM products and have now become a major public company with operations spanning from Research & Development, Design, Manufacturing to Sales and Service. Tianma supports a wide range of applications in Mobile Phone, Automotive, Industrial, Home Automation and others. Net Income 2012 Shareholding Structure: 137.56 million CNY State-owned Company Name: Established: Shenzhen Tongchan Group Co. Ltd. TIANMA MICROELECTRONICS CO.,LTD. November 8, 1983 Total Tax Payment 2012 8.40% Company Name in Chinese: Location: Amount 139.17 million CNY 天马微电子股份有限公司 7/F, 64th Building, Jinlong lndustrial Zone, Majialong, 48,251,364 Nanshan, Shenzhen Other Legal Representative: State-owned Global Operations: Wu Guangquan China Mainland, Hong Kong, USA, South Korea, Europe, Japan. 45.98% CATIC Shenzhen Holdings Ltd. Number of Patents Our business extends around the world. 45.62% Application 2012 Registered Head Office: 22/F South, Hangdu Building, CATIC Zone, Mid Shennan Road, Types of Ownership: Amount 190 items Shenzhen 261,976,786 Public Company Office: Listing Location: 7/F, 64th Building, Jinlong lndustrial Zone, Majialong, Shenzhen Stock Exchange Nanshan, Shenzhen Employees 7,184 05 About Tianma About Tianma 06 2012 CSR Report Tianma Microelectronics Co.,Ltd. Company Structure: World-wide Operations Network Being the trustworthy world’s leading display company Board of Directors Strategy Committee Audit Committee Nomination and Remuneration Committee Risk Management Committee Tianma Europe Tianma South Korea TIANMA MICROELECTRONICS CO.,LTD. General Manager Europe Asia Tianma Shanghai Vice General Manager Vice General Manager & Party Chief Vice General Manager & Chief Accountant Vice General Manager TIANMA MICROELECTRONICS CO.,LTD. Chiyu Electronics Co. Ltd. Africa Professional Display Business Division Audit & Supervision Division Supply Chain Center Tianma USA South America Australia Shanghai Tianma Micro-electronics Co. Ltd. Intellectual Property Division Chengdu Tianma Micro-electronics Co. Ltd. Strategic Management Division Quality Control Division Tianma USA Portfolio Management Division Strategic Human Resource Division Tianma Chengdu Tianma Europe Financial Management Division Marketing Division Tianma South Korea Risk Management Division Research & Development Center Chiyu Electronics Co. Ltd. Legal Affairs Division Sales Center 07 Company Structure Operations Network 08 2012 CSR ReportTianma Microelectronics Co.,Ltd. Tianma CSR Tianma CSR Policy CSR Five-year Work Plan The company`s vision, mission, Key risks and Requirement from Laws and regulations International Construct Enhancement Consolidation Optimization & opportunities stakeholders convention strategy and value Improvement 2012 2013 2014 2015-2016 Tianma CSR vision, mission and strategy Establish Tianma corpoEnhance stakeholder Develop CSR risk manageIntegrate the CSR rate social responsibility engagement and commument tools and improve indicators comprehensivevalues; nication; CSR problem and crisis ly into the entire operation CSR Vision Become a reliable global leader in display technology. Preliminarily construct CSR Resolve existing CSR management ability; and process management of Tianma and combine it governance structure and problematic issues in the Organize comprehensive People First. Green Operation. Harmonious and Sustainable Development of Economy, with the holistic risk CSR Mission relevant responsibilities; company continuously; advocacy of the responsiSociety and Environment. management; bility culture; Study and take reference Help key suppliers Develop employee value. Build harmonious business environment. Achieve mutual benefit Supervise the CSR CSR Strategy from international CSR construct their CRS Promote outstanding with business partners. Maximize the enterprise value. performance in motion standards and the governance system; public welfare projects; and establish a full process experience of the best Improve CSR knowledge Score a level of B+ with the management and control practice in the industry; Mutual training and advocacy. CSR report. mechanism; development Initiate preliminary and benefit Apply and upgrade CSR stakeholder engagement risk management tools and communication; and enhance CSR problem Construct CSR related and crisis management Positive involvement, Integrity, Customers governance systems, ability; selfless contribution lawful operation organize internal CSR Community Government Integrate the responsibiliaudit, identify and ty culture into Tianma’s CSR Implemention Ways evaluate fields of high risk, company culture and and promote improveEmployees establish Tianma’s image Environment Environment ment; People first, of a public welfare brand; protection, Shareholders grow together Issue the first Tianma CSR clean production Score a level of A+ with report. the CSR report. Stable operation, create value 09 Tianma CSR Tianma CSR 10 2012 CSR Report Tianma Microelectronics Co.,Ltd. Tianma CSR Management System Model CSR Risk Management CSR Training Management The company performs regular CSR risk evaluation, CSR monitoring and There are two models of CSR training of our company: new staff orientaCSR internal audit in such aspects as the environment, health and safety, tion training and specific CSR training. New staff orientation training CSR Organizational Management labor practice and business ethics. The CSR risk management process includes CSR basic knowledge, the company’s CSR policy, business includes information collection, risk identification, risk analysis, risk ethics, and employee Code of Conduct. Specific CSR training contains CSR Performance Management assessment, risk treatment, etc. In respect of the CSR management labor practice, EHS training and supplier CSR awareness training. system, the CSR management review is conducted annually by the company president. The company will continuously arrange follow-ups CSR Risk CSR Training for corrective actions since last audit. CSR Reporting Management Management Management CSR Continuous Improvement Information Gathering Communicate and record Risk Identification Audit and Evaluate Risk Analysis CSR Organizational Management CSR live training Risk Evaluation The company established in 2012 the highest decision-making body for The CSR Working Committee is divided into six professional teams: social responsibility – the CSR Working Committee. The Committee is Employee Team, Society Team, Finance / Shareholder Team, Environment composed of the company President and other senior managers and is Team, Supplier Team and Client Team. These teams are composed of the Risk Treatment CSR Continuous Improvement: responsible to formulate the company’s general CSR strategies, middle and senior managers in relevant positions in Tianma Group and We have utilized the PDCA approach to improve our CSR objectives, missions and policies, to direct the construction of the its branches and are responsible to execute the concrete tasks assigned management system. See below: company’s CSR governance structure, to review CSR work plan and issue by the CSR Working Committee. CSR report, and to organize major CSR activities. CSR Working Committee P The CSR Working Committee Office is set up under the governance of The groups propose the CSR Working Committee and is the standing CSR working body of CSR subjects and the company. The Office is composed of the middle and senior managers CSR performance management make action plans. of the Risk Management Division, Financial Management Division, CSR performance management consists of four steps: identification, Environment & Safety Division, Human Resource Division, Quality CSR Supervisory Office CSR Working Committee Office confirmation, prioritization and evaluation of CSR topics. Division, Supply Chain Center, etc. and is responsible to arrange the tasks A D assigned by the Committee, to promote the construction of risk Annual review. The CSR Reporting Management review result is Action plan management structure within the various professional groups, to integrated into the CSR implementation. coordinate the CSR activities within the groups, to collect data and We chose GRI index based on GRI standard and the company’s reality, all plan of the next year. Finance / Shareholder Team documents in the groups, to study and analyze the data, to compile the teams are responsible for collecting GRI index data. CSR Working Environment Team CSR report and submit it to the CSR Working Committee for review. Committee formulates the annual CSR report. C Employee Team Society Team Supplier Team Client Team The CSR Supervisory Office is also governed by the CSR Working Review progress twice a year, and make Committee. It is composed of the members of the Audit & Supervision adjustment to action Division of the company and is responsible to carry out the assignments plan accordingly. of the CSR Working Committee, to supervise the company’s CSR performance and to handle the CSR-related complaints. 11 Tianma CSR Tianma CSR 12 2012 CSR ReportTianma Microelectronics Co.,Ltd. Stakeholder Engagement and Major Topics CSR Major Topics The company prioritized the major topics according to the results of stakeholder CSR questionnaire and mutual communication in 2012, and formulated Tianma CSR major topics analysis matrix: Identify major stakeholders Communicate and interact with stakeholders Different stakeholders can influence or be influenced by the corporaWe established various and smooth communication ways for different tion at different extents. The company followed the latest AA1000 stakeholders, in order to learn their needs timely, precisely, and compreStakeholder Engagement Standard to preliminarily identify and rank hensively, and give feedbacks. the stakeholders and finally selected six major stakeholders: supplier, 1 7 government, customer, employee, community, and shareholder. 5 2 4 Level of Concerns from Stakeholders NO. Major Stakeholders NO. Major Stakeholders Communication 15 3 10 1 Suppliers 6 9 Suppliers Conference 2 The Government 1 Supplier Regular Talks 14 3 Customer 13 Field Audit 4 Employees 5 The Community 8 Internal Audit 11 6 Shareholders 12 Meeting/Conference 2 Government Information Disclosure Telephone We prioritize stakeholder by the following aspects: Satisfaction Survey A 3 Customer Complaints Handling Might influence Tianma on Meeting aspects of economy, society, and environment Research and Audit Importance to Tianma Satisfaction Survey Internal Training 4 Employee No. Topic No. Topic B Major C Labor Union 1 Stable Operation and Continuous Profit 8 Supply Chain CSR Management Enhancement Stakeholders Suggestion Box Might influence Tianma might 2 Labor Relation Communication 9 Anti-Corruption / Ethical Business Conducts on aspects of influence it on Community Involvement 3 Employee Wages and Benefits 10 Customer Complaint and Feedback / Customer Satisfaction Management economy, society, aspects of and environment 5 Community economy, society, 4 Product Safety and Environmental Protection 11 Energy Management Tianma Volunteer Union in the future and environment 5 Employee Training and Education 12 Greenhouse Gas Emission Shareholder Meeting Equal Job Opportunities, Abolition of Child Labor and 13 Emissions, Effluents and Solid Waste Disposal 6 Shareholder 6 Elimination of Discrimination in Employment Investor Open Day 14 Clean Manufacturing 7 Employee Health and Occupational Health Assurance 15 Community Involvement and Development 13 Tianma CSR Tianma CSR 14 2012 CSR ReportTianma Microelectronics Co.,Ltd. Section 1 Corporate Governance Our company strictly conforms to laws and regulations and preserves legitimate rights and interests of the company, shareholders and creditors by improving corporate governance structure, operation and supervisory mechanism, and also by promoting effective decision-making system and supervisory system. The board, special committee and independent director have played important roles in protecting legitimate rights and interests of the company, shareholders and creditors. The board of shareholders is the highest authority of the company while committee was found during the 10th of the 6th term of the meeting of the board of directors is the decision-making body. Under the board of the directors as leader group of internal control. Risk management directors, there are four special committees which are strategy, audit, committee consists of 9 members from directors, senior executives and nomination and remuneration, and risk management. The board of professionals. It is responsible for studying and evaluating the company’s directors includes 7 members, which are one chairman, two vice risk management, and advising on improving the company’s risk chairmen, one director and three independent directors. All of the management and internal control. The company has set up internal members do not hold a concurrent position in company management. control project teams, containing 4 systems, which are risk control Among them, there are two have received the degree of Doctors, and system, strategy and security system, financial system and operation four have received the degree of Master. They are experienced and system, to implement risk management and internal control system academically qualified in fields of technique, finance, and law. The construction. meeting of the board is convened strictly adhering to the articles of And the three independent directors are designated in accordance with incorporation. The board of directors is responsible for the general the independent director working system and they all take a good meeting of shareholders and enforcement their legitimate rights of performance on their duties to maximize the enterprise value by operation decision-making in accordance with law. The independent addressing their own opinions on significant matters. And their subsidies directors are the chairmen of special committees. Special issues could will be linked together with their performance, also the payment level of not be delivered to the board for consideration until having been passed the district、industry and company executives. by the special committee. The board of supervisors consists of 5 supervisors, two of which are staff The strategy committee is composed of 4 directors and is responsible for representatives. The supervisors all have abundant knowledge and researching and advising on the company’s long-term development working experiences in law and accounting fields, and they are responsi01 strategies and major investment decisions. ble for supervising the validity and compliance of the corporate finance The audit committee, including 5 directors, is responsible for communias well as execution of duty by the directors, managers and others senior Stable Operation cating, supervising and examining the work of internal and executives with the purpose to preserve lawful right and interests of the company, shareholders and creditors. Risk Management Policy external auditing. The shareholders enforce their voting rights on significant issues such as The company continuously operates stably, conforms to busiThe nomination and remuneraRisk management guideline for operation、investment、distribution of profits etc. tion committee consists of 5 should not only prevent through the general meeting of shareholders. Besides, our company ness ethics, strives for profit for shareholders, and benefits both the existing value from directors and is responsible for have been provocatively promoting investor relations to solve their the government and the community. selecting and advising on the unnecessarily losing, problems and listen to their opinions by building multi-ways communibut also promote the standards and procedures of cation channels, such as telephone, internet platform, investor site survey continuous and efficient directors and senior executives’ creation of new value and investor open day etc. And we organized a two-day investor open appointment and payment. and future value. day in 2012 and received about 140 investors. April 2011, risk management Stable Operation 16 2012 CSR Report Tianma Microelectronics Co.,Ltd. Section 2 Business Ethics Our company has been advocating that all staffs should adhere to business ethics. The audit and supervision In the aspect of intellectual The company promises to abide department was set up in 2008 to establish the construction of incorruptness and anti-corruption & anti-bribery property, the company has set up Intellectual Property Policy by the international conventions Conflict Minerals Policy systems. In addition, there is a working team in risk management department to specifically implement the intellectual property committee and related regulations and laws, to formulate strategy, guideline, Compliance with adhere to the concept of People Peaceful Development construction of incorruptness. and policy concerning intellectuintellectual property First, develop in harmony, take Away from Conflict al property. What’s more, the law and regulation, Minerals over the social responsibility, and respect third-party company has founded intellectuavoid using raw materials that would cause damage and harm the “The Employee Code of Conduct” was formulated and validated on 17th employees timely. We set up hot intellectual property, al property division which is harmonious development during production and manufacture. The encourage innovation, May, 2012. There are special chapters and sections which promote and line and clearly define the Business Ethic Policy responsible for implementing apply effectively. company requires suppliers to promise tracking down sources of metal in standardize actions of anti-corruption & anti-bribery. The Code of whistle-blowing handling intellectual property strategy, all products, in order to prevent metal procurement from conflict Conduct comes into force throughout the company. The risk manageprocedure, deadline and other Adhere to Business Ethic including: patent procedure minerals area, assuring materials contained in products will not cause ment department is responsible for training and advocating in full range requirements to keep the privacy Integrity management and operation; customer, supplier and company infringeconflict. Those mental includes Au, Ta, W and Tin from East of the within the company. The Code of Conduct is applied to all staff ranged of the informer and protect them Compliance with law and ment analysis and intellectual property risk management; construction Democratic Republic of the Congo or Middle Africa. Countries of conflict regulation from president to workers at production line. The company is incorporatfrom retaliation. Abide by Anti-corruption and operation of intellectual property trading and sharing platform; minerals area include Darfur and Southern Sudan, Northern Uganda, ing the Code of Conduct into new staff training and regular training, All staffs self-disciplined standardization and certification of intellectual property; collecting, Chad and Somalia, on this account the company will not face any claims advocating the importance of business integrity and anti-corruption & Fair Trading analysis, monitoring and follow-up of patent and technique information; caused by suppliers’ violation of conflict minerals laws of Europe, North anti-bribery, so that the phenomenon of corruption and bribery could Mutual Benefit training and education about R&D engineer’s innovational culture and American or conflicting ore district countries. be eliminated, and a just, incorruptible and excellent corporate culture skill; patent study and expansion. could be formed. Our company invited office worker from judicial authority during the reporting period to give a lecture to staff especially leading cadres about The company also concentrates the awareness of incorruptness and anti-corruption & anti-bribery. Aug on protecting business secrets. Business Secret Policy 21st of 2012, Shenzhen Tianma invited specialist from the procuratorate All the employees must strictly of Nanshan district to give an incorruptness report on “Safety is the abide by the laws and regulations Comply with laws and greatest happiness”. We have preliminarily constructed the system of relevant to business secrets, and the company’s confiobserve to “Tianma Micro-elecdentiality system, incorruptness to eliminate the phenomenon of corruption and bribery, protect any business let the company stride forward towards a just, incorruptible world-class tronics Co. business secret secret of the company corporation. protection regulation”, aiming at and customers, “No speaking when it shouldn’t strengthen confidentiIn order to improve the company's whistle-blowing process, on Aug 23rd be spoken, no seeing when it ality education, raise of 2011, the company formulated and validated “the guidelines of employee awareness of Shenzhen Tianma Anti-corruption & Anti-bribery Seminar shouldn’t be seen, no asking grievance and whistle-blowing protection” which was conveyed to confidentiality, when it shouldn’t be asked, no complete confidentialilistening when it shouldn’t be ty measures, and heard”. The company regularly prevent information organizes all sorts of trainings safety accident. concerning business secret protection which indeed promotes all employees’ confidentiality awareness. The company continuously improves confidentiality measures, prioritizes prevention, and excludes any potential information leaking risks. Besides, New employees shall sign non-disclosure agreement to promise not to reveal any business secrets. 17 Stable Operation Stable Operation 18 2012 CSR ReportTianma Microelectronics Co.,Ltd. Section 1 Eliminating Discrimination The company adhere to the concept of “Prohibit discrimination, care for survival and development disadvantaged group”. We treat every staff equally in the procedure of to show caring and Labor Practice Policy recruitment、promotion and welfare, etc. Discrimination on race、 warmth. We provide gender、native place、age、pregnancy or disability is not allowed opportunities to disability Observe Law and Discipline when recruiting as stated in company regulations. After recruitment, and now there have been 4 People First staff entry procedure would be performed according to regulatory and disable employees in our Mutual Respect Win-Win law. The company should insure employees with social security. Detaincompany so far. ing certificate of identification or charging for pledge is strictly The company strictly prohibits child labor employment. During the forbidden. Labor protection appliances must be sent out to employees reporting period, the company has never hired child labor or been on special or high-risk positions. We treat every employee equally, and subjected to administrative penalty due to violation of relevant laws and only take employees’ competence, qualification and performance for regulations. consideration of promotion. Employees’ salary, welfare and vacation are all compliant with regulatory and law. There had not yet been cases on discrimination or grievance of discrimination so far since the establishment and we will keep a watchful eye on The company keeps caring for the vulnerable and disadvantaged groups’ this. Section 2 Staff Allocation Ratio by Gender Ratio by Age Ratio by Diplomas 02 Employee Care The company eliminates all kinds of discrimination, focuses on staff training and personal development, adheres to People First, Female Staff 48.02% 3450 people 30 or below 84.90% 6100 people Doctor or above 0.31% 22 people so as to realize mutual benefit. Male Staff 51.98% 3734 people 30-39 12.63% 907 people Master 3.13% 225 people 40-50 2.23% 160 people Bachelor 16.69% 1199 people 50 or above 0.24% 17 people Junior College 19.50% 1401 people Other 60.37% 4337 people Employee Care 20 2012 CSR ReportTianma Microelectronics Co.,Ltd. Section 3 Wages and Benefits Section 4 Staff Training and Improvement The company adheres to regulations and laws regarding wages and On women’s day there are gifts and related activities for employees. benefits, to guarantee our payment for the staff is above the minimum Holiday allowance would be allocated on other festivals. wage set by the government to maintain basic living needs. We have The total number of company Labor Union member is 3468, and the signed contract with all employees, and never adopted the form of member to staff ratio is 44.76%. temporary contract. The company has formulated “Wage Management Regulations” to guarantee employee’s wage and benefit. The company has 100% coverage rate of employee’s welfare. The company provides employees with Work Injury Insurance, Retirement Insurance, Medical Insurance, Unemployment Insurance, Maternity Insurance and housing fund. On the other hand, we provide personal protection equipment, Ratio of employee Ratio of employee paid maternity leave &paternity leave, breastfeeding leave, marriage labor contract signing benefit coverage leave and annual leave to our staff. Every year activity funds would be granted to management and staff for dinner party, artistic activities and sports events. The company distributes the only-child allowance to staff. 100% 100% Tianma has always paid attention to staff training and their personal improvement as the company regards innovation study as part of corporate long-term strategy. Our company has formulated a series of training programs and human resource development projects considering the current situation, annual plan, job description, and personal competence differentiation & development requests to promote a win-win situation between company and staff. CSR Training During the reporting period, we have already completed the training of CSR basic knowledge for all workers at the production line and most administrative staff. In 2013 we keep exploiting new CSR training courses with the purpose of continuously carrying out CSR training for workers at production lines, improving CSR training for management staff, and increase the company’s CSR capacity. Employee Birthday Party 21 Employee Care Employee Care 22 2012 CSR Report Tianma Microelectronics Co.,Ltd. Special Training Case Blue Pathway In order to improve the employees’ comprehensive competence, the company developed respectively the following training courses for different employee and position needs: Wang Zhihong Major: Applied Physics Diplomas: Bachelor Training Training Employee Date of Entry: July, 2006 Position of Entry: Process Engineer 3-6 months, for job foreman, aiming at promoting the ability of coaching Current Position: Plant Manager Rookie Plan Production line foreman subordinates, communication and coordination, work planning. 2006.7 2008.1 2009.1 2010.1 2011.1 2012.1 2-3 years, the company founded joint-running schools with universities, set up classes such as upgrading from junior college student to university Assistant Management Planning Assistant Plant Vice Plant Plant Production line foreman, and student, upgrading from high school student to university student, Engineer Supervisor Supervisor Manager Manager Manager Diplomas Education employee at manufacture and upgrading from high school student to junior college student, and master R&D positions of engineering, meanwhile, provided students with support, helped them Technical Management Management Management Management Management Position Position Position Position Position Position finished their studies. Employee Assisted Production and Plant Plant Overall Plant Comprehensive Engineer Delivery Guarantee Production Production Management Management 6 months or above, offer training to newly-entry college students on Blue Pathway corporate value, employee code of conduct and fundamental expertise. Fresh graduate Help them become professionals through position shifting internship. $ZDUGVIURP&RPSDQ\ 0HVVDJHVIRU%URWKHUVDQG6LVWHUV AVIC Corporate Culture Speech Contest Second Prize Actually “University” is word with Tianma Corporate Culture Speech Contest the Second Prize 3-5 years, aiming at key position’s talent team building. To accomplish broad understandings. We had left Deep Blue Pathway the key position training via study road-map and practice, combined Key position staff AVIC Professional Manager Training Excellent Trainee the University of “Ivory Tower”, and with the new tutorial system of “Pass on, Help, Guide”. then entered another one called 2008 AVIC Excellent Party Member “Society” with more courses to take, 2008 Safety Knowledge Quiz First Prize which are no longer confined to Advanced Mathematics, English, 1 year, to form a team of versatile talents who are paragons of both 2009 Quality Month Excellent Project Prize Classical Mechanics or Theory of virtue and competence, with integrity, sense of cooperation, preciseness, Front-line management staff 2009 Tianma Top 10 Lecturer Relativity, but have expanded to Chollima Training exploration and innovation, adhere to and implement company’s With excellent performance communication, collaboration, duty, Excelsior Six Sigma Excellent Green Zone Prize strategy, and with strong leadership. mission, livelihood, pressure, 2009 AVIC Excellent Collective of the year marriage, and family. Those are all compulsory in the University of 2010 Tianma Top 10 Lecturer 1 year, to promote students comprehensive manage ability in 5 dimen“Society”. 2010 China Association for Quality Excellent Project Prize Roc Training Plan sions of execution, innovation management, strategy performance Medium-to-high management staff break-down, operation simulation, and leadership. The company attaches great importance to staff’s daily performance, and Ratio of staff involved in promotes staffs according to it, so as to enhance staff’s self-motivation, and to performance evaluation 100% encourage and improve staff’s competence, aiming at fair promotion and staff’s growth. The performance evaluation rate of all branch companies’ staffs (including production line workers) is 100%. 23 Employee Care Employee Care 24 2012 CSR Report Tianma Microelectronics Co.,Ltd. Section 5 Staff Relations and Communication Shanghai Tianma The company has always been listening to employees’ voice initiatively Dancing Culture Month at the square, which attracted many employees There is a general manager mailbox in shanghai which will be opened and promoting employee care. to participate in and received comprehensive commendation. regularly to gather information and someone is responsible for 2012.03 Roses and Gifts response. There are also psychological guidance hotlines and staff The company has set up labor union for collective negotiation and relationship hotlines. We started project called “Soul Neighbor Action” to Female staffs received Women’s Day Gifts (roses and shampoos) communication, and also diversifying employees’ activities. All the staff care for staff and provide mental health evaluation and guide. There are prepared by Labor Union from male staffs. representatives are elected democratically, and they negotiate with the 2012.01 New Staff Meeting caring salons such as “decompression and relax”,“self-acquaintance and company freely and regularly on behalf of employees. The company Resolved new staff’s living and working problems in probationcareer development”. On festivals we have special concerns; we apply listens to the voice from staffs to improve itself. Besides, the company ary period, helped staffs better fit in the company, reduced staff caring funds for staffs that are in need; we interview with staffs regularly collects proposals and reasonable suggestions from staffs about turnover rate in probationary period. to help them adapt to working environment. We survey on staffs’ working and living, and formulates effective actions to solve problems. requirements actively to improve their dining and living conditions and Suggestion boxes are set up in the conspicuous spot of canteen and activity facilities. At present, there have been rooms for reading, training dormitory which will be opened regularly to gather information. and surfing on Internet, and also playfields for basketball, tennis, The company has set up Staff Clinic, Female Health and Employee Caring badminton, table tennis and gym center. Home, to be aware of employee’s mental state and difficulties, to provide 2012.04 Staff Long-distance Running training to employees on mental health, to visit the sick or injured employees, to offer help to employees in financial difficulties in time, to Held large long-distance running activities of 5-kilometer and 2012.03 White Valentine’s Day Dating Party invite social experts to give employee-caring lectures, such as “Happy 10-kilometer for all staffs fitness. Life”, “Marriage Guide” and “Adolescence Knowledge for Girls”. We Love in early spring, love right here. No matter when the doomsfounded “Tianma Homeland” to record Tianma homeland’s stories via day comes, let’s be together right here right now. words and photos, and exhibited the doom’s culture construction. 2012.06 Family Day Reading Month and Spring Evening would be held every year to raise the employee’s sense of cooperation and solidarity. We surveyed on employLay down the current thought, abandon the old habits, return to ees’ needs and arranged “Couple Room” to achieve employee caring and childhood, experience again, the feeling deeply buried in your humanized management. In the past three consecutive years, we invited heart. 2012.03 Female Health Knowledge Lecture parents of top ten production line workers to visit Shenzhen, and 30 parents had come and shared the success of their own children. We hired professional teachers to teach the employees dancing for free, and held Discussed with female colleagues in aspects of misunderstanding in body-shaping, healthy body-shaping concept, female healthy diet, balanced diet, balanced nutrition, nutrition and 2012.06 “Emotion and Pressure Management” Training body-shaping prescription for office lady, and monitoring 2009.08 Love Fund nutrition condition of oneself. Offered training to staffs in aspect of “Emotion and Pressure To help employees who are sick or in financial difficulty timely. Management” through classes. 13 employees involved, 130 thousands Yuan in total. 2012.09 Mid-Autumn Day Garden Party 2012.11 Organized “Serendipity” Outdoor Match Traditional lantern riddles guessing, DIY lantern, fun games, Provided chances for single young people to get to know each wishing wall. other. 25 Employee Care Employee Care 26 2012 CSR Report Tianma Microelectronics Co.,Ltd. Chengdu Tianma As for Chengdu Tianma, special funds provided twice a year are used for team construction. The labor union also organizes sodality with 2012.05 Family Tour neighbor corporations for young and single people in order to enhance In order to diversify employees’ activities, staffs’ internal and external communications. Resting area is set up in Organized family tour for staffs with children to offer a platform factory district equipped with television、water heater and auto-seller. the company holds annual dinner every for family communication. Every month there is birthday party with presents and best wishes for year, which enhances the cohesion of emstaffs. ployees, and raises their sense of honor and content. 2012.03 Tree Planting All staffs were involved in tree planting, along the paths inside the plant field, to beautify the environment. Environment of both sides of the path were improved after the activity. 2012.07 Photography Association Established an association by staffs themselves, a platform to exhibit staffs’ mutual interest and organizational ability. 27 Employee Care Employee Care 28 2012 CSR Report Tianma Microelectronics Co.,Ltd. Safety concerns the corporate rise or decline, has a great to do with The company adheres to the policy of “Safety First, Prioritize Prevention, people’s lives and property. Environment protection is directly relevant and Comprehensive Governance”, mainly advocates the advanced to human’s survival and development, and also the corporate sustainable culture of safety, constantly strengthens safety techniques, and cultivates development, which is the basic requirement for the company, and the the safety capacity of employees. Within 2012, the overall situation of most important part of corporate operational management. April 20th of corporate safe production is stable. There hasn’t been serious production 2012, the company approved and released “Guidelines for environmenaccident, or significant environment pollution. We have achieved the tal protection, health, safety”, devoting itself to creating an environmengoal of annual EHS. tal-friendly, healthy, safe working place, striving to be a good working field among industry, promoting corporate sustainable development by implementing globalized standards of EHS (Environment, Health, Safety). Section 1 Occupational Health and Safety Regulatory Compliance, People First The company prioritizes safe production as its most important mission, ment, safety, procurement and maintenance of fire-fighting equipment, adheres to 3E principles of safe production, realizes safe production examination and rectification, publicity and education, occupational conditions such as manufacturing technique and mechanical health check, rewards. equipment, assures that the employees have mastered the knowledge and techniques required in safe production. To standardize employees’ conduct by formulating rules and regulations, examining implementation, and evaluating performance. The company has set up Group Safety Committee and Safety Office. Safety Committee is responsible for the overall planning of safe production, fire protection, environment protection, energy saving & emission reduction, occupational health, labor protection, special equipment 03 maintenance, clean production, and information safety, while Safety Environmental Office is in charge of organizing, coordinating, and implementing. The company has founded Safety Sub-Committee and environment safety Sustainability Office, allocating 47 full-time staff such as environment safety engineers, technicians, safety heads etc. Staff from all levels have signed up on letters of safety responsibility, and would commit themselves to safe production responsibilities. All staffs would be involved to adopt Aiming at becoming a first-class corporate citizen in small-to-meeffective measures to prevent accidents from happening, and the dium size display, Tianma regards sustainable development as its concept of safe production should be carried out into every working process. own responsibility, adheres to the policy of energy saving and In 2012, the Group Safety Office hired EHS legal consultant to collect EHS consumption reduction, and cares about health and safety. regulations and laws timely, and assist in compliance evaluation. The company guarantees investment on EHS, mainly for aspects of environWorking Field Environmental Sustainability 30 2012 CSR Report Tianma Microelectronics Co.,Ltd. Systematically Manage, Continuously Improve Evacuation Drill, Accident Handling As a social responsible corporation, the company attaches importance to passed the certification succesIn 2012, the company improved the comprehensive emergency response plan, occupational health, continuously reinforces the working field protecsively, and all passed external specific emergency response plan, and site emergency treatment plan. The tion, adopts preventive risk management system, assure that security audit in 2012. company performs comprehensive evacuation drill at least once a year. Emergency Person-times monitoring system operates effectively. Every year the company In 2012, the company has Emergency drills have been performed for 100 times last year, and 7607 Drills involved performs examination on poisonous and hazardous elements in completed safe standardizaperson-times involved in total. in emergency drills working fields, and reaches all the standards. Before, during and after tion internal benchmarking. The company formulated rules and regulations for safety accident report and 100 7607 employment, occupational health body checks have been carried out for From 2013 to 2015, the compainvestigation & handling. Once accident happens, investigation & treatment employees who engage in occupational disease relevant work for 503 ny will successively pass the would be performed according to the principle of “Four Checkpoints”, person-times. The body-check coverage rate is 100%, which ensures that there is no occupational disease, and shapes a good corporate image. audit of National Safe Produccorrective actions should be implemented, pertinent safety training should be Times Person-time tion Standardization Rank Two. given, and relevant responsible person accountability should be established. Jan 28th, 2011, the company initially passed TÜV Rheinland (GuangDong) Ltd. OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series) certification, henceforth, Shanghai Tianma and Chengdu Tianma Occupational health body-check Annual body-check coverage rate 503 Person-time 100% Potential Danger Survey, Comprehensive Governance Potential danger survey and governance are the key points of company’s irregular inspection. Responsible department/person, measures and accident prevention. The company set up potential hazards ledger to deadline should be recognized for potential hazards correction. The record and follow-up through team inspection, 3-grade safety inspeccorrection rate of potential hazards is 97.52% by the end of Dec. 2012. tion, specific inspection, before-holiday inspection, and regular & Evacuation Drill Within 2012, the company has organized and completed 18 safety management projects such as hazardous chemicals & hazardous wastes, canteen fire protection, and high-temperature operations and hot-work, which reduced the entire safety risks. During 2012 there is zero death on duty and disability due to injury on duty. 31 Environmental Sustainability Environmental Sustainability 32 2012 CSR Report Tianma Microelectronics Co.,Ltd. Awareness and Education, Performance Evaluation Section 2 Environmental Protection Awareness and education are the key points of EHS management, and safety awareness, and eventually to form Tianma safety culture. Green Factory Solid waste transferred as prescribed: also the fundamental work of safe production realization. In 2012, the In 2012 the company commended and rewarded 75.6 thousands Yuan in company formulated “Tianma Staff EHS Manual”, the new staff 3-grade The company has built standardized solid waste transfer warehouse, total to the groups and personnel who had achieved excellent safety education coverage rate was 100%. All kinds of trainings and formulated rules and regulations of solid waste collection, storage, and performances on EHS. Shenzhen Tianma has already considered EHS educations like 3-grade safety training, construction safety training, The company designed and disposal; granted qualified company to dispose the solid waste, and performance evaluation as an important factor of department annual Environment Policy traffic safety training, and typical accident case education were given to built the green factory in recorded in accordance with regulations. Within 2012, the company’s evaluation of advanced collectives and individuals. safety responsible person, EHS manage staff, special operational personaccordance with the concept volume of hazardous waste discharge has been reduced by 726 tons on of sustainable development, Observe Law and Discinel, and new staffs for totally 19934 person-times. year-on year basis. used renewable energy pline People First initiatively, lessened energy Noise emission reaching the standard: Energy saving and consumption via advanced Consumption Reduction The company adopted airtight, sound-proofing, and preventive energy-saving techniques, Pollution Prevention measures to reduce noise emission. reduced green house gas Green Production emission, adopted renewable Sustainable Development The company continuously improves the environment protection and harmless raw materials, All Staffs Involvement management system. On October 19th 2004, the company initially constantly decreased the passed TÜV Rheinland (GuangDong) Ltd. ISO14001 environmental production and discharge of hazardous waste, ensured the continuous management system certification, henceforth, Shanghai Tianma and investment of environmental protection which was mainly for environChengdu Tianma passed the certification successively, and all passed mental protection three simultaneousness, energy saving & external audit in 2012, promoting the environmental protection emission-reduction equipment, environment inspection, and hazardmanagement from product design to customers. Watch safe production propaganda video. ous waste disposal. During the reporting period, the company has never been punished for environmental illegal actions.environmental illegal actions. The company started safe production column on “Tianma Monthly”, regularly released Tianma environment safety bulletin, organized Wastewater effluence reaching the standard: publicity activities such as “Safe Production Month” and “119” Fire Prevention Day 38 times, made the best of posters, blackboard newspaThe company has built wastewater treatment station with complete per, internet, broadcast, educational video, and giveaways, so as to functions such as pre-treatment, physical and chemical treatment, and enhance the promotion of safety knowledge, to strengthen all staffs’ biodegradation treatment; the company has set up sound standardized Working team safe production awards operation procedure and disposal process control system; facility department researched and implemented wastewater effluence reduction every year, wastewater disposal was monitored 24 hours on-line. Person-times Commendation involved and reward Waste gas emission reaching the standard: in safety training The company has built several advanced waste gas disposal 19934 75.6 equipment, the emission of waste gas was much lower than the government standard; the company has set up sound standardized Person-time thousands Yuan operation procedure and monitoring; the whole factory conducts inspection on the waste gas emission vent annually. 33 Environmental Sustainability Environmental Sustainability 34 2012 CSR Report Tianma Microelectronics Co.,Ltd. The company carries out clean production audit mainly aiming at The company has passed the GHG emission audit by CESI who released Green Office reducing the consumption and waste of resources, preventing damage “GHG Emission Audit Report”. The company plans to continuously to environment, and remaining sustainable usage of resources. The perform clean production audit in 2013 and start energy audit. company adheres to the principle of “Energy saving, Emission Reduction, In 2012 the company accomplished 18 energy saving & emission Pollution Reduction, and Efficiency Increase”, adopts production ways of reduction projects, invested 4.05 million Yuan, gained economic benefit less pollution, low cost, and high efficiency, reduces or eliminates of 11.91 million Yuan, realized the win-win between environmental The concept of environment protection reflects not only in manufacture’s energy saving and emission reduction, but also in office area. So the pollution generated from production, so as to realize win-win between protection and economic profit. The major protects please see below: company raised the 3R principles of Recycle, Reduce, and Reuse as below: environment and economy. The company put employee improvement proposal policy into practice. Proposals included energy saving & emission reduction improvement, 6S improvement, operation process improvement, technology innovation, Recycle： Duplex printing or photocopy; perform training and send document via raw materials saving, usage of solid waste, and disaster prevention. The Energy saving Economic electro-communication and video; power off where lighting isn’t company organized internal experts to evaluate, elect and reward those & emission reduction benefit Recycle, clean, classify and reuse the work clothes; needed. projects and improvement performance, which motivated employees’ projects investment enthusiasm and innovation spirits. Recycle and reuse “Employee EHS Manual” of new employee training. The company and Shanghai Tianma have passed the clean production 4.05 11.91 audit by the government environment protection department in 2010. million Yuan million Yuan Chengdu Tianma plans to perform clean production audit in 2013. Reduce： The company continuously popularizes the OA mode of paperless office, which can save paper and office cost up to 90 thousands Yuan each year. From Oct 2010 to Dec 2012, a total of 200 thousands Yuan was saved. NO. Protect Content Contribution Economic Benefit Save paper and office cost Chengdu Tianma-clean room Adjusted clean room lighting, carried out T5 1 lighting and power use comprehensive improvement. reform to floor FAB lighting, and applied for electric charge subsidies in wet season. Power saving 1.39 million 90 thousands Yuan Reuse waste paper Save cost 2 Chengdu Tianma-improve purification ability in clean Improve purification ability in clean room, particle control standard is one grade higher than former Power saving, 1.98 million 200 thousands Yuan design in all region, the acceptance rate of purify materials cost Reuse： room air conditioner air supply point was 100%. 2010-2012, the company implemented 1400 cloud-computing Record informal information on waste paper; bring your own cup and desktop-virtualization customer-end projects, replacing high-costly lunch-box, the canteen provides dishes instead of disposable cups and The companycentral air-condidesktop computer, which saves 740 thousands kilowatt-hours every year. lunch-box. 3 tioning replacing boiler steam Central air-conditioning humidification system Natural gas saving 1.92 million humidification. The company-Toilet flushing Use recycle water, replacing tap water, to flush Power Saved Every Year 740 thousands kilowatt-hours 4 Water saving 83.2 thousands with recycle water project toilet of NO. 1 factory. Shanghai Tianma-PCW energy Change cooling with low-temperature water to 5 Natural gas saving 1.12 million saving reform medium-temperature water, recycle the heat. Shanghai Tianma-CDA heat Decreased the load of cooler by recycling CDA 6 Power saving 1.31 million recycle system heat. 35 Environmental Sustainability Environmental Sustainability 36 2012 CSR Report Tianma Microelectronics Co.,Ltd. Green Product Section 3 Government Reward The company pays attention to the designed performance of the product, as well as In 2012, the company’s achievement on EHS has received support and encouragement from local government, and gained tens of awards. Rewards and environmental protection in product technology development. The company has subsidies were 847.3 thousands Yuan in total. passed the certification of QC080000 Hazardous Substance Process Management System; all products are up to RoHS standard, which indicates the company’s LCD NO. Award-giving Unit Awards has reached a high industrial standard in aspects of reduction of hazardous 1 Pudong New District, Shanghai Emission reduction project substance harmful to environment, product design based on Life Cycle, and energy 2 Shanghai City Energy saving technology reform project saving. 3 Pudong New District, Shanghai Winner of “Wellness Cup” in 2012 4 Shenzhen City Advanced corporation in “Shenzhen waste reduction action” in 2011 Transflective display technology ASG technology 5 Longgang District, Shenzhen Energy saving and emission reduction subsidy The company has developed transflective display technology. When the ASG technology (a-Si Gate driver on panel) lowers the cost and compacts 6 Baolong Community, Longgang District, Shenzhen the second runner-up in fire protection skill competition ambient light is insufficient, transflective TFT-LCD displays via the the structure of the display by integrating gate driving circuit into LCD 7 Baolong Community, Longgang District, Shenzhen Advanced company of fire control in 2011 backlight source; when under the strong ambient light, transflective active matrix substrate. Meanwhile, it reduces the energy consumption TFT-LCD displays through the reflective part of pixels reflecting ambient of LCD panel with special circuit design.。 8 Nanshan District, Shenzhen Model company of “Safety entity responsibility implementation” in 2011 light, which doesn’t need to turn on the backlight, and greatly reduces 9 Sub-district office, Gaoxin District, Chengdu City Advanced company of safe production the energy consumption of the module. (More than 90% of the energy consumption of the TFT-LCD module comes from the backlight source.) Active Matrix Driven E-paper Technology The active matrix driven E-paper is one type of the reflective LCDs which utilizes its surrounding light to irradiate the panel, there is no need of additional high-power backlights, so the energy consumption is lower and the products are environment-friendly; Moreover, the E-paper is based on the bistability of the device itself, so it is unnecessary to apply the voltage on the top and bottom electrodes all the time, the electric field will be needed just when switching the pixels, and the image is maintained without the electric field, hence the energy consumption is further decreased. The organic film high aperture ratio technology 取向层 The organic film high aperture ratio technology uses organic transparent dielectric film as a passivation layer material, with reasonable panel The company aims at becoming a leader in small-to-medium size display, strives to establish a conserving and design, which effectively improves the pixel aperture ratio by 10%, and environment-friendly corporation, integrates green environment protection system into company’s strategy the LCD panel transmittance ratio by 20%. In other words, when obtain底色吸收屏 management, makes the best of earth resource, reduces influence on the environment, builds up the “Green ing equal brightness of the display with traditional display products, the new products enormously reduce the energy consumption of the Display Industry” together, and achieves the company’s sustainable development. backlight source. 37 Environmental Sustainability Environmental Sustainability 38 2012 CSR Report Tianma Microelectronics Co.,Ltd. Section 1 Supply Chain Management Our company keeps promoting our suppliers’ operation level and to key suppliers, and implemented CSR good practice guides, so as to management standard by supervising and cultivating them for a harmourge suppliers to be compliant with regulations & laws and related CSR nious cooperative relationship. standards, measures taken as follows: During the reporting period, the company has already begun CSR audit Start to require Increase the frequency Use the third party’s CSR suppliers to sign of audits and enlarge audit experience for CSR Agreement the audit scope; reference to improve the supplier audit procedure and management process Raise the supplier Enhance audit standard Continuously follow up access standard the improvement of suppliers. 04 Our company formulated CSR audit checklist and 2013 suppliers CSR audit plan. In 2013, our company will promote the key suppliers to Win-win With Business establish CSR management systems, and we plan to sign CSR agreement Partners with all of them, compile CSR audit checklist individually, and formulate supplier audit plan for 2013, integrate CSR audit into supplier access standard. There will be no admittance without the achievement of bench mark scores. As for the existing suppliers, the company will offer CSR To embody the social responsibility value, the company always training and provide support to key suppliers at sample randomly. A CSR focuses on improvement and development with the whole self-evaluation would be a request. The company will conduct audits to each of the key suppliers in accordance with the audit plan, consistently industry chain, hand in hand, side by side, stepping towards track down the improvement, combine the improvement results into excellence. suppliers’ performance management, and prompt the suppliers to implement similar CSR measures to their low-tier suppliers, such as CSR training and audit. The scene of major supplier CSR training Win-win With Business Partners 40 2012 CSR Report Tianma Microelectronics Co.,Ltd. Green Logistics Green Procurement Tianma has been advocating energy-saving and cost-reducing, and as for logistics and transThe company knows well about the mutual benefit between local for relevant products, set strict rules on the limiting amount of 4 heavy economy and itself. So we stick to local purchase, devote ourselves metals which were Cadmium, Lead, Mercury, and Cr+6, and fire retardant portation, we keep exploring ways to lower cost and reduce pollutants. into promoting and developing local economy, and drive a prosperwhich were PBB and PBDE. ous economy. So far, the company has passed the certification of QC080000 hazardous Established flat administrative system, convenient for cooperation On the premise of meeting business demand Regarding the recycle of waste water, the recycling rates of strippers and substance management. The company launched hazardous substance and management. we continuously refine transportation mode, minimize costs. We diluents at Shanghai Tianma were both 50%. In the aspect of plastic general survey when integrating suppliers resources, improved hazardFlat administration not only helps the group integrating coordination choose the most economical transportation ways to reduce pollution packing materials recycle, the company has kept exploring recycle ous substance data base, set up green purchase channel. The company and management, but also triggers all branch companies’ enthusiasm emission. All companies are upgrading the transportation mode, to methods and ways. The recycling rate of PPBOX at Chengdu Tianma is formulated “Management Regulation of hazardous Substance” in May, and initiatives. As members of the team, all branch companies’ logistics decrease the distance and ratio of air transportation, and increase the approaching 100%. 2012 to standardize hazardous substance management, aiming at heads undertake part of the group’s overall planning work, which ratios of land transportation and shipping. effectively identifying and controlling the involvement of hazardous l In aspect of hazardous substance, the company abided to the strictest exploits the advantages of specialty and strong implementation to the substance, and being responsible to the society. RoHS standard, and also formulated environmental protection standard full. Integrate logistics KPI and standards of all companies. (Logistics Cost, Obligation Risk, Storage, Insurance etc.) To unify standards on which the group evaluate the branch companies, and set up fair and impartial assessment mechanism based on branch companies’ different requirements and expectations towards logistics Take Chengdu Company as an example. Air transportation of operation, regarding to operational generality and specialty. large-size glasses has dropped from 16% to zero after combing the process. The changing transportation mode also results in the lower damage rate. Large-size glass damages are mainly caused by air The measure of “Central Procurement, Unified Bargaining” has been transportation according to the analysis of different cargos through adopted for the group’s transportation, which has lowered the different transportations in the group. Hence, the group assisted transportation unit price by 10.87% on 2011 basis, and brought Chengdu Company in combing the process of large-size glass down the ratio of logistics cost to revenue by 25.2% compared with delivery, cut down the air transportation, and adopted land transpor2012. tation, consequently lowered the damage rate from 8‰ to 0.4‰ and Unit price gained the advantages in transportation insurance rate negotiation. lowered by The ratio of logistics cost to revenue 10.87% decreased by 25.2% More transportation discount would be granted to us due to central bidding and unified bargaining, which consequently reduces transportation cost, and improve economic benefit. We have integrated the original transportation suppliers from 13 to 6 (Among them there are 3 strategic suppliers, and 3 regional suppliers) to divide the lines and confirm the business scope. (select the most competThe scene of logistics operation itive suppliers in the region.) 41 Win-win With Business Partners Win-win With Business Partners 42 2012 CSR Report Tianma Microelectronics Co.,Ltd. Section 2 Client Orientation Client Satisfaction We attach great importance to customer satisfaction, and list it on our Client Satisfaction Developing Chart annual strategies, then break it down and merge into department and employee KPIs. The company carries out customer satisfaction survey every year to comprehend their demands and suggestions to improve 80 our products and services, so as to innovate our solutions. 78 It was revealed in the 2012 customer satisfaction survey results that, our 76 75.8 customers approved our products、services and implementations of 76 2012 New-tech product launch event Experience the new-tech product 74.9 contracts. The company will formulate work plans on basis of the results, and implement them to every department and everyone, in order to 74 gain more trust on our promoting competence from customers. 72 2010 2011 2012 The company commits to the core values of “People First, Openness and Team>2D Describe the Problem>3D Contain the Problem>4D Identify Diversity, Integrity, Customer Oriented, Embrace Change”, focuses on the Root Cause>5D Formulate and Verify Corrective Actions>6D Correct Customer Oriented, absorbs the concept of Six Sigma, and makes the Problem and Confirm the Effects>7D Prevent the Problem>8D progress consistently. Congratulate the Team. In the year of 2012, we imported EICC social responsibility management system in accordance with the expectation and requirement of our customers, meanwhile, Nokia has conducted CSR audit to Shanghai Tianma and Wuhan Tianma. In the audit report, Nokia made positive comments on our CSR system, the diversity of communicational means, and our deep investigation and improvement on the minor injuries. At the same time, Nokia pointed out a few drawbacks like insufficiency of labor union education, and that Employee Bulletins had not been distribDebuted in FPD CHINA 2012 The scene of product introduction uted to all staff. Concerning those drawbacks, improvements have been 8D and will continuously be made to assure Costumers Oriented and mutual progress. procedures Besides, we’ve set up Quality and Customer Service Department, which is Customer Privacy and Complaint responsible for handling customer complaints. We deal with the complaints according to 8D procedures if caused by our company to finally close the case. The 8D procedures are as follows: 1D Form the The company has always been protecting customer’s privacy and The company is sure to standardize and monitor customer service information carefully. The company signs non-disclosure agreements department and employees according to customer complaint and with every customer. And both sides are obliged to abide by the clauses. settlement, aiming at customers’ greatest satisfaction and mutual Furthermore, OA program is set to manage customers’ information and development. documents with strict limits of authority that only few can access the program. During the reporting period, the company hasn’t received any customer complaints on privacy infringement or information leaked out 43 Win-win With Business Partners Win-win With Business Partners 44 2012 CSR ReportTianma Microelectronics Co.,Ltd. In March of 2009, Tianma Volunteer Team was founded, aiming at raising employees’ sense of citizenship, building a cooperative, harmonious and mutual-help interpersonal relationship, helping indigent and disadvantaged groups, protecting the environment, caring for public welfare, forming a public image of the corporate and promoting social harmony and development. The current 130 volunteers promoted the volunteer spirit of “Involvement, Mutual-help, Contribution, and Progress”, melted indifference with care, called for true feelings with bona fides, overcame hardships with courage, put competence into implementation. Successively they organized activities like blood donation, city cleaning, transportation safety guide, tree planting. Volunteer team taking an oath 05 Community involvement Case “Care for the Thalassemia Children” 7th September 2011 Shenzhen Tianma has organized the employees to care for the The company’s Labor Union joined the TV show “Multitudes We have always concerned about community involvement, chariThalassemia children, presenting a special gift for SEC Respond to the Charity Call” of Shenzhen entertainment channel, ty, and public welfare, devoted ourselves in contributing to the Shenzhen’s 32nd birthday. All the charity sale items were made and donated 10 caring studies to the 28th middle school in by the Thalassemia children including hand crafts and painting Kashgar on behalf of the company. All the donative books were society, and constructed a harmonious homeland. clothes. Besides, some citizens with warm hearts have donated published in recent years which were of high standards for the charity sale toys to help the needy Thalassemia children’s family. children to read and learn. This charity activity showed the company’s caring for children in mountainuous area, and fulfilled the children’s dream for reading. Community Involvement 46 2012 CSR ReportTianma Microelectronics Co.,Ltd. Case 2012 Earth Hour 12th March 2012 16th July 2012 At the night of 31st March, from 8:30 to 9:30, In order to promote the environment protection concept and After 2 years’ continuous volunteer teaching activities, Shanghai Tianma’s general party branch department launched the activity of Shenzhen Tianma launched the Earth Hour enhance employee’s awareness, Chengdu Tianma carried out “Caring for the Old Liberated Area Children, Spread Tianma’s Compassion Continuously”, and it was formed by Shanghai Tianma’s HR activity, turned off the unnecessary lights and the tree planting activity under the leadership of vice-general department and 2 fresh graduates. They went to the Xiejiagou primary school in Laiyuan County of Hebei Province and carried out promised to make a change to the environmanager Lei Wang. They have grown over 300 trees inside the volunteer teaching activity for 3 weeks, caring for the society, and caring for the growth of the mountain needy children. ment protection. Let’s get start now, make use factory area. The employees have witnessed Tianma’s growth of your resources, and call up people around and development together with the company. you to make a change for environment protection. 2600 staffs were involved. From March to December in 2012 Shenzhen Tianma held the activity of “Guangdong Province Global Funds HIV/AIDS Program—Prevention and Control of HIV/AIDS Intervention”, and invited the Longgang district Longgang street preventative health-care station to join in the peer education activity. Our company set up peer education working team to give out educative brochures. About 2047 employees received relative training. We care for the employees’ mental and physical health and growth. 22nd April 2012 Staff Trained Shenzhen Tianma organized the Tianma Volunteer Team to 2047Person/time participate in the local voluntary tree planting activities called “Green Ecological Landscape Forest” for the goodness of building a green earth. 47 Community Involvement Community Involvement 48 2012 CSR Report Tianma Microelectronics Co.,Ltd. AppendixⅠ Tianma Milestones th st th From 16 August to 31 16 September 2012 August 2012 In response to the international ocean conservancy and the State Economic National Winter and Trade Shenzhen Tianma’s Environmental Safety Department and project aware’s call, the company came to the beautiful Company State Domestic Commission and Domestic COEMA LCD Academic Ministry of Foreign Administrative Department together organized over 10 security shenzhen beach to join the “ten thousand people say no to Establishment Leaders Visit Technology Gap Trade and Economic Technology Gap LCD Branch Conference Cooperation directors and others to conduct compulsory traffic duty in consuming shark fin” activity held by the shenzhen city blue Baolong road Longgang district of Shenzhen city. They particiocean environment protection association. 1983.11 1985.04 1991.02 1993.11 1994.04 1995.08 1996.07 pated in the traffic guide, corrected pedestrians’ traffic violation for 240 times. They have brought traffic safety service to the Tianma Micro-elecFormer CPC “640×400 Tianma was Tianma was Research on Tianma was community. tronics Co. was Shanghai Municipal monochrome and contracted to appraised by State STN-LCD was selected as the established. Committee color LCD”High-tech undertake the Economic and Trade awarded “First Prize Vice-Chairman Secretary JIANG Project was National Winter Commission and in Science and Company at the Zemin, former CPC approved. This LCD Academic Ministry of Foreign Technology First Council Tianjin Municipal project filled the Conference and Trade and Economic Advancement” by Conference of China Committee domestic was the main Cooperation as the Shenzhen Optics & Secretary LI technology gap. speaker at the “National Advanced government. Optoelectronics Ruihuan and conference. Thus Enterprise for Shenzhen Science Manufactures foreign state Tianma assumed Mechanical and and Technology Association LCD leaders came to visit the leading role in Electrical Product Bureau appraised Branch in Beijing. Tianma. the industry. Exportation”. this as a gap-filling, state-of-the-art high resolution flat panel display technology that was widely applicable to laptops, etc. China Flat Panel 2004 Summer National Key First 4.5 World First Generation Provincial 25th November 2012 Display Academic SONY Audit Olympics QCIF+SFD New Product Production Famous Brand Conference in Athens Scheme Line in China Shenzhen Tianma launched the third collective blood donation 2002.04 2003.11 2004.09 2006.01 2006.12 2008.03 2009.07 activity named “Thank You Anonymous”, 52 voluntary employees brought warmth to the community. Tianma was Tianma passed the The YEPP-53 MP3 Tianma successfully Tianma’s in-car LCD Shanghai Tianma “Tianma” was contracted to SONY Green Partner LCD module developed the world display was listed in completed the certified by undertake the China audit with all developed by first QCIF+SFD. the National Key construction of its Guangdong Flat Panel Display excellence. Tianma and New Product TFT Factory, Province Famous Academic Samsung Bluteck Scheme. indicating the Brand Certification Conference at Silver collectively and completion of the Committee as Lake, Shenzhen. manufactured by first 4.5 generation Provincial Famous Tianma Production Line Brand. independently was with full indepenIn 2012 used in the 2004 dent intellectual Summer Olympics in property rights in Amount donated to Disabled Fundation Athens. China. 1,310,095.73 yuan 49 Community Involvement Tianma Milestones 50 2012 CSR Report Tianma Microelectronics Co.,Ltd. AppendixⅡ Awards Appendix Ⅲ GRI Indicator Index No. Time Award Issued by Category G3 Guidelines Location PROFILE 1 1991.12 Remarkable Engagement in Social Welfare Shenzhen Children’s Welfare Center 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization Management Letter Key High-tech Enterprise Certificate State Scientific and 2 1996.08 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities Management Letter （Q9644264 Torch Plan） Technological Commission 2.1 Name of the organization About Tianma 2000 Guangdong Province Environmental Guangdong Province Environmental 3 2000.09 Protection Outstanding Demonstration Project Protection Industry Association 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services About Tianma Government Electrical & Mechanical Work Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, 4 2004.12 “Light of the Nation” Honor 2.3 About Tianma Supervisors, Craftsmen & Workmen Association subsidiaries, and joint ventures 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters About Tianma 5 2007.01 Pengcheng Waste Reduction Certificate Shenzhen Environmental Protection Bureau 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates About Tianma Shenzhen Association for Public Companies / 6 2007.02 2006 Shenzhen “Capital Circle” Social Donation Award 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form About Tianma “Capital Circle” Magazine 2.7 Markets served About Tianma 7 2008.01 Energy Saving Lighthouse Scheme Demonstration Enterprise Shenzhen Energy Saving Association 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization About Tianma 2008 Best Supporting Company for Spring 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership About Tianma 8 2008.02 Shenzhen Nanshan District Government Festival Transportation Disaster Management 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Appendix Ⅱ Shenzhen Association for Public Companies / 9 2009.01 5.12 Wenchuan Earthquake Charity Donation Award “Capital Circle” Magazine 3.1 Reporting period (eg. fiscal/calendar year) for information provided About This Report 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) Not involved 10 2009.02 2008 Annual Investment Contribution Award Shenzhen Longgang District Government 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) About This Report 11 2009.04 2009 Ten Thousand People Tree Planting Certificate Shenzhen Green Fund Association 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents About This Report 3.5 Process for defining report content About This Report 12 2010.04 Qinghai Yushu Earthquake 500,000 RMB Donation Certificate Shenzhen Charity Federation 3.6 Boundary of the report About Tianma 2009 Annual Ten Major Low-carbon Economy 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report About Tianma 13 2010.03 Low-energy Low-emission Enterprise Shenzhen Charity Federation Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other Nanshan District National Ecological Zone 3.8 entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizaNot involved 14 2011.03 Shenzhen Nanshan District Government tions Advanced Enterprise for Foundation 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the basis of calculations About This Report Shenzhen Nanshan District 15 2011.08 Shenzhen Nanshan District Government “Green Channel” Enterprise Certificate Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the 3.10 reasons for such re-statement Not involved Guangdong Enterprises Confederation 16 2012.04 Member Enterprise of Convention on Business Integrity Guangdong Entrepreneurs Association Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement 3.11 methods applied in the report Not involved 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report Appendix Ⅲ 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report Not involved 4.1 Governance structure of the organization About Tianma 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer Stable Operation For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members 4.3 of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members Stable Operation 51 GRI Indicator Index GRI Indicator Index 52 2012 CSR Report Tianma Microelectronics Co.,Ltd. Category G3 Guidelines Location Category G3 Guidelines Location PROFILE Disclosure on Management Approach Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts Not involved 4.4 Employee Caring direction to the highest governance body Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Not involved 4.5 Annual Report and executives, and the organization’s performance EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Not involved 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided Annual Report Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Not involved 4.7 highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other Stable Operation indicators of diversity EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Not involved Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to Environmental 4.8 economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation Management Letter EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements Sustainability Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, Environmental Sustainability management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and EN6 4.9 Not involved and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives Win-win With Business Partners opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles Environmental EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved Sustainability Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, 4.10 Not involved EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Not involved particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is 4.11 Stable Operation EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Not involved addressed by the organization Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Not involved 4.12 Not involved initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of 4.13 Not involved EN11 high biodiversity value outside protected areas Not involved international advocacy organizations 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Tianma CSR Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected EN12 areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Not involved 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Tianma CSR Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement 4.16 Tianma CSR EN13 Habitats protected or restored Not involved by type and by stakeholder group Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity Not involved 4.17 Tianma CSR organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas Disclosure on Management Approach EN15 Not involved affected by operations, by level of extinction risk Disclosure Economy / Environment / Society EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Not involved Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee EC1 compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to About Tianma EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Not involved capital providers and governments EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved Not involved Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's EC2 Not involved activities due to climate change EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Not involved EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations Employee Caring EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government Not involved EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight Not involved Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination Not involved EC5 Not involved wage at significant locations of operation Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Not involved EC6 Not involved locations of operation Environmental EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local Sustainability EC7 Not involved community at significant locations of operation Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public EN24 of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped Not involved EC8 benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement Not involved internationally 53 GRI Indicator Index GRI Indicator Index 54 2012 CSR Report Tianma Microelectronics Co.,Ltd. Category G3 Guidelines Location Category G3 Guidelines Location Disclosure on Management Approach Disclosure on Management Approach Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of EN25 significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff Not involved HR5 association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to Not involved support these rights Win-win With EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation Business Partners Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, Win-win With HR6 Employee Caring EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Business Partners Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with Environmental Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or EN28 environmental laws and regulations Sustainability HR7 compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or Not involved compulsory labor Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials EN29 used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce Not involved Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning HR8 Not involved aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Not involved HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken Not involved LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender Employee Caring Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, SO1 and development programs Community Involvement LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region Not involved SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption Not involved Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time LA3 employees, by major operations Employee Caring Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures Not involved SO3 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Employee Caring SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Stable Operation Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying Not involved LA5 Not involved it is specified in collective agreements Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, SO6 and related institutions by country Not involved Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety LA6 Not involved committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly SO7 Not involved practices and their outcomes Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of Environmental LA7 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for work-related fatalities by region and by gender Sustainability SO8 Not involved non-compliance with lawsand regulations Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce LA8 members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases Not involved Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for PR1 improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such Not involved procedures LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Not involved Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category Not involved PR2 Not involved health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant Not involved LA11 Not involved PR3 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings products and services subject to such information requirements LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender Employee Caring Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning Not involved PR4 product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category Win-win With LA13 Employee Caring PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Business Partners Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, PR6 including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship Not involved LA14 by significant locations of operation Not involved Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses PR7 marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of Not involved HR1 Not involved incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening outcomes Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone Win-win With Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and Win-win With HR2 PR8 human rights screening, and actions taken Business Partners losses of customer data Business Partners Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning Not involved HR3 Not involved PR9 that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained the provision and use of products and services HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken Employee Caring 55 GRI Indicator Index GRI Indicator Index 56 Appendix Ⅳ Reader Feedback Dear Reader: Thank you for reading the “Tianma 2012 Annual Corporate Social Responsibility Report”. Our company would like to hear from your opinions and advices. Please feel free to leave us feedback. With sincere thanks, Tianma Micro-electronics Co. March 2013 Name： Contacts： Phone： Email： Company： Report Evaluation Balance Comparability Accuracy Timeliness Reliability Clarity Tianma CSR Stable Operation Employee Caring Environmental Sustainability Win-win With Business Partners Community Involvement Your expectations of our next report: PS: Please rate on a scale from 1 to 5, 1 being “Very Poor” and 5 being “Very Good”. Please send it to CSR_office@tianma.cn, and thank you for your valuable advice. 57 Reader Feedback
