FENI Industries February 2014 CUNICO RESOURCES NV 2/40 The year of 2013 was indeed challenging one for the overall international economy and especially for the nickel industry, which faced with declining demand and hence plummeting prices on the metals exchanges. Yet, here in FENI and in our group, as demanding as it was, we still perceived this situation FOREWORD OF THE CEO as an opportunity to further improve our operations and processes to match the market conditions in order to secure the survival of the company. With mutual collaboration, support and understanding of all our stakeholders, among them being our employees, clients, suppliers, local communities and shareholders, some difficult but necessary actions were applied but also some very smart and creative initiatives were undertaken that helped FENI continue operations even in such unfavorable market circumstances. Moreover, irrespective to the economic pressures, FENI did not withdraw itself from following its social responsibility philosophy, which is deeply embedded in the corporate culture of the company, but it has merely changed the approach and way of acting, to match the current company conditions. This 2013 CSR Report presents FENI’s achievements throughout the past year. Given that FENI is a member of the United Nations Global Compaq Network, again as confirmation to its devotion to socially responsible behavior, the report encompasses FENI’s activities following the UN principles of human and labor rights, environment, and business ethics but also communities’ support as a separate category. In light to the expiration of the deadline (April 2014) for companies like FENI with Aintegrated environmental permit to fulfill the commitments from the operative plan, and given the fact that FENI is the first company in the country to meet the deadline, but also observing the scarcity of understanding among the common population about the impact that facilities like FENI have over the environment, which often leads to misunderstanding and misinterpretation, the 2013 CSR report further contains a special edition on environment, which has both informative and educational character. Lastly, this report is an evidence to the continuity, creativity and improvement that FENI accomplished in terms of socially responsible behavior and it is also a tool for increasing awareness about the importance of social responsibility, a goal that every socially responsible company should strive to achieve. Konstantinos Daskalakis CEO CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries 3/40 TABLE OF CONTENT About Feni Industries 3 Technological process 5 CSR and UN Global Compact 6 Human rights and Labour 7 Health and Safety 10 Environment 15 Business Ethics and Anticorruption 20 Communities 27 Environmental Technologies 32 FENI Industries is a pyro-metallurgical ferronickel producing plant, located in Kavadarci, Macedonia, counting 855 direct employees in December 2013. Ferronickel is a Ferro alloy with cca 20% nickel content and 80% iron content and it is produced by smelting and refining various nickel ores containing 0.9% to 2.2% nickel and 15% to 40% iron. All the production is exABOUT FENI INDUSTRIES ported worldwide and is a prime raw material for production of stainless steel. With production ranging above 20 000 tons of nickel in ferronickel, FENI Industries is an internationally acknowledged producer. In 2013, FENI has achieved a new production record with 20 001 tons of nickel. Feni Industries is a subsidiary of Cunico Resources NV (Cunico Resources, Cunico) a multinational mining and metals group of companies, engaged in exploration, extraction and refinement of nickel ore, producing and selling ferronickel and associated secondary products. Cunico Resources holds interests in and operates 2 smelters: FENI Industries in Macedonia and NewCo Ferronikeli in Kosovo. Cunico Resources is the largest ferronickel producer in Europe and the fourth largest in the world. NewCo Ferronikeli is a smelting plant for ferronickel located in Kosovo with a technological process comparable to the one of Feni Industries. In 2013 NewCO Ferronikeli has achieved a production of 7700 tons of nickel. Guaxilan, S.A. is a recent mining asset acquisition made by the Cunico Group and is a fully owned subsidiary. The mining asset is located in Guatemala. Cunico Marketing FZE is the Group’s marketing and sales branch. It is located in the global business city of Dubai, United Arab Emirates. Finland Belgium England Albania Germany Taiwan Spain Italy Turkey Japan China India South Korea Guatemala Philippines Import ore Indonesia Export FeNi Cunico Resources implantation CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries 4/40 Applying socially responsible practices in its operations is a must for the companies nowadays. FENI always did it and will continue. Moreover, companies need to have a bill for social practices, as well as for environment and this mustn’t be negotiable subject but a moral obligation. In the past 5 years, FENI spend time, effort and finances in social responsibility, which by definition means investing in human and labor right, environment, ethics and communities. According to me, being socially responsible doesn't mean substituting legal obligations. In reality they are mutually supportive: our actions are complementing state actions. This support and effort that FENI makes in terms of social responsibility is also recognized by the state through the various awards we have reNikola Rizov ceived. Deputy General Manager ABOUT FENI INDUSTRIES HISTORY OF THE 'FENI' SMELTING PLANT Production of Nickel yearly 5 000 t 10 000 t 15 000 t 20 000 t 2013 biomass, petcoke, truck washing station, recultivation 2012 ESP4, water collection, new slag dump, 6th pelletizer 2011 Sizer, granulation 2, fine fraction transport 2010 EF2 restarted, REACH, 2 bypasses for ore, export slag 2009 Current shareholders ISO 14001:2004, Economic crisis 2008 IPPC Permit, ISO 9001:2008, EF2 stopped, 2 new driers 2007 New drier, new ESP3 2006 New EF technology, new granulo system, 2ndEF 2005 Richer %Ni ore (Far-East ores). Start work with 2 RK / 1EF 2004 Private company FENI Industries Sep-01 Stoppage Feb-99 State owned company with private shares (concession) FENI MAK Sep-91 Stoppage Jun-84 State company Start FENI Apr-82 Construction 1979 Activity of the department for Environment 5 000 t 10 000 t 15 000 t 20 000 t CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries 5/40 PROCESS DIAGRAM CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries 6/40 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES WITHIN THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to align their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. CSR practices have always been a part of FENI’s corporate culture, and as a reconfirmation to its CSR devotion, FENI joined the UN Global Compact network in 2011. During the year 2012, FENI continued developing and intensifying its CSR practices. Again in 2012 and 2013, FENI received multiple awards by the ‘Coordinating body for Corporate Social Responsibility’ and Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Macedonia for its CSR practices. This is FENI’s 3rd report that encompasses the CSR activities. and progress achieved in 2013. THE TEN PRINCIPLES FENI Industries demonstrates The UN Global Compact's ten principles in the areas continuous efforts to of human rights, labor, environment and antistrengthen its social responsicorruption enjoy universal consensus and are debility, as evidenced by their rived from: submissions in four consecu• The Universal Declaration of Human Rights; tive annual National awards • The International Labor Organization's DeclaraCSR AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT for best socially responsible tion on Fundamental Principles and Rights at practices. Work; • The Rio Declaration on Environment and DevelThey have shown tremendous opment; environmental awareness, • The United Nations Convention Against CorrupAleksandar Nikolov commitment to building fair tion. and transparent market relaThe UN Global Compact seeks companies to emtions, dedication to protecting stakeholders’ interests, brace, support and enact, within their sphere of inaspiration to improve the conditions in the commufluence, a set of core values in the areas of human nity, as well as care for the health, safety, welfare and rights, labor standards, the environment and todevelopment of employees. Additionally, they have wards anti-corruption: made admirable efforts in the further development and integration of children from vulnerable social Human Rights categories, thus contributing to raising healthy and • Principle 1: Businesses should support and reresponsible citizens. spect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and The fact that the company has an established Social • Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit Responsibility Policy and that it is developing good in human rights abuses. practices in all five categories of responsibility points out to their systematic approach. In each category, Labor the expert jury awarded the submitted projects – eight • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freetimes in total over the years. FENI’s socially responsible dom of association and the effective recognition projects were assessed as being meticulously designed of the right to collective bargaining; and more inventive than those previously imple• Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced mented in Macedonia. and compulsory labor; • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; I am particularly pleased that the company mobilized and other enterprises in the local community to get en• Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in gaged in socially responsible activities, thereby further respect of employment and occupation. contributing to strengthening the awareness in the business sector and the public. Environment Aleksandar Nikolov • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precauPresident of the national Coordinating Body on Cortionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote porate Social Responsibility greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries 7/40 CONTINUITY IN DEVELOPMENT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES Feni Industries` priority commitment concerning the corpus of human resources matter is to work on its development within the context of development targets, to harmonize this matter with the national regulations and international as well. Furthermore, Feni Industries is striving to build in, the best world practices and sound principles in its internal procedures, which are more and above the national legislation. Certainly, this comes out from the necessity being absorbed to make positive impact on the development of the corporate culture, individual indexes of workability and, of course, the personal satisfaction of the employees. Taking into consideration the impact of the world financial and economic crisis over FENI’s operation, and also having in mind the necessity for downsizing as one of the measures to mitigate the effect of the crisis, the aspect of the human resources is and stays in focus of the decision making process that concerns the employees at Feni Industries. In 2013 the Company was focused on production of high quality product in compliance with the international quality standards and preferences of our cusHUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOUR tomers, all this harmonized with the principles of sustainable development. Beside the high quality product and running the operations in effective and safe way, our commitment was also to improve the satisfaction of the employees through adequate social benefits, which are being permanently improved. HIGHLIGHTS IN 2013 • Creation of new procedures and working instructions: Issuance of employment manual for expats; Issuance of ‘Procedure for apprentices’ and ‘Discipline and Conduct Rule Book’; • Upgrading and harmonizing the training process with the regulations that require licensing the job positions and periodical exams of competencies; • Continuity in the dialog of the social partners: Company – Union organization • Upgrading of the HR module on the follow up of all employees’ status within the frame of ERP system. Trained and skilled workers manage the process HR targets 2014: • Issuance of a new procedure for induction of new employees; • Preparation of a list of job positions that are subject to licensing, exams of competences and periodical checkups, together with deadlines and budgeting; • Data feeding into the HR database with appropriate information for benefited service; • Harmonization of the systematization with the job descriptions and the risk assessment; • Social dialog. To deny people their human rights is to challenge their very humanity. Nelson Mandela CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries 8/40 New procedures and operational instructions FENI is a part of an international group and the entire technical-technological operations and administrative processes are running in a multicultural ambient. Rights and obligations of the foreign employees working for Feni are regulated according to the national laws. During the process of regulation of their status, the universal key values and standards in this area are being upgraded through mutual communication. Consequently, according to the experience being gathered so far in implementation of the different laws in serial of different cases, the HR dpt created a Manual on obligations of the foreign employees and their family members and delivered it to all exWork induction training for students pats. This Manual was formatted according to the ISO standards and is available at the Feni intranet. HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOUR Feni Industries, in the frames of its cooperation with the local community and wider, is always open for the needs of the students in pursuit for additional education and practical work for high school and university students. In this regards, another procedure was added in the QMS and EMS system ‘Practical Work for Student Procedure’. In 2013, 27 students did their obligatory practice as per their school programs and made reports accordingly. According to this procedures, HR has records for all students who did their practical work in FENI, in the data base. Upgrading of the training process by licensing job positions and professions at Feni Industries Within the process of harmonizing the standards concerning the qualifications and skills required for a certain job positions with the international ones, as well as in parallel with the ongoing reforms of the education system, a necessity to license certain number of job positions has appeared. The process has already started (licensing of locomotive drivers, operators of vessels under pressure, drivers of different industrial vehicles) according to the domestic regulation, it will take some time, and periodically it will be revised. Certainly, this will generate harmonization The Committee makes review of the regulations that define with other internal acts – job descriptions etc. the issue of licenses and exams of competencies. Upgrade of the HR module for follow up of huIn the mid-term projections, by encircling the reman resources development in the frames quired quantum of data which will be monitored on of the ERP system a daily basis, the HR Office is planning to make a link The Human Resources Office is successfully impleof this module with the evaluation of performance, menting the HR module within the ERP system. The thus creating opportunities for everybody for profesexperience showed that this module is very useful in sional improvement and career. terms of creating of complete individual file for every employee which can be continuously updated with new variables, thus providing functionality in terms of improvement of the personal and overall performances. Also, by entering new data according to the current changes in the regulation, individual development of every employee can be monitored very easily, harmonization with the regulations and, at the same time fast reaction to the requirements of the institutions that regulates the labor issue. Sample report from the HR module that shows trainings of one employee CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries 9/40 Continuity of the dialog between the social partners: Company – Union organization employees. For this purpose the employees were In 2013 the impact of the world economic and finaninvited, for a certain amount of indemnity to apply for cial crises over the metallurgical and metal processresignation on their own, and, from the total figure of ing sector was extraordinary heavy and in the effort employees that left, one group was consisted of emto create mechanisms for crisis management and its ployees that according to the regulation were eligible consequences, and at the same time taking into conto social security insurance until retirement. sideration the development projections, Feni IndusAt the end of August 2013 the president of the Union tries had to take very unpopular measures such as organization addressed the Company management production cuts as well as employment downsizing. in writing, emphasizing that in the long history of These processes resulted in dismissal of 56 workers mutual cooperation the two sides always demonon two different grounds, as final outcome of the strated capacity to harmonize their positions, and crisis impact and price decrease of our product on the asked for reestablishment of the previous benefits market. Before having made the final decision, for the rates , on the grounds of living costs increase. The sake of the Company survival and cost cuts, the folmanagement positively answered to the requirelowing measures were introduced: paid forced leave ments – the portion of the salary being reduced was for a certain number of employees and reduction of returned back, and a part of other benefits was balHUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOUR the salary for all the employees of 5%, and 50% reanced to the end of the year to the previous criteria. duction of the bonus benefit. These measures were In this Letter Union organization also stressed out communicated with the Union organization and were that they appreciate the fact that management when accepted by all employees as their personal contribuhaving made very difficult decisions for lays off took tion in seeking solution to overcome the situation. care of the social security issue. In the downsizing procedure, one of the main criteria was to take care of the social security of the affected Average salary RМ 2013 November Average salary branch 2013 NovemAverage salary FENI 2013 Nober vember 21.054 21.776 29.691 The president of the Union organization stated that the efforts of the Union in 2013 were mostly focused internally on the situation of the Company – care for the status of the labor rights of the workers to be laid off coming out of the regulations and, in parallel, even in the reduced size, on the continuity in the social and syndical activities. The representatives of the Union attended seminars and conferences, in the country and abroad, in aim to strengthen their capacities. Also, as usual, in 2013, sport games in several disciplines for Feni Industries employees were organized, and finals were viewed by almost all employees. Zivko Gligorov, Union representative at the Syndical conference in Denmark Many participants in different sports disciplines in the Union sport games 2013 CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries 10/40 COMMITMENT FOR HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK The company’s vision for sustainable development, among other matters, puts health and safety of the employees as number one on its priority list. The company provides all preconditions required for Occupational Health and Safety through the specialized Department for Occupational Health and Safety, fire protection and risk management. The established procedures comply with the national and the international laws and regulations as well as with the international standards for occupational health and safety and risk management. Consequently, FENI has risk assessment and health and safety statement for each working position. Striving to establish proper working conditions for the employees and to ensure safe working environment, the company has its own ambulance and fire protection vehicles, regular trainings, controls and strict procedures developed in the frames of the international standard for Occupational health and safety. Following past experiences, the Health and Safety team follows the company strategy “Safety first” in aim to increase the awareness of the employees and the contractors to act and to perform their daily activities in a safe manner and to ensure a safe working environment. HIGHLIGHTS IN 2013 • Improvement of the internal acts and their comHEALTH AND SAFETY pliance with legal regulation. • Increasing the employees’ awareness through health and safety campaigns. • Implementation of a new system for managing contractors. • Improvement in the implementation of the recommendations in accordance with the standards and deadlines for their implementation Seminar for personal safety equipment organized by the Ma• Conducted training exercises by the Fire Departcedonian Association for Protection ment in Feni in the field of fire protection and rescue in the work units. • Project for increasing the employees' awareness and building a health culture for increasing the level of health culture of employees. • Supply of new medical equipment for immobilization. OBJECTIVES FOR 2014AND BEYOND • Adoption of the new Rulebook of Occupational Health ad Safety in compliance with the OHS law; • Appliance and certification of OHSAS 18001 standard requirements; Training session at Feni • Expanding the program for security campaigns with actual and more specific topics; • Increasing of the contractors’ controls and continuation of the health and safety trainings aiming to increase the awareness of the contractors and decreasing the number of injuries; • Increasing the level of awareness of personal responsibility for control and raising preventive actions at site. “The safety of the people shall be the highest law. “ Marcus Tullius Cicero Trained and skilled fire-fighters—drill CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries 11/40 Improvement of internal acts and compliance to undertake preventive measures, in aim to reduce with legal regulation probability of possible incidents. Health and Safety office worked continuously to imFor this purpose, FENI started implementation of an prove the Rulebook for Personal Protection EquipOccupational Heath and Safety System according to ment utilization. The Rulebook complies with the OHSAS 18001 Standards Requirements. This standard European standards in order to fulfill the internadefines the organizational structure, planning activitional regulations which has direct influence on the ties, responsibilities, practices, procedures and reoperational processes. sources for development implementation, realization, Having in mind the importance of procuring high revision and determination of the OHS policy, as quality personal safety equipment, FENI developed well as full implementation of the standard. its own way based on the knowledge gained from The expected company benefits from the OHSAS the seminars and trainings organized by the Macedo18001 are as follows: nian Association for Protection. Striving to establish • to minimize or completely eliminate injuries in the better protection and proper risk management in aim workplace to decrease the risk at the work place, FENI acts re• to provide protection from injuries of employees sponsibly and implements procedures and safety and visitors instructions for specific work place or position. • to coordinate and establish traceability within the The dynamics of the operation requires a proactive working processes in the company approach to protect the health and safety of the em• to comply with the laws and regulations ployees, to identify possible risks, eliminate them or • to reduce company costs. HEALTH AND SAFETY Increasing the employees awareness through health and safety campaigns FENI fulfills regularly its legal obligations for mandatory training in terms of health and safety. However, FENI voluntarily organizes additional educational seminars, training and campaigns. These trainings are prepared as a result of the regular controls performed by the Health and Safety officers. During the controls hot spots and potential risk areas are identified, whereas the officers immediately raise corrective and preventive measures. Such example of preventive measures are the trainings and the presentations for specific working positions or working areas. Campaign Working safely with conveyors belt and rotating These campaigns have educational character and elements increase the employees’ awareness for the importance of the health and safety at work, in order to engineers and all employees which are concerned decrease the potential risks and to prevent possible with a particular issue. The total number of employaccidents and incidents. In aim to spread the informaees that participated in this campaign was 365. Betion from the top to the bottom line, during the camsides the internal campaigns, the company regularly paigns, the H&S officers involved the Departments sends its employees for external trainings. In 2012, Managers, Chiefs and Shift engineers, operational total of 22 workers participated in external trainings. Training with testing by authorized company Practical training by authorized company CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries 12/40 Sample flyers for Health and Safety campaigns Implementation of a new system for contractors’ management. The working conditions and safe working environment are crucial factors for social progress in the company. The main priority in FENI is given to the health and safety of the employees, contractors, visitors and the overall community. The development of FENI in undertaking measures to protect the employees and to take care for the engaged contractors, visitors and the community is in constant growth. HEALTH AND SAFETY FENI Industries is continually improving the practices, the procedures, the rules, and besides the campaigns OHS and ILD Training for temporary contractors and trainings for health and safety for our employees, the Health and Safety office together with the Department for fire protection organizes trainings of the employees engaged by our contractors. In these regards, the rules, the regulations, the measures and the responsibilities for safe working place are presented and the procedures related to the established safety measures, which are part of the integrated management systems for control and management in accordance with the ISO standards, which are same with the procedures followed and applied by FENI’s employees. Our aim and commitment to our employees have been extended for all stakeholders, who perform activities at the company’s premises. In 2013, 14 trainings were organized in terms of occupational health and safety . Improvement in the implementation of the recommendations in accordance with the standards and the deadlines for their implementation The implementation of a controlling system based on the technical aspects of the health and safety of the employees and the equipment as well as implementation on the set recommendations, introduced continuous innovations through the health and safety office to improve the way on reporting and faster implementation of the set recommendations. In 2013, all recommendations were realized till the Occupational health and safety recommendations implemented in 2012/2013 third control. The statistics of the recommendations and their realization is displayed in the table on the right. The company is dedicated to establish proper care in health and safety lined up with the international and European standards as well as to implement the former through establishing safety measures, organizing trainings and safety campaigns in aim to reduce the number of injuries. In the last two years the number of injuries has decreased, but further improvement and increasing of the employee’s awareness for occupational health and safety importance is reNumber of injuries 2011/2012/2013 quired and worked upon. CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries 13/40 Fire protection at work The Fire protection department is actively involved in the implementation of measures derived from ISO standards with its own procedures and plans. In this context two new procedures were placed in 2013: Procedure for hot work permit and procedure for installation of hydrant, fire hydrants etc. In order to implement the procedures, employees from various departments and contractors’ employees were involved that actively participated in the activities, based on these procedures. Striving to establish proper appliance of these procedures, the fire protection department prepared two campaigns. Training practices and scenarios performed by the Fire protection department Every year, the Department for fire protection makes regular training based on the annual plan. The training is part of the preventive measures for fire protection and other hazards that are performed constantly throughout the whole year. In all operational units teams are created known as protection and rescue forces. These teams include the fire protection unit, units for evacuation and first aid as well universal units. The total number is 256 HEALTH AND SAFETY employees. The training plan was completely realized and 14 practical drills were organized where the protection and rescue forces took part. As a result of the long cooperation with the local fire Protection and rescue forces practical drills -fighting brigade, last year special drill with the protection and rescue forces was organized, and the drill included also the local fire-fighters. 132 94 The fire protection department continuously under82 takes preventive and reactive measures with the pro53 47 tection and rescue forces in each working unit. 38 42 37 27 Thankfully to the quick and appropriate interventions and reactions they act and extinguish fires promptly and professionally thus preventing bigger 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 material damages. Number of fires by years Fire-fighting brigade extinguishes fire After completion of firefighting intervention CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries 14/40 Health Culture Improvement project. Health culture means developing healthy lifestyle which contributes to a person’s better quality of life and improved working performance. The usual habits and routines to visit a doctor only when one feels pain and discomfort results with delay in detection on certain diseases and increase of external risk factors. Having in mind that the Health Culture Improvement project is part of the activities organized by the CSR team in FENI, the former was developed as a project under the title Through healthy lifestyles to better health care. The planned activities are focused on developed preventive measures, based on the statistical data referring to the diseases and pathological conditions nowadays: 1. cardiovascular diseases 2. stress 3. diabetes The first activity is completed. FENI’s doctor delivered training and provided information related to cardiovascular diseases, their prevention and management of associated risk factors. All employees were considered target group for this training. The lectures were attended by a total of 474 employees. HEALTH AND SAFETY Purchase of new medical equipment for immobilization The medical staff employed in FENI provides medical services to all employees in the plant, including suppliers and contractors at FENI premises. Aside from the fully equipped ambulance vehicle with up to date medical equipment, last year another defibrillator was purchased and new medical equipment for immobilization. In case of emergency on the site, both the medical staff and all employees from the Fire Protection Department operate this equipment. All the responsible employees involved in this procedure have proper training to handle with the supplied equipment. On August 6th, 2013, a presentation of the new equipment for immobilization was organized, whereas 15 firefighters, the doctor and the nurse and two persons from Occupational Health & Safety underwent an induction training. Practical drill of the Evacuation & First Aid units Presentation and drill of new medical equipment for immobiPresentation and drill of new medical equipment for immobilization lization CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries 15/40 ENVIRONMENT Feni Industries was the first company in Macedonia to receive IPPC Permit (A-Adjustment permit with operative plan) in 2008 and it will be the first big company in the country to fulfill the commitments from the operative plan and to meet the deadline, April 2014. Environmental protection is an integral part of all FENI’s processes. This protection simultaneously includes: • Preventive measures such as usage of environmentally friendly raw materials. From 2013 Feni is using biomass, fuel with high calorific value, substituting its classical solid fuels as lignite. • End-pipe technologies such as permanent usage of filters (bag filters, Electrostatic Precipitators, Quencher -Scrubbers). • External and independent monitoring of the environment in all its components (air, water, soil). HIGHLIGHTS IN 2013 • Completion of the System for treatment and recirculation of waste water in Feni Industries; • Continuous Emission Monitoring System (CEMS) from main stacks in Pelletization (A part of our Operative Plan); • Starting refurbishment of the old de-dusting sysENVIRONMENT tem in Electric Furnaces (a part of our Operative Plan); • Re-cultivation of the Old Slag Disposal (one activity from our Operative Plan); • Completion of the Truck washing Station; Feni Industries View from a distance • Covering the Location for hazardous waste and improvement of FENI’s temporary waste location; • Starting using biomaterials (olive seeds) as biofuel; • Container for used batteries; • Slag conference Dubai for alternative usage of slag; • Public debate in Kavadarci for usage of rubber chips into the process; • Visit of the Minister of Environment with his executive team; • Open Friday. ENVIRONMENTAL OBJECTIVES FOR 2014 Water sampling • Completion of the Operative Plan; • Receiving the A-Integrated Permit; • Completion with re-cultivation process of the Old Slag Disposal (a part of the Operative Plan); • Completion the continuous emissions monitoring system in Pelletization (a part of our Operative Plan); • Completion of the de-dusting system on the Electric Furnaces (a part of the Operative Plan); • Set up of export solutions for the two slag types; • Completion of local solution for used tires utilization (energy valorization); • Electronic monitoring of the filters. Mountains near FENI CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries 16/40 Operative Plan At the end of 2013 there are 3 activities remaining to be completed in order to finalize the whole operative plan (total 19 activities). These 3 activities are: • Installation of CEMS (Continual Emission Monitoring System) on both stacks for the system LG/RK; • Re-cultivation of slag disposal; • Renewing of de-dusting system for EF1 and EF2. All of these activities have started in 2013 and they are expected to be finished by April 2014. Continuous Emission Monitoring System (CEMS) De-dusting system on the Electric furnaces In 2013 we started with the renewing of the deThe installation of these systems is scheduled for dusting system on the Electric Furnaces. April 2014. These systems include the monitoring of This de-dusting system will use the wet filtration gas (CO/SO2/NOx) and dust content on each chimney (quencher-scrubber) in order to de-dust the hot in Pelletization (Lepol grate—rotary kiln). These are gases (800 degrees C). the main air emissions in the plant. The de-dusting system for the Electric furnace 2 was The selection of the supplier was done in December finished at the end of 2013. The de-dusting system of 2013. Cost of this investment is approx. 200 000 euthe Electric furnace 1 is under completion. It is exros. pected to be ready mid-March 2014. Re-cultivation of the Old Slag Disposal Although FENI is focused to find market and to export the slag , thus also generate earnings, it was agreed to re -cultivate the slope of the finished part of the old slag disposal. This is the part which is near to the cemetery of village Vozarci. This re-cultivation was made according to the Study from Forest Faculty made in 2008. In order ENVIRONMENT for the re-cultivation to be successful, terracing of the slopes was done, as well as transport and deployment of fertile soil. FENI is the first company in Macedonia performing re-cultivation of the slag disposal. Making recultivation doesn't mean that FENI stopped selling slag, on the contrary, in 2013 total of 48 000 tons of slag was sold world wide. Part of the slag disposal before re-cultivation Part of the slag disposal after re-cultivation Water Collection System The system for treatment and recirculation of waste water in Feni Industries was finished on 26th June 2013, when officially the pumps were started. However, quickly it appeared that additional works are required for this system to work. A working team for this issue was created, which was in charge of the program. The main problem was the pre-filtration of the water. Expected benefits from this system are multiple: • Limitation of the water emission to the rivers; • Recovery of the ore ‘washed’ from atmospheric water and returning it into the process; • Reduction of the consumption of the water by re-circulating it; • Potential reduction of the fugitive emission (dust) in the ambient air by watering the dusty areas around the plant. Completing the Truck washing Station In order to avoid mud scatter caused by the truck traffic going out from FENI (in average 140 trucks per day are going in and out of the plant) a truck washing station was installed near the scale. When trucks enter the ramp, water under pressure automatically washes up the mud from the wheels of the trucks. Truck washing station CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries 17/40 Monitoring our environment In 2013, we had 27 days above 50μg/m3 , most of it in Monitoring of the ambient air quality (PM10 and SO2) December 2013 and average PM10=32μg/m3. In is performed by accredited laboratory, for both vil2012 annual average value for PM10 was 34μg/m3. lages Shivec and Vozarci which are in the vicinity of So, it can be noticed improvement of the air quality the plant. compared to the year before. In addition to this monitoring Feni was obliged to Number of days in 2013 Concentration install a Continuous Monitoring System of the ambient air quality in the nearest village Shivec, which 338 below 50 μg/m3 was done in 2011. 24 50< μg/m3 <80 Both monitoring records show that FENI complies 2 80<μg/m3 <100 with the National regulation. 1 >100 μg/m3 (130) During the year 2013, 92% of the year, the ambient air quality at Shivec, was in line with the national regulation (50 mg/m3). Average PM10 content for 2013 is 32 mg/m3. End of December (period from 15 to 31st December) showed a series of 12 days above the national standard. As representatives of the Environment office we believe that these results in December are not caused by FENI’s activities but most likely by individual home heating wood in a very stable atmosphere (fog). If we exclude this particular period with fog, the frequency of excess drops to 4% ENVIRONMENT National limit value 0.125 mg/m3 National limit value 50 μg/m3 For information, the graphic on the right demonstrates the comparison of the air quality measured in Skopje and in Shivec, for the same period . Centar, Skopje Data for Shivec are taken from the Airpointer. Data for Municipality Centar, Skopje are taken from http://airquality.moepp.gov.mk/?page_id=2096&station=Centar&lang=mk This comparison is made for period of six days (from 11/12/2013 until 17/11/2013). / Sivec, Feni An air dispersion modeling exercise using the ISCST3 mathematical air dispersion model from Lakes EnviComparison of the air quality in Shivec and Skopje ronmental was conducted to predict the impact of the emissions of SO2 on ambient air quality from FENI Industries. The assessment identified all 12 sources of SO2 at the premises. For this purpose FENI Industries purchased official preprocessed meteorological data for FENI’s area directly from Lakes Environment. The receptor grid system was determined using one Uniform Cartesian Grid Receptor Network including a 250 meter spaced grid within 12 km. The results for SO2 in Vozarci from the Model are very similar with the results from our Monitoring in Vozarci, which is around 18μg/m3. National limit value is Air dispersion model of SO2 emissions 125μg/m3. CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries 18/40 Waste In 2013 FENI’s management was fully committed to improve the waste management system. This year, the hazardous waste storage (used oil) was covered and improvements of FENI’s temporary waste location was made. Cooperation with the Labor Union continued again in 2013, so wood pallets and plastic containers were offered to the employees, at advantageous price. Collected funds were given to the Labor Union. Slag conference Dubai In December 2013, FENI participated the global slag Proper waste handling at the Waste Storage in Feni conference held in Dubai. This conference held every year is gathering all slag interested parties (producers, traders and users). Unique physical and environmental properties of slag have opened the way to its extensive usage worldwide. This last decade, opinion about slag has started to change. Perceived in the past as a waste, slag became more and more considered. Some countries have already classified the slag as by-product, and even as a product (Alabama). Slag has promising future as a product ENVIRONMENT because it helps protecting the environment. For example, when slag is used as aggregate, then natural resources are saved because they’re substituted. Applications for slag are multiple, from aggregate or raw material for civil construction going to raw material for cement industries. Biomass Biomass from olive seeds is a fuel with high calorific value. This makes this biofuel comparable to usual solid fuel (lignite). From June 2013, FENI is substituting its classical solid fuels using this biomaterial. The project “Go clean” Biomass has many was initiated by the advantages: Embassy of Sweden • Does not contain and NGO “Go Green”, supported by the hazardous elements; Swedish Agency for Environmental Pro• Contains less sulfur and carbon (Cfix) than tection, the Embassies of Norway and Slolignite; vakia and the Ministry of Environment of • It is a by-product; the Republic of Macedonia. The project aims to support the implementation of • Using this natural product allows saving the law on batteries and waste batteries , fossil fuels (sustainability). to develop the awareness about the We are convinced that biomass will play a harmful effects of the batteries and to large role in the future substituting whenever initiate a system for collecting waste batpossible the ’classic solid fuels’. teries. In 2013, FENI took a part in this Project and became part of the system for Nature does nothing uselessly. collecting waste batteries. We want to Aristotle encourage our employees to dispose their used batteries in special containers located in two places in the plant. CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries 19/40 Visit of the Minister of Environment During the years, FENI was continuously investing in the Environment, fulfilling the activities connected to environment, and all this in accordance to the dynamics specified in the Operative Plan. Consequently, the Minister for Environment with all his executive team visited FENI in December 2013. The target of this visit, was to review what FENI did in the given period, from the time of application for Apermit with adjustment plan until today. During his visit, the Minister confirmed that FENI already realized 17 from 19 activities from the Operative Plan. Among other things, he pointed out that FENI is the first company that applied for A-integrated environmental permit in 2005 and has received it in 2008. “I would like to thank the management of FENI for their social responsibility, demonstrating their commitment with the implementation of these environmental measures” said Minister Ademi during his visit in FENI. Debate about Environment in Kavadarci In 2013, Feni opted to increase participation of rubENVIRONMENT ber chips into the process, from 15% up to 25%. In order to consider this demand, the Minstry of environment organized public hearing in the city hall of Newspapers about the visit of the Minister for Environment Kavadarci in September. This public hearing was folat Feni Industries lowed by a public meeting the week after. More than 300 persons (including many workers from Feni) have participated in this debate. This illustrates a strong and healthy interaction between citizens and the company. On that occasion, Feni realized that the citizens are not properly informed about our activities. This misinformation led to some legitimate worries about the environment. In order to clarify all issues, FENI decided to open the company once per Open Friday Because FENI is the only company in Macedonia having license to co-incinerate tires in the process, this raised some questions from the people from Kavadarci. In order to address these questions and to show that the process in Feni is completely safe, Public meeting in Kavadarci—September 2013 FENI started organizing open days. Thus every last Friday in the month is open day named “Open Friday”. Citizens who are interested to visit FENI, can apply by e-mail on the address “zivotnasredina@feni.mk”. For safety reasons it was decided that the group should be no more than 15 visitors. First of all a presentation of FENI’s technological process is provided to the visitors, and Feni’s representatives are then answering to all the questions. This presentation is then followed by a visit to the plant. A lunch in the workers’ restaurant is completing the visit, which altogether takes 3 hours. The objective of this ‘Open-Friday’ is to inform the communities about FENI’s activities and about all controls and measures FENI is undertaking. This allows also to open the dialogue and to understand Mayor of Kavadarci together with Councilors as first visitors’Open Friday’ what the questions of the citizen are. CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries 20/40 CONCEPT OF ETHICAL GOVERNANCE Bearing in mind the strategic orientation for continuous improvement and sustainable development, FENI builds its concept of business operation through honesty, trust and integrity. Therefore, FENI sends its message as company, acting with high ethical standards, to its employees, customers, suppliers, shareholders and other stakeholders. The compliance with the national and international laws and regulations and the highly developed business practices as well as the ten principles of UN Global compact create the corporate business culture of the company. This way FENI behaves responsibly through establishment of the high ethical norms and standards in all segments of its business operations. FENI continues to follow its commitment for maintaining, improving and further integrating new practices aiming to endorse the ethical BUSINESS ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION governance concept to all its business partners and interested stakeholders. HIGHLIGHTS IN 2013 • Introduction of Best supplier award; • Fair and transparent supply process continuation; • Respecting ethical principles in the course of the employment and dismissal process; • Continuation of the subcontractors’ controls in terms of their compliance to human rights, specifically employment relations, occupational health and safety, as well as environment care; • Training Contractors for Health and safety at work; • Visit of the US ambassadors . TARGETS IN 2014 • Selection of the first winner of the newly introduced “Best Supplier Award”; • Maintaining high ethical governance in the recruitment and dismissal processes; • Continuation of the fair and transparent supply process, further expanding the suppliers’ base, creating opportunities for new suppliers; • Revision and improvement of the quality policies; • Continuation of the “zero tolerance policy” for corruptive behavior. SYSTEMS’ HIGHLIGHTS IN 2013 ISO14001:2004 Re-Certification in Feni ISO9001:2008 Surveillance audit in FENI In December 2013, the ISO 9001 and 14001 were re-certified by accredited company SGS (with zero nonconformity). The CSR procedure is integrated in our systems, allowing increased control and structure of the CSR activities. Next steps: The future plans is to build and integrate ISO 18001, Occupational health and Safety Standards. Policies and procedures FENI recognizes the need to conduct its business based on established policies and procedures. The basic philosophy of ethical governance is implemented through the Business Ethics Policy, reflecting on the properly established Quality Management System within its operations. The main approach of the Quality Management System is through policies and procedures, the company to conduct continuously increased control in different segments and processes and to ensure proper sale and supply chain management, environment protection, human resource management, occupational health and safety, corporate social responsibility etc. Having in mind that the ethical governance is a principle of implementation of corporate sociallly responsible practices within the company business, FENI strives to perform not only within but also out of its frames, through sharing its experience and support to its business partners and local community. CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries 21/40 POSITIVE PRACTICESCONTINUITY AND PROGRESS Fair and transparent purchases The transparency and the anti-corruption approach are principles by which FENI is recognized in the business community in the past years. The business ethics governance is deeply integrated within FENI’s supply procedures and regulates the supply process aiming to ensure fair and transparent purchases. The practice and the proBUSINESS ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION cedures are equally followed by the domestic and the foreign suppliers. Bearing in mind the importance of the supply process, in the business Purchasing committee at Feni-first level processes of FENI, the supply committees comBest supplier posed of two hierarchical levels are functioning In 2013, upon initiative of the CSR team, FENI introcontinuously. One of the Committees is comduced new practice for selection and recognition of posed by the top management members and the the best supplier of the year. The high ethic stanother one includes members of different hierardards and transparency are consistent part of this chical levels and departments, whereas the main procedure. The high standards and criteria are develpurpose of spreading the authority and responsioped and are followed by the members of the CSR bility in the decision making process is with an team who also choose the best supplier. Each deaim to increase the transparency and the openpartment in the company at the end of the year ness for the new suppliers. nominates a supplier, while all the candidates are being revised and assessed, and decision made with consensus of the CSR team. The winner of the “Best Supplier Award” shall be declared at FENI’s public presentation of the 2013 CSR Report. Acquisition of Nova Refractory In aim to decrease it production costs, in 2013 FENI decided to acquire a refractory production facility in Pehcevo, having in mind that refractories are basic raw materials in the ferronickel production process. The main purpose of this facility is to produce refractory materials for FENI and the other members of Cunico group. This way, the company recreated 120 new job positions i.e. hired 120 employees. The average capacity of this facility is over 40,000t refractory material per year whilst installed capacity is for production over 50,000t/year. CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries 22/40 Ethics in the recruitment and dismissal process FENI ensures fair and transparent behavior with high ethical norms during the recruitment process in the company. The employees are critical success factor of every organization and therefore deserve a special treatment through properly developed internal procedures and practices. FENI continuously follows a procedure which ensures transparency and high ethics in the employment process. The process of employment starts with open announcement in the public media. After the application process, the employment procedure continues with interviews, tests and examination. During the selection process a team is founded consisted of representatives from different departments. Even though the international economic crisis strongly affected the metal industry, FENI still employed 21 new employees in 2013. On the other hand, the downsizing process in FENI, as a process aiming to reduce the employees in the organiBUSINESS ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION zation relates with the business cycle and represents a reactive phenomenon to the current economic crisis. As much as this measure is unpopular, yet it is also much needed and unavoidable at critical times when primary target of every company is its own survival. However in order to maintain highest ethical and fair approach, FENI paid particular attention to the dismissal procedure. Especially the commitment of using negotiations helped detect the key locations and make the required analyzes of the individual personnel data. Consequently to that FENI successfully applied the mediation process with the Labor Union of the company. On the other hand the company also encouraged the employees with various custom tailored compensation packages to assign for voluntary dismissal during the process of downsizing. Thus in 2013, total of 84 employees left their job positions, as a result of economic crisis that severely affected the metal industry. Employees from administration and non-technical departments visit the plant Controlling the sub-contractors FENI continues with promotion of the ethical behavior and expects compliance of the human rights by all business partners, collaborators, suppliers, subcontractors, etc. Therefore the company controls the sub-contractors and requires from them to comply with the national laws and regulations concerning their employees. In 2013 FENI organized various tailored Occupational Health and Safety trainings for its sub-contractors. The trainings encompassed total of 71 employees from sub-contractors employees. Controlling the sub-contractors CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries 23/40 Visit of the US ambassador As a part of Cunico group, FENI is internationally well renowned and acknowledged company for its endeavors to meet high ethical, social and environmental standards. The remarkable growth and achievements enabled the company to keep its position among the biggest Ferronickel producer in the world. The success and the results that the company has achieved, also captures the attention of many foreign missions and delegations, among them the US ambassador in Macedonia. FENI was honored to host the US ambassador in April 2013, and on this occasion to present its knowledge, experience and the applied ethical, social and environmental practices, as well as its future development strategies in various fields. BUSINESS ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION US Ambassador visits Feni Industries The media about the visit of the American Ambassador COMMUNICATION AND ACHIEVEMENTS Communication is an inherent part of the corporate social responsibility practices. With an aim to increase the awareness of the community, about the importance of corporate social responsibility, FENI continually communicates and shares its ethical governance practices. As a token of its devotion to socially responsible practices and behavior, FENI ensured communication in terms of CSR in the following way: 1. Signatory of the UN Global Compact and member of the Initiative Board of the National Global Compact Network, 2. Signatory of the Business Ethical Code – Guide for the Macedonian Business Community, 3. Using official and unofficial channels of communication with various stakeholders, through direct communication but also through various media (electronic, printed, web etc.) The promotion of our business activities as an integral part of our business's success is made through the corporate web site of Cunico resources. All interested parties can find the general information for our company as well as all information for significant activities, which are part of our business operations. Corporate web site of Cunico resources A man without ethics is a wild beast loosed upon this world. Albert Camus CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries 24/40 The Israeli Macedonian agricultural project Introduction about the Project and usage of Slag Slag is widely used for civil construction as raw material or aggregates. Applications are various for this unique material. Slag could be used for road construction (sub-layer), ballast for railway, embankment, sublayer for tennis courts, ‘sand-filter’ for sewage application, covering of public landfills. Cement plants are also interested to use slag. They usually process blast furnace slag as raw material for their clinker. In 2014 FENI is going to cooperate with cement plants in order to develop the usage of our slag within their process. An advantage using slag is that there are no CO2 emissions, thus not exceeding the emissions quota (CO2 required to produce slag is already accounted upon production, thus when used in cement plants, these CO2 is not accounted twice). With a higher exchange rate of the ton of CO2 on the carbon exchange, slag is soon going to become a must have. BUSINESS ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION In 2013, an international Israeli organization has requested to use our slag for an agricultural project. Translation: Great gratitude to Feni Industries for the donation of crushed slag with which our school demofarm was beautified High Municipal School ‘Kocho Racin’ Sveti Nikole. “My name is Giora Tesler, and I represent Mashav department, Israeli agency for international development, Israel Foreign Affairs Ministry. For almost two years we are running an Israeli -Macedonian agricultural project. We collaborate with the Macedonian ministry of Agriculture in setting standards, in the field of Quality Seedlings of vegetables and beyond to the growing chain, guidelines and know how practices, to get better value added chain, ensuring safe and high quality of vegetables seed & seedlings for sustainable vegetables agriculture. We Supply the Know how adaptation and implementation for increasing the marketability of agriculture domestic and exported product, by that increasing the profits of the growers. We would like to thank FENI company , for the cooperation and for the donation of slag . We use the slag in the demonstration farm we built in Sveti Nikole, we placed the substance of slag on the ground surrounding the greenhouses , in a layer of 5 cm height, in order to: • Landscape the design of the farm. • Keeping weeds from not germinating and for convenience and easier weeds handling. • In terms of plant protection, maintain an area clean of weeds, thus free of disease and pests. We hope this good collaboration and support will keep on for the other Model farms we and the Macedonian government intend to build all over Macedonia in the coming 2014 and more..” CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries 25/40 impact on the company’s sustainable development. Every successful company cannot neglect the community because the community represents a part of the business environment. However, the mutual cooperation and the support in good and bad times are crucial for the business success. All the policies and procedures referring to the employees, contractors and the other institutions are consistent part of the corporate socially responsible behavior and has a direct influence on the company success, thus I would emphasize that the CSR governance indeed has significant impact and contribution. BUSINESS ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION What is the influence that FENI has over the society based on the implemented corporate social reMihajlo Mihajlovski sponsibility practices? The positive influence of FENI in Executive director, FENI Industries the society is huge; having in mind that FENI has direct impact on the GDP and directly and indirectly employs thousands of people. The employees’ satisfaction conHow do you perceive corporate social tributes to their performance, delivers better results and responsibility of the companies on national level? productivity, which means all activities, internal and In my opinion, CSR represents the commitment of a comexternal, are of great importance and are in common pany to influence the society through continuous iminterest for all the stakeholders. provement of quality of life for all direct and indirect employees, as well as to give special contribution to the improvement of the life standard. Acting in this manner represents a world trend, and it is a trend in our country as well. Companies are expected to FENI Industriesacknowledgements be more active and to implement corporate social re• Golden medallion for Best Tax Payer in 2008 sponsibility practices. Year by year we witness that com• The first company in the Republic of Macedonia panies in the country are indeed committed to implethat acquired IPPC permit ment different projects and activities in various fields of • Second national prize for Best Corporate Practices corporate social responsibility. in 2009, in the area of relations with the workers • Award for Biggest Exporter in the 2010 • Edition: Top 200 companies in the country Fifth biggest and fifth most successful for 2010 • First national award for Best Corporate Practices in 2010 in the area of relations on the market and medallion for Best Corporate Practices in the area of social bargaining • Second prize in 2010 for Occupational Health and Safety Press release: Executive director of Feni receives the award • Second prize in 2011 for social dialog for Best Manager in Southeast and Middle Europe • First prize in 2011 for fair and transparent purchase procedure and anti corruption • First prize in 2012 for ethical management How would you describe the corporate social re• Second prize in 2012 for investment in communisponsibility practices in FENI? Through various proties jects and activities, FENI is dedicated to the development • Another second prize in 2012 for the project of the corporate social responsibility governance. Beside “Sustainable use of the slag from Feni Industries” the numerous investments in improvement of the techfrom the coordinating body for corporate social nological process and the direct impact that the comresponsibility. pany has on the economical growth and development in the country, FENI does not neglect the CSR activities. Anyhow, we will not stop here, our intentions and our strategy for continuous development guide us every year to expand and improve the existing practices. What is the effect that CSR has over the sustainable development of the company? CSR has a huge CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries 26/40 LOGISTICS AND CSR How important logistics is for FENI? Feni Industries is 180 km far away from the nearest Port in the region, the Port of Thessaloniki. This distance has to be overcome in a limited time. Since the company is the biggest client of the Port as well as the biggest importer of goods in the country, there is increased subtle meaning of the logistics for the company, employees, environment, community and stakeholders. BUSINESS ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION Our logistics system as a set of elements (technical, technological, organizational, economic and legal nature) has to function impeccably. The company’s target is to optimize the material flow of goods, energy, information and people, all in order to achieve the greatest economic efAnastazija Ilkacheva Logistics Manager, fects with detailed and best coordination of a complex of Feni Industries operations, involving many people and facilities. Could you provide elaboration on logistic operations in FENI? The transportation of the material in quantity of millions of tons per year is a task on a global level. Furthermore, while transporting the raw materials, both international and the domestic activities have to be combined in an effective way, since the logistics services are ran within the global logistics system, focusing on the resources and the potential opportunities offered by the global market, considering all the stakeholders, which are often complex systems such as: Maritime transport companies, Ports, Railways, Customs authorities, Agencies, Forwarding companies, Transporters… Regarding the distance of 180 km, considering the macro and micro environmental factors of both railways in the circle, we are striving to increase the railway transportation as a strategic sustainability and eco-friendly parameter. A combination between Feni and the community through Logistics is done with the transportation of the raw materials by trucks as well. FENI being one of the biggest companies in the country, with the implementation of the Customs procedures we have succeeded the overall circulation of materials to be functional in customs terms, especially because some of the procedures are pilot projects for Customs Authorities’ reference. How Logistics follows and implements the CSR practices within its operations? In regards to the established mutual successful cooperation between FENI and the Customs authorities, with an aim to support the Custom’s directive for protection of intellectual property, and in line with the practices and the efforts for corporate social responsibility, the company continuously donates the funds received by the representatives of the brands as in the previous years. In 2013 FENI enabled destroying falsified goods under the supervision of the custom authorities and the brands representatives. The funds received from this procedure were donated to the Hospital of Negotino for purchasing a laryngoscope. Actions with the Customs authorities Destroying cigarettes Actions with the Customs authorities Destroying falsified goods CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries 27/40 INVESTMENT IN COMMUNITIES In parallel with its core activities, Feni Industries also makes significant efforts to harmonize the operational activities with the UN principles concerning the social responsibility and, at the same time, demonstrating the commitment to report on the issue of sustainability policies. This report is a third one and Feni Industries hopes that by encouraging all the concerned parties in the community to take mutual approach towards the sustainable development will contribute in balancing the economical parameters, environment and people as well. With particular focus on 2013, and taking into consideration the impact of the world crisis, it cannot be said that some new extraordinary investment in the community have been made, but it can be said that the company is on a good way to reach a level of sustainability which becomes more and more recognizable, locally and wider. There is a continuity in achieving prestige awards and recognition in this field. Furthermore, Feni Industries stays dedicated to follow up and contribute in the managing of the society challenges taking the model of participation and partnership with all involved sides – institutional and non-institutional from the community within which our operations run. Feni Industries believes that communication of these reports as many side processes will give positive feedback in improvement of managing the challenges of corporate social responsibility and in this way will increase the participation rate in creating added value. Feni Industries kept the continuity of the support it gives to different associations of citizens from the local community and wider. Feni Industries believes that the way it practices its social responsibility will generate domino effect on the rest of the subjects and legal entities in the society. HIGHLIGHTS IN 2013 Culture COMMUNITIES Continual support of all construction phases of the new St. Paraskeva church; Traditional support of Tikves grape harvesting and wine festival. Sport BC Feni Industries builds up relations with the local community; FC Vozarci support. Education, science Feni opened to the communities School for young leaders – cabinet of President of Targets for 2014 RM; All particular projects marked as traditional good Scholarships; practices stated in previous reports will be supInternship; ported further until they acquire meaning of sustainCooperation with local high schools; ability and high public interest. Cooperation with universities. Feni Industries is and stays partner of the local municipal authorities and other state and public instituHumanitarian activities tions in their projects which are labelled as CSR proBlood donor-ship campaigns. jects. The basic position of Feni Industries concerning the investments in community is cooperation Associations and NGO` S with the public and state institutions as well as citiRed Cross organization from Kavadarci; zens associations and NGO`s to result in building Environmental Association Tisovec . mutual approach and creating tools and mechanisms that will be used in implementation of the Specially for the young one policies defined in the national and world strategies Municipal council for prevention of juvenile delinfor sustainable development in different areas, quency; whereas having in mind all positive experiences. School for children with special needs. In these regards, good practices, experiences and projects that are giving input to the process of susRelations with Authorities and Public Institutions tainability, stay high on the priority list of Feni Industries in the field of CSR. Certainly, new projects and initiatives that that overlap with the basic needs of the majority of the citizens will be put on this list. CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries 28/40 CULTURE Feni Industries is the primary sponsor to the construction of the church St. Paraskeva in Kavadarci from the very beginning. There are a lot of works to be finalized and FENI remains devoted to this project. Tikvesh grape harvesting and wine festival is a manifestation with long tradition. Feni Industries believes that this tradition, experience and growing figure of guests each year – domestic and from abroad, will make this event to get commercial value and financial benefit for the local economy and tourism, and the carnival as a part of this event is expected to enter the world list of carnivals. Tikvesh grape harvesting and wine festival SPORT Basketball Club Feni Industries BC Feni Industries is ranked high on the list of the sport activities that Feni Industries supports. Additionally, BC FENI as club and the basketball players personally are involved in some of the activities in the field of social responsibility. In this regards, the cooperation with the Municipal council for prevenCOMMUNITIES tion of juvenile delinquency is further strengthening. Relationship with the basketball players and attending the basketball matches help the children from socially affected families to integrate easier in the system of the already established and socially accepted behavior. The Club is always open for cooperation. Basketball club participates in FENI’s CSR activities The Junior team of the club in June 2013 attended the basketball tournament in Grenoble, France and won the second place French newspaper covering the tournament. ‘Basketball: Macedonian players dominate the international tournament which is going on today’ (in Le Dauphiné Liberé) CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries 29/40 Education and science Education and science, as a factors of development, and capacity of the society and its educational system to absorb fast the achievements in this fields, are key factors in the human resources development as the best assets of the society. Every particular society that strives to development, takes care for its basic resource – the young people. Thus, Feni Industries as an important factor of the Macedonian economy supports a myriad of programs purposed for young prospective individuals. Young leaders Support of the school for young leaders, a project of the President of RM. Leadership is very important skill for the success of any community or association. Hence, Feni industries recognized the value and supported this leadership educational program led by the cabinet of the President of RM in 2013. Feni Industries is supporting three students with full university scholarships. Beside the financial support, they have the opportunity to undertake practical Young Leaders School lecture work, seminar works and graduation thesis on FENI’s subjects. Also two post-graduation scholarship granted the year before are ongoing till graduation. The doors of the Company remained opened for COMMUNITIES students to do their practical work according to their studying programs in the field of metallurgy and technical sciences. 27 young male and female university students were able to see in practice how the technical-technological processes are running based on the postulates they are studying. The student made excellent reports from their practical work. In Student during practical work on site with his mentor 2013, according to the new procedure for apprenIn August 2013 on the day of Holly Mother in the tices, for the first time their stay and work within the neighboring village Vozarci a festival was organized factory facilities was completely organized with innamed Future of Vozarci . Young people from Votroduction with all rights and obligations they have zarci had a key role in this event. Traditionally Feni to follow up during their stay. Industries supported the youth football tournament as a most massive event in celebrating the future of Cooperation with high schools. Traditionally on the this village, which is getting more and more urbanDay of Tree students from the forestry high school ized and the local authorities are making efforts for are joining Feni employees in the planting trees camsatisfying not only the existential needs of its citizens paign. but also the social ones. “Plant your future”Moto of the Day of tree, Feni workers “Day of the tree in the surrounding of the slag disposal and children from Vozarci plant trees CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries 30/40 Humanitarian activities Feni Industries workers are well known by their mass participation in blood donor ship. In 2013 two actions were organized with Red Cross and 125 workers donated blood and expressed their humanity as many times ago. Interestingly, in every new blood donation campaign, contractors’ workers are joining in as well. In the last campaign, at the end of the year, 8 workers from contractors donated blood. Associations, NGO` s, public institutions Feni Industries gives support also to initiatives and activities run by different association and NGO` s that deal with issues of higher public interest. In this reFeni employees donate blood gards, as already mentioned, cooperation with the Red Cross and the Rotary Club became a tradition. Members of the Rotary club supported the summer camp organized for the children coming from socially affected families. Environmental association Tisovec from the neighboring village Vozarci is association of young people from this village. In 2013 Feni Industries toCOMMUNITIES gether with the Ministry of environment supported the educational summer camp held in Pelister Mountain resort where they had the excellent opportunity to learn about the eco systems from their mentors and to experience socialization through camping. “Future belongs to us” Children from EA Tisovec Specially for young ones Children are our future – this is the truest statement which refers to the necessity of involvement of all subjects in the society in planning and supporting their development through participation and support of their activities, through support of the institutional programs or support of their different creative activities. Theater group of high school Dobri Daskalov These theater group from Dobri Daskalov high school participated in the international theater festival in the city of Sandanski, Bulgaria where they won the first prize. The gallery of photos clearly shows Theater group of high school Dobri Daskalov their joy, energy and enthusiasm. They were able to compare their performance level with the other school theater groups from the neighboring countries. Since Feni Industries has long-lasting strong supportive relationship with the school and the day-care center for children with special needs, in 2013, on December 3rd– the International day of handicapped people, FENI organized an event for the children from these institutions. The children visited the ZOO and the airport in Skopje with representatives from their schools and the CSR team from Feni Industries. After a full day excursion all together they also visited FENI. Visit to the ZOO in Skopje-children with special needs CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries 31/40 Specially for young ones Cooperation with the Municipal Council for prevention of juvenile delinquency has grown into tradition, and following this tradition, the summer camp organized by this association for the children from socially affected families, was supported by Feni Industries again. Feni Industries and the Council communicate on regular basis, the Council reports and the cooperation is extended in other fields as well. Feni Industries believes that helping the integration and the socialization of these concerned groups of children and having in mind their qualifications, upon their maturity, very soon some of them will be offered an opportunity to work for Feni. Hopefully, in some of the future reports, Feni Summer camp organized with cooperation with Municipal Industries with pride will emphasize its role of supCouncil for prevention of juvenile delinquency porting individuals in their full societal integration. Relationship with authorities and institutions With the previous two CSR reports Feni Industries made significant initial step towards compliance with the Global Reporting Initiative. The 2013 report and forthcoming ones are meant to foster a multi-way dialogue between Feni Industries and other stakeholders. The ultimate goal of these reports is not only to present the CSR achievements and activities of Feni Industries for the year 2013, but also to inspire and stimulate other COMMUNITIES companies, institutions and organizations to include CSR practices within their own core values. For this purpose, Feni distributed the 2012 report to all public institutions and high schools in Kavadarci and surroundings, to a number of domestic contractors and bigger companies of Kavadarci and other public and private entities in Macedonia. Certainly, many of these reports presented herein were covered by both electronic and printed media. Also Feni Industries gave interviews to various newspapers, magazines and websites and texts were also published on the bulletin boards inside Feni to communicate the CSR activities and progress with the employees. The image of Feni Industries and its public reflection is also subject of the Company` s interest and interest of the CSR team. There are many company issues that attract the public attention and in these regards, the graphic below shows basic data about the public/media interest, FENI’s interaction with the media and of course FENI also follows the media coverage in a systematic and consistent way. Connotation of article: positive, negative, neutral As a significant factor of the Macedo29 30 nian economy, as well as being an excellent success story in terms of the 20 privatization process whereas from a 17 loss making company it turned to a textbook example of success, Feni Industries very often is subject of interest for state officials and diplomatic chorus 3 3 0 0 2 1 0 0 0 0 2 as well. Thus in 2013, FENI had the pleasure to welcome the minister of CSR ECONOMY ENVIRONMENT GENERAL SAFETY Environment Mr. Abdulakim Ademi and Positive Negative Neutral the American ambassador in Macedonia, His Excellency, Mr. Paul Wohlers. “Business, labor and civil society organizations have skills and resources that are vital in helping to build a more robust global community. “ Kofi Annan CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries 32/40 Environment at FENI Industries: Technology, techniques and tips Environment protection is done by simultaneous application of measures such as: • Filtering each emission (to the water, to the air); • Processing environmental friendly raw material; • Recycling waste (circular economy); End-pipe technologies ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGIES Bag Filters 21 1.Ore reception silo 2-3. Crushers 4-5-6. Driers 7. Dried ore silo 8-9. Ball mills 10. Pellet mixer bin Electrostatic precipitators 8-9 11-12: ESP 1 and ESP 4 7 1 13-14: ESP 2 and ESP 3 10 5 6 19 4 2-3 Quencher-scrubber 15: Electric furnace 2 20 16: Electric furnace 1 17: Converter Water systems 11-12 13-14 18. Pump station 19. Thickeners 16 15 20. Sedimentation pools 17 21. North sedimentation pool 18 11-12 17 16 15 20 2-3 19 18 4-5 7 13-14 8-9 21 6 1 10 CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries 33/40 Bag-filters 1. The technological process in Feni Industries starts with the reception and handling of the ore. These manipulations generate dust from the ore. This explains why all first steps of our process are equipped with baghouses (ore reception with silo, crushers, driers). I. The bag filter is split in 2 isolated compartments II. Air passes through the textile of the bag-filter (3) (dirty and clean). The dusty air enters the bag-house and enters the clean air compartment. Clean air is in the dusty air compartment(1). then taken away (4) by the fan and Air is drawn with a fan (2) emitted through the stack Clean air compartment 4 1 ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGIES Dusty air compartment 3 2 III. Dust is blocked (5) at the external surface of the IV. Compressed air is blown inside bag-filters, from bag-filter (textile) whereas the air crosses through it. the top (6) . This flow ‘detaches’ the dust stuck at the surface (7). Collected dust is transported away. 6 5 7 Stack Outlet clean air Inlet dusty air Fan Bag-filter at the milling department Bag-filter at the crusher department Bag-filter sample (textile) Top view of the bag-filter CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries 34/40 Electrostatic precipitators (ESP) Following the ore reception, the pulverized ore is mixed with water and bentonite in order to be pelletized on 6 pelletizing discs. This pelletizing is done on wet material so there is no dust emission at that stage. Pellets then enter the hot process in the 2 technological lines equipped with the system Lepol grate—rotary Kiln. Inside the rotary-kiln the temperature is above 800 degrees Celsius and a lot of dust is generated. The dedusting of this major production step is made by using filters called electrostatic precipitators (ESP). FENI Industries installed additional new filter on each line ( ESP 3 in 2008 on the line no 2 and ESP 4 in 2012 on the Line no 1). These new filters from the Swiss company ELEX are very large and expensive pieces of equipment (total 7 million euros). They are installed in parallel with older filters. The European Commission recommends electrostatic precipitators as BAT (Best Available Techniques). ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGIES Erection of the filter ESP 3 in 2008 New ESP 4 in 2012 Electrostatic precipitator is suitable for separation of the solid particles. Discharge electrodes (emitting electrodes) are emitting electrons. As the electrons accumulate on the dust particles, the dusts become negatively charged. These particles with negative charges are then attracted by the electric field to the earthed collecting electrodes where they are deposited. Cyclically, rapping hammers hit the collecting electrodes. Dust then falls into a hopper and is transported back to the process. Filters are regulated by computers Cross section of an electrostatic precipitator In January 2014, State Inspectors for Environment performed a test on the filters. On their request, the filter line 2 was switched off for 2 minutes and the emissions were recorded. CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries 35/40 Quencher-scrubbers Red pellets (pre-reduced pellets) going out from the system Lepol grate—rotary kiln are charged inside the two electric-furnaces. Temperature above 1600 °C are required to smelt the ore. Ore becomes like ‘the lava from a volcano’. Heavy metals such as nickel and iron sink to the bottom of the furnace whereas lighter elements (mainly oxides from silica, magnesium, calcium, iron) float on the surface (slag). At these high temperatures, a direct dedusting using bag-filters or electrostatic precipitators is not possible. Therefore, wet filtering must be done. This filtration is done using a quencher-scrubber. The dusty air is going through water. A similar system is also equipping the refining area where the final product is processed. Hot QUENCHER VENTURI EXPANSION Cold chimney SCRUBBER TANK chimney v ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGIES Water 1100°C n Fan q o u p 75°C Slurry re-circulation pool To the sedimentation pool Step-by-step principle n Hot-gases from the electric-furnace enter into the quencher. o Evaporation of the water injected causes decreasing of the temperature of the gas (1100 °C -> 75 °C). p The water also removes a fraction of the dust (water + dust = slurry): 1st dedusting. q The cooled gas goes to the venturi-scrubber. The injected water and the narrowed diameter of the pipe cause the 2nd de-dusting. r Watering of the fine dusts. s Increasing of the gas velocity. t Wet-fine dusts fall on the bottom from where they are removed. u The cleaned gas runs to the expansion tank. This sudden widening of the size of the pipe causes decreasing of the gas velocity. This provokes the fall (by gravity) of the remaining dust: 3rd and final de-dusting. v The clean gas is then emitted to the atmosphere. The white emission observed in winter time is the water steam generated when the hot gases volatilize the water. Quencher-scrubber at the electrical furnaces FENI is finalizing the renovation of these wet filters for the two electrical furnaces. In February 2014, the quencher scrubber on electrical furnace no. 2 was restarted. During the first months of 2014 the quencher-scrubber for the other furnace will also be completed. With these installations, FENI will have a treatment for all its emissions to the air. Steam emitted from the wet filter CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries 36/40 Water FENI Industries is not filtering only its air emissions, but also its water emissions. Dust accumulated on the ground surface in the plant are washed off during rainfalls or when roads or mechanization is washed. This water effluent with suspended solids (TSS) must be filtered before being released to the river. Installation of the ‘water system’ In 2013 a new installation to filter all water going out from the site was built. These effluents are collected in a pump station located at the gate. These waters are sent back to an existing thickener located near the milling department. Solid parts (fines of ore mainly) settle at the bottom. Generated slurries (fines particle + water) are pumped to the nearby mixer. Once this system becomes fully operational, there will be 4 major advantages: • Effluent from FENI will be filtered before being released to the river (legal obligation); • Recovered ore has economical value (+ the finest part usually contains the highest nickel content); • Consumption of the water will be decreased by re-cycling it; • Fugitive emissions will be decreased because we will then be able to water all surfaces in FENI. ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGIES West thickeners Sedimentation pool North access Ni = f (TSS) 300 3.5 250 3 2.5 200 TSS mg/L Ni mg/L 2 150 1.5 100 1 50 0.5 0 0 RIV_0 RIV_1 RIV_2 RIV_3 RIV_4 RIV_5 RIV_6 RIV_7 RIV_8 RIV_9 Sampling point Nickel presents an advantage for the environment: it does not dissolve into water. This fact leads to a direct relationship between suspended particles (TSS) Additionally to the water system there is 1 sedimenand nickel content. Filtrating the water allows direct tation pool (North site). For 2014, 3 new pools are decrease of the nickel content into the water. COLLECTING PUMP THICKENER SEDIMENTATION POOL STATION POOL 6. Overflow from the sed pool released to river 1. Muddy water from the factory 5. Water overflow to the sed. pool 3. Sent using pump to thickener MIXER 4. Sedimented ore sent to the mixer with slurry pump 2. Collected water CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries 37/40 Truck washing station ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGIES In 2013 FENI installed a washing station for the trucks. All trucks leaving the site must go through this system that uses water under pressure and sprinklers. Sanitary water This station is a mechanicalbiological station with activated slurries. In the first two chambers, solid parts of the wastewater fall down. The waste water without solid parts goes to the biological chamber, where the cleaning process continues with activated slurries. At the end, the cleaning process finishes by secondary sedimentation. The cleaned water goes to the main effluent. This unit is planned for 2500 workers. Surrounding cities do not have such a system and release the effluent directly into the environment. The sanitary water treatment plant Modeling and understanding its environment FENI uses environmental software such as ‘AERMOD View’ in order to predict the air dispersion and the air quality of the plant surroundings. This software integrates 3D modeling in order to take into consideration the relief and the height of release as well as the meteorological data (wind direction). We are also using GIS software (Geographical Information System) such as ArcMap (v9.3). This tool allows us to have all our data for environment geolocated and easily accessible. Results obtained by modelling (for PM10 or SO2) are comparable to the results measured at our air quality station located in Shivec (the nearest community = 1 km from the plant). CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries 38/40 Using enviro-friendly raw materials Filters are used to ‘capture’ pollutants released from the process. Using environmentally friendly raw materials in the process allows to decrease the amount of pollutants generated in its source. Using these ‘eco-products’ in combination with performing end-pipe technologies (‘filters’) is the best way to protect the environment. In 2006, FENI started using steam coal from Indonesia. This solid fuel is known as ‘enviro-coal’ because of its low sulfur content (0.15%). In 2010, FENI started using heavy fuel oil (‘mazout’) with low sulfur content. In 2013, FENI developed process technology for using biomass. This biomass which is residual of olive oil production is a green product. It has ultra low sulfur content. ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGIES Olive tree Biomass sample used in FENI Recycling FENI has a unique process in the country that allows safe co-incineration of used tires. Indeed, FENI is not burning tires but rubber chips shredded from end life tires (ELT). Gases from the rotary-kilns are not emitted directly to the atmosphere but are re-circulating through 3 after-burners. There the temperature above 1100°C that are destroying all potential organic elements. Measurements were done by European accredited laboratory for dioxins and furans. Their absence has allowed the Ministry of Environment to grant FENI this permit. This license is useful for everybody, not only for FENI. It provides a safe way, on national level, to dispose old stocks of used tires thrown widely in the environment. It shall also help organizing the marketing of this material, reducing amounts burn illegally in hazardous conditions . By using tires for co-incineration, fossil fuels are being replaced, thus being saved and protected for future generations. Used tires ‐ recovery trends in Europe 70 60 50 40 % 30 20 10 0 1994 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2007 Landfil(%) Reuse‐ export (%) Vulcanisation (%) Material recycling (%)) Energy recovery (%) Co-incineration of tires is not an exception in FENI. This trend is developing worldwide. (source: European conference on ELT Sevilla 2009 Nothing is lost, nothing is created, everything Rubber chips sample (‘used tires’) is transformed. Antoine Lavoisier 1774 CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries 39/40 Our best eco-indicators ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGIES Birds in FENI Nests in FENI One can observe many birds at FENI Industries premises. Some of them are building their nests in our trees, within the plant. These are our best and also natural eco-indicators! FENI’s Environment in numbers 8 pieces of equipment to measure aero-sediment in and outside Feni 1 ambient air station for continuous measurement (30 000 euros) Above 12 million euros since 2007 directly invested for environment Feni = 1st company to receive A-permit in 2008 Certified ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 10 water sampling locations outside the company 6000 bag-filters in the plant 54 measurements in 2013 of stacks emission from accredited laboratory Filter ESP4is approx. 800 tons (equivalent 3 empty Airbus 380) 365 days air quality monitoring in surrounding villages by accredited laboratory 9 water measurements per month outside the plant (540 water parameters for 1 year) 32 μg/m3 PM10 in surrounding village in 2013 (regulation = 50 μg/m3 max) Authorship: Special gratitude to Zorica Stavrova for demonstrating consistency in the CSR issues and practices also This report was prepared by the CSR team (Borka throughout 2013, which certainly was Petrovska, Olivier Desevedavy, Ana Andova, Nadica a challenging year for FENI. Stavrova, Yuval Cohen, Gerasim Kujundziev, Viktor Many social activities in our comTrajkov and Ankica Stoshik). Special thanks for the pany were structured under her responsibility. We believe that she will strong support also to Ilija Vidikov and Kiril Veljanov. share her experience and implement the CSR practices in our new sister Date: February 2014. company Nova Refractory in Pehcevo. Circulation: 300 copies English + 300 copies Macedonian CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries FENI INDUSTRIES P.O. Box 53, Kavadarci Macedonia Tel: (+389) 43 410 434 Fax: (+389) 43 414 853 E-mail: feni@feni.com.mk www.cunicoresources.com Ferronickel granules CSR Report 2013 / FENI Industries
