Communication on Progress 2013 Name of the Participating Company/organization: Green Delta Insurance Company Limited Country: BANGLADESH Industry sector: NonLife Insurance Reported period: 2012-2013 1. Statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact Green Delta Insurance Company is a leader in general insurance sector in terms of premium collection, claim settlement, highest paid up capital and service standard, This company is run by professionals to achieve the client confidence and better business with the maximum security at minimum cost. This company also contributes to the society by CSR activities. Nasir A Choudhury Advisor Brief Description of Nature of Business Green Delta Insurance Company Limited was established in the year 1986 with professional people to operate as general insurer in Bangladesh. Since the inception of our operation we have been maintaining our position as leading insurer of the country. We have achieved the confidence of the insurance community both in home and abroad. Most of the multinational organizations as well as Foreign Direct Investors are taking our insurance coverage from us. The following is a list of some of our major clients: Lafarge Surma Cement Bangladesh Limited Youngone Group of Industries Heidelberg Cement Group in Bangladesh Bangladesh Edible Oil Limited. Standard Chartered Bank Ltd. Lenny Fashions Limited (EPZ, Dhaka) Brac Bank Ltd. Harvest Rich Limited Holcim (Bangladesh) Limited Mobil Jamuna Lubricants Limited Khulna Power Company Limited GrameenPhone Glaxo SmithKline Bangladesh Limited South China Group, EPZ Lever Brothers Bangladesh Limited Grameen Telecom & Textile Siemens Bangladesh Limited Confidence Cement Limited Regency Garments (EPZ, Chittagong) Ispahani Group of Companies Bata Shoe Co. (Bangladesh) Ltd. A.K. Khan Group of Companies British Oxygen Company of BD Ltd. Beximco Group of Companies Berger Paints Bangladesh Limited Haque Group of Industries BASF Bangladesh Limited GMG Airlines Limited Coats Bangladesh Limited. Air Parabat YKK Bangladesh Limited Youngone Aviation RAK Ceramics (Bangladesh) Limited. Hotel Westin, Dhaka New Zealand Milk Products (BD) Limited Orion Group T.K Group, Chittagong, Bangladesh Desh Bondhu Sugar, Bangladesh We have established our relationship and Association with internationally renowned insurance organizations. Royal & Sun Alliance (RSA)-world-renowned British insurer and re-insurer; Zurich Insurance Company of Switzerland-one of the largest insurer and re-insurer of the world; Sompo Japan-third largest insurer of Japan made us as their Local Network Partner of their Global Operation. Besides these, General Insurance Corporation of India, Arab Re. etc. are our strategic reinsurance partners. Our team comprises of professional people trained on various specialized fields of insurance in London, Switzerland, Germany, Singapore, U.A.E. Canada and other industrially developed countries and is much capable in both risk analysis and designing appropriate insurance programs for our clients to give maximum protection at minimum cost. In order to make the capital base stronger, we have raised our paid up capital to BDT 733.556 million. In addition to that we have wide reinsurance coverage both from home and abroad. This reinsurance protection gives us immense support to underwrite any stake of risk. We hope and believe that considering our strength, efficiency and legendary customer services to our client, we‟ll place our position with maximum coverage at most competitive and economy price. International Finance Corporation (IFC) of World Bank Group is our equity partner since 2013. Green Delta Capital Ltd., Green Delta Securities Ltd., Professional Advancement Bangladesh Limited and GD Assist Limited are four of the direct subsidiaries. GDIC provides stock brokerage services through Green Delta Securities Ltd. (GDSL) and Investment Banking services through Green Delta Capital Ltd. (GDCL). Professional Advancement Bangladesh Limited provides international standard professional trainings, in collaboration with CII, UK and GD Assist Limited is an agency promoting health and marketing services. Scope of this COP 1. Human Rights 2. Labour Standards 3. Environment 4. Anti-Corruption Main emphasis on Work place, Community and the Government. 2. Description of practical actions taken to implement the UN Global Compact principles and quantitative measurement of performance. Human Rights: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights within their sphere of influence; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses a) The company does demonstrate its human rights a) Actions taken to implement commitment. protection policy by the following documents: --Provide attractive salary --Allow incentives and other recognition awards. Organizational structure --Training program abroad and In-house. Employment rules --To introduce new product Risk management plan --Have the facilities of Group insurance Schemes. Supplier selection criteria Investment policy rules b) The committee is headed by the CEO of the company and liable to the Customer relation systems Board of Governors. Employee information and training plan Sponsorship, donation and social activity program c) To compare the employee services in terms of business earnings. -The company provides information among its employees on the b) A special team or committee in charge of measures supporting human rights. implementing this policy. --The company protects the rights of its customers by providing information about its products /services c) Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company. d) ---We have newsletter/in house magazine --Green Delta Insurance Company Limited own website d) We have the communication channels for presenting --We frequently visit our valued clients to share their views with our Green Delta Insurance to our clients. company -launching online service The Key Milestone of Green Delta Insurance Company 8. Green Delta Insurance Company Limited has been awarded for best Insurance Corporate Performance Award -2008 by ICMAB 1. Green Delta Insurance provides the maximum (Institute of Cost and Management Accounts of security with minimum cost. Bangladesh). 2. The Paid up capital of Green Delta Ins. Co is now BDT 733.556 million which is the highest among all the 9. On behalf of Green Delta Insurance Ltd, the Founder Managing private general insurance companies in Bangladesh. Director & Advisor, Mr. Nasir A. Choudhury received The International Star Award for quality in the Gold category in Switzerland, Geneva. 3. Prompt claim settlement is the strength of our company. 10. Nasir A. Choudhury, Founder Managing Director & Advisor of Green Delta Insurance Company Ltd. received the Golden Award for 4. Our company adheres to true professionalism, quality & Business Prestige 2009 by Association Other Ways in Berlin. effective customer service, transparency and accountability, wide use of technology, inclusive 11. Green Delta Insurance Company was awarded International Quality management styles, well trained staff and good Crown Award IQC 2009 in Diamond category by Business Initiative company culture remained the strength behind the Directions in London recently for its TQM (Total Quality Management) success of our company. that has been implemented for next two years. 5. Our distribution network is located around all over 12. Green Delta Insurance Company was awarded Platinum Bangladesh by our 39 branches. Technology Award for Quality and Best Trade Name 6. The company is the proud sponsor of the 1st & 13. Green Delta Insurance Company was awarded the First Prize 2nd Division Hockey League since 1987. In 2004, GDIC Winner of “Best Published Accounts” in the 10th Institute of Chartered sponsored Senior Division Hockey League and Premier Accountants of Bangladesh for 2009 (Non Banking Category – Division Cricket League for the Second time. Insurance Sector) 7. Green Delta Insurance Company Limited has awarded 14. Green Delta Insurance Company Limited was awarded “AA1” rating for one of the bestpublished Annual Report in the in the long term and “ST-1” rating in the short term by Credit Rating Non-Banking financial sector several times. Agency of Bangladesh 15. Rapport Award for Excellence in Corporate Women Leadership 2011. 16. Nasir A. Choudhury, F o u n d e r Managing Director & Advisor of Green Delta insurance Company Ltd. was awarded 23. Green Delta Insurance Company Limited has been conferred the Who‟s Who membership for 2010 – 2011 „Certificate of Merit‟ for the Best Presented Accounts Award 2010 in the category „Insurance Sector‟ by the South Asian Federation of 17. As a part of Corporate Social Responsibility Green Accountants (SAFA). Delta Insurance Company Limited contributed toward “World Water Day 2011” 24. As a member of Bangladesh-Malaysia Chamber of Commerce & Industry (BMCCI), Green Delta Insurance 18. Ensuring access to primary health care is one of donated in the fund for the Scholarship and Gold Medal in Green Delta‟s key focus areas for social intervention. the name of Tun Dr. Mahathir Mohammad with Dhaka On the occasion of its Silver Jubilee, and as part of its University. Corporate Social Responsibility, Green Delta Insurance, jointly with Lion‟s Club of Bonoful, Delta, organized a 25. Green Delta Insurance Company Ltd. insured 573 daylong Free Eye-Care Camp. Members of Finance Alumni Association of Dhaka University under Peoples Personal Accident Policy. 19. To ensure the life and safety of all employees against fire, Green Delta organized a Fire Drill 26. Introduced People‟s personal Accident Policy for the students of demonstration at the Head Office. South-East University and University of Asia Pacific, the first of its kind 20. Green Delta Insurance Company Ltd. in Bangladesh Founder Managing Director & Advisor, Mr. Nasir A. Choudhury was awarded for The 27. Sponsored Children‟s Day Program Organized by Srilanka Platinum Technology Award for Quality & Best Association of Bangladesh trade name by by Association OtherWays in Berlin. 28. Became the Insurance partner of the T-20 Corporate Cricket League 2012 and insured all the players and organizers with Personal Accident 21. On behalf of Green Delta Insurance Ltd, the Founder Managing Director & Advisor, Mr. Policy Nasir A. Choudhury awarded “The BIZZ Award29. Launched Nibedita, a Comprehensive Insurance Scheme for Women, 2011” by World Business Confederation of Business, USA for Leadership, Excellence in which is the first of its kind in Bangladesh management, Quality and Marketing. 30. Got engaged with Bangladesh Women Chamber of Commerce and 22. Green Delta Insurance Company Limited has been Industry to sponsor them in their various programs to support the awarded First Prize in ICMAB Best Corporate Award-2011 female entrepreneurs of our country.. in Insurance category. 31. Sponsored Bangladesh Premier League Cricket as the Insurance Partner and insured all the national and international players, stars and organizers. 32. Sponsored Bangladesh Youth Leadership Center‟s (BYLC) Leadership boot camp 2013 to patronize 100 young leaders selected from various universities all over the country. 33. Sponsored JAAGO Foundation for their activities regarding Children Education and Children rights. Labour Standards: Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. a) Our company does demonstrate its Labor a) The company has a plan for employment, training and career Standard policy by the following documents: development, the criteria being transparent for the employees. The company has clear rules regarding working hours, breaks, etc. Job Organizational structure advertisements guarantee equal access to all able candidates. --The company has a formal representation of the employees in the Employment rules management. The company has a formal system to hear the opinion of the employees. Risk management plan The company‟s web site publicly displays information about different indicators regarding the diversity of company employees, including in Supplier selection criteria management bodies and others The company supports projects of organizations, which: Customer relation systems train higher grade students to use their labor rights Employee information and training plan assist women in acquiring entrepreneurial skills External audit reports Sexual Harassment Policy Grievance policy Environment: Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. a) The company demonstrates its environment protection a) The precautionary approach of the company guarantees that it collects policy by the documents: information in order to identify, monitor and assess the possible environmental effects of its products and services Risk management plan --The company supervised under the Credit Rating authority which is compulsory by the Insurance Act Supplier selection criteria --The company allocates for new officers and other resources for inhouse training programms. Customer relation systems ---The company states clearly its planned environmental targets and achievements (on the web site, news letter, etc.) Employee information and training plan Marketing plans Recyclable materials Low carbon emitting materials Anti-Corruption: Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Documents that could bear on elements of anti-corruption ---The company observes strict rules with regard to donations, policy: including for political parties, guaranteeing transparency. ---The employees are informed about the company policy thanks to financial rules and orders regarding gifts, social expenses an internal bulletin. and representational expenses --The all financial expenses informed to the Board which has all rights to enquiry, decision or reject. purchase rules and purchase committee. description of connected persons Rules for service payments to employees. 3. Sharing the COP with the company‟s stakeholders – available links to the company‟s Communication on Progress and additional information on the location of the COP report Contact person: NASIRUDDIN AHMAD CHOUDHURY Advisor Contact information: IF YOU ARE UNABLE TO CONTACT WITH MR. CHOUDHURY THEN PLEASE CONTACTSYED MOINUDDIN AHMED DMD & Company Secretary Date of submission: 04. 09.14
