*SHINE WITH CWT 4 7 Ethics & Business Behavior...................... 27 Responsible Products & Services............ 69 1 Introduction............................................................................ 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives......... 28 29 Introduction............................................................................ 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives......... 70 71 Governance........................................................................... 30 Business Continuity Management................................. 72 Introduction................................................ 05 Our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct................. 32 Responsible Portfolio.......................................................... 74 Global Data Protection & Privacy.................................... 35 About this Report................................................................. 06 President & CEO’s Message.............................................. 07 8 5 2 Human Resources...................................... 37 Community Involvement.......................... 77 Introduction............................................................................ 78 CWT at a Glance.......................................... 09 Introduction............................................................................ 38 CWT’s Community Involvement Strategy.................... 79 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives......... 39 Local and Corporate 2013 Community Initiatives.... 81 Key Facts and Figures......................................................... 10 CWT Core Values & Values Day....................................... 41 Our Global Products and Services.................................. 11 Employee Dialogue & Employee Engagement.......... 43 Awards and Recognitions.................................................. 12 Diversity, Inclusion & Equal Opportunity...................... Talent Acquisition................................................................. 44 46 9 Human Capital Development.......................................... 47 3 Health & Safety..................................................................... Work-life Balance................................................................. 54 55 Responsible Business Performance...... 85 Responsible Business Activities & Initiatives by Stake..... 86 Responsible Business Indicators & Priorities........................................................... 88 Strategy & Governance.............................. 13 6 Introduction............................................................................ Responsible Business Stakes........................................... 14 15 Environment................................................ 57 10 Our RB Ambition for 2015............................................... 17 Responsible Business Governance............................... 19 Introduction............................................................................ 58 Glossary........................................................ 91 2013: Illustrated Year in Review..................................... 23 CWT and the Environment............................................... 59 UN Global Compact............................................................ 24 Managing Our Carbon Footprint..................................... 61 Copyright © 2014 CWT 3 2013 Responsible Business Report Contents Contents Key Facts and Figures Our Products and Services Awards and Recognitions 1 Introduction About this Report President & CEO’s Message 5 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance About this Report President & CEO’s Message About this Report L ast year, Carlson Wagonlit Travel (CWT) released its first consolidated, corporatelevel annual Responsible Business (RB) report that illustrated the company’s 2012 commitments and initiatives across the globe. This year’s report aims at showing the progress we have made in 2013 – from the Human Rights formalization of our RB strategy to the establishment of a solid governance to ensure the strategy’s effective deployment. We have created a dedicated section on RB Governance as well as RB Performance – Human Resources Community Involvement illustrating our initiatives, main indicators, and priorities for 2014 and 2015. As a United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) signatory, this document also represents CWT our annual Communication on Progress report, detailing how we are integrating UNGC’s Responsible Ten Principles into our activities. Business domains The report is available on CWT’s corporate website at www.carlsonwagonlit.com. We welcome your feedback, suggestions and questions. To learn more about Responsible Responsible Products Responsible Business Business at CWT, please contact us at: responsiblebusiness@carlsonwagonlit.com & Services Governance Environment Ethics & Business Behavior Copyright © 2014 CWT 6 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance About this Report President & CEO’s Message President & CEO’s Message Dear reader, T hank you for taking a few moments CWT continues to exercise our support to learn more about CW T’s commitment to Responsible Business. At CWT, conducting our and commitment to making further progress in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption since “ CWT remains fully business responsibly is integral to the way becoming a signatory to the UN Global committed to the each of us works every day. There is no Compact in 2012. We strive to make the Ten Principles of the higher priority than doing what is right and UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles an UN Global Compact. treating all stakeholders with respect. integral part of CWT’s strategy and culture. In these important areas, We made significant and tangible progress As you read through our 2013 report, the Global Compact in 2013. We formalized our Responsible I hope you’ll get a sense of the passion and provides the inspiration Business strategy around 15 long-term commitment our people display for doing and values that commitments that help drive progress on the right thing – on behalf of our company, underline our our seven Responsible Business domains. colleagues, clients, and communities – Responsible Business We also formalized a Responsible Business each and every day. program. ” governance process that helps embed Responsible Business practices at all levels of the company, all over the world. I chair the Responsible Business Council charged with ensuring this, in cooperation with our Douglas global leader for Responsible Business, and Anderson a global network of Responsible Business Ambassadors and Country Correspondents. President & CEO Copyright © 2014 CWT 7 2013 Responsible Business Report Contents Contents Key Facts and Figures Our Products and Services Awards and Recognitions 2 CWT at a Glance Key Facts and Figures Our Global Products and Services Awards and Recognitions Copyright © 2014 CWT 9 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Key Facts and Figures Our Global Products & Services Awards and Recognitions Key Facts and Figures C WT is the global leader specialized in managing business travel and meetings and events. We serve companies, government institutions and non-governmental organizations of all sizes. By leveraging both the expertise of our people and leading-edge technology, we help clients derive the greatest value from their travel program in terms of savings, service, security and sustainability. CWT also provides best-in-class service and assistance to travelers. 2013 Key Figures Copyright © 2014 CWT 10 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Key Facts and Figures Our Global Products & Services Awards and Recognitions Our Global Products & Services CWT delivers efficient and innovative solutions for travel and meetings and events management, by leveraging our global reach with the best people and superior service. In some markets we also offer leisure travel services. Business Travel Meetings & Events An industry leader, offering traveler services to provide travelers the support needed to A global leader in events and meetings management, present in 75 countries be productive and safe during their trips and program services so travel buyers have worldwide, offering events, venue sourcing, group travel, and strategic meetings access to information and tools to quickly adapt to ever-evolving internal and external management. dynamics. www.carlsonwagonlit.com www.cwt-meetings-events.com A global consulting company specialized Specialized business travel services for To know more about our products and services, in travel program optimization. unique sector requirements. visit our websites and download our corporate brochure. www.cwt-solutions-group.com www.cwt-energy-resources-marine.com Copyright © 2014 CWT 11 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Key Facts and Figures Our Global Products & Servicess Awards and Recognitions Awards and Recognitions CWT is recognized in the industry for its innovative products and best-in-class services. Here are examples of our recent achievements: CWT Won Best Corporate Travel Agency for the WorldMate Won at EyeforTravel Second Consecutive Year at the TTG Travel Awards Mobile Innovation in Travel Awards CWT Asia Pacific was awarded the prestigious title of Best Corporate In March 2014, CWT announced that WorldMate, its mobile subsidiary, won ‘Best Travel Agency for the second year in a row at the TTG Travel Awards Mobile Travel User Experience’ at the EyeforTravel Mobile Innovation in Travel Awards, for 2013. The TTG Travel Awards recognize the best of Asia Pacific’s held in San Francisco. travel industry and are organized annually by TTG Asia to honor This win, in a category that recognize companies that adopt new technology to create top-performing organizations that have consistently proven to the an optimized, prioritized experience for mobile visitors, marked the third consecutive industry their commitment to service excellence. year that WorldMate had won an award at the event, and meant WorldMate had The announcement was made at the 24th Annual TTG Travel Awards Ceremony & won every app competition it has entered since 2010. In 2013, CWT earned a Gala Dinner held in Bangkok, Thailand in October 2013. double victory at the Awards, with WorldMate winning ‘Best Mobile App’, and CWT ‘Best Mobile Strategy’. CWT Won 2013 GBTA Project ICARUS Award for the CWT Travel Stress Index In September 2013, CWT was awarded the 2013 GBTA Project ICARUS Sustainability Outstanding Achievement Award – Intermediary, for the patent-pending CWT Travel Stress Index. The awards are designed to recognize the companies that offer best-in-class delivery of sustainability principles in the supply of travel and meetings programs. Launched in April 2013, the CWT Travel Stress Index helps companies focus on increasing traveler productivity while on-the-road. The tool promotes the wellbeing of a traveling workforce and helps companies address their Responsible Business duties by demonstrating the positive effect of traveler-centric policies. CWT is also recognized in the different countries where we operate. To learn more, please visit our country corporate websites: www.carlsonwagonlit.com/en/selectCountry.html Copyright © 2014 CWT 12 2013 Responsible Business Report Contents Responsible 3 Business Strategy & Governance Introduction Responsible Business Stakes Our RB Ambition for 2015 Responsible Business Governance 2013: Illustrated Year in Review UN Global Compact 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction Responsible Business Stakes Our RB Ambition for 2015 RB Governance 2013: Illustrated Year in Review UN Global Compact Introduction L ong-dedicated to corporate responsibility (CR), CWT elevated its commitment to the next level in 2013 with the publication of the company’s Responsible Business (RB) strategy and objectives. The company’s RB strategy is to install a structured, comprehensive approach company-wide and to instill corporate responsibility at the core of our business. A Materiality Approach In dealing with RB challenges, major stakes are prioritized and mapped according to their contribution to the company’s business activities and stakeholders’ expectations. This rigorous, methodical approach enables the company to set RB strategies and programs, develop implementation plans and track progress. A major step forward was achieved in 2013 with the definition of 15 concrete RB objectives CWT aims to achieve by end of 2015. A Global Governance To further embed RB into its day-to-day activities, the company has developed a robust RB governance framework and organization, carefully-designed to ensure accountability and alignment across the company. Copyright © 2014 CWT 14 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction Responsible Business Stakes Our RB Ambition for 2015 RB Governance 2013: Illustrated Year in Review UN Global Compact Responsible Business Stakes T he CWT approach to Responsible Business (RB) is built upon the use of well-established methods to identify and prioritize issues and challenges facing the company. Because we focus on those risks and opportunities with the greatest potential material impact, both shortand long-term, we describe our approach as materiality-based. By understanding and measuring each potential risk and opportunity, we are able to evaluate what is at stake for each one. This practical, grounded approach helps us remain focused on stakeholder expectations and business imperatives as we track RB progress and enhance performance. Interview with Françoise Grumberg, Vice President, Global Responsible Business Q: What does it mean to analyze Q: How and when are materiality Q: How is the materiality analysis material stakes? analyses/assessments conducted? used to define and drive CWT’s Responsible Business strategies? A: It involves reporting on all topics that A: The evaluations involve in-depth We began by using recognized can impact CWT’s business and brand. analyses of sustainability issues both Responsible Business frameworks A: We use the output of the materiality “Material“ challenges or stakes carry internally and across our sphere of and standards such as the Global analysis to map CWT’s Responsible potential business or reputational risks influence. This ongoing process spans Reporting Initiative (GRI), UN Global Business priorities, ranking the stakes and opportunities. Effective responses customer and employee expectations, Compact and ISO 26000. Then we according to stakeholder expectations can enable the company to reinforce risk assessment, environmental impact, aligned these to the specificities of our and potential impact on CWT’s overall its performance, from both a corporate ethics and compliance, supply chain industry, further refining our analysis activities. The relative position of each responsibility and business perspective. and community involvement. Following through interviews with both internal stake provides the roadmap for our an initial assessment in 2012, we and external experts. Responsible Business action plan. conducted another review in 2013 This approach will be complemented and will continue to analyze stakes and by a dashboard of KPIs to monitor materiality regularly. implementation and results. Copyright © 2014 CWT 15 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction Responsible Business Stakes Our RB Ambition for 2015 RB Governance 2013: Illustrated Year in Review UN Global Compact Applying the Materiality Approach to Set Priorities Issues identified through materiality analyses are ranked according to two criteria: positive or potentially negative impact on CWT, and probability of occurring. Following ranking according to impact and probability, final ratings are adjusted based on feedback from internal subject matter experts. This methodology was applied to 20 stakes identified in the materiality assessment, classified into seven Responsible Business domains: Responsible Business Ethics & Business Human Resources Environment Responsible Products Human Rights Community Governance Behavior & Services Involvement Global Responsible Ethics Governance Talent Acquisition Energy and Carbon Data Protection Responsible Relations Global Community Business Policy and and Compliance and Human Capital Management with Partners Involvement Strategy Governance Development & Suppliers and Policy Responsible Business Ethics towards Social Dialogue & Electronic Waste and Client Safety Diversity and Contribution to the Dashboard & KPIs Stakeholders Employee Satisfaction Paper Management Equal Opportunities Local Economic and Social Development Regular Stakeholder Health and Safety Business Continuity Dialogue at Work Management Working Conditions Green Portfolio Innovation and Responsible Portfolio Copyright © 2014 CWT 16 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction Responsible Business Stakes Our RB Ambition for 2015 RB Governance 2013: Illustrated Year in Review UN Global Compact Our Responsible Business Ambition for 2015 Legend/key: CWT’s Responsible Business (RB) strategy takes into account current RB trends, regulatory issues, environmental and societal concerns, as well as the results of the RB materiality assessment. In 2013, we took a major step forward by formalizing our strategy into a set of 15 long-term commitments that embrace top priorities in each of the RB domains. Progress will be measured and tracked based on 15 global objectives for 2015. In 2015, new objectives will be defined to take into account progress, achievements, evolving regulations 100% 75% 50% 25% and stakeholder expectations. Status as of Domains Key Priorities 15 Long-term Commitments 15 Objectives for 2015 end of 2013 Strategically address compliance and ethics All employees are periodically trained to our 1 worldwide: conduct our business in line with our ethics and compliance policies values, our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct, Business Ethics and the UN Global Compact principles & Compliance Ethics and Business Behavior 2 Spread the word to our key stakeholders about our ethics and zero tolerance approach Our set of global policies is fully deployed and their implementation monitored and regularly tested Further develop a global program to ensure Privacy and Data Protection 3 Maintain a secure business environment for a global data and privacy protection program consistency despite different and varying local legal requirements to protect personal data Human Resources Diversity 4 Leverage diversity as one of CWT’s major assets Further expand diversity and inclusion initiatives in all regions and Employee Engagement 5 Cultivate a highly engaged workforce Reach the level of best performing companies Human Rights Human Capital Development 6 Establish workforce readiness to deliver against future business needs Ensure leading edge development planning to our talents worldwide Copyright © 2014 CWT 17 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction Responsible Business Stakes Our RB Ambition for 2015 RB Governance 2013: Illustrated Year in Review UN Global Compact Status as of Domains Key Priorities 15 Long-term Commitments 15 Objectives for 2015 end of 2013 Ensure full deployment of a Responsible 7 Develop an environmentally responsible culture Business training, including a module on Environment Energy and Measure the total Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Environment Carbon Management 8 Measure our global carbon footprint emissions of the countries representing at least 70% of the company’s overall revenue Reduce by 10% the GHG emissions per 9 Implement a global environmental strategy employee vs 2012. Define a 2020 target in 2015 10 Responsible Contribute to our clients’ CSR/Responsible Business Offer an innovative suite of responsible Portfolio ambitions and promote sustainability products and services Responsible CWT to fulfill with the requirements of the Products and Services Business 11 Ensure a robust Global Business Continuity management system best standards and norms in the domain such as ISO 22301 Continuity 12 Establish a best-in-class crisis management approach Become the reference in terms of crisis management in the travel industry Care for the communities where we live and work, Deploy CWT’s “glocal” approach 13 Community Corporate Community and contribute to their development through our and 3E* strategy worldwide Involvement skills and expertise Involvement *Education, Emergency, Essential needs Responsible Global Responsible 14 Ensure progress transparency Monitor and report our progress on an annual basis as from 2013 Business Business 15 Governance A network of RB Ambassadors and a Responsible Governance Integrate Responsible Business into our activities Business handbook are fully deployed Copyright © 2014 CWT 18 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction Responsible Business Stakes Our RB Ambition for 2015 RB Governance 2013: Illustrated Year in Review UN Global Compact Responsible Business Governance Overview It is clear that Responsible Business (RB) is a business imperative for CWT. We have integrated it into our overall Executive Team business strategy and now we are further embedding RB into our day-to-day operations and culture. RB Council To that end, we have developed a robust RB Chaired by CWT’s President & CEO, this Council provides strategic governance framework and organization, direction that is aligned with and addresses CWT’s most material issues carefully designed to ensure accountability and alignment across the company. The RB Council, which is chaired and led by RB Subject Matter Experts CWT President & CEO Douglas Anderson, Specialists in a particular RB area or topic (e.g. ethics, audit, business Global RB Team provides RB strategic direction and impetus. continuity, purchasing) who lend their expertise in RB initiatives and Ensures a comprehensive CWT’s Responsible Business Governance contribute to the overall RB ambition approach to Responsible structure reflects the company’s matrix Business in CWT, serves as a organization. coordinator for all RB efforts and drives progress toward Information flow is two-way and non-linear RB Ambassadors CWT’s RB ambition among the members of the governance Representing both CWT’s functions and geographies, RB ambassadors structure, facilitating a participative and help govern Responsible Business efforts across CWT by advancing our global strategy collaborative approach. RB Country Correspondents Develop, manage and adapt CWT’s RB programs locally Copyright © 2014 CWT 19 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction Responsible Business Stakes Our RB Ambition for 2015 RB Governance 2013: Illustrated Year in Review UN Global Compact Responsible Business (RB) Council Comprising executives and experts in various RB domains, the RB Council focuses on CWT’s most material issues and shapes long-term RB strategy. It ensures that the RB strategy is implemented company-wide and becomes part of CWT’s culture and day-to-day activities. By ensuring management alignment worldwide and identifying barriers to progress, the Council enables the advancement of RB achievements. Douglas Anderson President & CEO Patrick Andersen Kelly Kuhn Berthold Trenkel President Americas President Asia Pacific EVP Traveler Services Nick Vournakis Jean-Luc Duchemin Lisa Beth Lentini SVP Global Marketing EVP Global Human Resources VP Global Compliance Andrew Waller Françoise Grumberg Sophie Néron-Berger President EMEA and Global VP Global Responsible Business VP Corporate Audit* Partners Network Jerry Hogan Kevin O'Connor EVP & General Counsel EVP & Chief Information Officer Copyright © 2014 CWT * To know more about Corporate Audit see page 22 20 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction Responsible Business Stakes Our RB Ambition for 2015 RB Governance 2013: Illustrated Year in Review UN Global Compact Responsible Business Ambassadors The Responsible Business Ambassadors help diffuse and develop CWT’s RB strategy and initiatives throughout the company’s worldwide organization. It is their role to identify specific areas for progress in their respective geographies or functions and to help local teams integrate RB into their daily business activities. Ambassadors promote RB-related programs by heightening the visibility of RB initiatives and by communicating on progress. “Being part of this Philippe Gryc “I’m looking Wes Bergstrom network allows me forward to John Pelant “We are eager in Director Product & Vice President APAC to drive RB within integrating RB Vice President IT to be an enabler Marketing Energy, Global Supplier my team and all of into our specialty Global Product and partner of RB!” Resource and Management GSM.” sector!” Development Marine “Engaging with the “I’m proud to champion EMEA RB Country “Exciting times Kai Chan RB in Asia Pacific Sophie Hulgard Correspondents is a lie ahead as and am committed Christophe Renard we increasingly General Manager General very inspiring experience to embedding the Vice President include RB in our Southeast Asia Manager we are all learning program in all areas Solutions Group travel program & Hong Kong Denmark something of our business.” new everyday!” conversations!” “I am eager to take Stephanie DeNote “It’s an honor to be “It’s amazing to be part in this great the voice of Traveler Sara Lissick working with all of these Timothy Webert initiative and be the Senior Director Services the largest Chief Financial passionate people as Vice President focal point for the Revenue population in CWT Officer RB change agents in Marketing Planning Global Marketing Performance in the RB network!” Americas CWT!” & Analytics & Enterprise Strategy Traveler Services team.” “In all of our client “HR can play a crucial Brigitte Nisio presentations, I have Anne Esling role in embedding RB been really impressed Vice President Vice President culture in our company by the level of interest Global Program Human Resources I’m proud to be part of our customers have Management EMEA this great initiative!” shown for our RB EMEA approach.” Copyright © 2014 CWT 21 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction Responsible Business Stakes Our RB Ambition for 2015 RB Governance 2013: Illustrated Year in Review UN Global Compact RB Country Correspondents Corporate Audit RB Country Correspondents develop, manage and adapt RB programs in their respective The Corporate Audit Department is an independent, objective unit reporting to the countries, taking into account local customs and conditions as well as local stakeholder Audit Committee and CFO, and is part of the Responsible Business Council expectations. Through such initiatives as local action plans, training programs and Mission: identify and help mitigate risk, perform on-site audits, propose adaptation of global RB information, country correspondents help develop CWT’s RB improvements culture worldwide. They are also responsible for reporting on local achievements and Objective: help CWT deliver expected results in a responsible way challenges as well as specific RB risks and opportunities. 2013 Achievements Conducted enhanced risk assessment by collecting risks from 60 senior managers RB Subject Matter Experts and developing an audit plan closely aligned with these risks. Greatly expanded audit plan coverage, which includes Responsible Business practices, As specialists and owners of a particular RB area or topic (e.g. ethics, audit, business especially concerning ethics and compliance. Coverage continues to expand. continuity, purchasing, etc.), subject matter experts define objectives and develop action Worked closely with Compliance team to ensure that ethical business guidelines plans for their particular domain. As such, their expertise and commitment are critical to are observed for such issues as bribery, corruption, trade sanctions, PCI and hospitality. the achievement of overall RB goals. Vice President Corporate Audit joined the Business Conduct Council. Global Responsible Business Team “ An independent and objective Corporate Audit team The Global Responsible Business Team’s mission is to ensure a comprehensive approach is essential to sound governance. It provides an to Responsible Business at CWT. The team coordinates all RB efforts, facilitates sharing independent set of eyes to see how things are done of good practices, drives progress toward CWT’s RB ambition and proposes the overall and to identify gaps as well as opportunities to further RB strategy to the RB Council. It develops specific programs and initiatives across the reinforce operations. Our audit team is passionate Sophie company, in partnership with subject matter experts, representatives of corporate functions and the company’s three geographical regions. about ensuring that key CWT objectives are met, Néron-Berger especially in the field of Responsible Business. ” Vice President Corporate Audit Copyright © 2014 CWT 22 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction Responsible Business Stakes Our RB Ambition for 2015 RB Governance 2013: Illustrated Year in Review UN Global Compact 2013: Illustrated Year in Review Here are a few examples of Responsible Business achievements and events which helped continually refine our policy and develop momentum: Executive Team Responsible Business at CWT RB Council CWT, Global Responsible Business 31, rue du Colonel Pierre Avia 75015 Paris France Responsible Business at CWT www.carlsonwagonlit.com RB Subject Matter Experts Global RB Team RB Ambassadors Copyright © 2013 CWT RB Country Correspondents cover.indd 1 01/07/13 08:39 2013 January June July September October November December January 2014 Responsible Business Calculation of Answered the Awarded the Oct. 1st, Values Day: 1st Responsible CWT granted Publication included into CWT’s CWT’s 2012 Carbon Disclosure ”European “Making Your Business Council led silver recognition of CWT’s Global operational strategy carbon footprint in Project (CDP) Sustainability Connection with by our President & level based on the Environmental France, UK, Ireland, Supply Chain Outstanding Responsible Business” CEO, and launch of EcoVadis CSR rating Charter Netherlands, questionnaire Achievement Award Responsible Business Germany, Austria, 2013” in the Travel Ambassadors US, Canada Supplier Intermediary network category by GBTA Project ICARUS Publication of CWT’s for the CWT Travel 15 Responsible Stress Index Business Objectives by 2015 Publication of our first global Responsible Business report Copyright © 2014 CWT 23 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction Responsible Business Stakes Our RB Ambition for 2015 RB Governance 2013: Illustrated Year in Review UN Global Compact UN Global Compact Ongoing Commitment to the Ten UN Global Compact Ten Principles Principles of the UN Global Compact HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT The UN Global Compact is the world’s largest voluntary corporate responsibility initiative, with more than 12,000 corporate participants and other stakeholders from over Principle1: Businesses should support and Principle 7: Businesses should support a 145 countries. By committing to this strategic policy initiative in 2012, CWT formally respect the protection of internationally precautionary approach to environmental pledged to align its operations and strategies to ten universally accepted principles in the proclaimed human rights; and challenges; areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. CWT’s signing of the UN Global Compact signaled the company’s determination to further operate in a way that Principle 2: make sure that they are not Principle 8: under take initiatives nurtures respect, dignity and sustainability. In 2013, CWT used the UN Global Compact complicit in human rights abuses. to promote g reater environmental self-assessment tool to evaluate the evolution of its performance in implementing the responsibility; and ten principles. LABOR Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the technologies. Self-Assessment to Measure freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective Annual Progress bargaining; ANTI-CORRUPTION As a practical framework for the development, implementation and disclosure of sustainability Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of Principle 10: Businesses should work policies and practices, the UN Global Compact offers participants a variety of work streams, forced and compulsory labor; against corruption in all its forms, including management tools and resources to help advance sustainable business models and markets. extortion and bribery. These include a voluntary self-assessment tool, designed to help companies assess and track Principle 5: the effective abolition of child compliance with the UN Global Compact Ten Principles. labor; and CWT began implementing the UN Global Compact self-assessment on an annual basis in 2012, Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination establishing a baseline to track and measure future progress and achievements. in respect of employment and occupation. Copyright © 2014 CWT 24 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction Responsible Business Stakes Our RB Ambition for 2015 RB Governance 2013: Illustrated Year in Review UN Global Compact Where to find examples in this document showing how we infuse the UN Global Compact Ten Principles into our activities UN GLOBAL COMPACT RB REPORT CHAPTERS RB REPORT SECTIONS PAGES TEN PRINCIPLES 4: Ethics & Business Behavior Our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct and Other Global Policies 32 34 HUMAN RIGHTS Global Data Protection & Privacy 35 36 Principles 1, 2 5: Human Resources Human Resources RB Objectives for 2015 40 Diversity, Inclusion & Equal Opportunity 44 45 5: Human Resources Employee Dialogue & Employee Engagement 43 LABOR Diversity, Inclusion & Equal Opportunity 44 45 Principles 3, 4, 5, 6 Talent Acquisition 46 ENVIRONMENT 6: Environment CWT and the Environment 59 60 Principles 7, 8, 9 Managing Our Carbon Footprint 61 68 7: Responsible Products & Services Green Travel: Tools to Reduce the Carbon Footprint 76 4: Ethics & Business Behavior 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives 29 ANTI-CORRUPTION Governance 30 31 Principle 10 Global Policies 33 8: Community Involvement 3E Community Involvement Handbook 80 Copyright © 2014 CWT 25 2013 Responsible Business Report Contents Contents Key Facts and Figures Our Products and Services Awards and Recognitions Ethics & 4 Business Behavior Introduction 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives Governance Our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct Global Data Protection & Privacy 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives Governance Our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct Global Data Protection & Privacy Introduction T he CW T Code of Business driven by the Global Compliance team. Ethics and Conduct provides the Dedicated compliance officers are located foundation for the company’s in every region worldwide. commitment to high standards and ethical behavior. Updated and The company has put into place multiple expanded in 2013, the code applies to all ways for employees to raise concerns CWT employees and to all CWT business over ethics and business behavior, partners. Closely aligned to the company’s including (where permitted by law) a 24/7 Core Values, the enhanced Code of telephone hotline and internet reporting Business Ethics and Conduct presents not form. Employees who raise good faith only the letter of the company’s rules but concerns regarding potential compliance also the spirit behind them. violations are protected from retaliation. To ensure the highest standards of ethical As part of its commitment to ethical conduct, CWT has invested in a global business, CWT is dedicated to protecting compliance organization. Comprised data and personal privacy. The global Data of recognized professionals, the Protection & Privacy Steering Committee compliance team monitors activities on a oversees and provides guidance to CWT’s regular basis and initiates corrective action related programs in this area. The CWT as needed. Data Protection and Privacy Policy covers a comprehensive range of data practices, The company’s compliance program is from data collection and processing to data designed to detect and prevent violations storage, transfers and deletion. of the law, respond to potential issues and proactively deter problematic behaviors and actions. Preventive measures implemented include mandatory live and online trainings and awareness programs Copyright © 2014 CWT 28 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives Governance Our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct Global Data Protection & Privacy 2013 Major Achievements Dedicated compliance personnel assigned and operating in each region worldwide Targeted, risk-based compliance monitoring and auditing All compliance team members qualified within first year of hire as Certified Compliance Multiple channels available to employees, suppliers, partners and clients (as permitted and Ethics Professionals (CCEP) by law) to report concerns and violations Compulsory training and education implemented to reinforce an ethical culture: more Code of Business Ethics and Conduct than 10,000 employee hours of live training in 2013; more than double that figure in Almost 100% Ethics Training completed online training through CWT University Enhanced Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (global rollout in 2014) Tone from the Top: All executive team members are required to communicate and train Fraud training regularly on compliance and ethics topics as part of their performance criteria Reporting policy and procedures aligned to CWT investigations protocol and Transparent, open dialogue involving clients, suppliers and other external parties with finalized CWT’s compliance professionals Initial fraud training program created Policies and procedures implemented to address specific areas of concern Ethics & Business Behavior RB Objectives for 2015 Domain Key Priorities 15 Long-term Commitments 15 Objectives for 2015 Status as of end of 2013 1 Strategically address compliance and ethics worldwide: conduct our business in line with our values, our Code of Business Ethics All employees are periodically trained in our ethics and compliance policies Business and Conduct, and the UN Global Compact Ethics principles Ethics & Compliance 2 and Spread the word to our stakeholders about Our set of global policies is fully deployed and Business our ethics and zero tolerance approach their implementation monitored and regularly Behavior tested Privacy and Data 3 Maintain a secure business environment for a global data and privacy protection program Further develop a global program to ensure consistency despite different and varying local legal requirements to protect personal data Protection Copyright © 2014 CWT 29 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives Governance Our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct Global Data Protection & Privacy Ethics and Compliance Governance A s part of its Responsible Business (RB) efforts, CWT is committed to the highest standards of ethical conduct. The company has put into place a worldwide The Business Conduct Council (BCC), the company’s top compliance governance body, organization to govern RB policies and practices and to ensure that sound supports management’s commitment to promote legal compliance and high ethical business practices infuse all employee behavior on a daily basis. The CWT standards throughout the company, and to sustain the highest level of trust with our commitment to RB involves all levels and all geographies within the company. customers. By providing robust oversight from the company’s senior management, the BCC ensures management alignment and ultimate accountability for the development, A dedicated team operates worldwide to ensure compliance with the CWT Code of implementation and monitoring of compliance best practices. The BCC meets every Business Ethics and Conduct and related policies to track adherence to ethical business eight weeks to review ethics and compliance issues and progress on initiatives. practices. Headed by the Vice President Global Compliance, who reports directly to the Executive Team, the compliance team is comprised of Certified Compliance and Ethics Professionals (CCEP). The company’s compliance professionals conduct and monitor BCC Membership due diligence on a regular basis. Corrective action is taken whenever issues are identified. The BCC is chaired by President & CEO Douglas Anderson. Other members of the BCC include: Global Compliance at CWT EVP & General Counsel EVP Global Marketing & Enterprise Strategy CWT’s corporate compliance program is designed to detect and prevent violations of EVP & CFO Regional Business Presidents the law, respond to potential issues and proactively deter problematic behaviors and EVP Global HR VP Global Compliance actions. It also aims to reduce the likelihood of unethical activity by employees, partners, EVP Traveler Services VP Corporate Audit contractors, officers and directors. CWT compliance officers, located in every region of EVP & CIO VP Global Responsible Business the world, enforce CWT’s high standards across all our activities. Global Compliance Team Governance Structure The Global Compliance team is led by Lisa Beth Lentini, VP Global Compliance. Full-time Board of Directors compliance officers support her by providing regional compliance leadership in AsiaPacific; Europe, Middle East and Africa; Latin America and North America. The Board is responsible for oversight of CWT’s global compliance programs. Directors receive regular updates on compliance at each meeting and an Annual State of Compliance update, presented by the EVP & General Counsel and/or the VP Global Compliance. Business Conduct Council (BCC) Copyright © 2014 CWT 30 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives Governance Our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct Global Data Protection & Privacy Ethics and Compliance are Everyone’s Responsibility Adherence to compliance and ethical standards is integral to the responsibilities of each CWT employee and our partners. Failure to comply with these requirements is viewed seriously and will subject individuals to disciplinary action, up to and including termination. CWT has developed policies and procedures that describe how the duties and obligations of CWT employees are to be performed. CWT employees are required to know, understand and follow all policies and procedures that apply to their work, and to seek clarification from their supervisor, the Legal Department or the Compliance Office if they have any questions. International Industry Initiatives UN Global Compact As a UNGC signatory, CWT is committed to upholding its Ten Principles. Underlining the importance of anti-corruption, the tenth principle states: “Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.” TRACE International Our continued membership of TRACE International signals our commitment to transparency in our business practices and transactions and helps us stay up-to-date on corporate compliance issues. Copyright © 2014 CWT 31 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives Governance Our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct Global Data Protection & Privacy Our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct and Other Global Policies T “ he CWT Code of Business Ethics and Conduct gives life to our Core Values. As we continue to build on our long-standing reputation for high standards and ethical behavior, the Code provides key guidelines. Every member of the CWT Board of Directors and the global leadership team is fully-committed to conducting CWT’s business in accordance with the Code and in helping to set Since its creation, the tone for the company. Carlson Wagonlit Travel has built an ethical culture by doing business in an open, honest them. Closely aligned to the company’s Core use. It exists in 17 languages and provides Enhanced Code Values, the updated Code positions business details about getting help and reporting way and by taking the right steps to deliver results. Holding ethics and conduct as the critical foundation ethical problems or questionable practices of Business Ethics for CWT’s long-term business strategy. through proper channels. ourselves to these standards benefits our colleagues, clients, and Conduct Because this is a shared commitment, the CWT’s Code is supplemented with a set suppliers and shareholders and strengthens our relationships CWT Code of Business Ethics and Conduct of additional policies to further focus and The Code of Business Ethics and Conduct applies to every individual and contractor who provide guidance on major topics including with them. ” was updated in 2013 to expand its scope works for CWT or represents it. Employees but not limited to gifts and entertainment, and provide more guidance – both are expected to share applicable policies and fraud, anti-bribery, conflict of interest, data generally and on specific areas of business best practices with contractors, consultants protection, and environment protection. ethics and conduct. In addition to specific and appropriate third parties to ensure that areas, such as conflicts of interest, gifts and they too conduct themselves appropriately In this way, employees, suppliers, business Douglas entertainment, and data protection, the new when doing business on CWT’s behalf. partners and others can better understand Anderson version underlines the principles and values the philosophy and values behind various President & CEO underlying various business practices. The The new, enhanced Code, which includes policies and practices and how they align idea is to present not only the letter of the examples of scenarios, is written in layman’s with company strategy in general. company’s rules but also the spirit behind terms to make it easier to understand and Copyright © 2014 CWT 32 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives Governance Our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct Global Data Protection & Privacy Global Policies Act (FCPA), the Bribery Act of 2010 in interest or that of persons or companies representatives from receiving, offering, the UK and similar anti-corruption laws in which they have ties or links (financial promising or incurring expenditures that CWT’s Global Policies and Procedures (CWT elsewhere. or otherwise) conflict with CWT’s interest. are intended to affect, or may reasonably Global Policies) have been developed to Situations that could create a conflict, or the be interpreted to influence or affect address certain areas of legal or regulatory This policy extends to all CWT business appearance of a conflict, are not permitted. the impartiality of any party with whom compliance risk to enterprise-wide dealings and transactions in all countries company personnel and agents come in operations. There are some aspects of the in which we operate and applies to all Under the CWT Code of Business Ethics and contact in the course of doing business. Company's Code of Business Ethics and employees, directors, agents, consultants, Conduct, no employee is allowed to use CWT Conduct that are also expanded upon in joint ventures and other contracted proprietary information or other confidential CWT Global Policies. The following provides partners. An important part of this antiinformation entrusted to CWT to obtain any Trade Associations an overview of some of these policies. corruption policy requires CWT to maintain improper personal benefit for themselves, books and records that detail the nature of their families or any other person. Trade associations are, by definition, all transactions undertaken by CWT and associations that bring together Prevention of Corruption and Antithe disposition of CWT assets worldwide. CWT launched a mandatory, proactive competitors and as such, create a risk Competitive Practices Across all employees, no one is allowed annual attestation in the form of a Conflicts of anti-competitive/anti-trust practices. to request or receive any payment from, of Interest Disclosure Form for senior That explains why trade associations CWT has zero-tolerance for bribery or make any payment to, clients or management worldwide in 2013. are closely monitored by competition and corruption. Employees and other potential clients, competitors, suppliers authorities, including the European stakeholders conducting business on or government authorities that could Commission and the national competition behalf of CWT, or for the benefit of CWT, influence commercial transactions. Gifts & Entertainment authorities of the EU Member States. To must always act in a manner consistent prevent infringement of EU or national with CW T’s commitment to doing CWT’s expanded Gifts & Entertainment legislation, CWT monitors trade association business with integrity, including avoiding Conflicts of Interest policy sets the principles for employees participation by its employees and makes corruption of any kind. CWT complies in both g iving and receiving g ifts, available additional training on competition with all applicable laws and regulations, CWT does not permit employees to engage entertainment and hospitality. CWT law risks to individuals who represent CWT such as the US Foreign Corrupt Practices in activities where their own personal prohibits employees or company at trade association meetings. Copyright © 2014 CWT 33 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives Governance Our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct Global Data Protection & Privacy Compliance Tools and Reporting: Protection from Retaliation CWT Helpline “ CWT strictly prohibits acts of retaliation CWT employees benefit from multiple that target a person because he or she ways to raise concerns over ethics and has provided information in good faith or business behavior. These can include assisted an investigation into a possible At CWT our aim is to build their managers, human resources, senior violation of law. an ethical culture, one that leadership, compliance and the Ethics is open, transparent and Helpline. The Helpline is available as honest. To do this we need to permitted by law to employees, clients understand our employees’ and/or other third parties: by phone in concerns and areas we can many countries and/or through an online improve, and provide a number tool. of channels for employees to raise their ethical concerns in a To reinforce employee awareness, 2014 Main Compliance Goals safe environment. a regional internal communications effort ” focused on the Helpline and Compliance CWT conducted in 2013 a risk assessment to benchmark its compliance and & Ethics program was begun in 2013 and ethics program. The risk assessment was comprised of a Compliance & Ethics will continue to be rolled out in 2014. Program Assessment, a Compliance & Ethics Culture and Knowledge Assessment, a Compliance Environment Assessment, and interviews with select senior CWT The Ethics Helpline, available 24/7, employees. On the basis of the results of this work, CWT will take the necessary connects callers to an experienced, actions to further mitigate identified potential risks in the given areas. In line with Lisa Beth independent operator who speaks their that, and to heighten global awareness, a CWT Ethics and Compliance event will Lentini language. Concerns are logged and be held in 2014, at the same time as the enhanced Code of Business Ethics and addressed promptly by the appropriate Conduct is rolled out. Training efforts over the course of the year will focus on highVice President Global person. CWT uses a third-party provider to risk areas, and local and global efforts to mitigate compliance risks will be mapped. Compliance ensure adherence to local privacy laws and to local reporting requirements. Copyright © 2014 CWT 34 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives Governance Our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct Global Data Protection & Privacy Global Data Protection & Privacy C WT is committed to protecting the data of travelers, participants in the meetings and events it organizes, and users of its websites, as well as the company’s own data. The company regularly refines its data protection policies and practices, detailing how data may be used. Data protection and privacy are stipulated in client and supplier agreements and data protection requirements are included in CWT’s supplier selection process. The CWT Data Protection and Privacy Policy (referred to as “the Policy”), accessible on the CWT corporate website, explains how CWT handles personal data. The policy covers data collection (from individuals and corporate clients), processing (profile management and other tools), and data storage and transfers (to third-party suppliers for travel bookings or meeting registrations). It also stipulates that personal data will be deleted upon request and/or after a client agreement is completed. In 2014, CWT will be advising new client travelers about its data processing policies and procedures through various channels, including implementation and traveler email (refer to Figure 1). Figure 1: Traveler Notice – New client travelers will be advised of CWT data processing policies and procedures Copyright © 2014 CWT 35 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives Governance Our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct Global Data Protection & Privacy I n addition to its annual gathering, the company’s Data Protection & Privacy Steering Committee met regularly throughout 2013. With increasing global sensitivity to personal data issues, this cross-functional committee continues to review new legal requirements and their impact on our services and systems. It also sets guidelines to enhance the CWT data protection and privacy program. In 2013, the Committee strengthened CWT’s incident reporting process to continue to safeguard information security and renewed “ its annual Safe Harbor certification. The need to protect individual data is increasingly important In keeping with the enhancements to the company’s data protection and privacy program and process, all CWT employees are regularly trained in security measures and confidentiality. to our clients and their travelers. As data protection and privacy laws continue to evolve, CWT is vigilant in Data Protection & Privacy Steering Committee Membership adapting its data protection and privacy program to provide Regional and global leaders represent the Data Protection & Privacy Steering the protection our clients Committee from the following functions: demand and deserve. Global Customer Product Marketing ” Global Information Technology Global Product Development Global Product Management Global Program Solutions Global Supplier Management Human Resources Benedicte Bayi Information Security Vice President Legal and Compliance and Assistant Regional representatives General Counsel Traveler Services Copyright © 2014 CWT 36 2013 Responsible Business Report Contents 5 Human Resources Introduction 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives CWT Core Values & Values Day Employee Dialogue & Employee Engagement Diversity, Inclusion & Equal Opportunity Talent Acquisition Human Capital Development Health & Safety Work-life Balance Copyright © 2014 CWT 37 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives CWT Core Values & Values Day Employee Dialogue & Employee Engagement Diversity, Inclusion & Equal Opportunity Talent Acquisition Human Capital Development Health & Safety Work-life Balance Introduction “ A s a provider of services, CWT adopting high-impact learning recognizes that the company’s methodologies in its talent development Our people are at the heart of success depends heavily upon and management programs. These are our company. The international its people. In recent years, CWT aligned with CWT’s global Performance nature of our business allows has placed a growing emphasis on talent Management approach by assessing us to be cognizant of everacquisition. The goal of the company’s employee performance based on both evolving customer and market global recruitment process is to attract results and behavior. requirements. This drives us and retain the most talented internal and to ensure that our people external candidates from across industries As the largest population within CWT, are constantly trained and and markets. Through CWT’s global travel counselors play a key role in the developed to be best-equipped recruitment process, talent acquisition has company’s overall performance. Hence, to meet opportunities and become more selective in all countries – preparing them for future opportunities challenges. Through our effectively targeting the best talents that and challenges through specific learning people, we have become, and will fit into our culture and embody our and development programs aimed at we aim to remain, the world’s core values. strengthening their skills is one of the leading travel management company’s top priorities. services company. At the same time, CWT’s comprehensive approach to human resource development and management is designed to ensure all employees have the opportunity to Further, the bar has been raised not only to measure the levels of employee engagement, but also to inspire ” develop and harness their full potential. A employees to be proactive actors in Jean-Luc huge and important part of this is ensuring improving engagement and CWT’s results. Duchemin the sustainability of the company’s talent Initiatives around employee recognition, pool by giving particular attention to diversity and inclusion, among others, are Executive continuous development of leadership also continuously being performed and Vice President skills and capabilities. implemented across the different sites Global Human in the organization. CWT recognizes the Resources To enhance competencies at all levels importance these play in our day-to-day of the organization, CWT is increasingly activities and culture as a whole. Copyright © 2014 CWT 38 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives CWT Core Values & Values Day Employee Dialogue & Employee Engagement Diversity, Inclusion & Equal Opportunity Talent Acquisition Human Capital Development Health & Safety Work-life Balance 2013 Major Achievements Responsible Business at CWT CWT, Global Responsible Business 31, rue du Colonel Pierre Avia 75015 Paris France Responsible Business at CWT www.carlsonwagonlit.com Copyright © 2013 CWT cover.indd 1 19/07/13 11:32 January / May June July September October November February Responsible Business CWT Traveler Global Leadership My Journey. HR Ambassador Values Day: Travel Counselor of included into CWT’s University Services Global Journey My CWT. Council to support Making your the Future Award operational strategy Webinars Appeciation week Career Website People Advantage connection with Launch Talent reviews launch Responsible People Business 2013 Global Advantage Publication of our first Employee Leadership Launch Global Reponsible Recruitment Engagement Survey Conference Business Report Management System results & CEO Awards launch Publication of CWT’s Leading Leaders 15 RB objectives by 2015 Copyright © 2014 CWT 39 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives CWT Core Values & Values Day Employee Dialogue & Employee Engagement Diversity, Inclusion & Equal Opportunity Talent Acquisition Human Capital Development Health & Safety Work-life Balance Human Resources RB Objectives for 2015 Status as of Domains Key Priorities 15 Long-term Commitments 15 Objectives for 2015 end of 2013 Human Resources Diversity 4 Leverage diversity as one of CWT’s major assets Further expand diversity and inclusion initiatives in all regions and Employee Engagement 5 Cultivate a highly engaged workforce Reach the level of best performing companies Human Rights Human Capital Development 6 Establish workforce readiness to deliver against future business needs Ensure leading edge development planning to our talents worldwide Copyright © 2014 CWT 40 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives CWT Core Values & Values Day Employee Dialogue & Employee Engagement Diversity, Inclusion & Equal Opportunity Talent Acquisition Human Capital Development Health & Safety Work-life Balance CWT Core Values C WT’s Core Values are central to CWT Core Values form the cornerstone for the company’s Responsible Business policies and the company’s sustainability. They practices. These Values, along with our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct, guide how we provide the framework that binds together the company’s 19,000 work, the choices we make and the responsibilities we fulfill every day. employees; they establish the foundation for building trust between the company and its customers; and they set the Customer Care Reliability guidelines for the company’s relationship Putting the needs of clients first and Being a dependable and trustworthy with all of its stakeholders. striving to continuously provide an business partner, committed to outstanding level of service. offering industry-leading products Combined with the company Code of and services. Business Ethics and Conduct, CWT’s Core Values enable the company to recruit people aligned to its values, guide Commitment to Entrepreneurial Spirit employees in their behavior and motivate Excellence Approaching new challenges with them through a sense of belonging and Continuously seeking higher levels creativity, resourcefulness and agility, pride in their organization. of performance. reacting quickly and effectively to provide innovative solutions. Cultural Diversity Integrity Fostering respect and a team spirit Building productive, longstanding in the workplace, embracing and relationships by being truthful and leveraging the multicultural essence promoting open communication. of the company, and providing equal opportunities to talented individuals. Copyright © 2014 CWT 41 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives CWT Core Values & Values Day Employee Dialogue & Employee Engagement Diversity, Inclusion & Equal Opportunity Talent Acquisition Human Capital Development Health & Safety Work-life Balance Values Day 2013 Connecting with CWT employees worldwide set aside one day each year to focus on the company’s Core Values. In 2013, Values Day Responsible focused on the connection between CWT’s Core Values and Responsible Business. Business Values Day 2013 gave employees an Country Events/Activities opportunity to discuss and brainstorm about the link between CWT’s Responsible Business CWT employees invented numerous ways to mark Values Day 2013 and (RB) programs and its Core Values. The idea set aside their regular daily work routines to focus on the company’s Core was to promote what it means for CWT to Values. In addition to the many meetings, presentations and discussions be a responsible company and to stimulate held in dozens of CWT offices worldwide, hundreds of employees took discussion throughout the organization. part in a wide variety of competitions and celebrations. At many sites, the connection between Examples of activities included creating sculptures out of recycled or RB and the Core Values was illustrated biodegradable materials, inscribing pledges, participating in quizzes and by focusing on environmental issues and photo contests, encouraging employees to take public transportation to get the company’s three-year plan to reduce to work on Values Day, climbing stairs to the office instead of using elevators, greenhouse gas emissions by ten percent encouraging car-sharing and biking to work, and serving organic and natural by 2015. Others used the occasion to food for breakfast to kick-start the event, among others. further develop awareness about what it means for CWT to be a responsible In addition to events tied to the environment, Values Day 2013 also provided an company and the importance of doing opportunity for CWT employees to demonstrate their generosity by engaging in what is right to the company’s success. fund-raising activities and supporting their chosen charities. CWT employees in several countries also observed Values Day 2013 by encouraging employees to wear traditional clothing as a way to underline cultural diversity. Copyright © 2014 CWT 42 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives CWT Core Values & Values Day Employee Dialogue & Employee Engagement Diversity, Inclusion & Equal Opportunity Talent Acquisition Human Capital Development Health & Safety Work-life Balance Employee Dialogue Employee Engagement Spotlight: Special Negotiation Body (SNB) in Europe Employee engagement is critical to the company’s long-term success. Engaged employees are more focused, motivated and excited about their jobs. They help create a positive and Created in 2012 to negotiate the creation of a CWT European Works Council, in accordance dynamic workplace where employees are loyal and prepared to go the extra mile to get with the European Directive EC 2009/38, the Special Negotiation Body (SNB) met four the job done. This is why each year CWT organizes an engagement survey, asking all its times in 2013 to review such topics as governance, communication plan and escalation employees to answer an online questionnaire. process, amendment procedures and other arrangements for negotiation. Three SNB meetings are planned for 2014. The results of the company’s annual employee engagement survey help track progress, highlight areas for improvement and support development of action plans. The CWT The 22 countries represented in the SNB are Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, employee engagement survey methodology was enhanced in 2013 by refocusing on Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, full engagement scores. Engagement reporting and action planning were also adapted Lithuania, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Poland, Romania, Spain, Sweden and the UK. The accordingly. body is headed by Andrew Waller, President EMEA and Global Partners Network, who serves as president and represents CWT Central Management, while the SNB point-ofOverall, survey results for 2013 showed very high scores for customer focus and customer contact is Eric de Groot, Facility and Purchase Manager Netherlands. commitment as well as high scores for employees’ sense of accomplishment. Nearly 90 percent of employees responded to the survey. Almost 450 action plans were initiated between October 2013 and March 2014. These plans focus on more than two dozen issues, including career opportunities, communications, and supervision. A fully-engaged workforce will Mark Karelse make our company attractive as an employer and will inspire our Vice President people to go the extra mile; for Global Talent the benefit of our customers, our Management business and all our employees! & Learning ” Copyright © 2014 CWT 43 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives CWT Core Values & Values Day Employee Dialogue & Employee Engagement Diversity, Inclusion & Equal Opportunity Talent Acquisition Human Capital Development Health & Safety Work-life Balance Diversity, Inclusion & Equal Opportunity CWT’s commitment to cultural diversity means that the company is dedicated to fostering respect and team spirit in the workplace, embracing and leveraging the company’s multicultural character and providing equal opportunities to talented individuals. CWT employees worldwide manifested this commitment through “ a range of initiatives in 2013. As the LGBTA Alliance Executive Sponsor, Americas I am very excited to announce the formation of the T he CWT US Diversity and Inclusion for CWT employees that have an visibility and promote professional LGBTA Alliance EPN, the Council, established in 2007, helps interest in the Latino/Hispanic development of the African-American latest EPN CWT has launched ensure diversity and inclusion community, supports and enhances community both within the workplace and internally in alignment as a foundational part of CWT’s personal and professional development larger communities, and through actions, with our Core Value culture. The council’s Employee Partner for Latino/Hispanic CWT employees make CWT a top employer for Africanof Cultural Diversity. Network (EPN) provides opportunities for and seeks to make CWT an employer American talent and a global leader that ” employees who are connected by some of choice for Latino/Hispanic talent. both leads and sets standards for diversity. common purpose to come together to build relationships, support professional G.E.T (Generational Excellence Team) LGBTA (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, development and create opportunities to aims to promote, communicate and Transgender and Allies) Alliance, aid CWT in driving positive business results. leverage the knowledge and expertise launched in 2013, seeks to increase the Sebastien of the four different generations at CWT, visibility and promote the professional Tournier Comprised of employees from traditionally from veterans to baby boomers to development of the LGBTA population under-represented groups, the current US younger generations. both within the workplace and in our Vice President EPNs consist of: communities. The goal is to engage, Global Program African-American Travel Professionals attract, and retain employees as well as Solutions and Meetings & Events L.U.N.A (Latinos Unidos Network M.A.D.E (Making a Difference for attract and retain clients concerned with Finance Association), which serves as a resource Excellence)’s objective is to increase the Responsible Business and diversity. Copyright © 2014 CWT 44 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives CWT Core Values & Values Day Employee Dialogue & Employee Engagement Diversity, Inclusion & Equal Opportunity Talent Acquisition Human Capital Development Health & Safety Work-life Balance Asia-Pacific Europe “ The Diversity and Inclusion Council has The Mission Handicap program at CWT “ initiated many activities throughout the France, now in its sixth year, promotes region including: Since we created the Diversity recruitment and retention of disabled and Inclusion Council in employees, provides training and Volunteerism leave to encourage Asia-Pacific in 2012, we have heightens awareness. Established in For several years CWT community involvement. celebrated many initiatives and 2009, the program resulted in the France has been · Singapore and Thailand Workplace expanded our scope to not only recruitment of 42 disabled employees committed to promoting Health Programs for the well-being of cover diversity and inclusion, during its first four years. In late 2013, CWT the employment of employees. CWT Singapore also has but Responsible Business as France organized an internal workshop at people with disabilities. inclusion talks for working parents and has a whole. Across the region, Paris headquarters to promote awareness. We have achieved partnered with Movement for Intellectually countries have been actively More than 85 employees of CWT France significant progress in Disabled of Singapore (MINDS) to raise participating and leading their and CWT Global and EMEA Paris-based this area. funds. own programs and I am proud teams took part in the event. Events Hong Kong – CWT was awarded the to be part of this boundary-less were also organized at half a dozen other Caring Company Award for the second community. sites in France, where more than 280 ” ” consecutive year by the Hong Kong CWT employees attended. CWT Mission Council of Social Services recognizing their Handicap involves a national coordinator commitment to caring for the environment, and 13 disability coordinators located in community and employees. different regions of France. Indonesia – worked with HDI Foundation Kai Chan Luc Dallery to provide access to education for CWT Germany formally committed to underprivileged children. General Manager diversity by signing a diversity charter HR Director South East Asia CWT France, China celebrated “Childhood Month” in 2007. The charter requires fairness & Hong Kong Morocco & Egypt with a Family Day outing and discussions and respect for people in business. on parenting. The charter’s aim is to create a working India organized events with a diversity environment that is free of prejudice. All theme to raise funds for underprivileged Australia & New Zealand raised funds for employees should be valued regardless of signatories has increased to 1,750, and children and victims of the Uttrakhand the Surf Life Saving Association, children of gender, race, nationality, ethnic origin, is composed of large enterprises, small and disaster. with genetic diseases and families who lost religion or belief, disability, age, sexual medium enterprises, public institutions and their homes due to bush fires. orientation and identity. Today, the group societies, associations and foundations. Copyright © 2014 CWT 45 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives CWT Core Values & Values Day Employee Dialogue & Employee Engagement Diversity, Inclusion & Equal Opportunity Talent Acquisition Human Capital Development Health & Safety Work-life Balance Talent Acquisition CWT’s global recruitment process is designed to ensure the same consistent high-quality recruitment across all countries where the company operates. Global Career Website People are critical to the success of CWT’s Global Recruitment Process and Management System strategic goal of making CWT the best company to work for in the industry. The D 2013 launch of a single global career esigned and developed over the past two years, this global recruitment approach is an integral part of the My journey. My website represents an important step CWT. employer brand initiative launched in 2012. The company’s global recruitment process aims to attract and recruit the toward this goal. The new CWT global most talented internal and external candidates while ensuring that they share the company’s fundamental values. Excluding career website enables both internal all forms of discrimination, the process is designed to create a more transparent and interactive internal labor market, and and external candidates to search for enhance and support the Employee Value Proposition (EVP) globally. It also aims to harmonize and leverage the recruiting experience job opportunities in all countries and of candidates and hiring managers and accelerate the recruitment process. functions at CWT. Aspiring applicants and candidates can also learn about the company’s Responsible Business strategy TalentFinder and programs as well as know more about our Employee Value Proposition (EVP) as CWT TalentFinder was launched and available in eight languages and had been with the company’s global intranet exemplified by employee testimonials from implemented across the different implemented in 41 countries. and internet career websites to enable all over the world about their respective regions through July 2013 as part of internal and external candidates to work experience and how they live our the overall objective to deploy globally Hiring managers, HR recruiters and apply online. CWT TalentFinder helps values and attributes, My journey. My CWT. a new recruitment tool to support the HR business partners can use CWT facilitate internal mobility and harmonize global talent acquisition strategy/process TalentFinder to initiate a job requisition the recruiting experience of candidates Visit the Global Career Website and/or refer and enhance the EVP. At the time this and track progress through the entire and hiring managers regardless of their to our 2012 Responsible Business report report was published, the tool was recruitment process. It inter faces location. to know more. Copyright © 2014 CWT 46 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives CWT Core Values & Values Day Employee Dialogue & Employee Engagement Diversity, Inclusion & Equal Opportunity Talent Acquisition Human Capital Development Health & Safety Work-life Balance Human Capital Development Training and Development CWT University CWT University facilitates employee learning and development based on each employee’s needs, whereFrom online and classroom ever they are, whenever they want. education programs to leadership development CWT is committed to providing learning solutions that enable employees to improve performance, adapt to change and achieve business results. Their learning and development journey begins at CWT University. and performance management efforts, CWT In 2013, CWT University expanded its curriculum with a series of high-impact learning solutions, including more online learning options constantly expands the and webinar sessions, as well as additional professional development opportunities. Employees are encouraged to take advantage of the courses that correspond to their needs and to take ownership of their own career development. development options available to its employees CWTU Webinar Series worldwide. Examples of modules/courses: Communication Foundations is a Managing Change, a 90-minute webinar Power of a Positive No, a 90-minute 90-minute webinar on ways to enhance for team leaders that focuses on change webinar that reviews the importance of Did you know? or improve both verbal and nonverbal management. having difficult conversations with a focus communication. on achieving improved results. Global Webinar Series Leadership Foundations is a classroom or virtual program that provides an overview of the leadership skills and knowledge that Strategic and Critical Thinking, a 90-minute webinar that examines the difference between critical and strategic Coaching and Feedback, a 90-minute webinar designed to help managers drive a high level of performance through effective 1,900 participants CWT believes leaders need to succeed. thinking. feedback and coaching. Copyright © 2014 CWT 47 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives CWT Core Values & Values Day Employee Dialogue & Employee Engagement Diversity, Inclusion & Equal Opportunity Talent Acquisition Human Capital Development Health & Safety Work-life Balance Traveler Services People Advantage People Advantage is an integrated long-term strategy developed and launched in 2013 to further reinforce the engagement of CWT travel counselors and maximize their responsiveness to market changes. The company’s long-term success depends heavily upon the skills and engagement of its travel counselors, the largest population within CWT. The People Advantage approach helps ensure that CWT HR teams keep counselors constantly up-to-date by focusing on learning, job differentiation and design, workforce agility, compensation, performance management and talent acquisition and development. Did you know? Delivering the The Traveler Services’ “Delivering the Perfect Trip Global Perfect Trip” library of core curriculum is Core Curriculum focused on developing travel counselor skills and capabilities. Available via CWT University, the Delivering the Perfect Trip 9,555 Curriculum is organized into three levels travel counselors assigned (Accomplished Learner Level One to the core curriculum Three), with some required courses and other elective options. 108,771 completed training hours combined for Accomplished The Counselor of the Future: Learner Level One (formerly Delivering the Perfect Trip TTS Core Curriculum)* and Accomplished Learner Level Two * refer to 2012 Responsible Business report Copyright © 2014 CWT 48 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives CWT Core Values & Values Day Employee Dialogue & Employee Engagement Diversity, Inclusion & Equal Opportunity Talent Acquisition Human Capital Development Health & Safety Work-life Balance CWT Operational Excellence In a service-focused business, excellence depends on providing travelers with consistent high-quality booking services. By analyzing leading practices, processes and tools, the Did you know? CWT Operational Excellence program enables the company to consistently deliver the most effective experience to each traveler serviced. Results of 2013 CWT Operational Excellence Program This end-to-end process analyzes everything from a site’s staffing model and leadership practices to its processes, training, performance management and measurement of client satisfaction. With an emphasis on ‘dynamic action learning,’ we strive to continuously raise 124 sites 7,600 the bar by using a disciplined, systematic approach to measure and improve service quality. Modeled after the principles of such organizations as the European Foundation for Quality Management (EFQM) and the International Organization for Standardization’s Traveler Services FTE participating in the program overall 88% ISO 9000, CWT Operational Excellence includes ongoing audits, assessments, and action plans for continued improvement. of the 2013 participating sites had improved results Copyright © 2014 CWT 49 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives CWT Core Values & Values Day Employee Dialogue & Employee Engagement Diversity, Inclusion & Equal Opportunity Talent Acquisition Human Capital Development Health & Safety Work-life Balance Developing Tomorrow’s Leaders C WT's Leadership Development programs guide leaders to the right development at the right time. The programs provide people with the information they need Did you know? to support their development, fuel sustained success and prepare for the future. The programs include but are not limited to: Leadership Development Leadership Foundations for individuals who lead projects or initiatives across various Program Participants regions or functions, first-time managers or supervisors who lead individual contributors, in Numbers and leaders who have not participated in a CWT Leadership Development Program. Leading Leaders – helps future leaders develop leadership and management capabilities Leadership while networking with other managers across the globe. This course provides classroom, Foundations: 182 virtual, and self-paced experiences including 360° assessment. Leading Leaders: 75 Global Leadership Journey (GLJ) – provides an opportunity for the highest level of CWT leadership to increase their business knowledge, leadership capability and network with other leaders across the globe. In addition to classroom sessions, the program includes Global Leadership a 360° feedback assessment, training delivered by university professors, leadership Journey: 19 coaching and an action learning project. Carlson Accelerated Carlson Accelerated Development Program – aimed at investing in developing individual Development Program: 8 and group capabilities to support Carlson strategy by providing further enhancement of knowledge and skills related to Feedback, Coaching, and Mentoring. Plans of action are defined that include assessment and development tools to validate the viability of identified successors and next steps for development. Copyright © 2014 CWT 50 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives CWT Core Values & Values Day Employee Dialogue & Employee Engagement Diversity, Inclusion & Equal Opportunity Talent Acquisition Human Capital Development Health & Safety Work-life Balance Performance Management At CWT, performance management is designed to foster a culture of development and feedback, and individual development planning. The company’s formal performance management process maps a route to success for each employee. Overall, the idea is to drive superior performance by aligning the way targets and expectations are set, fostering Role a culture of development and feedback and assessing and rewarding performance. Model The ‘How’ Defining Performance: “What” and “How” Strong Leadership Effectiveness Leader CWT has adapted and fully-integrated the nine grid box framework (Figure 1) into our global Performance Management approach and processes whereby performance is assessed not only on Results (What) but also on Behavior (How): Development The “What” axis focuses on how well an individual has been able to achieve desired Required results based on key job responsibility areas and targets. The “How” axis focuses on how an individual achieved those results as defined in Below Solid Exceptional CWT’s Leadership Compass (Figure 2): Do What’s Right, Deliver Today, Build for Tomorrow, Inspire & Develop Our People and Passion to Succeed. Results The ‘What’ Figure 1: Nine Grid Box Assessing performance based on results (the what) and behavior (the how) Copyright © 2014 CWT 51 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives CWT Core Values & Values Day Employee Dialogue & Employee Engagement Diversity, Inclusion & Equal Opportunity Talent Acquisition Human Capital Development Health & Safety Work-life Balance Inspire & Develop Individual Development Planning Deliver Today Our People Make Sound Decisions Foster Open Communication Individual Development Plans help ensure that Plan & Manage Execution Influence & Engage Others each manager, employee, and the organization Drive for Results Develop People continuously seek new and innovative ways to develop new skills and knowledge. In addition, a storehouse of development ideas for each of the skills in the CWT Leadership Compass (Figure 2) helps all employees select the right development solution to meet individual, team, and organizational Do What’s Right needs. Lead Courageously Focus on the Customer Build for Tomorrow Passion to Succeed Promote Agility & Innovation Demonstrate Commitment Think Globally Establish Collaborative Relationships Live the Values Act Strategically CWT LEADERSHIP COMPASS Figure 2: CWT Leadership Compass Copyright © 2014 CWT 52 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives CWT Core Values & Values Day Employee Dialogue & Employee Engagement Diversity, Inclusion & Equal Opportunity Talent Acquisition Human Capital Development Health & Safety Work-life Balance Employee Recognition Celebrating Our People. Our Advantage. CEO Awards Under the ‘Our People. Our Advantage.’ banner, many events were held over the course CWT’s annual CEO Awards are a tribute to the teams and individuals who deliver of 2013 to demonstrate the company’s recognition of the contributions by members of exceptional business performance and results in line with our global strategic priorities CWT’s travel services staff worldwide. These included three global events: and Core Values. For the 2013 CEO Awards, recipients were recognized at the 2014 Global Leadership Conference held in Barcelona. More than 5,000 employees worldwide were recognized during Counselor Recognition/ Appreciation Week For other examples of employee recognition awarded to employees, please refer to our 2012 Responsible Business Report. Global Day of Commitment (June) was a worldwide celebration of the Traveler Services commitment to Delivering the Perfect Trip Counselor of the Future Global Awards (December): More than 600 travel counselors were nominated to receive an Annual Travel Counselor of the Future Award, created in 2013 to recognize exemplary counselors. All of the nominees received an email from the EVP Traveler Services and an official ‘Travel Counselor of the Future Certificate and Badge’ as well as local recognition. The awards provide recognition for travel counselors who regularly exhibit superior performance in one of six areas: Do What’s Right, Work with Passion, Delight the Customer, Persevere for Results, Learn and Adapt and Champion CWT. 2013 CEO Awards Winners. Top, from left to right: Laurent Comte, Christophe Renard, Raphael Pasdeloup, Isabelle Bousquet, Eduardo Rebello de Andrade, Wes Bergstrom, Patrice Simon. Bottom, from left to right: Janet Wheatley, Virpi Paasonen, Lisa Akeroyd, Brigitte Nisio, Douglas Anderson, Kai Chan, Bindu Bhatia, Alessandro Moricca, Jair Suarez, Bertrand Mabille, Tony Wagner Copyright © 2014 CWT 53 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives CWT Core Values & Values Day Employee Dialogue & Employee Engagement Diversity, Inclusion & Equal Opportunity Talent Acquisition Human Capital Development Health & Safety Work-life Balance Health and Safety As part of its commitment to Responsible Business, CWT provides a safe, healthy workplace. The company is dedicated to complying with health and safety regulations to ensure that all employees, contractors and visitors work in good conditions. While the company’s commitment to health and safety is global, its implementation occurs locally, in dozens of sites spread worldwide. Employees at CWT Italy, for example, receive training in safety and security while those in Latvia, Lithuania and Sweden have health and safety at work policies. The following offers a sample of typical health and safety initiatives. Germany/Austria Czech Republic Estonia CWT Germany/Austria offers a range CWT Czech Republic contracted with Employees at CWT Estonia benefit from of health and well-being services to an outside specialist in 2013 to ensure workstations equipped with ergonomic employees. In 2013, these services were the highest possible health and safety mouse pads, elbow pads and footrests. The expanded to include a cooperation with practices. The service provider affords company provides regular check-ups by an fitness centers, safe-driver training, life CWT Czech Republic comprehensive occupational health physician and covers coaching and child care. The subsidiary services in the sphere of occupational some of the cost for prescribed shoulder also set up an agreement with a private safety and health and fire prevention. It and elbow massages. insurance firm, to provide additional health helps keep CWT Czech Republic aligned to insurance to employees and their families. rapidly changing regulations, checking and Information about health and safety initiatives updating facilities twice annually. at other CWT locations can be found in the 2012 Responsible Business Report. Copyright © 2014 CWT 54 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives CWT Core Values & Values Day Employee Dialogue & Employee Engagement Diversity, Inclusion & Equal Opportunity Talent Acquisition Human Capital Development Health & Safety Work-life Balance Work-life Balance CWT wants to provide working conditions that permit employees to establish a work-life balance. Local work-life balance initiatives have been launched in many countries. For example, CWT Germany/Austria promotes working at home whenever possible and provides work-life balance and stress management recommendations on its intranet. Examples of published recommendations are: “Use the auto out-of-office reply when not in the office to inform senders and manage response expectations.“ “Switch-off the data transfer on Blackberry when on vacation.“ “Prioritize tasks. For example, plan or allow for daily time window for unexpected tasks or create a checklist/schedule every morning.“ “Switch-off mobile and laptop during meetings. Besides being a sign of courtesy, it also improves efficiency.“ “Create a counterbalance to daily work through sports, yoga, meeting with friends, etc.“ At CWT Estonia, employees got a day off on their children’s first day at school. Children were also the focus at CWT Italy in 2013 as it participated in national children@office initiatives, a day-long event when employees’ children are invited to discover their parents’ workplace. Information about work-life balance initiatives at other CWT locations can be found in the 2012 Responsible Business Report. Copyright © 2014 CWT 55 2013 Responsible Business Report Contents Contents 6 Environment Introduction CWT and the Environment Managing Our Carbon Footprint 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction CWT and the Environment Managing Our Carbon Footprint Introduction E nvironmental stewardship is an essential element within CWT’s core Responsible Business strategy. Various local “green“ initiatives have been put in place in different countries in the last couple of years. This culminated into the formalization of the company’s global approach in this domain, including the creation of CWT’s Global Environmental Charter in 2013. Combined with CWT’s acknowledgment of the environmental principles of the UN Global Compact, the Charter reaffirms the company’s commitment to sound environmental practices and to actively reduce the environmental impact of its activities. CWT measures its carbon impact using the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) protocol and reports results to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Supply Chain program. As part of a two-year corporate carbon management project launched in 2012, CWT aims to further reinforce its environmental action plans in order to reach its 2015 overall objective which is to reduce by 10% its GHG emissions per employee. As a leading business travel management provider, CWT is also committed to help clients reduce the environmental impact of their travel programs. The company can support customer environmental efforts through such services as the CWT Program Management Center, which gives clients a comprehensive view of their travel program’s environmental impact, and CWT Online, powered by KDS, which includes a “green” travel booking option. Copyright © 2014 CWT 58 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction CWT and the Environment Managing Our Carbon Footprint CWT and the Environment Services A s a UN Global Compact (UNGC) signatory, CWT is committed to respecting to customers the UNGC’s Ten Principles including those that cover the environment. A comprehensive approach to environmental challenges means that Business Meetings the company undertakes initiatives that promote greater environmental Travel & Events responsibility and encourages the development of environmentally-friendly technologies. Energy consumption Internal activities Raising awareness and GHG emissions Environmental stewardship is part of CWT’s core Responsible Business strategy. The Choice of destination Business travel and commuting company’s environmental policies and practices are designed to achieve three overall Choice of service Energy consumption of buildings objectives: ensure that CWT operates according to environmentally-sound business providers Waste management, paper consumption practices, encourage global and local initiatives to help improve the company's Raising awareness environmental footprint and awareness, and help clients address their environmental among customers challenges. Environmental programs are also intended to reduce energy-related costs and travelers and track progress over time. Cognizant of the importance of environmental issues, CWT regularly reviews environmental CWT performance and shares progress with its key stakeholders. As illustrated, CWT’s activities have a potential environmental impact in different ways, from its own energy consumption and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions to waste production, as well as customers’ travel emissions. Copyright © 2014 CWT 59 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction CWT and the Environment Managing Our Carbon Footprint 2013 Major Achievements In 2013, CWT reported its environmental data to the Carbon Disclosure Program As part of an effort to significantly enhance environmental initiatives, CWT created an (CDP) Supply Chain. CDP is an international, not-for-profit organization providing a Environmental Charter in 2013. The Charter unequivocally reaffirms the company’s global system for companies to measure, disclose, manage and share key environmental commitment to sound environmental stewardship as part of its core strategy and to information. CDP works to transform the way the world does business in order to actively engage in efforts to reduce the environmental impact of its own activities as prevent climate change and protect natural resources. well as help its customers reduce theirs. The CWT Environmental Charter aligns with the company’s Code of Business Ethics and Conduct, which mandates the pursuit of environmentally-friendly practices in our operations while helping customers address their environmental objectives. Environment RB Objectives for 2015 Reducing environmental impact is among the company’s highest Responsible Business goals. As shown below, three of the 15 objectives in the CWT Responsible Business Ambition for 2015 concern the environment: Status as of Domain Key Priority 15 Long-term Commitments 15 Objectives for 2015 end of 2013 7 Develop an environmentally responsible culture Ensure full deployment of a Responsible Business training, including a module on environment Environment Energy and Carbon 8 Measure our global carbon footprint Measure the total Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions of the countries representing at least 70% of the company’s overall revenue Management 9 Implement a global environmental strategy Reduce by 10% the GHG emissions per employee vs 2012. Define a 2020 target in 2015 Copyright © 2014 CWT 60 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction CWT and the Environment Managing Our Carbon Footprint Managing Our Carbon Footprint Carbon Management Program Helping Customers Take To support its commitment to combat climate change, CWT launched a corporate carbon Environmental Impact into Account management project in 2012. The program involves two main phases: As one of the world’s leading business travel management providers, CWT is committed to Phase 1 (2012): Creation of a worldwide approach to measure greenhouse gases helping clients reduce the environmental impact of their travel programs. In fact, according to and establishment of a carbon reporting mechanism. the GHG protocol reporting methodology, customer travel accounts for 99.7 percent of CWT’s overall carbon footprint. Towards this end, the company has developed a set of services and Phase 2 (2013-14): Definition of comprehensive action plans. These plans are defined by tools to help customers take environmental impact into account in their travel programs. leveraging experience and know-how developed in leading-edge countries. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Dashboard This program is designed to respond to the expectations of our various stakeholders (employees, customers, investors, regulatory bodies, etc.) and create opportunities for By providing carbon emissions reporting, the CWT Program Management Center gives energy cost savings. clients a comprehensive view of their travel program’s environmental impact. The tool delivers a range of information, such as carbon emission per period, per traveler, etc. In addition, projected carbon emissions for any given trip can be compared to actual, posttrip calculations. Travel managers can use greenhouse gas emissions dashboard data to Country Spotlight: United Kingdom benchmark environmental impact. Creating a baseline enables them to proactively track and reduce the carbon footprint of their business travelers. CWT UK exemplifies many good Responsible Business practices, such as: Use of more environmentally friendly modes of transport, such as trains and buses Enabling Green Travel Decisions vs. cars, is part of the country travel policy Interest-free loans are offered to all staff to purchase annual public transportation CWT Online, powered by KDS, makes “green” one of its four criteria in travel options tickets proposed to travelers, along with “recommended,” “cheap” and “quick”. Client travel All branch offices have a waste segregation initiative policies are built into the tool to ensure compliance. So, for travel managers and travelers Employees are encouraged to switch off lights when leaving the office who have “green” as one of their priorities, the tool will reflect the most optimally The Eco Review built into the online Environmental Management System enables responsible combinations for travelers to choose from. each location to measure environmental progress and provides ideas for further action CWT UK has achieved accreditation to ISO 14001 To know more about tools that can help facilitate green travel, see Chapter 7: Responsible Products & Services, page 76. Copyright © 2014 CWT 61 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction CWT and the Environment Managing Our Carbon Footprint Measuring the Impact of Our Activity Scope 3 (excl. Clients) Scope 2 CWT Carbon Management: Coverage and Methodology Scope 1 24 772 As pledged, CWT enlarged the geographical scope of its carbon emissions measurement program in 2013 by including the US and Canada (this report is based on 2012 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) data). The program now includes eight countries: Austria, Canada, France (including Global and EMEA corporate offices), Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands, the UK and the US. 9 446 CWT measures the impact of its activities using the GHG Protocol, including all direct 3 147 emissions and a portion of indirect emissions. Emission sources taken into account include fuel consumption by vehicle fleets, business travel by employees and employee 1 489 travel to and from work. 2 022 1 597 The emission factors used, compatible with GHG Protocol methodology, are those of the tCO2e 2011 2012 UK Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) and the French Agency for Energy and Environment (ADEME). They take into account not only CO2 but all GHGs Perimeter 2011: UK, Ireland, France, Netherlands, Austria and Germany responsible for climate change. Perimeter 2012: UK, Ireland, France, Netherlands, Austria, Germany, US and Canada Currently some emissions are not taken into account, such as leaks of refrigeration Figure 1: Emissions by scope liquids (used in air conditioning for example), some building emissions (such as heating included in rental charges), and emissions stemming from paper consumption and waste production. Copyright © 2014 CWT 62 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction CWT and the Environment Managing Our Carbon Footprint Germany Commuting & Austria Global & EMEA corporate offices Business travel 3% Buildings Netherlands 4% 17 307 4% UK & 12% Ireland tCO2e 60% North 5 765 8 179 America 4 668 17% 2 523 4 030 France tCO2e 2011 2012 Perimeter 2011: UK, Ireland, France, Netherlands, Austria and Germany Perimeter 2012: UK, Ireland, France, Netherlands, Austria, Germany, US and Canada Figure 3: 2012 Emissions by country Figure 2: Emissions by source The 125 percent increase (Figures 1 and 2) is due to the expanded geographical scope As is the case for most service companies, the largest source of emissions is employee (addition of the US and Canada for 2012) and updated methodology (change in Defra travel between home and work, which accounts for 59 percent of total emissions, emissions factors, change in data reporting methods for some countries). compared to 28 percent for business travel. The US and Canada represent the largest portion, accounting for 60 percent of total emissions (Figure 3). Copyright © 2014 CWT 63 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction CWT and the Environment Managing Our Carbon Footprint Tracking Carbon Intensity To help ensure that its carbon footprint measurement and management is relevant, There are also significant variations among countries (Figure 5): CWT calculates its greenhouse gas emissions per employee. The result indicates the company’s carbon intensity. Numerous business trips by air explain the high carbon intensity of the Global & EMEA corporate offices. Carbon intensity increased 4 percent from 2011 to 2012 (Figure 4), due principally to an expanded geographical scope, which took into account for the first time in 2012, the High carbon intensity in the Netherlands (NL) stems from the consolidation of activities carbon intensity in North America. within the Benelux region in 2012, which resulted in increased business travel and increased employee travel between home and work. A lack of data on employee travel between home and work accounts for the low carbon intensity in Austria and Germany. tCO2e / employee 2.7 2.8 tCO2e / employee 4.4 5.7 2.3 3.1 2.7 2.8 2011 2012 Pilot year 1.2 Germany France UK & All North NL Global & Figure 4: Carbon intensity 2012 vs 2011 & Austria Ireland countries America EMEA average corporate offices Figure 5: 2012 Carbon intensity by country (including Global & EMEA corporate offices) Copyright © 2014 CWT 64 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction CWT and the Environment Managing Our Carbon Footprint Travel Between Home and Work 92% Travel between home and work is the largest source of the company’s greenhouse gas emissions, accounting for 59 percent of total emissions. 8% Methodology note: The following charts (Figures 6 to 8) include Canada, France, Netherlands, UK and US. Carbon footprint calculations are based on questionnaires sent to employees and estimates based on human resources data. Public Vehicles transport 48% 28% Figure 8: GHG emissions (tCO2e) 17% 1% 6% Travel by car, which employees use most, is the largest source of carbon emissions. However, there are numerous variations among countries. For example, 54 percent of employees in the Netherlands use public transportation, compared to very few in the US Carpool Walk/bike Public Homeworkers Vehicles (where 45 percent of employees work from home). transport Figure 6: Mode of transportation by number of employees Did you know? * 76% Average distance between home & work:18 km 21% 1% 2% 28% of employees telecommute Walk/bike Carpool Public Vehicles transport 24% of employees (excluding telecommuters) use public transportation Figure 7: Mode of transportation by km * Figures pertain to the countries part of the reporting scope Copyright © 2014 CWT 65 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction CWT and the Environment Managing Our Carbon Footprint Business Travel Business travel is the second largest source of the company’s greenhouse gas emissions, accounting for 28 percent of the total. Methodology note: The following charts (Figures 9 to 11) include Canada, France, Netherlands, UK and US. Carbon emission calculations are based on the same carbon footprint tool used by CWT customers. 85% 51% 36% 13% 3% 11% 1% Car Car Train Plane (personal) (company) Air, short haul Air, domestic Air, long haul Figure 9: Business travel (in km) Figure 11: Business travel by plane (in km) 73% Did you know? * 24% Average distance of 5,127 km per CWT business traveler per year 2% A B 1% 85% of the total distance traveled on business trips are by plane Train Car Car Plane (personal) (company) Figure 10: Emissions from business travel (tCO2e) * Figures pertain to the countries part of the reporting scope Copyright © 2014 CWT 66 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction CWT and the Environment Managing Our Carbon Footprint Buildings Energy consumption in office buildings is the company’s third largest source of greenhouse Energy consumption included within rental charges (generally linked to heating) is gas emissions, accounting for 14 percent of the total. Energy is used mostly for heating, unknown. In general, heating accounts for nearly 50 percent of energy consumption electricity (for lighting, IT, etc.), hot water and air conditioning. within the service sector. The lack of detailed heating energy consumption explains the high proportion of electricity as illustrated in Figure 12. Methodology note: The following chart (Figure 12) includes Canada, France, Netherlands, UK and US. However, energy consumption included in rental charges (for heating, for example) could not be taken into account. Country data was collected via spreadsheet questionnaires. Did you know? * 95% 5% An average consumption of 111 kWh/m3 per employee per year Gas Electricity Average performance of 39 KgCO2 e/m2 Figure 12: Emissions from buildings’ energy consumption * Figures pertain to the countries part of the reporting scope Copyright © 2014 CWT 67 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction CWT and the Environment Managing Our Carbon Footprint Other Environment-Related Activities Environmental Champions Score at CWT UK Members of the network of Environmental Champions created across the UK branch Reducing and Recycling Waste network are helping reduce waste while raising awareness. Designed to promote and share best practices, the UK environmental champions have demonstrated how Within the service sector, paper is the largest source of waste. Initiatives at CWT offices small, low-cost initiatives can have a significant impact. Thanks to them, the number in several countries aim to reduce paper usage through such measures as eliminating of office waste bins has been reduced, kettles have been replaced with on-tap hot/ unnecessary printing and photocopying, and use of two-sided printing. Within CWT, copy cold water taps for drinks, unnecessary light bulbs have been removed and motion paper accounts for a large proportion of total office waste. However, the company’s sensors have been installed. Additionally, CWT UK vigorously shares best practices commitment to reduce and recycle waste also focuses on such materials as beverage with customers through articles and case studies in leading publications, customer bottles, cups and cans, ink cartridges and cardboard boxes. magazines and presentations at industry events. Promoting Eco-attitudes Country Spotlight: Finland To reduce the environmental impact of CWT’s activities and sensitize people to Over the course of 2013, CWT Finland demonstrated support for environmental environmental concerns, the company launched a recycling initiative at its Global efforts in several ways. As an active supporter of the Baltic Sea Action Group (BSAG), and EMEA corporate office in Paris in April 2013. The idea was to demonstrate how CWT Finland contributed to a fund to neutralize CO2 emissions from work-related a concerted effort could concretely increase the amount of waste recycled over travel. The company also gave customers the option of neutralizing CO2 emissions a relatively brief period. Program results show that such efforts can be extremely through contributions to a fund to clean up the Baltic Sea. successful. Within the first nine months (April to December 2013), 4,552 kg of recyclable wastes were collected. This included 4,044 kg of paper, 190 kg of plastic bottles, cups and cans, 167 kg of ink cartridges and 151 kg of cardboard boxes. Please refer to Chapter 5 of the 2012 Responsible Business Report for other examples. Copyright © 2014 CWT 68 2013 Responsible Business Report Contents Responsible 7 Products & Services Introduction 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives Business Continuity Management Responsible Portfolio 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives Business Continuity Management Responsible Portfolio Introduction B eing prepared for potentially BCPs have been put into place at all offices disruptive situations before in CWT’s 50 wholly-owned countries, with they occur is vital to CWT’s a network of Business Continuity owners commitment to Responsible responsible for stewardship. This firmly lays Business practices and the world-class the groundwork for entrenching resilience service provided to customers. Over into the company’s business operations. the past two years, the company has defined and deployed a set of policies Aside from providing assurance of the and practices to refine its Business company’s readiness to respond amidst Continuity management and systems in disruptive events, CWT also developed line with globally-recognized ISO Business a range of products and services to help Continuity certification standards. clients achieve their responsible business goals. These include a way to evaluate and Business Continuity Plans (BCP) ensure reduce travel stress, specialized services for that critical functions remain available for high-risk industries, a traveler messaging customers, suppliers, regulatory bodies service, personalized travel service and a and other key stakeholders requiring set of tools that enable client organizations access to services in the event of an issue. to reduce their carbon footprint. Copyright © 2014 CWT 70 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives Business Continuity Management Responsible Portfolio 2013 Major Achievements All CWT wholly-owned offices (50 countries) have a Business Continuity Plan (BCP) in place, which is documented and tested, with two drills completed. A BCP disclosure has been completed and provided to more than 100 global and multinational clients. A dashboard to monitor the total number and types of incidents in all wholly-owned CWT countries has been implemented. Formal documentation of a crisis management process has been completed. All executive members of the Corporate Crisis Team have been trained and have participated in a full activation drill. Successful launch of the CWT Travel Stress Index (TSI) in April 2013, a service that earned the GBTA Project ICARUS Sustainability Outstanding Achievement Award – Intermediary in September 2013. Responsible Products & Services RB Objectives for 2015 Status as of Domain Key Priorities 15 Long-term Commitments 15 Objectives for 2015 end of 2013 Responsible Portfolio 10 Contribute to our clients’ CSR/Responsible Business ambitions and promote sustainability Offer an innovative suite of responsible products and services Responsible Business 11 Ensure a robust Global Business Continuity management system CWT to fulfill with the requirements of the best standards and norms in the domain such as ISO 22301 Products Continuity and Services 12 Establish a best-in-class crisis management approach Become the reference in terms of crisis management in the travel industry Copyright © 2014 CWT 71 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives Business Continuity Management Responsible Portfolio Business Continuity Management Business Resiliency: A Vital Customer Requirement Business Continuity Management System C W T significantly enhanced newcomers attended BCP training in practices, processes and tools to deliver its Business Continuity 2013. BCP Awareness training has been the most effective, consistent, and pleasant The new Business Continuity management and processes designed for all employees. It is available experience to each traveler serviced. Management System over the past two years, eliciting in six languages and is stored on the implemented by CWT fully positive feedback from clients. The company’s intranet. In 2013, around Deployment of robust and standardized complies with the ISO22301 standard for Business Continuity CWT Business Continuity Management 9,000 employees took part in the BCP processes depends on solid teamwork. and risk management strategy is compliant with all ISO Business Awareness training. The members of the company’s Business Continuity certification standards. Continuity Steering Committee play an Each office has to perform two drills every invaluable role by ensuring compliance This includes: Business Continuity Plans (BCP) provide year. The first drill is a mandatory fire drill. and leading change. The committee is A Corporate Business the foundation for the company’s efforts. While the second is a scenario decided and composed of functional, regional and Continuity Policy Reviewed and revised twice a year, BCPs organized by the BCP Steering Committee. country BCP owners. To help all employees are in place at 200 CWT offices worldwide, All offices are required to perform this same understand the company’s approach A Business Continuity Plan including all offices in CWT’s 50 whollyscenario. For example, in 2013, a phone and policies and to maintain visibility, template per office with a BCP owned countries. A Business Continuity and email diversion/backup systems all Business Continuity Plans, as well as owner Owner (BCO) takes ownership of the scenario was created and tested. Each drill the CWT Business Continuity Policy, are A training program process in each office. was followed by a written report and BCPs available on the CWT intranet. were audited for those sites participating A drill campaign with report To ensure consistency of understanding in the company’s Operational Excellence and corrective action plan as and implementation, all BCOs and program. CWT Operational Excellence needed site managers were trained in 2012; is a formal program that analyzes best Audit performed by Operational Excellence program Copyright © 2014 CWT 72 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives Business Continuity Management Responsible Portfolio From Business Continuity Planning to Crisis Management Business Continuity Plan Disclosure for Multinational First Global Crisis Drill for CWT Clients To help CWT prepare for a real-life crisis, the company held its first global crisis drill, organized by the Head of Business Continuity and Crisis Management, in January 2013. The five-hour drill included two phases: The CWT BCP for global and multinational clients disclosure, in the form of a client BCP Phase 1 was built upon a scenario in which crises erupted simultaneously at two company locations in different regions of the template, provides an overview of CWT’s world. BCP plans were activated and the CWT London 24/7 team sprang into action. Business Continuity Management System and IT and Telecom Disaster recovery Phase 2 started with the activation of the Corporate Crisis team and Crisis Communication Group, operating from different parts plan. It also contains the list of offices of the world. Both teams took on leadership roles to manage the simulated situations. They worked in coordination with the serving the client, including back-up sites, London 24/7 team. all relevant contacts and pertinent local information. With the client BCP template, This successful drill highlighted many strong points as well as areas for improvement. Relevant corrective actions were implemented use of a common format standardizes throughout the year. Business Continuity information provided to clients and ensures alignment with the CWT Business Continuity management 2014 Business approach. Continuity Objectives A client BCP template was distributed to Roll out BCP version for partner all program management teams in July countries and ensure training 2013. And to date, BCP documentation workshop. has been provided to more than 100 Deploy a risk assessment process in all clients worldwide – which includes all CWT wholly-owned countries, global clients and every multinational client documenting risk and impact analyses that has requested one. and risk responses. Business Continuity Steering Committee. From left to right: Florence Walch, David Diaz, Jessica Fully roll-out Regional Crisis Teams in Scheppard, Kasia Owczarz, Stamford Low, Tony Panter, Isabelle Bousquet, Johan Benthin, the Americas and APAC, covering Alessandra Massa, Juan Carlos Garzon, Dominique Godin, Jim Day, Isabelle Douin. procedure, training, and table-top drills. Not in the picture: Tim Husted, Chris Mullens, Dean Hubert, Christa Wolpert and Paul Hubbard. Copyright © 2014 CWT 73 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives Business Continuity Management Responsible Portfolio Responsible Portfolio: Traveler Care and Green Travel Traveler Care: Putting the Traveler at the Heart of Travel Programs From enhancing safety and security to reducing travel stress, CWT always seeks new ways to deliver the perfect trip. Traveler Safety: CWT Safety & Security Reducing Traveler Stress: CWT Travel Stress Index (TSI) Companies have an increasing responsibility to protect the welfare of traveling employees, Traveling for business can be stressful, which can take a financial toll on an organization, just as they protect office personnel. CWT helps companies deliver more care and less as well as impact travelers’ productivity and satisfaction. CWT helps clients measure and risk, with the best tools available in the market. Through our strategic relationships with minimize the risk. industry-leading suppliers, CWT Safety & Security helps companies meet their ethical and legal obligations to care for travelers with comprehensive travel risk management as The CWT Travel Stress Index, a service of the CWT Solutions Group, quantifies the financial well as medical and security services. impact of travel-linked stress, often aggravated by an organization’s travel policy: To proactively protect travelers, companies must be able to: CWT assesses the current level and impact of traveler stress; Reduce risk by anticipating potential problems CWT benchmarks stress against similar organizations; Locate travelers at any time, for any reason CWT suggests travel policy and travel program improvements to reduce the hard and soft dollar costs of travel to an organization Communicate with travelers affected Assist travelers in need, anywhere in the world In September 2013, Carlson Wagonlit Travel received the European Sustainability Outstanding Achievement Award 2013 in the Travel Supplier Intermediary category from the Global Business Travel Association (GBTA) Project ICARUS in recognition of its innovative CWT Travel Stress Index. See the announcement on the GBTA website: www.gbta.org/foundation/ICARUS/Pages/Awards.aspx Copyright © 2014 CWT 74 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives Business Continuity Management Responsible Portfolio Personalized Care: CWT Portrait Specialized Traveler Care: CWT Energy, Resources & Marine CWT Portrait enables CWT to better understand traveler needs, in order to deliver the Industries such as energy, natural resources and marine require specialized traveler best possible service for each trip. Built upon teamwork between CWT and the client, services, including heightened safety & security. Such services might be required, for CWT Portrait helps ensure that each traveler profile is complete and up-to-date. Having example, for transporting off-shore oil rig workers for shift changes or arranging secure complete and accurate profile information enables the delivery of a smooth trip. transport to high-risk destinations. Traveler Messaging: CWT Program Messenger Travelers need to receive important messages concerning their trip completeness, compliance or safety rapidly and reliably. CWT Program Messenger automates and simplifies the process, so travelers receive the information they need before, during or after travel. This messaging tool enables travel managers to communicate real-time with their travelers, especially helpful when a traveler books a trip to a high-risk country. When combined with CWT Safety & Security, CWT Program Messenger gives travel managers another option to proactively protect travelers. Copyright © 2014 CWT 75 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction 2013 Major Achievements & 2015 Objectives Business Continuity Management Responsible Portfolio Green Travel: Tools to Reduce the Carbon Footprint Travel managers seeking to reduce the environmental impact of their travel and meetings need information. CWT is responding with a variety of tools and features to support green travel at different stages of the service chain: $ 1 Booking BOOK 2 Ticketing & Billing € 3 Management & Optimization CWT Program Management Center provides carbon emissions reporting, giving clients a comprehensive view of their travel program’s environmental impact. The tool’s dashboard provides Select ”green“ as travel option Use e-tickets for air & rail travel Measure CO2 emissions such information as carbon emissions in CWT Online, powered by KDS with CWT Program per period, per traveler, etc. What is Management Center more, projected carbon emissions for Reduce paper consumption any given trip can be compared to Calculate projected CO2emissions with electronic fiscal documents actual, post-trip calculations. Inform business travelers with with the carbon calculator CWT Program Messenger via CWT Portal CWT Program Messenger: see section Capture all trip details in on Traveler Care. CWT To Go for paperless convenience CWT To Go automatically displays, synchronizes and updates online and CWT Online, powered by KDS, is a on their travel needs and where CWT Portal acts as the gateway to all travel offline reservations booked through door-to-door travel booking solution available, travelers can choose rail over applications using a single sign-on to CWT. Travelers can add meeting that provides four itinerary options to air, green-certified over non-green create a seamless experience for travelers. information, rail and non-CWT itineraries meet business travelers’ needs. certified hotels, and local shuttles over It includes a link to a carbon calculator that to the app, keeping all trip information Travelers can choose from any of the taxis, among others, in accordance enables travelers to calculate their trip in one place and without necessitating following criteria: “recommended,” with their company travel policy. emissions. printing. “cheap,” “quick,” or “green”. Depending Copyright © 2014 CWT 76 2013 Responsible Business Report Contents Community 8 Involvement Introduction CWT’s Community Involvement Strategy Local and Corporate 2013 Community Initiatives 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction CWT’s Community Involvement Strategy Local and Corporate 2013 Community Initiatives Introduction L ong-dedicated to community At the corporate level, in the Education involvement at the local and field of action, CWT supports student global level, CWT is developing a career opportunities in travel and strategic approach to heighten the tourism through the Advisory Board of impact of its efforts. By concentrating on the Global Travel & Tourism Partnership three key areas – Education, Emergency (GTTP). In the Emergency field of action, and Essential needs (3E) – the company the company contributed to Red Cross aims to contribute to community Red Crescent relief efforts for victims of development while leveraging its Typhoon Haiyan, which devastated vast expertise and skills. The idea is to build areas of the Philippines in 2013. upon community-focused initiatives that bring to life the CWT core values that most-strongly resonate with community involvement: commitment to excellence, cultural diversity, customer care and entrepreneurial spirit. Many of the ongoing community involvement programs at country level align with the company’s 3E approach. These range from support for PhD and postgraduate students in Estonia to CWT Sweden’s holiday season support for the homeless and schooling for orphans to CWT Italy’s ongoing contributions to education programs in Africa. Copyright © 2014 CWT 78 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction CWT’s Community Involvement Strategy Local and Corporate 2013 Community Initiatives CWT’s Community Involvement Strategy Committing to the communities where we do business encourages a long-term, mutually beneficial relationship. As an involved community partner, CWT can better understand a changing world, adapt its practices to best-serve clients worldwide and contribute to community empowerment and local economic development. CWT’s 3E Strategy Education CWT’s Head of Global Responsible Business worked closely with representatives of corporate functions and geographic regions over the course of 2013 to develop Education covers all forms of learning in which knowledge, skills and habits of a group the strategic direction of the company’s community involvement. Known as the 3E of people are transferred from one generation to the next through teaching, training strategy, the plan focuses on Education, Emergency, and Essential needs. Thanks to and research. As a forward-looking company, CWT is eager to create and provide life the collaborative, strategic approach, the plan is closely aligned to CWT’s business and career opportunities through education. We are willing to support educational and takes into account local needs. The 3E strategy is designed to ensure that, for programs, linked to the travel and tourism sector or not, that benefit children, young selected initiatives, CWT has the appropriate means and capability to make a real people and/or adults. difference and that impact can be measured. To create impact, CWT is committed to leveraging its expertise and skills as it Emergency contributes to the development of communities. By concentrating on Education, Emergency and Essential needs, the company will target areas where: Emergency involves natural and man-made situations that pose an immediate risk to health, life, property or environment. When disaster strikes, CWT envisages how There is strong community need to provide assistance through non-governmental organizations operating in affected areas. CWT has the capacity to act CWT can maximize and measure impact by utilizing its expertise and international Essential Needs network Essential needs are basic human necessities, including food, water and shelter. The CWT can strengthen its corporate identity by expressing the core values and company encourages employees to contribute to their local communities by helping strengths that most-strongly resonate with community involvement: commitment provide essential needs. CWT supports and recognizes local community service to excellence, cultural diversity, customer care and entrepreneurial spirit. initiatives from employees all over the world. Copyright © 2014 CWT 79 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction CWT’s Community Involvement Strategy Local and Corporate 2013 Community Initiatives Community Involvement RB Objective for 2015 Status as of Domain Key Priority 15 Long-term Commitment 15 Objective for 2015 end of 2013 Corporate Care for the communities where we live and Community Involvement Community Involvement 13 work, and contribute to their development through our skills and expertise Deploy CWT’s “glocal” approach and 3E strategy worldwide 3E Community Involvement Handbook Your 3E* Handbook For Community Involvement To provide guidance and decision support for teams engaged, or seeking to engage, in community involvement initiatives, CWT developed a handbook for employees. The handbook presents the corporate strategy and recommendations for local initiatives,reviews sharing methodology and good practices, and supplies compliance criteria for projects involving donations. We take corporate giving seriously and are mindful of the risks associated with bribery and corruption even in the charitable context. * Education, Emergency, Essential needs COMPANY CONFIDENTIAL – For Internal Use Only 3e-handbook-v3.indd 1 28/04/2014 18:21 Copyright © 2014 CWT 80 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction CWT’s Community Involvement Strategy Local and Corporate 2013 Community Initiatives Local and Corporate 2013 Community Initiatives Long-Established Local Community Support C W T ’s l o n g t r a d i t i o n o f In the Benelu x count r ies, C W T collec tions and group volunteer communit y involvement is employees have contributed both time activities. In 2013, 57% of employees at rooted in a great diversit y and funds over the past two years CWT headquarters in Minneapolis took of local initiatives. Taken as to suppor t cancer research, while part in the Carlson Community Giving a whole, these initiatives form a rich, employees in Denmark provide support Campaign, donating a total of $82,000 varied patchwork that demonstrate the for an organization that helps families to charity, an increase of 41% over 2012. company’s commitment to community with children suffering from cancer. involvement. From financial and in-kind Rather than offer holiday season gifts to A volunteerism leave policy was launched donations to corporate volunteering, our clients, CWT Estonia donated funds for in 2013, as one of the initiatives raised local initiatives support essential needs insulin pumps for children. Employees by the Asia-Pacific Diversity & Inclusion causes such as health, childcare and in Sweden likewise select a charity to Council. This allows employees in extreme poverty. receive funds that would otherwise be APAC to take up to one working day of used for holiday gifts for employees. For volunteerism leave in a calendar year to At country level, CWT employees support example, in 2013, the company made participate in the company’s community such child health and welfare programs a substantial donation to the Swedish service activities and events. as a Danish effort to donate teddy bears Cancer Foundation. to children in Eastern Europe, a Polish campaign to provide gifts to children in CWT North America employees wrap up childcare centers and support for Save each calendar year with two weeks of the Children Lithuania’s efforts to protect organized community giving surrounding children from violence, psychological the holiday season, including donations abuse, physical abuse and neglect. to area food shelves, holiday toy Copyright © 2014 CWT 81 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction CWT’s Community Involvement Strategy Local and Corporate 2013 Community Initiatives CWT Italy CWT UK Making a Old Cell Phones Focus on Youth Difference Support Cancer Victims in Spain CWT teams in Italy supported two In the UK, employees can take time worthy charitable organizations in off work for charitable or community C W T Spain worked with the 2013, for the third consecutive year. projects as part of its new ‘CWT Make Fundación Unique in an innovative The organizations include Occhi sul a Difference – Volunteering Scheme.’ program to transform old cell Terzo Mondo Onlus (Eyes on the Under the program, employees phones into support for families Third World), a non-profit group select projects for which they want of child cancer victims in 2013. focused on education, vocational to take time off. Management awards The foundation placed cell phone training, employment, health care the best ideas by according time collection bins in six CWT offices and hospitality. The non-profit off to work on the projects. CWT in Barcelona, Bilbao, Madrid group’s projects include a school UK is offering a total of 25 ‘Make a and Seville. Disassembled in a complex in Uganda, schooling for Difference’ days to employees, who specially-equipped facility, each orphans in the Republic of Congo are invited to bid for a portion of this phone brought in about 20 euros and scholarships for students time off to work on their particular worth of reusable material, with in Swaziland. C W T Italy also charity or community project. The all of the funds donated to a child continued to support Ospedale time can be split in any number of cancer victim parents association. Pediatrico Bambino Gesù di Roma, ways, from 25 people each receiving Europe’s largest pediatric hospital one day off to make a difference to and research center, with donations several people all getting time off to to families with children suffering collaborate on a shared project. from rare diseases. Copyright © 2014 CWT 82 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Introduction CWT’s Community Involvement Strategy Local and Corporate 2013 Community Initiatives Corporate Initiatives In 2013, CWT built and defined its Community Involvement strategy around its three fields of action – Education, Emergency, and Essential needs. Community Involvement is a collaborative and on-going process. CWT continues to work closely with its stakeholders to ensure its actions and partnerships will deliver strong and impactful initiatives to better serve communities. Photo credit: IFRC/PRC GTTP Red Cross Red Crescent C W T has been a Global Par tner participated. The partnership consists Each GTTP member country has its own In November 2013, the Philippines was and member of the Advisory Board of school systems, and local and approach to teaching; the partnership severely affected by Typhoon Haiyan, of the Global Travel & Tourism international companies. The former works with education ministries to ensure (known locally as Yolanda). One of the Partnership (GTTP) since 2012. GTTP provide teachers and classrooms, and compliance with national standards. In most devastating typhoons to make is an international educational program the latter financial and in-kind support. some countries, schools use a GTTPlandfall, the storm’s death toll was more that introduces students to career developed curriculum while others use it than 6,000. The typhoon affected more opportunities in travel and tourism. It The GTTP began in Canada, Ireland and to supplement their own courses. than 11.3 million people, including helps secondary school students develop the UK but now focuses on countries 659,000 displaced persons. their awareness of the contribution of where Travel & Tourism is vital to the To ensure students have a global travel and tourism to their local and economy, and there is a need for perspec tive, the GT TP developed To demonstrate its support for the victims the global economy, and to develop high-qualit y educational programs its PASSPORT TO THE WORLD: an of Haiyan, CWT contributed financial aid workforce-ready skills, attitudes, and emphasizing experiential learning. GTTP Introduc tion to Travel & Tourism through the Red Cross Red Crescent information. member countries are Brazil, China, curriculum. Available in English, Russian, organization. The company also created a Hong Kong, Hungary, Jamaica, Kenya, Magyar, Portuguese, French and Spanish, way for employees to donate to the same To date, more than a million and a Russia, South Africa and Tanzania. The it has also been translated into Chinese. organization through an online platform. half students in twelve countries have original members serve as mentors. To learn more, visit www.gttp.org Copyright © 2014 CWT 83 2013 Responsible Business Report Contents Contents Responsible Business Activities & Initiatives by Stake Indicators & Priorities Responsible 9 Business Performance Responsible Business Activities & Initiatives by Stake Indicators & Priorities 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Responsible Business Activities & Initiatives by Stake Indicators & Priorities Examples of activities and initiatives undertaken to address the stakes presented in Chapter 3: Responsible Business Strategy & Governance, include but are not limited to: Domain Stake Examples of activities and initiatives Where to find in the report Signing of the UN Global Compact Refer to the Message from the Formalization of a dedicated strategic Responsible Business Council chaired by the Global Responsible President and CEO, on page 7 President and CEO Business Policy and Refer to Chapter 3: Responsible Establishment of a Responsible Business (RB) network that includes regional and Governance Business Strategy & Governance, functional RB Ambassadors and RB Country Correspondents page 13 Responsible Responsible Business Business Measuring our RB performance through a set of indicators See next section, pages 88 89 Dashboard & KPIs Governance Promotion of our global RB initiatives and programs to our employees, partners, suppliers, Refer to Chapter 3: Responsible Regular Stakeholder and clients Business Strategy & Governance, Dialogue Achieving Silver recognition level in the EcoVadis assessment page 13 All employees are required to take Ethics training Ethics Governance Zero-tolerance of bribery and corruption and Compliance Enhancement of our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct Refer to Chapter 4: Ethics & Ethics & Disclosure of our enhanced Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (the “Code”) to the public Business Behavior, page 27 Business Ethics towards Requiring our partners and suppliers to adhere to the Code Behavior Stakeholders Availability and accessibility of the Ethics Helpline 24/7: online in 44 languages ; by phone in 26 languages Responsible Relations Enforcing compliance with the enhanced version of our Code of Business Ethics and Refer to Chapter 4: Ethics & with Partners & Suppliers Conduct Business Behavior, page 27 Human Diversity and Equal Refer to Chapter 5: Human Rights Strengthening our culture of diversity and inclusion across the company Opportunities Resources, page 37 Copyright © 2014 CWT 86 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Responsible Business Activities & Initiatives by Stake Indicators & Priorities Domain Stake Examples of activities and initiatives Where to find in the report Integration and deployment of our Employee Value Proposition (i.e. employer brand) Talent Acquisition into our talent acquisition process and Human Capital Continuous learning and development modules and programs for our employees Development Enabling internal mobility and creating opportunities for advancement Annual employee engagement survey in place Refer to Chapter 5: Human Social Dialogue & Creation of a Special Negotiation Body (SNB) to negotiate the creation of a CWT European Resources, page 37 Human Employee Satisfaction Works Council Resources Health and Safety at Work Variety of country initiatives Working Conditions Energy and Carbon Annual Carbon Footprint reporting Management Publication of our Global Environmental Charter Refer to Chapter 6: Environment, Recycling initiatives implemented in various sites page 57 Environment Electronic Waste and Paper Management A Data Protection & Privacy Steering Committee oversees and guides programs in this area Refer to Chapter 4: Ethics & Data Protection Business Behavior, page 27 Client Safety Providing tools and services as enablers Responsible Business Continuity Ensuring ongoing service, consistency and recoverability during disruptions/critical events Products impacting our operations Refer to Chapter 7: Responsible Management & Services Products & Services, page 69 Green, Innovation and Providing products, services, and solutions to clients to help them reach their own Responsible Portfolio sustainable objectives Global Community Creation of a 3E (Education, Emergency, Essential needs) strategy and guidelines on Involvement Strategy community involvement projects and Policy Refer to Chapter 8: Community Community Encouraging midto long-term engagement with community involvement partners Involvement, page 77 Contribution to the Local Involvement Economic and Social Development 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Responsible Business Activities & Initiatives by Stake Indicators & Priorities Responsible Business Indicators & Priorities Domain Indicators Scope 2013 2014-2015 Priorities Deploy the RB governance: Responsible Due to the launch of the Organize RB Councils several times a year Number of Responsible Business Business Global global governance at the end Regular meetings with RB Ambassadors and RB Councils per year Governance of 2013, 1 meeting was held Country Correspondents Monitor progress through a set of indicators % of employees trained about the Almost 100% Ethics Training Global Code of conduct/ethics, anti-corruption Completed Ethics and Compliance event to further heighten % of employees who acknowledged global awareness and promote the rollout of the Ethics and Wholly-owned countries Approx. 100% the Code enhanced Code of Business Ethics and Conduct Business Training throughout 2014-2015 Behavior A Responsible Supplier Code to supplement the available 24/7: Code of Business Ethics and Conduct Ethics Helpline Global online in 44 languages by phone in 26 languages Number of employees Global 19,000 % of women among executive Further expand diversity & inclusion initiatives and Human Global 34% population develop a diversity & inclusion charter Resources Inclusion of a Responsible Business (RB) category and Approx. 90% of employees in our annual CEO Awards to recognize Human Employee engagement survey Wholly-owned countries responded employees/teams that make significant RB Rights progress and create impact in this area Delivering the perfect trip core 9,555 travel counselors Wholly-owned countries curriculum training assigned Copyright © 2014 CWT 88 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Next Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business Chapter & Governance & Services Performance Responsible Business Activities & Initiatives by Stake Indicators & Priorities Domain Indicators Scope 2013 2014-2015 Priorities France, US, Canada, Ratio: tCO2e emissions per employee UK&I, Germany/Austria, 2.8 tCO2e Continuation of the last two year’s carbon reporting Netherlands project Environment Develop an environmentally responsible culture Global and EMEA Paris Reduce our GHG emissions Recycled waste 4,552 kg (Apr to Dec) office Business Continuity Plan (BCP) in Roll out BCP version for partner countries and place, documented and tested, with Wholly-owned countries Achieved ensure training workshop two drills completed Deploy a risk assessment process in all CWT wholly-owned countries, documenting risk and Responsible Formal documentation of a crisis impact analyses and risk responses Wholly-owned countries Achieved Products management process Fully roll-out Regional Crisis Teams in the Americas & Services and APAC, covering procedure, training, and All executive members of the table-top drills Corporate Crisis Team have been Enhance our products, services and solutions Global Achieved trained and have participated in a full portfolio to further integrate Responsible Business activation drill needs Community % of wholly owned countries active in Roll-out our 3E Community Involvement action Wholly-owned countries 50% Involvement community involvement plan Copyright © 2014 CWT 89 2013 Responsible Business Report Contents Contents Key Facts and Figures Our Products and Services Awards and Recognitions 10 Glossary A-C D-S S-U 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business & Governance & Services Performance A-C D-S S-U Glossary A punishable by fines, imprisonment or both. is carbon dioxide (CO 2), which is why participants. A COP demonstrates a greenhouse gases are often referred to as participant’s advancements against the Anti-Competitive Behavior – Actions Bilan Carbone – “Bilan Carbone” is a “carbon”, however there are six different Ten Principles of the Global Compact and of an organization and/or employees French term and proprietary name, which GHGs that make up an organization’s reiterates a strategic commitment to abide that may result in collusion with potential refers to a carbon footprint assessment carbon footprint; by those principles. Companies that do not competitors to fix prices, coordinate bids, methodology originally developed by the publish a COP within two years in a row are create market or output restrictions, French Energy and Environment Agency 2] A Carbon Footprint is a measure of the expelled from the list of Global Compact impose geographic quotas, or allocate (ADEME). It comprises a GHG accounting impact human activities (e.g., individuals, participants. customers, suppliers, geographic areas, tool, which takes into account the primary organizations or regions) have on the and product lines with the purpose of and final energy of products and services. environment in terms of the amount of Corporate Social Responsibility – limiting the effects of market competition. It is now managed by “Association Bilan greenhouse gases produced, measured Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is Carbone”. in units of carbon dioxide (CO2) or carbon often used as a synonym for sustainability Anti-Trust and Monopoly Practices – dioxide equivalent (to account for the programs of organizations. Companies Actions of an organization that may result global warming potential). commit themselves to be good citizens in collusion to erect barriers to entry to the C with principles around environmental, sector, unfair business practices, abuse of Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) – social, ethical and other dimensions of market position, cartels, anti-competitive Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CO2e) – CDP is an international, not-for-profit sustainability. mergers, price-fixing, and other collusive Carbon Dioxide (CO2) equivalent is the organization providing the only global actions which prevent competition. measure used to compare the emissions system for companies and cities to Corporate Sustainability – from various greenhouse gases based measure, disclose, manage and share vital A company’s delivery of long-term value on their global warming potential (GWP). environmental information. They work with in financial, social, environmental and B The CO2 equivalent for a gas is derived by market forces to motivate companies to ethical terms. In UN Global Compact multiplying the tonnes of the gas by the disclose their impacts on the environment definition, it covers all principles and issue Bid Rigging – Bid rigging is an illegal associated GWP. and natural resources and take action areas of the Global Compact. The terms conspiracy in which competitors join to to reduce them. Visit their website at “corporate sustainability”, “corporate artificially increase the prices of goods Carbon Footprint – www.cdp.net responsibility” and “sustainability” are used and/or services offered in bids to potential 1] A carbon footprint, or corporate interchangeably. customers. It may also include carving greenhouse gas (GHG) inventory, is an Communication on Progress (COP) – up the potential business between the accounting of a company’s operational The COP is a mandatory report published conspirators. Bid rigging is a felony emissions. The most common GHG by companies that are UN Global Compact Copyright © 2014 CWT 92 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business & Governance & Services Performance A-C D-S S-U D Greenhouse Gases – Gases that cause ISO 26000 – Also ISO 26000:2010. for reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) climate change. The gases covered Provides guidance to all types of emissions. More official information: unfccc. Defra – See United Kingdom Department under the Kyoto Protocol are carbon organizations, regardless of their size int/kyoto_protocol/items/2830.php for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous or location, on: concepts, terms and (Defra). oxide (N20), hydro fluorocarbon (HFCs), definitions related to social responsibility; per fluorocarbons (PFCs) and sulfur the background, trends and characteristics N Due Diligence – Comprehensive, hexafluoride (SF6). See Carbon Footprint. of social responsibility; principles and proactive process to identify the actual and practices relating to social responsibility; Non-Government Organization potential negative social, environmental Global Compact – See United Nations the core subjects and issues of social (NGO) – A Non-Government Organization and economic impacts of an organization’s Global Compact (UNGC). responsibility; integrating, implementing (NGO) is a legal entity created by decisions and activities over the entire life and promoting socially responsible private persons or organizations with no cycle of a project or organizational activity, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) – behaviour throughout the organization participation or representation of any with the aim of avoiding and mitigating The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a and, through its policies and practices, government. negative impacts. non-profit organization that works towards within its sphere of influence; identifying a sustainable global economy by providing and engaging with stakeholders; sustainability reporting guidance. For more and communicating commitments, R G on GRI, see www.globalreporting.org/ performance and other information related Pages/default.aspx to social responsibility. ISO 26000:2010 Responsible Business – A responsible Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Inventory – is intended to assist organizations in company should have in place a managerial See Carbon Footprint. contributing to sustainable development. system to integrate ethical, human rights, I Official website: www.iso.org social and environmental concerns into its Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol – The core strategy and business operations. Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol), ISO 14001 – Also ISO 14001:2004. a decade-long partnership between the ISO 14001 is a management standard K World Resources Institute (WRI) and the for environmental management systems S World Business Council for Sustainable (EMS). The International Organization for Kyoto Protocol – The Kyoto Protocol is Development (WBCSD), is the most Standardization (ISO) has many other an international agreement linked to the Social Responsibility – Responsibility widely used international accounting tool standards dealing with specific environmental United Nations Framework Convention of an organization for the impacts of its for government and business leaders issues. ISO 14001:2004 provides a on Climate Change (UNFCC). The major decisions and activities on society and the to understand, quantify, and manage framework for a holistic, strategic approach to feature of the Kyoto Protocol is that it environment. greenhouse gas emissions. Official the organization’s environmental policy, plans sets binding targets for 37 industrialized Sphere of Influence – Range/extent website: www.ghgprotocol.org and actions. Official website: www.iso.org countries and the European community of political, contractual, economic or Copyright © 2014 CWT 93 2013 Responsible Business Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Previous Introduction CWT Responsible Ethics & Human Environment Responsible Community Responsible Glossary Chapter at a Glance Business Strategy Business Behavior Resources Products Involvement Business & Governance & Services Performance A-C D-S S-U other relationships through which an U organization has the ability to affect the decisions or activities of individuals or United Nations Global Compact organizations. (UNGC) – The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that Stakeholder – Individual or group that has are committed to aligning their operations an interest in any decision or activity of an and strategies with ten universally accepted organization. principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Stakeholder Engagement – Activity By doing so, business, as a primary driver of undertaken to create opportunities for globalization, can help ensure that markets, dialogue between an organization and commerce, technology and finance one or more of its stakeholders, with the advance in ways that benefit economies aim of providing an informed basis for the and societies everywhere. For more on organization’s decisions. the UN Global Compact, visit the website www.unglobalcompact.org. Sustainable Development – 1] For a company, initiating a sustainable United Kingdom Department for development effort means reconciling business Environment, Food and Rural Affairs development and financial performance with (Defra) – UK government department social and environmental responsibilities. That’s responsible for policy and regulations what’s called Corporate Social Responsibility or on environmental, food and rural issues. Responsible Business. It involves integrating Their priorities are to grow the rural human resources, environmental, ethical economy, improve the environment and and corporate citizenship concerns into the safeguard animal and plant health. To company’s business and its relations with learn more about Defra, visit their website its stakeholders. See also Corporate at www.gov.uk/government/organisations/ Sustainability and Responsible Business. department-for-environment-food-rural-affairs. 2] Development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. Copyright © 2014 CWT 94 2013 Responsible Business Report Acknowledgments We would like to thank all of our CWT contributors from across the globe your contributions (source material, feedback, insights) and generous support have been instrumental in the completion of this report. The Global Responsible Business team Françoise Grumberg Donna Borlongan Vice President, Project Manager, Global Responsible Business Global Responsible Business Reach out to us at: responsiblebusiness@carlsonwagonlit.com CWT, Global Responsible Business 31, rue du Colonel Pierre Avia 75015 Paris France www.carlsonwagonlit.com Copyright © 2014 CWT
