life’s Good with LG “Life’s Good with LG” is the official CSR slogan of LG Electronics and conveys our earnest desire for comprehensive communication with stakeholders about our CSR efforts in a variety of areas. 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 3 Report Overview Contents life’s Good Overview Overview Materiality Report In preparing its 2013-2014 Sustainability Report, LG Electronics adopted with LG the G4 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). As part of the proReport Overview/Contents 2-3 With our Customers 30-37 cess for implementing the guidelines, we reviewed newly introduced indices CEO Message 4-5 Disclosure on Management Approach 30 against the previous year’s edition to identify the aspects that are lacking in our report. In order to incorporate these aspects as much as possible, we had Management Messages 6 Customer Communications 31-32 extensive communication with business departments. Fair Business Practices Improving Communication 33 with Customer Service Management Philosophy 7 We collected opinions from our internal and external stakeholders through a Developing Products Offering Greater 34-35 wide range of communication programs, and performed a materiality analyCorporate Governance 8 Compliance Risk Management 9 Accessibility to the Disabled sis to identify the information that both LG Electronics and stakeholders thought to be material. Based on the findings, we tried to introduce inforJeong-Do Management 10 Securing Product Quality & Safety 36 mation concerning “Material Aspects” as defined by the G4 guidelines. ExFair Trade 11 Protection of Personal Information 36-37 ternally, we worked with a third party assurer to review the analysis results Who We Are 12-13 against the aspects perceived as material to industry peers to verify what is missing from each other’s list (and vice versa), and internally, we reviewed What We Do 14-15 With the Environment 38-55 the results with related business departments to select and introduce the Where We Operate 16-17 Disclosure on Management Approach 38 Everyone at LG Electronics strives to information that is material and useful both to LG Electronics and our stakeCSR Management 18-19 Products with Greener Features 39-41 create the very best value for customers, holders. Articles on material aspects prepared by business departments were finalized after a review by management and a third party assurer. Product Stewardship 42-44 ones that bring excitement and Green Partnership 45 conveniences into their lives. Furthermore, LG Electronics carries out its responsibilities Reporting Principles Environmental Awards and 46-47 as a corporate citizen with great passion, The G4 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the United NaStakeholder Communication Accolades in 2013 tions Global Compact (UNGC) Index, the Accountability Principles Standard EESH Management System 48 such as helping those in need to protecting (AA1000APS), and the Stakeholder Engagement Standard (AA1000SES) Stakeholder Engagement & Communication 20-23 the environment of the earth, in an GHG Emissions Reduction 49-51 Stakeholder Consultation on CSR 24-25 Minimizing Environmental Impact 52-53 effort to bring greater happiness to Reporting Scope Materiality Analysis 26-27 at our Business Sites its stakeholders, including customers, This report covers all LGE business sites, both in Korea and overseas, and supplier Improving EESH at Business Sites 53-55 investors, and communities. sites, including activities and performance in economic, environmental, and social The ultimate goal LG Electronics strives areas (for the detailed scope of reporting, please refer to notes for each table). to achieve through its sustainability management efforts is to help all its Reporting Boundary Key Progress & Performance With our Suppliers 56-65 stakeholders achieve sustainable happiness. Disclosure on Management Approach 56 Information is organized based on material issues and presented under the “DMA Key Progress & Performance 28-29 Our Principles for Win-Win Growth 57-58 (Disclosure on Management Approach)” for each section. Fostering “No. 1” Suppliers 58-59 Reporting Period Supplier CSR Risk Management 60-63 Data from the calendar year 2013, from January 1 to December 31 (for qualitaConflict Minerals 64-65 tive measures of performance, some data from the first half of 2014 was also included) Assurance Independent Assurance Statement Appendix With the Community 66-73 (Korea Productivity Center) (See pp. 90-91) Disclosure on Management Approach 66 Economic Data Social Contribution 67 85 Information Sources concerning Key Social Contribution Programs 68-73 LG Electronics’ Sustainability Management Efforts Environmental Data 86-88 Social Data 89 LG Electronics Website Annual Report CSR Team, LG Electronics LG Twin Towers, 128 Yeoui-daero, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, Korea Independent Assurance Statement 90-91 Email : sustainability@lge.com Memberships/Awards & Recognitions 92 Tel : 82-2-3777-3263 GRI/UNGC Index 93-96 With our Employees 74-83 Past LGE Sustainability Report/ 97 The information contained in this document is intended for international viewing Disclosure on Management Approach 74 Contributors to Report Preparation and may not apply in your jurisdiction. This report also contains some “forwardGlobal Workforce 75 looking statements”that is, statements related to future, not past, events. In this context, forward-looking statements often address our expected future Talent Acquisition & Cultivation 76-77 business performance and intentions, and often contain words such as “expect,” Corporate Culture/Work-life Balance 78-79 “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” believe,” “seek,” “see,” or “will.” Forward-looking Protection of Labor Rights 80-83 statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. These uncertainties may cause our actual future results to be materially www.lg.com/sustainability different from those expressed in our forward-looking statements in this report. 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 4 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 5 CEO message To Our Stakeholders First and foremost, we would like to express our deepest gratitude for your ongoing support and trust in LG Electronics. With the protracting economic recession and intensifying uncertainties in the business environment, it is becoming increasingly challenging to achieve “sustainable growth.” It is, however, also true that such challenges provide us with a great opportunity to identify new growth engines and to prepare for the future. LG Electronics will build “Sustainable Competitiveness.” Since the day of our inception, we have always embraced challenges with high spirits. We have never compromised on our commitment towards delivering differentiated values to customers, and have never wavered from the sense of responsibility for society, while devoting our organizational resources to developing “sustainable competitiveness” that only LG Electronics can deliver. In 2014, we intend to fully focus our efforts and resources on securing competitiveness that enable us to grow strong against fierce competition to ensure market leadership in our core businesses, while making bold and decisive movements to expand our market share and our influence quickly in new businesses. To remain true to our fundamental promises to customers and society, we will also thoroughly comply with Jeong-Do Management and the related laws and regulations in creating customer value, both in terms of the process and the outcome. Capitalizing on our collective capabilities, LG Electronics will contribute to the global community. In making social contributions, we will make consistent and committed efforts across the organization to create differentiated values as we press forward to achieve our primary goal – environmentally friendly development and production processes. We will work to find specific ways to contribute to the global community with our core capabilities, such as businesses, technologies, and channels, and implement them efficiently. In particular, we will continue the existing programs designed specifically to provide real and effective support to those who are willing to work towards self-sustainability as part of our mission to create a hopeful world for all. Everyone at LG Electronics will come together as one to repay customers’ trust. Guided by our management philosophies “Customer-Value Creation” and “Human-Oriented Management,” everyone at LG Electronics, from management to individual employees, will come together as one in achieving sustainable growth against tough business conditions and in making meaningful contributions to society. We sincerely seek your continued support and guidance in our endeavors. May 2014 Vice Chairman & CEO Bon Joon Koo 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 6 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 7 Management Management Messages Philosophy As a guiding principle for all LG employees in their thoughts and actions, the No. 1 LG LG Way articulates our belief in attaining the vision of becoming “No.1 LG” The ultimate goal we strive to achieve through Jeong-Do Management, as well Jong Sik COO (Chief Operating Officer)/ Skott CTO (Chief Technology Officer)/ through “Customer-Value Creation” and “People-Oriented Management” as as the management principles behind it, is to become “No.1 LG.” This stands Kim President Ahn President we base our business practices on the principles of “Jeong-Do Management.” for our commitment to become a dominant leader in the global market by securing unrivaled competitiveness and consistently leading the market on a Based on close collaboration with our suppliers, LG Electronics strives for technology that creates Management Principles global level. LG Electronics will strive to create the most optimal harmony between people, products, and technology. As a philosophical basis for our business operations, LG Electronics’ Managebusiness operating system in the world. LG Electronics is hard at work to develop the technoloLG Electronics fully understands that the competitivegies required by mankind and provide value to customment Principles also serve as our guiding principles for sustainable manageUltimate Goals behind “No. 1 LG” ness of our suppliers directly translates into our own ers through those technologies. In order to develop ment. Everything we do at LG Electronics starts from our aspiration to put a competitiveness – as our parts producers improve their technologies that deliver differentiated value to cussmile on our customers’ faces and to make their lives more convenient with competitiveness, so will our finished products become tomers, we are shifting the focus of our unique work our products, and this commitment toward people, society, and new ideas 1. Move beyond the Korean market and triumph in competitions with more competitive. LG Electronics will continuously work style from optimizing each process to optimizing entire drive our business activities. These principles will serve as an enduring inspiraglobal market leaders to eliminate unfair business practices and support our processes as a whole. This means that our approach to 2. Secure unrivaled competitive edge, in terms of price and brand power, tion for our efforts toward sustainable management for years to come. suppliers in their efforts toward stronger competitivetechnology development is now more focused on conto enjoy a dominant market position ness. Everyone at LG Electronics clearly understands sumer convenience, rather than manufacturing efficien3. Establish LG Electronics as a dominant market leader by continuously that striving for shared growth based on win-win partcy. Based on our existing strengths in hardware tech1) Customer-Value Creation nerships is not only the right path toward fulfilling our nology, we will also improve capabilities in software, expanding and creating markets with No.1 products and services “Customer-Value Creation” is the ultimate goal toward which our business corporate social responsibility but also an effective including operating systems, to secure technological activities strive, attained by putting customers first and delivering the best strategy for strengthening our competitiveness. Based competitiveness across the value chain and to achieve on this recognition, we will strive for transparent and sustainability for both our technologies and businesses. value possible. ethical business practices that take the welfare of the entire society into consideration as we align our actions 2) People-Oriented Management No. 1 LG with Jeong-Do Management. “People-Oriented Management” expresses our commitment toward creating an environment where our employees can reach their full potential and utilize Trusted by Favored by their abilities to the fullest, which is achieved by promoting employee creativCustomers Investors ity and autonomy, and implementing a merit-based reward system. Jeong-Do Management Coveted by Feared and Respected by “Jeong-Do Management” is LG Electronics’ unique guidelines for business Talented Professionals Competitors practices born out of our strong conviction that it is possible to compete fairly and produce results with integrity by continuously strengthening our fundamentals. Our management principles are put into action when our employees practice Jeong-Do Management. Wayne GSMO (Global Sales & Marketing Officer)/ Ho Geon Chief Human resource Officer/ Choong Hak Business Support Officer/ Park Executive Vice President Hwang Senior Vice President Lee Senior Vice President LG Electronics cares for consumer convenience LG Electronics strives to become home to a group LG Electronics actively engages with diverse LG Way Vision Structure and the environment, and delivers innovations of talented professionals who embrace stakeholders. to customers. changing business landscape and create new value. In an effort to deliver differentiated value to our stakeOur marketing strategy consists of making products Business success in the year 2014 lies heavily on how holders, LG Electronics actively seeks out opinions from sought by consumers and becoming the first to marfast we can respond to changes in the business enviexperts in economic, environmental, and social issues, ket the products that deliver convenience to consumers ronment. Although businesses, during the period of and incorporates their feedback into our business opNo. 1 Strive to become a respected and are kind to the environment. To this end, we are not fast growth for the country, used to seek talent suited erations. In addition, we continuously pursue social conVision LG market-leading company only making efforts into securing manufacturing comfor disciplined and structured operations, corporatribution initiatives that take advantage of our products petitiveness but also working to strengthen our martions are now seeking talented professionals who posand capabilities, and actively support our employees’ keting competitiveness through marketing strategies sess so-called “nomadic” traits, such as adaptability voluntary social contribution activities. Based on the tailored for each country and region. We will continue to fast changing environments, affinity for exploring trust bestowed on us by our stakeholders, LG ElectronJeong-Do Guidelines for our action upon which we strive to to strive to become a sustainable business through new things, and a drive for creating value. In order to ics will strive to achieve sustainable growth and become Management compete fairly and produce results with integrity by genuine efforts toward consumer communication and attract such talented professionals, LG Electronics is a respected corporate member of the global society. Code of Conduct continuously strengthening our fundamentals engagement, as well as through products that offer hard at work to build a diverse workforce, foster local high energy efficiency and have no negative impact on talent who are integral to our global operations, and the environment. implement HR policy that empowers all our employees to fully utilize their expertise, thereby ensuring that LG Customer-Value People-Oriented Creation Management The objective of our business activities Electronics continues to create new value for years to Management Principles and the principle for management come. 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 8 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 9 Corporate Compliance Governance Risk Management Shareholders for self-dealing by directors. Of the 42 agendas, 41 were approved in its origiSignificance of Compliance 2013 Online Pledge for Compliance As of year-end 2013, LG Electronics’ total shares issued and outstanding were nal form, and one was approved after revision. The Directors’ attendance rate Compliance issues concerning business operations are on the continuous rise, 180,833,806 (common stock: 163,647,814/preferred stock: 17,185,992). for the BOD meetings was on average 97%. At the meeting held in April 2012, and stronger regulations and penalties are being implemented to address the The number of non-voting shares amounted to 17,949,160 (9.9%) of the the BOD moved to establish “Corporate Social Responsibility” as an official isissue. Businesses now could face tens of billions of dollars in fines, as well as total outstanding. The largest shareholder, LG Corp. (the LG Group’s holdsue to be reported to the BOD to strengthen the BOD’s commitment toward criminal charges against their employees, for a failure to comply with laws ing company) owned 30.5% of the shares. Every year, the Chairman of BOD the issue and facilitate external responses. In line with the action, the BOD is and regulations, and this further increases the significance of compliance risk All LG Electronics employees hereby personally updates shareholders on our performance at the Annual General briefed annually on CSR activities, including economic, social, and environmenmanagement for corporations. pledge to: Meeting (AGM) and collects feedback from shareholders on management istal issues identified through engagement with stakeholders (i.e. Stakeholder 1. Put LGE management principles into sues that require decision-making. LG Electronics also maintains a section on Consultation on CSR) and our Sustainability Report, to facilitate the active Independent Compliance Risk Management action based on our commitment for its website to field investor inquiries as a channel through which we collect engagement of BOD members. To increase the effectiveness of our compliance programs and ensure the indelivering the best value to our customers, employees, and shareholders. investor feedback on our business performance and present our responses. dependence of the Chief Compliance Officer, in December 2013, LG Electron2. Comply with the laws and regulations of all Shareholders’ opinions and suggestions are gathered, carefully reviewed by BOD Committees ics expanded and transferred the Compliance Office to directly under the CEO, countries in which we operate. management and the BOD, and incorporated into corporate policies and busiThe BOD is supported by three Board Committees: the Audit Committee, the from its previous position under the Legal Department. We also changed re3. Duly comply with compliance policies and procedures concerning business activities, ness operations. Management Committee, and the Outside Director Candidate Recommendalated business processes to ensure that the Chief Compliance Officer directly including the “LG Electronics Employee tion Committee. The Audit Committee is comprised entirely of three Outside reports to the Board of Directors or CEO on compliance issues in a timely Code of Conduct.” Strengthening Independence of Board of Directors (BOD) Directors and is responsible for oversight and monitoring to ensure fair corpomanner. In addition, LG Electronics briefs the BOD on its compliance efforts 4. For compliance issues that present a The BOD consists of seven Directors, four of whom are Outside Directors. All rate management as well as accounting transparency and conformance. The (compliance and validity assessment results) on an annual basis to help the dilemma, consult supervisors or related departments and make appropriate actions Directors serve a three-year term and at the end of the tenure, their reinstateManagement Committee reviews and determines the agendas delegated by BOD carry out effective oversight of the company’s compliance management accordingly. ment is determined based on performance evaluation. Directors perform their the BOD and other ordinary management activities. In 2013, the Manageperformance (annual briefing completed in February 2013). 5. Report all cases of non-compliance with duties independently from any influence of major shareholders and management Committee reviewed a total of 43 agendas. The Outside Directors Canthe Code of Conduct and company policies, confirmed or suspected. ment. In addition, LG Electronics has in place a compliance system to review didate Recommendation Committee carefully selects qualified candidates for Strengthening Compliance Awareness of Employees business transactions for potential conflict of interest and verify BOD approval Outside Directors in accordance with Article 542.8 of the Commercial Law of 1. In-Class Training for Organization Leaders status on such transactions. This system was implemented to prevent DirecKorea and recommends them to the AGM for appointment to ensure fairness LG Electronics believes that strong compliance awareness of our executives tors from pursuing personal profits for themselves or a third-party through and transparency in the nomination of candidates. and middle managers is critical for creating a corporate culture that supbusiness opportunities obtained by using their positions as a BOD member ports effective compliance management and promotes a compliance mindset and incurring unforeseen losses to shareholders. If a business transaction has Evaluation and Compensation among our employees. As such, LG Electronics conducts regular compliance not obtained a BOD approval, the BOD is briefed on such transactions in adCompensation for BOD members is made within the regulations pertaining to training for newly appointed organization leaders to help them exercise strong vance for the approval process. BOD compensations and as approved by the AGM. The evaluation of manageleadership in compliance issues. The training consists of courses on the imporment and executives of LG Electronics is performed year round. Top managetance of compliance, non-compliance cases, and our principles for compliance Role of BOD ment and executives are evaluated on whether they have set and achieved issues. The BOD actively provides recommendations for important management dechallenging goals in financial, social and environmental areas, whether their cisions and conducts unbiased evaluation and supervision of management. In business objectives, comprised of quantitative and non-quantitative factors, 2. Online Compliance Training for Employees particular, Outside Directors monitor overall corporate management activities were achieved, as well as their professional capabilities, based on a fair and In order to enhance employees’ compliance mindset by sharing information and keep management in check, while offering concrete and substantial adobjective process. Appropriate compensation is determined and made based about regulation changes and company principles, LG Electronics conducts vice to management. In 2013, the BOD was convened nine times to review a on the outcome of the evaluation. annual online compliance training for all our business employees across the total of 42 agendas (33 for approval, 9 for reporting), including the approval world. The training introduces laws and regulations, employee roles and responsibilities concerning compliance, examples of compliance failure from other corporations, and the Employee Code of Conduct. In 2013, 97 % of our business staff (50,832 out of 52,602) completed the training, and signed a BOD Status (As of March 31, 2014) pledge for compliance with laws & regulations and the Code of Conduct to renew their commitment towards responsible conduct. Category Name Title/Position/Profile Date Appointed Note Inside Director Bon Joon Koo CEO, Vice Chairman March 2014 Management Committee (Chairman) David Jung Representative Director/CFO, President March 2014 Management Committee In-Class Compliance Training in 2013 Online Compliance Training in 2013 Non-executive Yu Sig Kang Vice Chairman, March 2014 Chairman of BOD Director LG Management Development Institute Outside Director Candidate Recommendation Committee (Chairman) No. of Completion Rate (%) Position-specific 27 Management Committee Training Period Targets (No. of Completed) Outside Director Chang Woo Lee Professor, Business Administration, Seoul National University March 2013 Audit Committee (Chairman) 806 Korea April 14-June 28, 2013 30,141 97 Kyu Min Lee Chair Professor, Sejong University, March 2012 Audit Committee Leadership 15 (29,231) Former Editor-in-chief, Dong-A Ilbo Outside Director Candidate Workshop Overseas May 27-July 20, 2013 22,461 96 Recommendation Committee 1,129 Sang Hee Kim Lawyer, March 2012 Audit Committee (21,601) Former Deputy Minister of Justice Outside Director Candidate Total 52,602 97 Recommendation Committee (50,832) Chong Nam Chu Professor, Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering, Seoul National University March 2013 No. of Coures No. of Participants 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 10 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 11 Jeong-Do Fair TRADe Management Strong Commitment toward Jeong-Do Management Whistleblower System Fair Trade Compliance Activities In order to prevent non-compliances and unjust treatment toward suppliers Jeong-Do Management is LG Electronics’ unique guidelines for employee conLG Electronics has in place a whistleblower system (ethics.lg.co.kr) to receive Our Fair Trade Compliance Program is comprised of internal control activities in our transactions with them, we conduct training for related staff members duct, and conveys our belief that we can still come out on top and produce internal and external reports concerning any actions in violation of the Emdesigned to prevent compliance risks and increase employee awareness about and perform a review on a regular basis. In 2014, we plan to make particular meaningful results by consistently strengthening fundamentals and fairly ployee Code of Ethics and Jeong-Do Management, such as accepting gifts fair trade. To this end, we have in place a basic enforcement system that is efforts to response to the emerging issue of “Misappropriation and Disposcompeting in the market with integrity. This belief is clearly expressed in the from interested parties, lack of transparency in selecting suppliers, improper designed to repeatedly convey our commitment toward fair trade by top exsession of Technology” and reengineer our business processes to prevent such CEO’s statement: “Our commitment toward Jeong-Do Management and comacquisition of the shares of the company’s business partners, illegal/improper ecutives, constantly monitor against non-compliances, and conduct improvepractices. pliance not only is a promise to ourselves, but also a solemn pledge to our use of company assets, manipulation of documents/figures, false reporting, ment programs. We also brief top management on our fair trade activities on In 2013, LG Electronics was rated “Excellent” in the Fair Trade & Win-Win customers and society. Non-compliance, in any circumstance, does not work etc. We also have strong measures in place to thoroughly protect the identity an annual basis to promote voluntary employee participation in our efforts Growth Partnership Agreement Observance Assessment conducted by the in favor of the company.” Based on this strong commitment toward Jeongof whistleblowers. In addition, we utilize the Win-Win Growth website to colfor fair trade. Korea Fair Trade Commission and again, recognized for its exemplary commitDo Management, LG Electronics requires not only our employees but also our lect anonymous reports concerning unfair and unjust treatment suffered by ment to win-win growth and excellent performance in the area. suppliers to conduct themselves in line with Jeong-Do Management. our external stakeholders. Over the past three years, a total of 1,375 claims Fair Trade Activities were reported and handled through the whistleblower system and the WinIn 2013, as part of our anti-collusion efforts, we expanded targets for trainMidto Long-term Direction Amendments to Code of Ethics Win Growth website. ing, oversight, and monitoring against cartel activities from sales & marketing Based on ongoing monitoring and improvement efforts, LG Electronics will First established in 1994, LG Electronics’ Code of Ethics is comprised of “Code staff to include R&D staff as well. In 2014, we plan to strengthen our ad-hoc continue to strengthen its internal control efforts toward preventing compliof Ethics,” “Guidelines for Practice,” and the “Explanation Guidelines for PracCounseling Center inspections, measure the effectiveness of training, and assess employee comance risks associated with fair trade practices. In particular, we will strengthen tice” that provides principles behind specific guidelines. The Code of Ethics has In order to respond to employee inquiries on Jeong-Do Management, LG Elecpliance with guidelines to reduce risks associated with non-compliances. our support system to empower business companies and overseas subsidiarbeen translated into 14 different languages and distributed worldwide, and tronics established a counseling center and offers one-on-one counseling on In January 2014, LG Electronics was levied a penalty in Korea for unfair trade ies to actively engage in fair trade compliance efforts. the Handbook was produced in Korean, Chinese, English, Spanish, Polish, and the everyday practice of Jeong-Do Management. The center receives inquiries practices. As a response measure, we plan to further break down employee Arabic, and distributed to all employees to raise awareness on LG Electronvia intranet, phone, and email, and provides counseling on the interpretations business functions and implement training programs on unfair trade practices ics Employees’ Code of Ethics, and to encourage our employees to embrace of the Code of Ethics, congratulatory/condolence cash gifts, appropriate prospecific to each business function to raise employee awareness against nonJeong-Do Management. In order to ensure transparency in transactions with cedures for handling such gifts, and how to deal with business expenses. Incompliances. interested parties and to promote fair business conduct of our employees, we quirers can choose to disclose the details of their inquiries, but if they decide In January 2014, LG Electronics was fined in Korea for unfair labeling and amended the Code of Ethics in January 2014 to strengthen the provisions otherwise, we also make every effort to protect their identity and the details advertisement practices. As part of our efforts to minimize such compliance pertaining to receipt of cash or valuables from interested parties. Based on the of their inquiries. In 2013, a total of 177 inquiries were made to the counselrisks, we produced guidelines and internal checklists for related staff members amendments, all LG Electronics employees are now prohibited from accepting ing center. Frequently discussed topics are also organized into FAQs and used and established a system to perform a two-step compliance review based on personal gifts from interested parties regardless of the amount, as well as as training materials both at Korea and overseas. the guidelines and checklists. Under the new internal control system, staff from having personal dealings with interested parties. members in charge of the project are required to perform an initial screening Global Training and Awareness Promotion on Jeong-Do Management against non-compliances, after which related departments conduct a followJeong-Do Management Pledge and LG Electronics provides training on Jeong-Do Management to highlight our up review to minimize compliance risks. Voluntary Disclosure of Violations belief that “Jeong-Do Management is not an option but an implicit requireIn 2013, LG Electronics required all its employees at Korea and overseas to ment for the very survival of the company” and help our employees embrace sign and submit a pledge for “Jeong-Do Management” online, and 98.5% of the common principles behind this philosophy. In 2013, we conducted in-class our employees have completed the process. We also require our suppliers to Jeong-Do Management training for 14,923 employees (Korea and overseas) do the same on a regular/irregular basis. In particular, LG Electronics requires and 435 suppliers. The training was comprised of internal and external case suppliers to submit a pledge for Jeong-Do Management as part of the Master studies and guidelines for everyday practice to help our employees and suppliPurchase Agreement, in an effort to ensure that all companies that have busiers embrace Jeong-Do Management and make choices that prevent corrupness transaction with LG Electronics make the pledge. tion and irregularities from occurring. In order to highlight the importance of compliance with Jeong-Do ManageIn 2014, we plan to strengthen “train-the-trainer” programs for Jeong-Do ment and relevant laws & regulations, we encouraged our employees to volManagement instructors based in our overseas subsidiaries, to ensure that untarily disclose any violations. Based on these efforts, LG Electronics continuJeong-Do Management is established as an everyday practice at our overseas ously works to prevent risks that could potentially cause irreparable damages locations. to the company. LG Electronics Cartel Prevention System Repeated Conveyance of Employee Training & Establishment of/Compliance Number of Cases Reported (Past Three-Year Data) Types of Reports in 2013 (%) Actions Taken in 2013 (%) Commitment by Management Pledge with Action Guidelines 2011 452 Irregularities/Corruptions 6 Warning 40 2012 450 Complaints 73 Light Disciplinary Actions 43 Business Process Ongoing Monitoring Improvement Efforts of Non-compliances 2013 473 Other (HR, Supplier Grievances, etc.) 21 Strong Disciplinary Actions 17 2013 2014 LG전자 지속가능경영보고서 12 2013 2014 LG전자 지속가능경영보고서 13 LG Electronics Overview who we are and (As of December 31, 2013/Consolidated) Flow of Economic Value (Unit: KRW billion/Parent) our created & shared value 58.1404 Sales (Unit: KRW trillion) Interest Payments 227.4 Sales 28,078.9 Since its establishment in 1958, LG Electronics has pioneered the electronics industry in 1.2847 Operating Income (Unit: KRW trillion) Korea and made a significant contribution to its ascent into the nation’s signature industry with world-class competitiveness. Based on our sense of pride and duty as the nation’s leading Creditor Customer corporation, LG Electronics will strive to become a sustainable business that fulfills its social responsibilities by delivering differentiated value to diverse stakeholders. 35.5281 Total Assets (Unit: KRW trillion) Donations Dividends 24.3 Community Shareholders 36.9 Corporate Profile (As of December 31, 2013) 22.8387 Total Liabilities (Unit: KRW trillion) 180,833,806 No. of Organization Name LG Electronics, Inc. Industry Manufacturing Employee Government Location of LG Twin Towers, 128 Yeoui-daero, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Main Product TV, Home Theater System, BluRay Player, Mobile Handset, Shares Headquarters Seoul, Korea Laptop Computer, Refrigerator, Washing Machine, Wages & CEO Bon Joon Koo, , David Jung Cooking Appliance, Built-in System Kitchenware, Vacuum Cleaner, Taxes & Dues Benefits Supplier Date of Establishment October 1, 1958 Health Care Appliance, Air Conditioner, Monitor, Security System, 30.1 No. of Employees 82,432 (Korea: 38,440/Overseas: 43,992) Commercial Display, etc. 214,253 No. of Shareholders 3,195.7 Purchasing & Sales Service Expenses AA (Korea) 2011 28,097.1 (USD 25.4) 57,739.9 (USD 52.1) Baa2 (Moody’s) Credit Rating 33,700.0 BBB(S&P) 2012 25,427.2 (USD 23.9) 55,122.6 (USD 51.9) 2013 28,078.9 (USD 25.6) 58,140.4 (USD 53.1) Although a slump in global demand from the widespread recession and intensifying competition created a tough business climate in the year 2013, Operating Income we were able to deliver robust year-on-year growth by introducing premium products aggressively and expanding global sales. In particular, stronger fundamental -263.9 (USD -0.24) competitiveness helped our core products (mobile handsets, washing machines, 2011 331.6 (USD 0.30) and air conditioners) lead the sales growth. We saw, however, a slight erosion in 46.2 (USD 0.04) profitability across our business segments (LCD TVs, Home Appliances, etc.) 2012 1,216.7 (USD 1.14) except for air conditioners due to intensifying price competition, -213.9 (USD -0.20) rising prices of some commodities, and increases in overall R&D costs. 2013 1,284.7 (USD 1.17) Parent Consolidated 1USD = KRW 1,108 (2011)/1,063 (2012)/1,095 (2013) Economic Value Generated, Distributed, and Retained (Unit: KRW billion/Parent) Unit: KRW billion, (USD billion) · Past data was revised to reflect changes and additions to financial accounting standards. 2011 2012 2013 Sales 28,097.1 25,427.2 28,078.9 Non-operating Income and Financial Profits -138.5 -285.8 -33.3 Economic Value Generated 27,958.6 25,141.4 28,045.6 Operating Expenses 28,361.0 25,381.0 28,292.8 Wages and Benefits 2,488.5 2,860.6 3,195.7 Capital Costs 252.8 267.3 264.3 Taxes & Dues 25.6 26.0 30.1 Donations 10.8 19.4 24.3 Economic Value Distributed 31,138.7 28,554.3 31,807.2 Economic Value Retained -3,180.1 -3,412.9 -3,761.6 · Non-operating Income & Financial Profits: Figures are stated in · Operating Expenses: Sales costs and administrative expenses · Past data was revised to reflect changes accordance with the Korean International Financial Reporting · Taxes & Dues: Corporate taxes, public dues, resident tax and and additions to financial accounting Standards (K-IFRS). a special tax for rural development standards. · Capital Costs: Interest payments and dividends 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 14 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 15 21,152.0 Sales, Consolidated (Unit: KRW billion) 36.4% 11,801.0 Sales, Consolidated (Unit: KRW billion) 20.3% Home Entertainment Home Appliance We successfully maintained the second largest global market share in LCD Although we were able to maintain our strong competitive edge in major apTVs for five consecutive years since 2009 by aggressively expanding prepliances (i.e. refrigerator, washing machine) based on greater product capacity mium offerings (OLED TVs and Ultra-HD TVs) and engaging in differentiated and energy efficiency compared to our competitors, we took a slight hit in marketing programs. terms of profitability from intensifying price competition and the rise in prices INTERVIEW for some commodities. Hyun Hwoi Ha We will continue to create values for customers and INTERVIEW President & CEO/ change their lives through market-leading products. Seong Jin Jo LG Electronics strives to become No.1 in creating customer Home EntertainBased on LGE’s superior technology and infrastructure, we will make every President & CEO/ value and delivering customer satisfaction. ment Company effort to create values for customers and make their lives more comfortable. Home Appliance Based on superior innovations, we are leading the market with No. 1 products Our efforts will contribute to LGE’s becoming a changing force in the global Company that continuously increase customer values. We will continue to work towards market and achieving Global No. 1. No.1 in customer satisfaction through products that create customer value and satisfy customer needs. what we do 4,642.9 Sales, Consolidated (Unit: KRW billion) A global leader in technological innovations for consumer electronic products, 8.0% mobile communication devices, and home appliances, LG Electronics is organized into Air Conditioning & Energy Solution five business divisions: Home Entertainment (HE), Mobile Communications (MC), Home Appliance (HA), Air Conditioning & Energy Solution (AE), and Vehicle Components (VC). We were able to successfully maintain our competitive edge against competitors by introducing products that satisfy local needs, while increasing operatLG Electronics demonstrates strong product leadership in segments such as TV, mobile handset, ing profits through business structure improvement and profitability manageair conditioner, washing machine, and refrigerator (as of July 1, 2014, LG Electronics expanded its ment. business organizations from four business companies (HE, MC, HA, and AE Company) to five, INTERVIEW establishing the Vehicle Complements (VC) Company). Hwan Yong Nho We will lead the market by continuously introducing products President & CEO/ that offer high energy efficiency and satisfy local needs. Air Conditioning We will actively respond to local regulations on energy efficiency and take the & Energy Solution initiative in proposing building-level energy saving solutions. As a responsible Company member of local economy, we will also contribute to promoting related industries, creating jobs, and fostering talent in communities in which we operate. 12,969.7 Sales, Consolidated (Unit: KRW billion) 22.3% Mobile Communications We were able to achieve sales growth thanks to the successful introduction 7,574.8 Sales, Consolidated (Unit: KRW billion) 13.0% of our new LTE product models, such as the Optimus G Pro and the Optimus Vehicle Components and Other Affiliates G2, and strong global sales performance. We also made progress with profitability by improving our cost structure through cost management efforts. INTERVIEW We are delivering customer value by developing and supplying in-vehicle Jong Seok Park We will discover differentiated customer value in their everyday lives. infotainment components, and will contribute to improving safety and enviPresident & CEO/ We will work hard to maintain and further build up the great momentum ronmental standards for automobiles through engine components and HVAC Mobile Communifor the existing products to firmly establish LG Electronics as one of the top systems developed based on our superior motor and compressor technolocations Company three players in the global market. We will also actively carry out our social gies. responsibilities by introducing products that fully address the needs and pain INTERVIEW points of global customers. Woo Jong Lee In order to lead the market in smart technologies and embedded systems President & CEO/ for automobiles, we will continuously discover differentiated values. Vehicle Components We will mobilize group-wide capabilities in electronics, communications, and Company proprietary technologies to create products customers need. We will also strive for unparalleled product quality and safety based on a zero-defect quality system to successfully position LG Electronics as the top tier 1 business partner in the global market for shared growth. 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 16 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 17 where we operate Production Sales Other R&D Center 15 2 3 3 Production Sales R&D Center Sales (KRW billion) 3,852.7 2 1 3 Production Sales Other R&D Center 13 3 3 6 HQ Production R&D Center Sales (KRW billion) 34 1 8 14,449.5 LG Electronics is a global corporation that services customers worldwide with a vast network of Sales (KRW billion) 6,448.8 % in Sales 7 Sales (KRW billion) 3,971.9 % in Sales 25 production, sales, service, and R&D locations and has business operations in more than 200 countries. % in Sales 11 % in Sales 7 With a renewed sense of responsibility as a global corporation, LG Electronics will further strengthen its efforts towards customer satisfaction and mutual prosperity by implementing cohesive global strategies and introducing products that satisfy local needs. CIS Europe China Korea North America Sales 5 Production 4 Other 2 Sales 8 Middle East & Africa R&D Center 7 Other 7 Sales (KRW billion) 11,409.4 R&D Center 1 % in Sales 20 Sales (KRW billion) 4,438.9 India % in Sales 8 Production 5 Sales 7 Asia R&D Center 1 Sales (KRW billion) 7,852.2 % in Sales 13 Production 2 Production 5 R&D Center 2 Sales 7 South & Central America Sales (KRW billion) 2,018.8 R&D Center 2 % in Sales 3 Sales (KRW billion) 3,698.2 % in Sales 6 Global Employees, Breakdown by Country (As of Year-end 2013) Global Operations Total Number of Employees 82,432 41 46 59 15 Korea CIS Europe North America South & Central America Middle East & Africa China Asia India No. of Employees 38,440 2,378 5,183 1,792 9,309 2,045 11,518 7,335 4,432 Production Sales % of Total Employee 47 3 6 2 11 2 14 9 6 Sites Subsidiaries R&D Center Other 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 18 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 19 Awards & Recognitions CSR Management 1 2 3 4 5 1. Included in the DJSI World 2013 3. Received the 2013 UNGC Value Awards 5. Selected as 2013 East Asia 30 2. Received the 2013 Most Loved Company in Korea Awards 4. Named Excellent Business in Children’s Rights in 2013 Principles for Sustainability & CSR Management Sustainability & CSR Management System Midto Long-term Directions in the curriculum for the Marketing College. In 2013, approximately 5,300 emBased on its management principles “Customer-Value Creation” and “PeopleIn order to facilitate sustained value creation and build strong fundamentals, LG LG Electronics annually selects strategic CSR tasks and focuses its organizationployees (including new hires) completed the online CSR training programs, and Oriented Management,” which have served as the philosophical grounds for susElectronics established the CSR Committee as a subcommittee of the Executive al capabilities on those tasks throughout the year in order to engage in CSR acthe English edition was launched in May 2014. We also send out a biweekly CSR tained growth since its inception, LG Electronics strives for sustainability manManagement Committee from 2009 (comprised of top executives, including the tivities that satisfy the expectations of the international community and stakenewsletter to all our employees (Korea and overseas) to inform them about latagement that takes society, the environment, and economy into consideration CEO) to brief executives on CSR issues and obtain executive decisions on the holders and contribute to improving our business competitiveness. Although our est CSR trends and to raise awareness. in a holistic and balanced manner. In order to actively carry out the ethical and issues. In addition, we also report CSR issues (i.e. buyer requests, risk assessefforts have been more focused on establishing a system and framework thus social responsibilities that our stakeholders expect of us, LG Electronics works ment results, social contribution efforts) in management meetings at each busifar, we are now planning to direct our resources and capabilities to implementing Awards & Recognitions to become a healthy organism in the market ecosystem and assume a proactive ness company, in which the company president and executives participate, to change management and increasing the connection between our CSR efforts For the second straight year, LG Electronics was listed in the DJSI World Indices role in making the system healthier with our products and services. Moreover, we raise management awareness on CSR issues and facilitate improvement efforts. and business activities. (Leisure Equipment & Products and Consumer Electronics Industry), announced strive to take care of our communities, help those in need become self-reliant, Since 2011, LG Electronics has identified CSR issues that require corporate-level As for risk management, we plan to expand our improvement efforts based on in September 2013 as part of the 2013/2014 Dow Jones Sustainability Indices engage and communicate with a variety of stakeholders throughout this proimprovement efforts and implemented necessary measures on an annual basis. the EICC standards throughout our supply chain and to make preemptive re(DJSI). LG Electronics has been also included in the DJSI Asia-Pacific (four concess, and form a trust-based relationship with them. In 2013, we selected 10 corporate-level tasks—including establishing a conflict sponses to emerging issues (e.g. student workers), in an effort to create a sound secutive years) and the DJSI Korea (five consecutive years). In January 2014, LG minerals response system and enhancing employee volunteer programs—and and healthy working environment and to facilitate responsible sourcing. In terms Electronics made the “Global 100: Most Sustainable Corporations in the World” engaged in diverse initiatives throughout the year. In 2014, we will officially of social contribution, LG Electronics intends to expand cases of CSV (Creating for the first time, being ranked 82nd in the list released annually at the World LGE Principles for launch the Executive Council for Sustainability Management, comprised of HQ Shared Value) through social contribution activities that take advantage of our Economic Forum. Sustainability & CSR Management executives in charge of managing CSR issues (labor, human rights, ethics, envicore capabilities, while also strengthening links with our marketing activities. In In addition, LG Electronics received the Best Practice Award in MDGs (Millenronment, and supply chain), to strengthen our task execution and to promote addition, we will enhance the system for collecting opinions of diverse stakeholdnium Development Goals) at the UNGC Value Awards hosted by the UNGC Korea For LG Electronics to earn trust from stakeholders and achieve sustainable growth, we must: inter-departmental collaboration. ers and incorporating their feedback into our business operations. Network. The company was also named as the Asia Future Forum’s East Asia 30, Since 2012, LG Electronics has participated in the LG CSR Committee and LG Electronics fully understands that training and awareness programs are intereceived the Minister of Industry, Trade & Energy Prize at the 2013 Most Loved Management Council led by LG Corp. to establish group-level directions for sogral to incorporating CSR efforts into our business practices. As such, in 2013, Company in Korea Awards, and named one of the 2013 Excellent Businesses in cial contribution and assessing performance, and to improve risk assessment we launched an online training program (in Korean) and included a CSR course Children’s Rights. Strive to become Assume a proactive Take care of our engage and criteria. Our working-level CSR Staff Council consists of CSR managers from a healthy organism role in making the communities and communicate HQ, business companies, and overseas subsidiaries, and is organized into three in the market market ecosystem help those in need with a variety ecosystem. healthier throughout become self-reliant. of stakeholders working-level groups that each handle stakeholder requests and external asour business activities, throughout the sessment, social contribution, and risk management. The council is entrusted including products process. with formulating specific action plans and improvement measures for each area and services. and translating our CSR objectives into actual performance. Midto Long-term Strategic Tasks Organization of LGE Sustainability/CSR Management 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Board of Directors CSR Risk CSR Committee • Include CSR issues in the criteria for regular supplier assessment Management • Develop guidelines for the grievance resolution system • Develop a working hour monitoring system Executive Council for Sustainability Management • Establish & implement a corporate-level business continuity plan ·Set CSR Directions & Select Agendas for CSR Committee ·Make Executive Decisions on CSR Activities Strategic Social • Expand cause marketing products and CSR marketing CSR Team (Coordinator) Contribution Stakeholder Engagement • Promote employee volunteering and donations ·Set CSR Strategies & Policies ·Establish CSR Operations System Share Activities/ 1. Expert Opinions ·Manage Corporate-level CSR Improvement Tasks Solicit Opinions 2. Stakeholder Consultation Stakeholder ·Provide Guidance & Monitor HQ/Subsidiary CSR Activities • Develop and implement guidelines for stakeholder engagement 3. Customer Feedback Engagement ·Conduct Training for HQ/Subsidiary CSR Staff • Strengthen customer engagement from their viewpoint • Improve the environmental data management system and disclosure of the data Working-level CSR Staff Council • Conduct awareness survey on major global stakeholders and monitor their responses Suggestions/ · CSR Strategies & Activities, ·Formulate Action Plans for Corporate-level CSR Strategies & Carry Out Improvement Tasks Feedback Suggestions concerning ·Promote Collaborative Network & Share Best Practice Cases Stakeholder Engagement CSR Change • Operate the Executive Council for Sustainability Management · Sustainability Report Management • Develop and conduct CSR training programs for overseas employees Review & Feedback HQ Business Company Overseas Subsidiary • Establish CSR training as a mandatory training program for Korean employees • Establish the CSR Committee as a subcommittee of the Board of Directors Report Approval 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 20 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 21 Stakeholder Engagement Communication with Stakeholders LG Electronics genuinely seeks stakeholders’ feedback on our comprehensive management efforts – whether it be developing products that strive for both economic and social values, managing the supply chain responsibly, protecting human rights and the environment at our production sites, or making contributions aimed at addressing social issues and strives to incorporate their valuable opinions into our business operations. Guiding Principles and Process Approach to Stakeholder Engagement Take stakeholder engagement as an opportunity to create new Guiding Principles for Stakeholder Engagement business strategies by helping LGE employees understand the Create complexity of the business environment. NGOs/International Shareholders/Investors/ LG Electronics engages with its stakeholders based DifferentiCSR Change Organizations Assessment Agencies on a set of guiding principles born out of its manageated Value Bring about positive changes in external stakeholders’ understandManagement ing and perception of LG Electronics by actively sharing informaLG Electronics partners with We share information on our ment philosophy, and aims to address the concerns NGOs and international CSR efforts through public tion. and meet the expectations of its stakeholders by organizations to utilize our disclosure and seek feedback delivering differentiated value. Our guiding principles Actively collaborate with stakeholders to achieve “Sustainable core capabilities for solving on a direction for improvements for stakeholder engagement are applied to all our Development of Society,” an ultimate goal of both LGE and its community issues. based on assessments. business sites across the world, with consideration stakeholders. Strategic Social Governments/ Customers/ to the social, cultural, and environmental aspects of Contribute to addressing community issues by utilizing resources Contribution Municipalities Media the respective communities. Nevertheless, LG Elecat our disposal (products, technologies, human resources, and LG Electronics fully complies LG Electronics seeks feedback from tronics regards “Respect for Stakeholders” as the Engage capital resources). customers and media outlets on its with the laws and regulations with Stakemost fundamental principle in its engagement with holders set forth by the government of products and services throughout stakeholders. the land in which we operate, their life cycle (from R&D to sales and Seek feedback from internal and external stakeholders on and provides support for their after-sales service), and strives to overall business management activities as well as on our policy initiatives. raise awareness on sustainable and Stakeholder Engagement Process products and services. responsible consumption. LG Electronics formulated its guiding principles for CSR Risk Based on the feedback, identify and address risks. Management stakeholder engagement based on the international standard “AA1000SES (Stakeholder Engagement Reduce Increase the trust of stakeholders in LG Electronics through Buyers Standard),” and engages and collaborates with Risks ongoing communication. Academia/ stakeholders following the process prescribed by Opinion Leaders LG Electronics fully complies with CSR requirements set forth by its the standard. LG Electronics receives feedback Communication with buyers as a responsible member of Following the engagement process, we first priorifrom academia and opinion leaders on the supply chains, and cooperates tize stakeholder groups based on internal standards its CSR activities and improvement Stakeholders with them to develop products and points, and carries out joint research and based on our analysis of opportunities and risks, projects to solve particular services that contribute to solving establish a communication strategy and action plan CSR issues. social and environmental issues. for each stakeholder group. Based on the strategy Stakeholder Engagement Process and action plan in place, we identify the needs and interests of our stakeholders by utilizing a wide Industry Peers Suppliers range of communication channels, and finalize major LG Electronics cooperates with LG Electronics actively supports issues through a materiality analysis. Analyze Identify Assess engagement risk industry peers to make collective reour suppliers’ voluntary CSR If there is a major issue that requires better efforts stakeholders & opportunity sponses to social and environmental efforts by monitoring their CSR on the part of LG Electronics, we communicate and issues through a collaborative netmanagement performance on collaborate with stakeholders to make improvework where LGE shares its success Employees an ongoing basis and providing Plan & Design cases and benchmarks best practices training and consulting support. ments. The results are provided to stakeholders at other companies. LG Electronics promotes the Identify engagement through our disclosure channels (sustainability revoluntary participation of its levels & methods port and corporate website) within a predetermined employees in social contribution time frame. In order to assess the effectiveness of initiatives by raising employee our efforts toward informing stakeholders, LG Elecawareness on CSR and Engage Engagement our CSR activities. tronics actively seeks feedback from major stakeholders, based on which we determine whether LG Electronics successfully identifies stakeholder needs Take Actions Identify key issues Correspondence and incorporates them into its business operations. Evaluate & Review Public reporting Competency building Review 23 R&D for Products that Contribute to Responsible Sourcing & Protection of Employee Labor Rights/ Protection of Customer Rights Both Society and Our Business Supply Chain Management Human Rights and the Environment and Cause Marketing It is our objective to generate financial profits and contribute to addressing Recently, awareness on the importance of building an ethical and sound In order to build a sound supply chain, we must first become a healthy In our marketing communication activities (advertisement, promotion, social and environmental issues through our products and technologies. supply chain from the commodity/parts sourcing stage is increasing organism ourselves in the market ecosystem. As such, LG Electronics and sponsorship), LG Electronics strives for responsible marketing that To this end, we share information with NGOs, international organizations, within the electric and electronic product manufacturing industry. In line maintains ongoing communication with the Labor Union and the Junior protects customer rights. We also partner with NGOs, international and government agencies (receive/provide advice) and partner with these with this growing recognition, LG Electronics is making a wide range of Board to protect employee rights and improve working conditions, and organizations, and media outlets to organize cause marketing programs organizations for joint R&D projects to identify stakeholder needs early on efforts to create a sound market ecosystem, conducting regular CSR makes efforts to protect the environment at and around our production that connect product sales and charitable opportunities, in an effort from the development stage. (labor rights, human rights, environment, health & safety, etc.) assessplants as well as during the production process. We also cooperate with to encourage customers to take part in addressing community issues ment on commodity/parts suppliers and outsourcing service providers, government agencies, municipalities, industry peers and associations, and through product consumption or to participate in social contribution and requiring improvement efforts. Throughout this process, we closely environmental NGOs to establish standards, perform assessment, and programs as volunteers. Going forward, we will promote customer cooperate with industry peers, industry associations, and labor rights & provide consultation. awareness on sustainable consumption, and encourage them to seek human rights NGOs as well as buyers and suppliers to establish CSR asout ethically produced and environmentally friendly products. sessment criteria, perform assessment, and conduct training. Key Directions for 2013 Key Directions for 2013 Key Directions for 2013 ◦ Products Customized for Local Needs: Air conditioners that chase away ◦ Amended the Global Labor Policy, continuously improve on the effectiveness Key Directions for 2013 mosquitos carrying the dengue or malaria virus of the Policy, remove wage deduction from disciplinary options, monitor griev◦ Product safety campaigns targeting customers, product quality ◦ Products for the Underprivileged: Book-reading smartphones for the vision ◦ Fully embrace fair trade practices ance resolution performance, etc. improvement efforts, voluntary recalls, etc. impaired, TVs for the vision and hearing impaired, etc. ◦ Supply chain risk management (CSR audit on high risk suppliers) ◦ Implement risk management efforts at production sites ◦ Cash donations and fundraising based on cause-marketing ◦ Products & Technologies with greener features: Products/technologies certi◦ Establish a conflict minerals management system ◦ Discuss and collaborate to address common industry issues, ◦ Cause marketing programs that connect washing machine sales to charitable fied for high energy efficiency and low carbon emissions, Green Technology ◦ Participate in the industry workgroup to discuss environmental destruction i.e. working hours, hazardous substances/waste management, assessing donations (Mexico) and that link participation in a cooking competition to Certifications, etc. from tin mining in Banka Island, Indonesia business impact on human rights and the environment, etc. donations for female refugees from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) Major Channels & Activities (2013-2014) Stakeholder Group Major Channels & Activities Shareholders/Investors/ General shareholders’ meeting, performance presentation, investor conference, website, management / business report, Assessment Agencies sustainability report / Participated in a number of ESG assessments including the DJSI and the Global 100 Customers/Media Service center, satisfaction survey, promotion event, prosumer program, website, SNS / Media promotion, press event, press conference, interview Employees Open Communication session, LaborManagement Council, Junior Board, CSR Training (On & Offline), internal communication magazine, LG Way Survey, intranet, employee volunteer program Industry Peers Consultation, survey, interview, conference, membership activities of Federation of Korean Industries, Korea Business Council for Sustainable Development, EICC (Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition) issue-specific work groups, Contribution to Solving Local collaboration activities aligned with GeSi (Global e-Sustainability Initiative), and JAC (Joint Audit Corporation) Community Issues Academia/ Consultation, survey, interview, conference, Issue-specific consultants including social and environmental issues, Opinion Leaders consulting for social enterprise KPI research, assessment LG Electronics strives to contribute to achieving the United Nations Millennium Development Goals by helping the underprivileged from less developed countries become financially self-sustainable with our products and technologies. To this end, we seek feedback from government agencies, local residents, academia, and Buyers Presentation, survey, website, sustainability report, response to buyer inquires & requests and CSR audit, opinion leaders and, based on the collected opinions, join forces with NGOs and international organizations to operate partnership programs. participation of buyers in supply chain CSR initiatives We also provide customers and employees with opportunities to take part in addressing community issues through charitable giving and volunteering Suppliers Supplier portal, satisfaction survey & suggestion program, supplier support / cultivation program, Win-Win Growth forum, activities for managing supplier CSR risks and provide CSR training based on the EICC standard, cooperating with due diligence survey on the origin of conflict minerals ◦ LG Hope Series (UN World Food Programme), Vaccine Project in Ethiopia ◦ Talent Cultivation Training Program: Life's Green Class (in partnership with Hanyang UniverGovernments/ Public hearing, consultation, seminar, sustainability report, Partnership for start-up social enterprise support program, (International Vaccine Institute) sity and University of Pune), LG Love School, and Junior Science Class Municipalities development of TVs for the vision and hearing impaired, etc, charitable giving & volunteering ◦ Job Creation: Support Program for Start-up Social Enterprises (in partnership with ◦ Employee Participation Program: Life’s Good Volunteer Group, Life’s Good Day, Executive NGOs/International Public Hearing, consultation, seminar, conference, media promotion , Partnerships with UNWFP, UNEP, and IVI, the Ministry of Employment and Labor, Ministry of Environment, LGE Labor Union, and Contribution Fund, Salary Rounding Fund, etc. Social Solidarity Bank) Organizations development of products customized for local needs 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 24 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 25 Stakeholder Consultation on CSR Key Inputs from Stakeholder Consultation Background Stakeholder The 6th Stakeholder Consultation on CSR (May 8, 2013) Topic: A Review of LG Electronics’ Supplier CSR Risk Management Efforts & In 2010, LG Electronics launched Stakeholder ConThe Role to be Assumed by Businesses sultation to create an opportunity to take stock Moderator : Min Gu Jun (Director, BSI Group Korea) on its sustainability performance across areas and Panel: H  an Kyun Rho (Professor, Business Administration, Kookmin University) build trust-based relationships with stakeholdDae Jin Jeong (Director, Industrial Policy Division, Ministry of Industry, Trade & Energy), Hyeon Sook Lee (President, Hankyoreh Economic Research Institute (HERI)) ers through communication. During the four years Dae Su Jang (CEO, FineAlltech – Supplier Representative) since its introduction, our semiannual Stakeholder Seong Guk Ryu (President, Institute for Supply Management – Korea) Consultation has been held seven times, welcomed more than 40 experts from government agencies, LG Electronics sought opinions from the panel of experts after introducing its support proacademia, investors, NGOs, and international orgrams designed to help suppliers effectively carry out their corporate social responsibilities ganizations, and facilitated discussions on a wide and plans for the calendar year. Panel members positively responded to LG Electronics’ range of issues, including the environment, social Future Direction management philosophy, which conveys the company’s conviction that supplier particicontribution, product safety, labor rights and huIn order to establish Stakeholder Consultation as pation is an integral part in its comprehensive efforts toward fulfilling its responsibilities man rights, and supply chain management. our signature communication program, we plan to as a corporate citizen, and praised its leadership. They also requested that LG Electronics develop its feedback collection process into more continue its efforts toward promoting win-win growth by helping suppliers become selfKey Performance structured and formal procedures. In 2014, we also sustainable and effectively carry out their social responsibilities with strategic support. Stakeholder Consultation created an opportunity intend to expand Stakeholder Consultation from for external stakeholders to freely offer their opinKorea to overseas locations (North America or The 7th Stakeholder Consultation on CSR (October 8, 2013) ions on LG Electronics and helped us collect a broad Topic: CSR Issues that LG Electronics Should Advocate/ Suggestions on Europe), while maintaining its original format and LG Electronics’ Stakeholder Engagement System range of feedback. Also, key suggestions from framework, to facilitate discussions on a wide range Moderator : Min Gu Jun (Director, BSI Group Korea) stakeholders were incorporated into our business of CSR issues with global implications. In addition, Panel: J ae Seong Guak (Professor, Graduate School of Pan-Pacific International Studies, Kyung Hee operations. Stakeholder Consultation has not only we are having internal discussions on expanding University), Jong Dae Kim (Professor, Graduate School of Business Administration, Inha Univerbeen established as a regular channel for collecting the target of our stakeholder engagement to invite sity), Ho Kim (CEO, The LAB h), Seon Ae Jeong (Director, Simin Foundation) stakeholder feedback but also met favorable recepconsumers to make suggestions on product develYong Su Jeong (Senior Technology Council Member, Korea Consumer Agency) tion from stakeholders as a reliable communication opment and marketing activities, and to offer their program, based on our efforts to follow up on progopinions on specific CSR issues through a commuLG Electronics sought opinions from the panel of experts regarding CSR issues that it ress and communicate the information through our nication program similar to a public hearing. should advocate and its stakeholder engagement system. Panel members favorably responded to LG Electronics’ efforts to engage and communicate with stakeholders, and sustainability report and corporate website. Consultation on CSR suggested that LG should develop CSR programs that are exclusive to LG Electronics and carry them out with consistency. Stakeholder Consultation: Key Progress & Performance Key Inputs from the 6th & 7th Stakeholder Consultation & Plans to Incorporate the Results Category Key Inputs Plans & Actions 6th Expanding • Needs to expand management targets within first tier suppliers • Selected management targets and plans to track their progress 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Management Scope • Needs to expand CSR risk management targets to secondand over a three-year period In supply chain third-tier suppliers • Requires major first-tier suppliers to manage second-tier suppliers Needs to make preemptive responses to social changes (Management program is under review) Discussion Topic • Needs to strengthen support for environmental management • Strengthened the environmental portion of CSR audit The 1st (April 2010) • Joined EICC (2010-Present) • Established Tracking and Management System for Conflict Minerals (2012-2013) • Provides suppliers with support to enhance their disaster prevention capacity, CSR in General • Established/Announced Global Labor Policy (2010-Present) • Strengthened Product Stewardship (2013-Present) i.e. emergency evacuation drill • Launched Global Volunteer Day (2010-Present) • Enhanced Evaluation System for Products with Greener Features (2013-Present) Refining CSR Risk • Should avoid applying identical assessment criteria uniformly to all suppliers • Currently in the process of developing an internal checklist based on • Established CSR Risk Management System (2010-Present) • Launched Workday Volunteer Program (2013-Present) Management the EICC Audit Checklist The 2nd • L aunched USR Promotion for Low-Carbon Culture (2010-Present) (December 2010) System • Needs to incorporate CSR performance index to purchasing KPI • Introduced CSR items to screening criteria for new suppliers • Launched Life's Green Class in India (2010-Present) Climate Change • Announced Low Carbon Procurement Plan (2010-Present) (implementation completed)/Preparing to introduce CSR items to • L aunched Collegiate CSR Supporters Group (Love Genie) Response • E xpanded Disclosure of Product Carbon Footprint (2010-Present) (2014-Present) our regular supplier assessment • E stablished/Announced Supplier Code of Conduct (2010-Present) • E xpand Stakeholder Consultation to Overseas Locations 7th Strengthening • Needs to modify the governance process to facilitate strategic/ • Report CSR issues to the BOD (2H, 2014) The 3rd (March 2011) Governance executive decision making regarding CSR issues (Planned for 2014) Social Contribution to Local Communities • Launch Consumer Consultation (Planned for 2014) Structure for • Needs to establish a process to address internal CSR issues • CSR issues are being presented to the management meeting at • L aunch Consumer Participation Campaign (Planned for 2014) Strategic Decision Needs to have in place a system in which CSR issues and the voice of stakeholders each business company The 4th (April 2012) • Launched LG Hope Family Program (2011-2013) Making are reported to management and incorporated into business management • CSR issues are being presented to top management (per issue) Product Safety/Quality Factors to • Needs to establish a process to incorporate consumer feedback • Currently conducts consumer survey at each country on an annual basis • Launched Start-Up Social Enterprise Support Program (2011-2013) • Launched LG Smart TV Donation App (2011-2012) Consider When Needs a process for conducting consumer awareness survey at each country (orgainized by the marketing department) The 5th • Included CSR Requirements in Master Purchase Agreement (2011-Present) Engaging with and incorporating the results into product development • Currently operates online channels (i.e. blog) to collect consumer opinions / (November 2012) Stakeholders With the importance of UX (User Experience) on the rise, needs to diversify Plans to host Consumer Consultation (organized by the CSR team) Labor Rights/Human communication channels to establish consumers as a major stakeholder group (2H, 2014) Rights • Reported CSR Issues at BOD (2012-Present) • Need to make changes to the format of Stakeholder Consultation • Currently in the process of reviewing format changes to Stakeholder • Launched LG Hope Community Program (2012-Present) Needs to establish and maintain an advisory board comprised of experts who Consultation The 6th (May 2013) • Launched LG Hope Screen (2012-Present) Supplier CSR have no vested interest/ Collect feedback from interested parties through a • Implemented Product Safety Evaluation with New Product Shipment Approval System (2012-Present) Management • Enhanced Parts Safety with Key Parts Certification System (2012-Present) separate channel • Introduced Product Safety Expert Course to Quality College Curriculum (2012-Present) Other • Need to focus on particular issues • Currently carrying out R&D projects in partnership with academia to The 7th • Strengthened Supplier CSR Risk Management (2012-Present) The panel suggested a joint management model based on collaboration with expert develop substitutes for hazardous materials (October 2013) • Launched Job-Specific CSR Training (2012-Present) NGOs • Currently working to enhance the EESH management system at Stakeholder Engagement System • Percentage of non-regular workers and student workers is on the rise in the our overseas sites electronics manufacturing industry, which requires systematic response and • Established a system for human rights/labor rights management at management productions sites and suppliers, and currently carrying out monitoring 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 26 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 27 Materiality Analysis LGE Materiality Analysis Process External Expert Survey (2013) Analysis Results of External Stakeholder our purchase agreement to include provisions that Inquiries & Requests (2013) require suppliers to comply with our CSR requireIn November 2013, we conducted a survey of over 300 Koments, established CSR self-assessment as a manGovernment/ Investor/ rean and international experts in Corporate Social Respondatory requirement for our first-tier suppliers, and Materiality Analysis Process Buyer/ 8 (9%) Inernational Assessment 1 sibility (CSR), requesting them to rate LG Electronics’ CSR established an origin tracking system for conflict LG Electronics performs a materiality analysis to Supplier management and make suggestions for its future CSR ef6 (7%) Other Organization Agency Organize the NGOs minerals (For more details, see p.60-65) systematically manage important CSR issues based Issue Pool forts. The results were incorporated into our sustainability Since September 2013, we have operated a shorton the “Five-Part Materiality Test” of AA1000SES report and materiality analysis. (Incorporate 8 (9%) term (2 months) taskforce to promote stakeholder (Stakeholder Engagement Standard). We identify Customer/ Industry/ Employee Stakeholder Strengths of LGE’s CSR Activities Investors engagement. Based on the taskforce assessment, material issues through a two-step process: First, Media Academia Opinions & Trends) LGE makes CSR efforts from a global perspective, we decided to host Stakeholder Consultation at we create an issue pool by carefully reviewing latest i.e. joining forces with international organizations to resolve Inquiries by overseas locations (North America and Europe), as CSR trends at Korea and overseas, after which we certain global issues Organization well as in Korea. In the second half of 2014, we plan LGE produced great results in promoting employee awareness on (88 Cases perform an assessment based on stakeholder interCSR issues and establishing the CSR management system to produce and distribute a stakeholder engagement est and impact on LG Electronics. Material issues, in Total) operational manual for working-level staff from relIssue Issue Issue which are finalized after a review by the manageExternal Criteria Suggestions for LGE’s CSR Efforts evant departments and conduct training. Also, we ment and the assurer, are fully disclosed, along with (Stakeholder Interest) LG Electronics should: plan to launch Consumer Consultation, in which a detailed review of our performances and directions Make more consistent efforts toward meeting targets 66 (75%) the company leadership is provided with an opporconcerning these issues, in the sustainability report for each area and disclosing related performances Make more efforts toward developing technologies Buyers tunity to directly communicate with consumers and and the corporate website. Material issues are also 2 and products for BOP (Bottom of the Pyramid: collect their feedback, and a public announcement presented at our Stakeholder Consultation as key Issue Issue Set Priorities Underprivileged Population from Less Developed Nations) campaign, which invites the participation of diverse agenda and utilized in establishing our environmenInternal Crieria (Identify Unit: No. of Cases (%) Manage suppliers to promote the voluntary adoption *Other : Government Agencies, stakeholders, including consumers. tal and social contribution programs and formulat(Impact on LGE) Material Issues) of CSR efforts throughout the supply chain International Organizations, Academia, etc. In 2014, related departments from HQ and business ing marketing campaigns as an important reference. Strive for CSR efforts tailored for each local community to strengthen its community engagement companies will collaborate to establish corporatelevel improvement tasks based on the 2013 maMateriality Analysis Criteria Inquiry Topics % teriality analysis results, and our progress and perThe criteria for our material analysis consist of exExternal Stakeholder Inquiry Conflict Minerals 20 Material Issue formance will be shared with stakeholders through ternal standards (industry standard, stakeholder ESH (Environment, Safety & Health ) 18 next year’s edition of our sustainability report. interest, and social norms) and internal standards A total of 88 inquiries were made on CSR issues by exterCSR Management System 15 (short-term financial impact and internal policy/ nal stakeholders, up by 26 cases (approximately 42%) from Supply Chain Management 12 awareness). In order to make an objective assessthe previous year. Our management efforts toward conflict Energy/Climate Strategy 10 minerals, ESH, and suppliers were the issues of greatest Labor Rights/Human Rights 10 ment on one of the key factors, stakeholder interest, interest. LG Electronics makes its best effort to provide we conduct surveys on experts, the public, and emOther 15 satisfactory responses to these inquiries and to incorporate ployees, and perform analysis of stakeholder consulLGE Materiality Analysis Criteria them into our business operations by reporting important *Other : Protection of Information, Ethics Issues, tation results, external stakeholder inquires, media issues to management. Social Contributions, etc. coverage, and benchmarking issues of the industry. Five-Part Materiality Test Criteria Factors Considered by LGE External A. Industry Standard · EICC Code of Conduct & 2013 Materiality Analysis Results (Assessment/Evaluation Index) Self-Assessment Questionnaire In the areas of the environment, customer and fair · DJSI, FTSE4Good, Global 100 2013-2014 Materiality Analysis Matrix B. Stakeholder Interest · Stakeholder Inquiries trade, our analysis showed that “Reducing GHG (Buyers, Investors, NGOs, etc.) Emissions,” “Developing Highly Energy Efficient · Expert Survey, Stakeholder Consultation Products,” and “Product Stewardship (Assuming C. Social Norms · ISO 26000, UNGC 10 Principles Reduce GHG Emissions Greater Responsibility for Product Defect/Post-Ac· GRI, SASB, OECD Guidelines Develop Highly Energy Efficient Products cident Responses)” are still considered as highly ma· SA 8000, ISO 9001/14001 Extremely Guarantee Basic Labor Rights terial to our stakeholders. Based on the analysis reInternal D. Short-term Financial Impact · Internal Criteria for Risk Assessment Promote Labor Relations/Internal Grievance Important sults, we also anticipate that “Responsible Sourcing” E. Internal Policy/Awareness · Existence of Policy, Employee Survey Resolution and “Labor Rights/Human Rights” – emerging issues · Management (CEO) Awareness Very Important Manage Labor Rights/Human Establish Fair Trade Practices in the electronics industry, will continue to generate Raise Corruption/Cartel Awareness Important Rights Risks in Supply Chain active discussions and initiate international efforts Develop Human Capital & · EICC: Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Strengthen Engagement with Communities in 2014, while “Greater Efforts toward Engage· DJSI: Dow Jones Sustainability Indices Promote Diversity Promote Collaboration with Governments, ment and Communication with Local Governments/ · FTSE4Good Index: A series of ethical investment stock market indices Strive for Family-Friendly NGOs, & International Organizations NGOs/International Organizations” and “Develop· Global 100: Most Sustainable Corporations in the World Management Develop Products/Services Customized for · ISO 26000: International Standard on Social Responsibility ing Products/Services that Satisfy Local Needs” Local Needs Stakeholder Interest Promote e-Waste · UNGC (UN Global Compact): The UN initiative for social responsibility are gaining weight as important community issues. · GRI (Global Reporting Initiative): International standard for preparing corporate sustainability report Take-Back & Recycling Strengthen Product Stewardship Replace Hazardous Additionally, issues such as “Developing Products/ · SASB: Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Substances Contained in (Defect/Post-Accident Response) Services for the Underprivileged,” “Improving Access · OECD Guidelines : Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises Participate in Provide Accurate Product/Service Information Products · SA (Social Accountability) 8000: A certification for ethical and socially responsible management system (Fair Marketing Practice) for the Underprivileged,” “Protecting Children/TeenInternational Labor Reduce Waste/Discharge Rights Initiatives Develop Green Business & agers from Harmful Information,” and “Promoting Support Employment Technologies Supplier Diversity” have newly emerged. Opportunities for the Increase Donations/Contributions to Communities Underprivileged Raise Supplier Awareness Develop Products/ Utilization of Materiality Analysis Results & on CSR Services for Low Income Families Customer Respect Rights to Support Public Policy Direction for Stakeholder Engagement LG Way Survey Results (%, 40,353 Korean and overseas employees responded) Intellectual Property related (i.e. Anti-Trust) Conduct Training on Product Safety & Health Environment Based on the 2012-2013 materiality analysis reto Business Manage Conflict Minerals Strengthen Protection of Customer Information sults, LG Electronics incorporated “Guarantee of Q: LG Electronics is fully aware of the materiality of social, Promote Supplier Fair Trade Workforce Diversity Basic Labor Rights (prohibition of child/forced labor environmental and financial responsibilities of a business. Community and discrimination, and respect for diversity), and Promote Local Economy Improve Resource Efficiency Improve Accessibility for the Underprivileged Labor Rights/ “Promotion of Supplier CSR” into its corporate-level 2011 Expand Educational/ Reduce Water Use Raise Awareness on Responsible Consumption Human Rights 72 Cultural Opportunities for Protect Biodiversity & Protect Children/Teenagers from improvement tasks for 2013. In order to increase Local Residents Enhance Local Environment Harmful Information the effect of our Global Labor Policy, we have imple2012 73 NEW mented a plan to progressively remove wage deduc2013 75 tion from disciplinary options and conducted a due Impact on LG Electronics diligence survey on working hours. We also changed 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 28 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 29 Key Progress and Supported by its global network spread across the world, LG Electronics has strived to engage and collaborate with diverse stakeholders and to enhance the performance of its CSR initiatives. In particular, we have been making consistent efforts to achieve performance midto long-term goals, which were set for key issues from each area, in order to maximize the efficiency of our programs. As a result, our CSR activities continue to grow in value and significance for all our stakeholders. Category Material CSR Issues Background & Implications Mid to Long Term Objectives Major Achievements in 2013 Future Directions Customer Product Safety & 1) Nations across the globe are implementing increasingly 1) Strive to become a brand recognized by customers for the world’s 1) Honored with the Presidential Commendation on the 2013 Product Safety Day 1) Raise employee awareness on product safety and establish accountability Personal Information tougher regulations on product safety best quality products 2) Expanded the safety certification/approval system down to key parts 2) Create a corporate culture that puts products safety as the first priority Protection 2) Voluntary efforts for product safety and corporate 2) Achieve the world’s best product quality/safety 3) Conducted in-class quality training (142 sessions, 5,264 employees) social responsibility are expanding in breadth and depth 4) Conducted a corporate-level annual assessment of personal information management 3) CEO’s strong and unwavering commitment toward quality 4) New risks emerge as the adoption of new technologies increases Environment Product with 1) Customer interest and demand for 1) Enhance energy efficiency 1) Awarded the top honor “Sustained Excellence Award” at the 1) Continuously strengthen the standards for products with greener features Greener Features greener products are growing sharply 2) Reduce 60 million tons of production-level GHG emissions 2014 ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year Awards 2) Reduce GHG emissions associated with product use by 2) Greener products are improving the quality of by 2020 (compared to the total energy consumption in 2007) 649 ENERGY STAR models in 2013/The number of product models qualified for improving energy efficiency customers’ lives, i.e. lower electric bills, 3) Increase the use of recycled materials and enhance the ENERGY STAR Most Efficient increased by approx. 55% from the previous year 3) Increase and improve disclosure of product carbon footprint information a healthier living environment, etc. e-waste management system 2) The number of product models with low carbon labels increased/ 4) Increase e-waste recycling/the use of recycled materials 3) Environmental regulations on products are growing in Achieved use-level GHG emissions reduction targets ahead of schedule 5) Expand efforts for voluntary replacement of hazardous substances numbers and implications, i.e. RoHS, REACH, WEEE, Acquired 218 low-carbon labels (cumulative) at home and abroad regulations on energy efficiency, etc. Contributed to reducing 38 million tons of GHG emissions associated with product use 3) Implemented the Green Packaging Design Guidelines to all products Reduced package usage by 27.6%, saving KRW 69.9 billion 4) Collected 183,182 tons of e-waste Korea, Japan, Europe, U.S., Australia, India, and Brazil Low Carbon 1) Demand for and regulations on voluntary energy/ 1) Reduce 150,000 tons of production-level GHG 1) Reduced 199K tons of GHG emissions associated with production 1) Expand GHG/energy management and reduction efforts Management & GHG reduction efforts are becoming stronger emissions by 2020 (compared to 2008) 2) Improved 13.0% of water use compared to 2012 across business processes EESH Management 2) Minimizing negative environmental impacts created by 2) Reduce water use by 20% by 2020 (compared to 2007, 3) Obtained an approval on the UNFCCC CDM project 2) Increase the effectiveness of the Global EESH System business activities and contributing to the development Intensity target per revenue in KRW) (production and sale of highly efficient refrigerators in India) 3) Achieve zero waste of local communities have become established as 3) Further enhance the Global EESH Management System 4) Established a corporate-level chemical management system 4) Strengthen fire prevention and risk management systems prevailing corporate value 4) Enhance EESH management at overseas locations 5) Lowered annual potential losses associated with fire risks by 65.5% 3) Large-scale accidents/natural disasters heightened 6) Received the Grand Prize at the Korea Green Company Awards social awareness on safety and the environment 2013 (Changwon Site) Supplier Win-Win Growth & 1) Social awareness on win-win growth has increased 1) Implement the risk management system based on 1) Introduced CSR requirements to screening criteria for prospective suppliers 1) Strengthen the onsite CSR audit program Conflict Minerals 2) Inadequate supply chain CSR risk management may the EICC standard HR & labor, EESH, and site management 2) Expand the scope of supplier CSR management by enhancing the capability impact a company retroactively Conduct regular risk assessment/ 2) Conducted a paper audit (201 suppliers) and onsite consulting (9 suppliers) of departments that are responsible for supplier management 3) An international concern for illegal mining (i.e. conflict implement corrective actions 3) Implemented the Conflict Mineral Management Systems (CMMS) 3) Support suppliers to strengthen their capability in CSR risk management minerals) and child labor is growing continuously Conduct an audit on 25% of major suppliers from 4) Identified smelters that use conflict minerals (217) and conducted training on 4) Make an effective use of the CMMS in our business operations Related laws and regulations went into effect in the the high-risk group regulatory response to conflict minerals for more than 400 suppliers 5) Track the origin of all conflict minerals used in products United States (2012), and legislation is underway in 2) Establish a system for regulatory response to Europe (Draft bill in 2014) the conflict minerals issue Community Social Contribution 1) Communities and diverse stakeholders are increasingly 1) Contribute to achieving the UN Millennium 1) Global social contribution activities (53 sites from 35 countries) 1) Develop good products and technologies that demanding greater business involvement in addressing Development Goals (MDGs) 2) Support Program for Start-up Social Enterprises contribute to solving social issues in local communities social issues 2) Contribute to addressing community issues by in the Environment Sector (27 enterprises, 1.75 billion KRW) 2) Contribute to fostering young talents from 2) Shift in perspective: View social contribution not only utilizing our products and infrastructures 3) Introduced Workday Volunteer Program (Korea, 773 employees/4,208 hours) underprivileged backgrounds in emerging and developing countries as an act of charitable giving but also as a chance 3) Establish a system that promotes and 4) Made social contribution with our products 3) Promote employees’ voluntary participation in charitable giving to discover new business opportunities supports employee participation Book-reading mobile phone, LG Hope Screen, Mouse scanner, etc. 3) Employee participation in social contribution initiatives lead to an increased sense of pride Employee Corporate Culture & 1) Work-life balance has a positive impact on employee 1) Establish a corporate culture that promotes work-life balance 1) Promoted work-life balance programs: 1) Create a corporate culture that promotes work-life balance Protection of Labor Rights satisfaction and productivity 2) Bring the risk level down to low at all production facilities Family Day, Employee Family Care Program, etc. 2) Expand third party CSR audit to a greater number of production sites 2) Protecting employees’ labor rights lead to enhanced 3) Strengthen internal regulations to meet the EICC standard 2) Expanded and promoted communication programs 3) Improve the system for labor rights protection productivity and quality 3) 33 production facilities (85%) were rated to be at “low” risk Grievance resolution system, labor rights/ 3) Failure to comply with laws and regulations may lead to 4) Conducted due diligence survey on working hours at all human rights impact assessment, etc. a loss of consumer confidence as well as financial losses overseas subsidiaries and analyzed the data 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 30 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 31 Boundary With Customer Government our Customers Customer NGO Subsidiary Investor Communications Communicating LG Brand Identity: orga ni z ati on Community Supplier “It’s All Possible” & “LG Red Circle” In order to highlight the Company’s dedication to Employee Affiliate delivering differentiated values that customers truly need and want, LG Electronics has introduced a new Brand Identity (BI)1) redefined from the cusInternational tomers’ perspective. Unveiled in August 2013, the Organization new BI introduces the new slogan “It’s All Possible” OUTSide of the to convey the values that it stands for, and the organization newly added “LG Red Circle” to visually support the message. The new BI system is being implemented to all LG brand and product campaigns across the globe to ensure more powerful and consistent customer communications. OUR FOCUS O U R Perfor m a n ce According to the 2013 Materiality Analysis, Delivering Consistent Brand Image across Marketing based on Customer Insight our stakeholders regard Customer Contact Points 142 In order to further establish LG Electronics as a pre1) Strengthening Product Liability Functions (Defect/Post-Accident Response) and In conjunction with the new BI, we established a mium brand and to form stronger emotional bonds sessions store identity for the sales floor, one of the key cuswith our customers, we are sponsoring a wide 2) Providing Accurate Product/Service Information 5,264 as the most important issues, tomer contact points, to express our strong confirange of internationally celebrated sporting events The LG Red Circle symbolizes a “lens” as well as a while benchmarking against industry peers dence in the LG brand and to enable consumers to and sports teams, such as Bayer 04 Leverkusen of “window,” through which customers and revealed that “Protection of Customer individuals experience our powerful product technology at an the Bundesliga, arguably the most exciting profesLG Electronics look at each other. Information” is newly emerging as a critical issue. In-Class Quality Training intuitive level before making a purchase. sional football league in the world, and the InterTo make it easier for customers to purchase our national Cricket Council, the governing body of products, we are also increasing the number of LG the most popular sport in Central and South West O U R A p p roac h brand shops in growth markets, and opening up Asia. Thanks in great part to our sports sponsorEveryone at LG Electronics puts consumer safety specialty electronics stores offering LG products ships, young people around the world are embrac1) N  ew Brand Identity*: Redefined based on the core value as the first and foremost priority and makes “Delivering values that customers truly need and want,” in major markets. In addition, we have strengthing LG as an exciting brand. We are also featuring every effort to prevent issues arising from product the new LG brand identity is built on the following defects. We also have in place an integrated ened sales staff training to increase productivity LG brand and product advertisements at the home concepts: “Customer Value (Inspired, Empowered, and security monitoring system to better protect and provide excellent service on the sales floor. By stadium of Major League baseball club, the Los AnSmiling),” verbal messages translating LG’s own unique pursuing these marketing activities with renewed geles Dodgers to reach out to the fans of various emotional values into the language spoken by customer information. customers; “ Brand Promise (Innovation that makes you energy and consistency, LG Electronics is striving to sports as a global brand and deliver a consistent SMILE),” the very reason why customers choose LG; and 96% become more accessible to its customers and posibrand message to consumers worldwide. In addi“Brand Vision (Life’s Good),” the ultimate goal and tion itself as a market-leading brand. tion, we are raising our profile as a premium brand purpose of the LG brand. At Marriott, we believe that with an in the global market by sponsoring professional (*Brand Identity: Visual elements that establish and increase in global travel we play a vital role reinforce the distinctive brand image carefully fashioned Employee Training on golfers Ja Young Kim and Bo Mee Lee. and consistently maintained by businesses) O U R E v a l ua t i o n Personal Information in creating a more sustainable future. By LG Electronics continuously strengthens its product Protection participating in the MindClick Hospitality quality and safety management system and strives Sustainability Performance (HSP) Index, to deliver highly safe products to customers. To LG Electronics is contributing significantly this end, we carefully collect and manage the voice to Marriott’s commitment to green of customers and conduct customer satisfaction its supply chain and to furnish hotels surveys. Since 2009, we have operated a team in ways that are better for its guests, dedicated to protecting our customers’ personal its communities and the environment. information and implemented a wide range of initiatives that are designed to prevent breaches of We believe that we have a shared personal information. responsibility to protect the environment, Presidential Regular Performance and our alliance with LG since 2005 has Customer Communications Commendation Assessment on advanced our collective goals of reducing 1.2 “Product Safety Day” Personal Information environmental impact and enhancing Consistency in customer Protection the quality of life for Marriott guests. communications improved That’s why we honored LG with Marriott with the LG brand identity International’s Supplier Sustainability F u t ure d i rec t i o n Award. 3.4 Consistency at points of contact 1 3 5 enhanced with the shop identity 1 2 3  5.6   Brand profile and image raised Ensure that all employees Create a corporate culture Support suppliers to establish through sports sponsorships have heightened awareness on that puts product safety an information security Vice President, Procurement, product safety and Marriott International, Inc. as the first priority management system assume accountability David Lippert 2 4 6 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 32 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 33 Improving Communication with Customer Service Increasing Customer Value with Careful “VOC” Management Overseas VOC in 2013 (Unit: %) In Korea, to address customer needs arising from Since 2012, LG Electronics has continued to imchanges in lifestyle and increased use of smart deprove its survey process for the Net Promoter 2 vices, we offer a wide range of content and remote Score (NPS) to manage “Voice of the Customer Services Wrap-up 1 service features on our website (for PC and mobile Service Center app) to equip our customers with information on (VOC)” more effectively. In 2013, we conducted 2 Atmosphere Parts Related self-diagnosis and repair, and help them take care approximately 240,000 cases of the survey on Issues overseas customers and incorporated the findings 10 of simple product issues themselves. We also offer into our activities for increasing customer satisfac3 Other repair service on weekends and holidays for mobile Late tion, such as strength/weakness analysis and serAppearance to 28 handset products as part of our efforts to estabRepair Cost lish a service environment that ensures service is vice process improvement. In Korea, we conducted Appointment a Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) survey on ser4 provided regardless of time and location. vice recipients to assess the customer satisfaction Inadequate Technical level at every step of our service process. Competence Delivering Customer Delight: Free Repair Service Enhancing Global Service Quality In order to further enhance the customer expewith Direct Service 6 rience, LG Electronics offers free repair service In an effort to strengthen its global service infraInadequate programs both on a regular and irregular basis. In Service 2013, we operated the LG Service Camp in the structure, LG Electronics is actively expanding its own directly managed service center networks Philippines to provide free repair service to victims Digital Marketing Ultra Reality (HD TV) in major cities around the world. The new service 7 21 from areas hit hard by typhoons and earthquakes. Incomplete In June 2013, we visited Fischbeck, which suffered As a response to dramatic changes in digital media This viral video was conceived from the elementary locations have quickly stabilized their operations Information 16 Processing Recurring Issues Delay the most damages from the massive flooding in trends and resulting shifts in customer needs, LG but pertinent question: “Will we be able to deliver and helped us enhance our service quality in global Electronics employs a wide variety of digital media an effective marketing message about superb markets. In 2013, 40% of service requests were Germany, and handled more than 700 repair retechniques to customer communications. In addipicture quality through media that are incapable handled by directly managed service locations, up quests over two weeks. We also set up a free launOther (System, Policy, ARS, tion to offering comprehensive brand and product of recreating the actual experience?” Instead of 10% from the previous year. We were also able to Appearance of Service Personnel) dry facility at the local city hall to provide support information at our corporate website (Korea: www. explaining product features directly, we came up reduce the time required for completing a service and convenience for the flooding victims. lge.co.kr, Global: www.lg.com), we flexibly implewith the idea of featuring meteorites on the story request to within four days. In Korea, we increased In addition to the victims of natural disasters, LG ment a wide range of techniques and media (i.e. to capture viewers’ dramatic responses to our Ultra the rate of same-day service up to the 60% range Electronics offers free repair service to those social media, viral videos, consumer participation HD TVs. through our ongoing efforts towards high quality receipt of a service request, schedule a service visit in need, aiming to deliver service that “wins the campaigns, loyalty programs, etc.) to best accomand speedy service. in less than 1 minute; ▲ keep scheduled service hearts of customers.” We provide free repair serwww.lg.com/global/insidemodate each given digital channel, thus achievlg/the-worst-thingappointments; and ▲take care of the issue with vice through service buses that tour throughout ing differentiated customer communications and to-happen-during-ajob-interview “Customized and Differentiated Service” a single service visit. “Kuaile (Happy)” conveys our regions with poor infrastructure, such as Africa and building customer trust in the LG brand. that Respects Cultural Difference commitment for pleasant and delightful service South America, while offering the same service to LG Electronics is raising its brand profile with serthat exceeds satisfaction. In the Shenyang region, households composed only of grandparent-grandHidden Worlds vice programs carefully designed to satisfy cuswhere 18 service vehicles from 6 service locachild families or teenagers in Korea, as part of our This campaign was created to deliver a captivatAre elevators really safe? tomer needs that vary from culture to culture. In tions are in operation, minivans have been chosen employee talent donation programs. ing and visually powerful representation of LG Supported by a 178° wide viewing angle, the LG China, the “101 Kuaile (Happy)” Service was introto protect service engineers and products from a Electronics’ superb Ultra HD technology. The video IPS Monitor offers unrivaled color accuracy and duced to promote our brand image, as well as to harsh winter climate. In Qingdao and Nanjing, 80 seamlessly incorporates our cutting edge products, maintains superb picture quality from all viewing provide speedy and accurate service. “101” stands electric motor bikes are used to increase speed and such as the Curved OLED TV and the Ultra HD TV, angles. To highlight the monitor’s vivid and authenfor our promise to customers that we will ▲ upon mobility. into the story, naturally introducing LG Electronics’ tic color representation, we came up with a story next-generation display products to viewers. It is about people who are trapped in a free-falling elalso designed to help viewers indirectly experience evator and scrambling their way to the safety of some of the G2 smartphone’s UX features, includthe four corners. ing control buttons on the back and KnockOn. www.youtube.com/watch?v=MZfpC3Di4rY www.facebook.com/theLGstory 1 Global Customer Service Activities 2 3 1. China: Launching Ceremony and Service Vehicles for the “101 Kuaile” Service 1. Social Media Campaign “Hidden Worlds” 2. Korea: Free Repair Service Bus 3. Germany: Support for 2. Viral Video for the LG Ultra HD TV Flooding Victims 3. “Are elevators really safe?” Promotional Video for the LG IPS Monitor 1 2 3 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 34 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 35 Developing Products Case Study Offering Greater Accessibility to the Disabled Accessibility Improvement Cases LGE Process for Developing Technologies/Products In order to ensure that all consumer groups, from the non-disabled to the disabled and elderlies, can enjoy the full benefits and conveniences offered by Task Force Dedicated to Improving duced our products’ accessibility for the disabled at for Improving Accessibility for the Disabled mobile technologies and smart devices, LG Electronics is developing accessibility features for the disabled and implementing them to its products with Access for the Disabled meetings with disability organizations, and actively a particular focus on smartphones and smart TVs. As part of our efforts to create customer value for all smart device user groups, we have developed Advances in awareness and technology have also incorporated feedback from customers with vision, the “LG HomeChat”1) smart home system, a messaging service that links smartphones and appliances to allow users to control their appliances with brought about advances in policies and systems for hearing, and physical disabilities. In July 2013, LG their smartphones. the disabled and changes to the welfare environAnalyze trends in Electronics signed an MOU4) with the Korea Blind accessibility for Union to facilitate ongoing monitoring. In August ment. In line with such social advances, we are also working hard to ensure that all customer groups the disabled the same year, we signed an MOU with the QualSmart Phone Identify customer/ Movement enjoy the full benefits and conveniences offered market needs ity of Life Technology (QoLT)5) Center at Seoul • Supplementary Menu by our products. To this end, we have established a Operate exchange sessions 1 National University to further expand technology • Time Length for Press and Hold plan to improve accessibility1) for the disabled and with disability organizations/ exchange with expert groups on accessibility for • Knock-On are exploring measures to achieve this meaningful associations the disabled at Korea and overseas, including the goal. As part of our efforts, we created a corporatePerform expert analysis based QoLT Center in the United States. Our extensive efHearing on consulting from expert forts in this area also include usability assessment level Task Force Team (TFT) dedicated to the issue, organizations on accessibility • Hearing Aid • Sound Balance and established a technology and product developon electronic products, web accessibility6) improve• Mono Audio • Mute Visual ment process designed specifically to improve acment, provision of expert advice on domestic and • Flash Light Alert • Video Call (Sign Language) • Vibration Mode • Option for Caption Display • Talkback: An accessibility feature that provides a cessibility for the disabled. We are also proactively international regulations concerning the disabled Identify items for voice-reading of text (directions and tips) appearing implementing a broad range of measures, both expansion/development and related technology, and support for academic on the device screen, enabling visually-impaired in product development and customer service, Identify new software/ exchanges on accessibility for the disabled. In Febusers to make use of device features ruary 2014, we also established and awarded the • Voice Recognition & Voice Support to increase accessibility for the disabled, includhardware features for 2 • Screen Zoom In & Brightness Adjustment ing developing accessibility functions, producing each product group LG Electronics Prize for a QoLT contest (concerning • Call Termination with Power Button Braille manuals, and operating an exclusive service Implement a website/Establish accessibility for the disabled) hosted by HCI7) Korea • Letter Size & Type Face Adjustment window for the disabled at our customer centers. and implement an expansion as part of our sponsorship for the event. Recognition & Other • Color Inversion plan for customer service In addition, we are conducting workshops on the • Input Control topic for employees from relevant departments • Speaker Phone 1) Accessibility: The degree to which a facility, (R&D, User Experience, Customer Center, Product transportation means, product, service, right or Quality, etc.) to raise organizational awareness. Establish and implement an expansion plan environment (i.e. information telecommunications Hearing network) is available to as many people as possible. In Collecting Feedback from Customers -D evelop accessibility features many cases, it is viewed as the ability of the socially TV • Caption Service • Video Call Helper: Offers voice to text conversion for the disabled/Introduce a vulnerable (i.e. the disabled, elderlies, pregnant General Accessibility with Disabilities & Strengthening service to help users with speech or hearing review process women, etc.) to access and benefit from some system 3 or entity disorders use video call without difficulties Network at Korea and Overseas -C onduct functional • Accessibility App (Start up Wizard): • Clear Voice: Offers sound optimized for the conformity tests 2) NCAM: The Carl and Ruth Shapiro Family National An app that enables easy control of features In an effort to develop products that offer clear Center for Accessible Media at WGBH, A U.S. media hearing ability of the user by minimizing the Provide web accessibility/ • Easy Access: Functions that support easy background noise benefits and conveniences to the disabled, LG organization for the disabled access to accessibility features Braille manuals 3) Wiley & Rein LLP.: A U.S. law firm that provides LG Electronics is pursuing regular technology ex(via remote control or voice command) Electronics with legal counseling on U.S. regulations changes and consultations with external expert 4) MOU: Memorandum of Understanding Movement groups, such as research institutions, academia, 5) QoLT (Quality of Life Technology) Center: A research • Voice Recognition: A voice-to-text and disability organizations. These exchanges and Collect VOC8) institute dedicated to improving the quality of life for Visual conversion feature Establish an exclusive service the disabled • Remote Control: Features a wheel scroll to consultations enable us to pinpoint their needs • Talkback desk for the disabled at the 6) Web Accessibility: An inclusive practice of removing • Zoom In: Magnifying Function help users who have difficulties in and identify improvement points. In 2013, we customer center barriers that prevent access to websites by specific controlling the cursor • Voice Recognition & Voice Support conducted a conformity assessment and review Hold regular meetings with 4 user groups (i.e. people with disabilities, elderlies, etc.) • Letter Size Adjustment • Time Length for Point & Hold: Allows users to on our products to evaluate their accessibility for through designing, developing and editing websites to set time length required for the long-press disability organizations • Conversion to Black & White Color Adjustment provide all users with equal access to information and recognition feature the disabled, together with consulting from the Conduct user tests designed functionality regardless of their software/hardware • Guide Dots on Remote Control • Intuitive Icon Design Carl and Ruth Shapiro Family National Center for for the disabled environment (operating system, browser, etc.) • E-manual Accessible Media at WGBH (NCAM)2), a U.S. media 7) HCI (Human-Computer Interaction): An academic • UI Optimized for Individual Users (Editable UI) association that studies human-computer organization for the disabled, and Wiley & Rein3), a interactions U.S. law firm specializing in the area. We also intro8) VOC: Voice of Customer The LG Optimus F3 for the Vision/Hearing Impaired The LG Mini TV for the Vision/Hearing (Model Name: LG-LS720, Introduced in May 2013) Impaired (Model Name: M2352-PN, Introduced in July 2013) • Features TalkBack and accessibility applications • Selected as a product “Recommended by Sprint2) • Features Hot Key and the function that provides CEO” at the 2013 M-Enabling Summit3) a voice-reading of text appearing on the device Pursue Technology Exchanges and Consultations on Improving Accessibility for the Disabled screen http://allthingsd.com/20130606/sprints-latest• Offers Braille manuals 1. MOU with the Korea Blind Union lg-optimus-f3-helps-the-vision-hearing-impaired/ 2. MOU with the QoLT Center at Seoul National University 3. Collect voice of customer with 1) LG HomeChat: A messaging service that enables users to control basic functions of appliances with their smartphones. Requiring no additional linking process, users communicate with their smart appliances in disabilities from U.S. disability their natural (human) language. organizations 2) Sprint: A major U.S. mobile carrier 4. 2014 Korea-U.S. Technology Exchange 3) M-Enabling Summit: An international conference jointly hosted by the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and the United Nations International Telecommunication Union (ITU) aiming to improve 1 2 3 4 about Accessibility for the Disabled accessibility to mobile technologies for senior citizens and persons with disabilities. The conference is attended by mobile technology experts, policy makers, and respected scholars from around the world. 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 36 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 37 Securing Product Quality Protection of Personal History of LGE Initiatives for Personal Information Protection and Safety Information 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Stronger Quality Management Number of Employees Completing Training at Protection of Personal Information Activities Accountability the Quality College in 2013 Recently, an increasing number of businesses, both With the vision of an LG Electronics, Perceived as in Korea and overseas, are failing to protect the Established/Implemented the World Best Quality by Customers and Conpersonal information of their customers, causing Keeping Children Safe Online Management System sumers, we are scrupulously adhering to basics emotional distress and financial loss to custom(Corporate Level) 21 Rapidly growing technology and access to the and principles throughout our processes, from Supplier ers and suffering a loss in credibility and sales revinternet through electronic devices provides Implemented product planning to customer service, and push399 enues. In the worst cases, these failures are leading many new opportunities for people, yet care Technological Protection ing forward with corporate-wide efforts to provide Overseas 4,844 to business crises threatening the very survival of should be taken in ensuring that this is done Measures Korea safely. We have joined the CEO Coalition in (Encryption/Monitoring) safer, superior quality products to customers. the company itself. As such, national governments 2012 not only to raise the awareness of Child In 2011, LG Electronics established the Product are establishing and strengthening related laws Safety online, but also to show our commitGained Public Confidence Testing Laboratory under the Quality Center to and regulations to better protect the personal inment to cooperate in creating a better and (National Certification, etc.) carefully inspect its new products for safety and formation of their citizens, and require businesses safer online environment for children. reliability, hazardous content, compliance with tarTotal to protect personal information with utmost care Protection Targets get market standards, regulatory risks, and cusand attention by tightening actions against nonwww.lg.com/global/sustainability/ Customer Information All Personal Information, 5,264 including Customer Information compliances. customer/child-safety-online tomer perceived quality thus acquiring an effective system to detect quality and safety issues early In 2009, LG Electronics set up a dedicated task from the development stage and address them in force for personal information protection with supadvance. In 2013, we expanded the safety certifiport from relevant internal organizations (Legal, IT, cation/approval system down to key parts and furSales, R&D, Subsidiaries, etc.), and is implementing ther strengthened our quality assurance process. measures to minimize risk, including the Personal Information Review Cycle (Advance/Regular AsCultivating Product Quality and sessment → Risk Identification → Improvement Initiatives for Personal Information Protection Training Performance Safety Experts → Review → Implementation). In 2013, 98.7% of our Korean employees and In 2012, LG Electronics established the Qual98.2% of overseas employees (excluding those on ity College to offer training on product quality to Assessment of Personal Information long-term leave) signed and submitted a pledge to employees (Korean and overseas) and key personManagement protect the personal information of our customers. nel from its suppliers. In 2013, the Quality College Under the leadership of HQ, LG Electronics conAdditionally, 96% of our employees who regularly provided 142 in-class training sessions, and a toducts a corporate-level annual assessment of its handle personal information and 97% of supplier tal of 5,264 individuals completed the program. business sites and subsidiaries to evaluate their staff in charge of system administration have comWith a primary focus on enhancing our employees’ level of personal information management, and all pleted the required training. product quality capability, the College offers expert business sites and subsidiaries are required to perLG Electronics Honored with track courses for product liability (PL), green prodform the same assessment internally on a semianImplementation of Information Presidential Commendation on ucts, and product reliability, as well as positionand nual basis. We also added “Personal Information” Encryption of Regular Screening for Security Index 2013 Product Safety Day assignment-specific training courses, including the to our Compliance Risk Management criteria to Personal Information Hacking Attempts LG Electronics performs an annual assessment to preparation courses for U.S. Certified Fire and ExOn November 13, 2013, LG Electronics reensure that all our business sites and subsidiaries evaluate corporate-level management of personal plosion Investigator (CFEI)1), Certified Quality Enceived the Presidential Commendation at the regularly measure their compliance risk level and Encrypted all identification information Performs a comprehensive screening to identify information, and utilizes the Information Security “Product Safety Day” Awards. LG Electronics (resident registration number, credit card vulnerabilities to hacking attempts across ingineer (CQE)2), and Certified Reliability Engineer address risks year round. In order to gain public information, account number, etc.) stored on ternal and external systems on an annual basis, Index to manage the information security perforwas recognized with the Awards’ top honor (CRE)3) certifications. confidence in our stewardship of personal infornetworks, databases, and websites and addresses risks identified in the process mance of individual employees. As such, all our for organizations by making systematic safety management efforts throughout the process mation, we submit ourselves to an annual certibusiness sites are subjected to frequent assessStronger Global from product development to product use, fication process performed by the Korea Internet ments on their information security level (ExcelPL (Product Liability) Response such as operating an organization dedicated & Security Agency (KISA), and receive a biannual lent, Adequate, Average, Inadequate, Poor), and Voluntary Safety Recall and Notification to product safety, carefully managing the assessment from LG Corp. to identify and address managed accordingly. safety of product parts, and fostering product risks. Based on the systematic risk management, of Electric Ranges quality experts. As part of its efforts to ensure consumer safety, LG Electronics ensures that effective compliance Our Initiatives for Personal LG Electronics conducted a voluntary recall of elecefforts are made at all of its business sites, both in Information Protection tric range products (225,835 units) manufactured Korea and overseas. Based on its 2013 assessment, LG Electronics did between October 2005 and June 2009 and sold in not receive any consumer complaints concerning the United States and Canada. Although no fires information breaches or faulty protection for peror injuries had been reported, we initiated this Control of Access to Network sonal information. However, in response to growvoluntary safety recall to prevent potential hazSystems Separation ing concerns about the issue, we intend to further ards caused by failure of the burner heat setting Controls access to systems containing personal Complies with the relevant laws and regulastrengthen related measures and activities to elimwith the controls and failure to turn off after beinformation by unauthorized users (Access via tions; business networks are separated to inate risks. As part of our utmost efforts to prevent ing switched off. In close cooperation with the U.S. proxy servers blocked and policy of one user protect the system against sophisticated illegal breaches of personal information, we will minimize account per person enforced) attacks (e.g. APT) and prevent breaches of Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) and personal information the number of websites and systems that are reLaunched in 2008, the “Product Safety Day” Awards Canadian Electrical Safety Authority (ESA)/Health is the most prestigious honor in the field of product quired to collect and store personal information, Canada, LG Electronics proactively informed consafety, hosted by the Ministry of Industry, Trade & and continuously reduce the number of such webEnergy, and managed by the Korea Product Safety 1) CFEI : Certified Fire & Explosion Investigator sumers about the recall in progress to encourage Association. sites and systems in operation. 2) CQE : Certified Quality Engineer consumers to make voluntary contact, and ensure 3) CRE : Certified Reliability Engineer replacement of defective parts. 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 38 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 39 Boundary With Customer Government Products with Greener 88 % Percentage of Green 3 Start Products in 2013 the Environment (Exceeded target by 12%) NGO Investor Features Subsidiary Strategic Directions Community orga ni z ati on Supplier Growing concern for environmental issues and LGE Strategies for Products with Greener Features their negative impacts on humans and the surEmployee Affiliate rounding environment is leading to stronger and Replace hazardous substances Enhance energy efficiency Reduce resource use more extensive environmental regulations across Reduce use of heavy metals Reduce power consumption Reduce product volume/ Reduce use of hazardous Reduce stand-by power weight the world. To reduce the environmental impact of chemicals Use recycled materials International our products throughout their lifecycle, LG ElecOrganization tronics implements a strategic framework to develop technologies and products considering three OUTSide of the core factors: human, energy and resources. Through organization this strategy, we have identified eight areas for Human Energy Resource response and 21 core tasks designed to expand products with greener features, improve green communication, and strengthen green partnerOUR FOCUS O U R Perfor m a n ce ships. We have also set up key indices to measure According to the 2013 Materiality Analysis, our performance as well as established targets Improve home environment Reduce CO2 emissions Increase recyclability our stakeholders regard Use Level for individual tasks. In addition, we have created a Minimize product noise Use renewable energy Increase use of and vibration Reduce CO2 emissions recyclable materials 1) Developing Highly Energy Efficient Products and CO2 Emissions consolidated operating unit to support our efforts 38 Create cleaner living environment throughout product lifecycle Design for easy disassembly 2) Reducing GHG Emissions as the most important toward the development of sustainable products issues, while benchmarking against industry peers Reduced million CO2e tons that satisfy consumers, and we plan to continue revealed that “Developing Products with Greener Features” and “Climate Change Response” are expanding and strengthening our business model Production Level for products with greener features. perceived as the most critical issues. CO2 Emissions Percentage of Products with Greener Features in 2013 (Cumulative) O U R A p p roac h Reduced 199K ton CO2e Eco Index LG Electronics uses “Eco Index” to measure the environmental performance of all our products de100 100 93 100 97 Target 76 GHG Emissions Reduction 92 Target 88 Based on our EESH management standards, LG veloped since 2011. This index promotes product 100 57 Electronics is implementing an identical EESH sustainability innovations as a support mechanism 90 76 Management System at all our business sites across for us to achieve our strategic objectives for prod80 the globe. We are also making aggressive responses ucts with greener features and greener product Target 69.9 to climate change, such as the announcement of design. The Eco Index is a method to rate our core 70 34 voluntary GHG emissions reduction targets in 2009. KRW billion products (i.e. refrigerators, washing machines, air 60 45 conditioners, TVs, monitors, mobile phones, PCs) 50 Cost Savings from and other products requiring power consumption 40 Green Packaging management, to assess the environmental perLG is making great strides in making their sustainability strategy tangible for formance of all targeted production models devel2011 2012 2013 O U R E v a l ua t i o n their customers by applying it across the oped in the last year based on internal standards breadth of their product line. As part Green 1 star Green 2 star Green 3 star LG Electronics was awarded the top honor (Green 1 Star, Green 2 Star, and Green 3 Star). For “Sustained Excellence Award” at the 2014 ENERGY of UL Environment's certification and instance, “Green 1 Star” products, at minimum, • Figures are calculated by weighting the percentage of each product category based on 2012 sales. 183,182 STAR Partner of the Year Awards for its ongoing validation work with LG, we see increased satisfy environmental regulations of major marefforts toward sustainability management, such transparency, as well as environmental kets including the EU, the United States, Korea as developing highly energy efficient products, tons achievements in products from televisions and Japan (RoHS1), REACH2), etc.), and qualify as identifying best practices in energy conservation to mobile phones to washing machines. Eco Index Rating Criteria (2010-2013) and GHG emissions reduction, and introducing e-Waste Collection compliant with environmental labels. We also calWhether it be water footprint inventories culate our corporate-level energy performance and these best practices to other business sites. Our Changwon Plant was also honored at the 2013 for washing machines, transparent disclose this data on our website. The composite 3 Korea Global Green Management Excellence Awards disclosure of environmental impact in data is also incorporated into the Eco Index for sysGreen 3 Star the form of EPDs1) for televisions, with the Presidential Prize for its consistent efforts towards green management. multi-attribute certifications for mobile tematic management of our energy performance. 2 As a result of our efforts, the percentage of “Green Green 2 Star phones, energy efficiency claim validation 3 Star” products increased to 88% (2013). In for televisions, or EPEAT2) registration, 2014, we plan to further expand the sub-criteria 1 Qualifies for ENERGY STAR ratings and LG's continuous and comprehensive Green 1 Star Meets standards for additional incentives engagement in product sustainability of the index to include “voluntary replacement of ENERGY STAR ratings (Mobile phones: ImpleF u t ure d i rec t i o n efforts will result in better, more efficient, hazardous substances,” “use of recycled materials,” and for high efficiency mentation of USP1)) and “recyclability rate” to facilitate a comprehenproducts (Mobile phones: more sustainable products for all. Preemptive response to sive evaluation of the environmental performance Satisfies energy 1 2 3 1) EPD (Environmental Product Declaration) standards and complies requirements prescribed  2) EPEAT (The Electronic Product Environmental of our products. with environmental by NGOs and buyers)   Strengthen GHG emissions/ Assessment Tool) regulations and Continuously strengthen Enhance the effectiveness of other criteria Improved Energy Efficiency energy management/ the standards for products the Global EESH Vice President and General Manager, reduction efforts across with greener features Management System UL Environment business processes Lisa Meier 1) RoHS: Restriction of the use of Hazardous 1) USP (Unique Selling Proposition) Substances in EEE 2) REACH: Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, & Restriction of Chemicals 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 40 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 41 Product Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) Product Carbon Footprint, Breakdown by Life Cycle Phase (Unit: %, As of Year-end 2013) ENERGY STAR Certified Products from All LGE Products Sold in U.S. (Unit: EA) Reducing CO2 Emissions Since 2002, LG Electronics has utilized Life Cycle LG Electronics encourages and facilitates our cusAssessment (LCA) to accurately measure the entomers’ efforts to lead low carbon lifestyles by 48.39 vironmental impact associated with all the stages 32.98 PreTV 147 measuring the total amount of GHG emissions asof our products’ life cycle. As part of our efforts to 10.22 5.23 Use Production sociated with a product’s life cycle and informing Pre-Production Pre-Production Monitor 119 quantify and manage carbon emissions produced consumers how much CO2 is emitted when they 0.60 0.03 0.06 0.16 -0.01 throughout our products’ life cycle, we created the Disposal Disposal Production Disposal PC 231 use a particular product. Additionally, we are makProduction Life Cycle Inventory Database (LCI DB) for eight 0.13 Air Contidioner 12 ing concerted efforts to reduce GHG emissions as6.41 Transport product categories (TV, monitor, washing machine, Transport sociated with our products in phases. Refregerator 66 refrigerator, LED lighting, solar module, mobile Mobile phone, and commercial air conditioning system) TV Monitor Phone Dish Washer 21 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Certificate & in 2011. We also assess the carbon footprint life Washing Machine 40 Low Carbon Certificate cycle of seven product categories (excluding solar The Carbon Footprint Labeling program quanti82.74 94.43 LED Lighting (Bulb) 13 module) on an annual basis and disclose the data Use Use fies GHG emissions associated with all the stages on our website (from 2012). 18.63 0.01 of a product's life cycle (production, transport, use Transport Production www.lg.com/global/sustainability/environand disposal) and discloses the information on the ment/greener-products/products-application • All imported electronic and electrical products must undergo a registration process with the U.S. label. In 2013, 218 of our products (cumulative) Department of Energy (DOE) and the California Energy Commission (CEC) to be sold in the U.S. acquired carbon emissions related certificates at Our Performance in Products with 24.73 10.59 Korea and overseas. Pre-Production Pre-Production Greener Features (Korea: Greenhouse Gas Emissions Certificate Replacing Hazardous Substances 1.65 (141 models), Low Carbon Certificate (33 models) Production LG Electronics complies with international regula0.16 4.82 Certification of Green Technology Acquired by LG Electronics (As of Year-end 2013) / Overseas: CarbonFreeⓇ of U.S. (41 models), CliDisposal Disposal 0.53 tions on hazardous substances, including RoHS matop of Switzerland (2 models), LCIE1) of France Transport and REACH. Although some substances are not Technology Date Certified Valid Until (1 model)) currently regulated, we are in the process of volunHigh Efficiency N-type Solar Cell & its Application to High Power PV Module 2013-12-19 2015-12-18 Washing 4.46 Reducing GHG Emissions from Product Use tarily replacing substances believed to have negaProduction Refrigerator High CRI PLS Lighting Design Technology 2013-11-21 2015-11-20 Machine Reduction Target tive impacts on the environment, such as PVC1) and “Turbo Shot” Wash Technology that Uses Less Energy and Water 2013-11-21 2015-11-20 BFRs2). In 2013, we replaced internal PVC cables LED Tube Technology that Replaces Fluorescent Lamps 2013-05-16 2015-05-15 LG Electronics plans to contribute to the reduc1.42 GEMS Technology for Energy Savings at Green Stores 2013-04-04 2015-04-03 tion of GHG emissions associated with product in our TV products with substitute materials, and 69.23 Transport 82.40 phased out some of the PVC components and maUse Use Spray-free Molding Technology 2012-08-30 2014-08-29 use by developing and introducing highly energy terials from refrigerators, washing machines, TVs, Environmentally-friendly Compressor Technology for Water Purifiers 2012-08-30 2014-08-29 efficient products. We have established a target High Efficiency, High CRI LED Flat Panel Lighting Design Technology 2010-08-13 2014-08-12 to reduce 60 million tons of GHG emissions from and monitors with PVC-free materials. In 2014, we 130-micron, Ultra-thin, Crystalline Silicon Cell Technology 2010-08-13 2014-08-12 BAU2) (2007) by 2020. By meeting the target, LG plan to further expand the use of materials for our 2.50 1.08 (Selective Emission/Compensation for Rear Defects/Reflective Layer Formation) home appliance products (refrigerators, washing Pre-Production Pre-Production Electronics is estimated to contribute to a total High Efficiency VRF Air Conditioning System Technology 2010-06-09 2014-06-08 machines, air conditioners, TVs, and monitors). 0.02 reduction of about 400 million tons (cumulative) 0.17 Ultra Energy-Saving Technology Utilizing High-efficiency Inverter Compressor for 2010-06-09 2014-06-08 Production of GHG emissions associated with product use be0.70 Production 0.01 Air Conditioners and PIR Sensor Enhancing Energy Efficiency Disposal Disposal 0.03 World’s First 6-Motion Wash Technology 2010-06-09 2014-06-08 tween 2008 and 2020. 0.39 Transport In an effort to make our products more energy efTransport Stand-by Power Technology that Enables Consumption of 2010-06-09 2014-06-08 ficient, LG Electronics has established the 5-Year Less than 0.9W for Microwave Ovens Performance & Key Activities Commercial In 2013, LG Electronics contributed to reducing Technology Road Map (TRM) and instituted speResidential Air Washing Machine Capacity Expansion Technology Utilizing Fixed Type Wash Tub 2010-06-09 2014-06-08 cific targets for each product category, striving Air Environmentally-friendly & Low Energy Smart Plasma Display Panel Technology 2010-06-09 2014-06-08 38 million tons of GHG emissions associated with Conditioning Conditioner product use (compared to the energy consumption to hit every milestone. Although all LGE products System High Efficiency Parallel Two Evaporator Cycle Refrigeration System Technology 2010-05-27 2014-05-26 fully satisfy international energy regulations such High Efficiency Inverter Linear Compressor Technology for Refrigerators 2010-05-27 2014-05-26 level in 2007) by introducing a large number of as ErP, we are not letting up on our efforts to re98.86 Dual Injection, Steam Wash Technology 2010-05-27 2014-05-26 highly energy efficient products. Our performance 96.24 was, in large part, a result of meeting our target duce energy consumption and stand-by power Use Use consumption based on internal goals and targets. (annual reduction of 30 million tons by 2020) ahead of schedule. Encouraged by our perforCase Study mance, we announced our plan to double our anENERGY STAR Pre-Production Production Transport Use Disposal ENERGY STAR is a certification program estabnual target for GHG reduction from energy saving LG Electronics Acquires the Industry’s First Third-Party activities to 60 million tons. In order to provide conlished by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the U.S. Department of Energy to proWater Footprint Certification for its Washing Machine sumers with the carbon footprint information on mote energy-efficient consumer products. Most Efficient ENERGY STAR Models (Unit: No. of Models) our products, LG Electronics discloses GHG emissions associated with our products’ entire life cycle LG Electronics is the first in the home appliance industry to receive a Water Footprint verification from Total Norway’s Det Norske Veritas (DNV) for its washing machine. We are also the first in the world to be (from pre-production to disposal) and is actively certified for the Water Footprint Inventory by Underwriters Laboratories (UL), a clear recognition of acquiring carbon labels. 1) PVC (Polyvinyl Chloride): A kind of thermo plastic, 2012 79 our capability to compute and verify environmental data. also known as polyvinyl chloride and polyvinyl A water footprint measures the total volume of fresh water used throughout a product’s life cycle chloride resin. Believed to contain heavy metals 53 7 11 8 from production to disposal, and like a “carbon footprint”, which measures carbon emissions, is gaining such as phthalate (environmental hormone), significance as an important environmental index. 1) LCIE: Laboratoire Central des Industries Electriques lead, and cadmium. The concept of a water footprint came to international attention after the 2011 introduction of 2) BFRs (Brominated Flame Retardants): Mainly 2013 93 the Water Footprint Assessment Manual by UNESCO-IHE (International Institute for infrastructural 2) BAU (Business As Usual): Projected GHG emissions based on current level assumptions used as a chemical flame retardant for plastics and Hydraulic and Environmental Engineering). of GHG reduction technology and policy textiles, one of the most well-known persistent 67 6 6 14 organic pollutants. Per Capita Water Footprint (UNESCO-IHE, 2004) Korea: 1,179m3, World Average: 1,243m3 TV Refrigerator Washing Machine Air Conditioner 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 42 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 43 Case Study Packaging Improvement Cases Annual PCR Plastics Consumption (Unit: Ton) Greener Packaging In June 2012, LG Electronics introduced its Greener Packaging Design Guidelines to reduce the weight 3,298 4,980 5,617 and volume and promote the reuse and recycling of packaging materials and initially implemented the guidelines for portions of TV and mobile phone 6,000 products. With the new guideline, we were able Weight Volume to reduce the use of packaging materials for new Reused Recycled Reduced Reduced 5,000 products released in 2013 by 27.6% despite an increase in size for some products, while saving KRW 4,000 69.9 billion in costs. In 2014, LG Electronics plans 3,000 to more broadly implement these guidelines to its overseas production subsidiaries. 1 Reusable Packaging Box 2,000 e-Waste Management e-Waste Management Efforts (Overseas) 1,000 LG Electronics collects e-waste in accordance with Re-designed package boxes for local Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment improved reusability 2011 2012 2013 (WEEE) regulations and requirements around the world and offers information on its e-waste takeback system and related activities on its website. In 2013, we launched an e-waste take-back service Reusability Use of Recycled Materials Improved Box Structure Environmentally Friendlier Ink Made it easier for consumers to Increased use of recycled paper Reduced volume by 21% and used less Acquired FSC and UL110 certifications Product Stewardship in Israel, Ecuador, Peru, and Mexico, and expanded reuse box by using no adhesives when materials from the previous model paper materials by printing boxes using soy ink on the program to include 75 regions in 44 countries structuring accessory partitions (G Box) (68% -> 92%) 100% recycled paper stock Improving Materials from 71 regions in 40 countries previously. We are In the product development phase, LG Electronalso in the process of establishing a take-back sysics works to enhance material quality and product tem in countries planning to implement WEEE regulations (Turkey, Puerto Rico, Vietnam, Costa Rica, 2 3 structure, and strives to improve product perforMaking Packages Greener by Making Packages Greener by Changing Product mance while reducing size and weight based on Colombia, Cameroon, Chile, Belarus) by carefully Changing Design Specifications and Developing Customized Box collaboration with recyclers. Based on such efforts, reviewing local regulations and maintaining open we were able to achieve a weight reduction of apdialogue with governmental and industry organizations in order to respond appropriately. For all-in-one PCs, organized the pedestal stand in a separate Changed single-unit Smart TV pedestal stand to multi-unit design proximately 7% (12Kg) in our 2013 refrigerator partition to use less packaging materials and EPS protective (separated into three parts) to reduce packaging costs and optimize Resource Reduction Case model (Model: R-F914VBSM, offers 910 liters of In the United States, LG Electronics collected and materials, while maintaining the original look of the package. space, while accentuating TV’s ultra-slim design (Refrigerator) effective capacity) compared to the previous year’s responsibly recycled nearly 50 million pounds of edition (R-U913LBRD). unused and unusable electronics during 2013, all through e-Stewards-certified third-party recyclers. Reduced Volume by 42.1% Using Recycled Plastic In addition, to advance its voluntary e-waste takeReduced Weight by 24.5% As part of our efforts to promote recycling and back and recycling efforts, LG Electronics USA Space Efficiency Improved by 34.8% efficient use of resources, LG Electronics utilizes participates in the CEA eCycling Leadership InitiaModel Name Model Name recycled plastic in part of its product components tive organized by the Consumer Electronics Association (U.S.) and offers e-waste take-back service V220 22V240 Model Name Model Name following careful stability and reliability tests. Based on such efforts, LG Electronics used a total in the six states (Texas, Massachusetts, Colorado, 55LA6900 55LB7200 of 5,617 tons of Post-Consumer Recycled (PCR) Utah, Maryland and Ohio), and in all states that Reduced Volume by 50% Taking advantage of slimmer product design, Model Name R-U913LBRD R-F914VBSM plastic in 2013, continually increasing use to 3,298 currently do not adhere to electronic waste take developed a customized box for the set head Reduced Weight Produced August 2012 June 2013 tons and 4,980 tons in 2011 and 2012, respecback regulations. This effort is part of LG’s support by 47% Capacity 910 L 910 L tively. We also establish and manage specific tarof the CEA “Billion Pound Challenge,” an industryReduced Volume by 28.9% Size (W x H x D) 913 x1797 x 912 912 x1785 x 920 gets to continuously expand our use of recycled wide takeback and recycling effort. Reduced Weight by 16.8% Weight 167 kg (Approx.) 155 kg (Approx.) plastic over time, and plan to build a systematic Space Efficiency Improved by 62.1% management system. Model Name Model Name 47LN5400 47LB5500 4 Management System for Environmentally Friendlier Packaging Materials LG Electronics utilizes packaging materials produced with FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) certified pulp and recycled pulp. In 2013, we conducted due diligence surveys on paper mills supplying packaging paper stock to LG Electronics and created a database listing FSC certified pulp content and recycled pulp content of each paper stock. Based on such efforts, we have raised the recycled pulp content to 72.2% in our packaging paper stock and endeavor to increase the rate even further. 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 44 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 45 e-Waste Management Efforts (Korea) Supplier Green Management Assessment Criteria (based on 100 point scale) Green Partnership Take-Back System for Major Household Appliances Screening Criteria for Score Evaluation Criteria for Score In May 2013, LG Electronics entered into a triProspective Suppliers Existing Suppliers Green Program Plus party (Ministry of Environment, municipalities, and Environmental Management System 20 Environmental Management 25 First implemented in 2005, “Green Program Plus manufacturers) agreement to establish a takeManagement of Hazardous Materials 50 System Mass Production Management 25 (GP+)” is a sustainability management program for Management of Materials/Products 30 Supplier Management 15 our supply chain. Not only does the program help back system for major household appliances. UnInspection Management 35 us respond to regulations on managing hazardous like the current system, in which e-waste is collected upon delivery and installation of new appliances, substances, but it also enables us to identify risks the new take-back system allows consumers to existing in our supply chain and to promote our · Different types of checklists are used for different types of business categories specify the time and date of collection via online or suppliers’ competitiveness in sustainability mantelephone. These discarded appliances, collected by agement. This program has now been expanded a dedicated collection team, are delivered to muNew Take-back System Performance (Unit: No. of Units, Korea) Number of Certified Green Partners (Cumulative) to parts procurement and GHG emissions, and innicipal collection centers and later, processed in an cludes second-tier and third-tier suppliers as well environmentally safe manner at regional recycling as primary suppliers. LG Electronics also validates centers located nationwide. Thanks to the new 2012 61,000 4,341 4,503 4,595 and evaluates the green management system as take-back system, collection of major home appli180% 5,000 well as the capacity of our existing and new suppliances increased by 180% over the previous year. In 2013 110,000 ers on an ongoing basis. 2014, the new take-back system will be expanded 4,000 from metropolitan areas to city and county levels Air Conditioner Washing Machine TV Refrigerator Supplier Training to bolster our collected efforts toward sustainable · Major appliances In order to strengthen green partnerships with 3,000 resource recycling. suppliers, LG Electronics provides annual training on green technology, compliance response and 2,000 Take-back System for GHG emissions management to suppliers (staff Small Household Appliances members from environmental management de2011 2012 2013 After establishing a take-back system for small partments) and LGE employees in charge of the household appliances by installing an e-waste colpartnership. In 2013, 239 supplier staff members lection box at our brand stores in 2012, LG Elec(Green Expert Program) and 106 LGE employees Green Expert and Green Auditor Training in 2013 tronics expanded the program to include more (Green Auditor Program) completed the training. than 150 service locations nationwide to facilitate We also introduced new programs to foster exVoluntary Agreement on Category Course Title Session Participants No. of Content environmentally safe and convenient disposal of perts in green equipment analysis (Green EquipEstablishing a Take-back System for Participants small household appliances. Major Household Appliances Supplier Green Expert 9th Managers & Staff 239 • Introduction to ment Expert Program) and in measuring hazardous (May 2013) Staff Program Members from Environmental Regulations substances (Environmental Data Collection Expert Environmental • Management & Analysis Program) in 2013, and conducted training for the Departments Technology for Hazardous equipment testing operators of our suppliers, all in Substances an effort to improve the credibility of collected data • Hazardous Substance Management System (HSMS) and hazardous substance management systems. In e-Waste Take-back and Recycling Performance by Country (Unit: Ton) • GHG Emissions Management 2013, a total of 165 supplier staff members comEnvironmental 9th Environmental In165 • LGE Standards for Managing pleted the program, and we plan to futher expand Korea Japan Data Collection spectors Hazardous Substances training targets in 2014. Expert Program • Measuring XRF (Theory) 2011 45,581 2011 4,252 (New) • Measuring XRF (Practice) Internal Green Auditor 4th Staff in Charge of 106 • Introduction to 2012 43,935 2012 3,295 Staff Program Supplier Assessment Environmental Regulations 2013 68,323 2013 3,295 & Staff members • Management & Analysis from Related Technology for Hazardous Departments Substances Europe United States • Hazardous Substance Management System (HSMS) 2011 132,279 2011 6,152 • Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) 2012 108,824 2012 17,760 • GHG Emissions Management 2013 82,952 2013 22,191 Case Study Australia India 2012 668 2012 1,975 e-Stewards Leadership Council 2013 4,438 2013 1,975 LG Electronics USA has been an e-Stewards enterprise member of the Basal Action Network (BAN ) since 2011 and has served on the e-Stewards Leadership Council, a multi-stakeholder advisory process created to promote product Total Brazil stewardship and the responsible management of end-of-life electronic equipment, since April 2013. The Leadership 2011 188,264 Council meets twice a year to discuss technical, business and policy issues related to the e-Stewards program and to 2012 7 provide feedback to the e-Stewards program administrator. 2012 176,464 BAN is a non-profit organization that advocates the safe disposal of electronics, particularly in developing countries. 2013 8 2013 183,182 As the toxic substances contained in electronic waste can cause harm to human health and the environment if mishandled or disposed of improperly, BAN has worked to develop the e-Stewards standards and certification program to ensure that electronic equipment is handled at end-of-life in an environmentally and socially responsible way through e-recycling best practices. · Figures for some European countries are estimates. · e-Waste take-back service was launched in Brazil (November 2011), India (May 2012), and Australia (July 2012). 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 46 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 47 Environmental Awards Environmental Awards and Accolades in 2013 CES Innovation Awards: Eco Design ENERGY STAR Partner of the Energy Winner Awards: Prime Korea Global Green Management United States and Sustainable Technology Year-Sustained Excellence Award Korea Minister’s Prize and Minister of Excellence Awards: Presidential Industry, Trade & Energy Prize Commendation October 2013 April 2014 LG Electronics was honored at the world’s largest indusLG Electronics earned the U.S Environmental Protection October 2013 July 2013 try tradeshow, the 2014 International CES® (Consumer Agency’s (EPA) highest product manufacturer award – LG Electronics was recognized at the 2013 Energy WinLG Electronics’ Executive Vice President Young Il Park Electronics Show), receiving the largest number of ofthe 2014 ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year-Sustained ner Awards with the top honor bestowed: the Prime (Refrigerator Division) was honored at the 2013 Korea ficial CES Innovation Awards in the Eco Design & SusExcellence Award as well as the ENERGY STAR Partner of Minister’s Prize for its “Smart, High-efficiency Air ConGlobal Green Management Excellence Awards with the tainable Technologies category for its Curved OLED TV the Year-Climate Communications Award – in recognition ditioning System”, as well as the Minister of Industry, Presidential Commendation for delivering innovative val(Model: 55EB9600), Drum Washing Machine (Model: of the company’s role in manufacturing and marketing Trade & Energy Prize for its “GHP (Gas Heating Pump) Air ue to customers through his green management leaderWM8000HVA), and Electric-Double Oven Range (Model: highly energy efficient products and its commitment to Conditioning (Cooling & Heating) System,” the one and ship in the refrigerator segment. LDE3037ST). The CES Innovation Awards are bestowed helping American consumers become increasingly more only product in such category available in the country. The Mr. Park was recognized for his strong leadership and to honor outstanding design and engineering in products energy efficient. The Sustained Excellence Award honors Smart, High-efficiency Air Conditioning System featuring ongoing commitment toward delivering greener products showcased at the annual tradeshow. businesses and organizations that have received the ENcutting-edge TMS energy solution combines the high efand promoting greener lifestyles through differentiated The Curved OLED TV, which was the first OLED TV to earn ERGY STAR Partner of the Year for at least three years ficiency air conditioning system Multi V Super 4 with the greener technologies, such as high efficiency compresENERGY STAR certification, boasts an ultra-slim and ultra in a row and have delivered outstanding performance in TMS (Total Management System) that offers integrated sors and insulation technology. He also made great conlight design at just 4.3mm and 12kg, achieved through environmental protection and energy savings. remote control capacity to achieve the optimal energy tributions to promoting a low carbon culture and value in the newly introduced “Honey Comb” technology. Unlike Previously, LG Electronics was recognized as ENERGY savings algorithm and reduces power consumption by our society with his leadership in the company’s energy the composite materials used in previous models, the STAR Partner of the Year for two consecutive years the electric heat pumping system (takes up 48-60% of welfare initiatives (distribution of high efficient products substitute materials keep the product ultra-light while (2012 and 2013) for its leadership in protecting the the total power used by the system) by up to 38%. with greener features), carbon emission trading, and providing strength and making it easier for recycling. In environment by manufacturing and promoting products The GHP (Gas Heating Pump) Air Conditioning (Cooling GHG emissions management system and reductions iniaddition, the TV model does not contain any PVC plastiwith superior energy efficiency as well as educating con& Heating) System adopts a gas-heating pump to reduce tiatives. In addition, he has championed green initiatives cizers, which produce the environmental hormone dioxin sumers and employees on the important, positive effects power consumption during the summer and winter peakacross areas of management, including GHG emissions when burned. The Drum Washing Machine highlighting that energy-efficient behaviors can have on the environdemand seasons and offers world-class energy efficiency reduction efforts supported by employee participation the Turbo Wash™ technology features a large 5.2-cubicment. This recognition reflects huge efforts from the U.S. (Cooling: COP 1.29, Heating: COP 1.48). and mutual growth based on green partnerships with foot capacity, the effectiveness of handwash with its Sixand Korea teams to assure compliance and energy effiIn addition, LG Electronics received the Energy Technolsuppliers and the community. Motion cycles, and improved functionality and efficiency ciency leadership. ogy Award for its Commercial Inverter Air Conditioning Winners of the CES with “Direct Drive” (DD) motor technology. Supported System, the Green Device Award for its Motion-detecting Innovation Awards by the direct-drive motor’s precision control, this washFloor Standing Air Conditioner with a “4D” Cooling Feaing machine model automatically detects the volume of Marriott International’s Supplier ture, and the Green Lighting Award for its PAR LED Lamp laundry and adjusts energy and water use accordingly to with External Converter. enhance economy. Sustainability Award Featuring LG’s proprietary Easy Clean™ automatic oven www.consumerskorea.org/ October 2013 cleaning technology, the Electric Double Oven Range (LDE3037ST) allows consumers to just spray the oven inLG Electronics was honored with Marriott International’s Curved OLED TV 1 (Model: 55EB9600) terior with water to saturate built-up grease and grime making it easy to wipe out in an instant, significantly Supplier Sustainability Award in 2013. Through improving television product development, manufacturing and Products Receiving the Energy Winners Awards reducing the time required for cleaning. In addition, the usage, LG supports Marriott’s sustainability objectives Infrared Grill technology and heat distributing Convection in 20 countries across a number of key areas – including Category Product Model Name Award Element cut cooking time. energy efficiency, reducing greenhouse gas emission and Energy Excellence Smart, High-Efficiency 11 models, Prime Minister’s waste, and using more sustainable materials to reduce Award Air Conditioning System Featuring including RPUW080X9H(J) Prize Drum Washing Machine impact on the environment. This annual award recognizes Cutting-edge Energy Solution TMS 2 (Model: WM8000HVA) the Marriott suppliers from five different industry sectors GHP (Gas Heating Pump) Exterior Unit: 2 models, Minister of Industry, that have made significant contributions in sustainabilAir Conditioning (Cooling/Heating) including GPUW160B9S Trade & ity commitment, sustainable products, and sustainability System Energy Prize leadership. Energy Technology Commercial Inverter 9 models including LT-Q320SU Electric Air Conditioning System Double Oven Range Green Device Motion-detecting Floor Standing F-Q166PSNW, F-Q186PSNW, 3 (Model: LDE3037ST) Air Conditioner with “4D” Cooling Feature F-Q186PANW Green Lighting PAR LED Lamp with External Converter R2130G24N8A ENERGY STAR Partner Selection Criteria for Marriott International’s Supplier Sustainability Award & LGE Contributions of the Year-Sustained SEAD International Winner Awards Excellence Award & Selection Criteria Key Activities ENERGY STAR Partner India July 2013 Sustainability Commitment • Vision for Sustainability Management of the Year-Climate At the CEM held in New Delhi, India, LG Electronics 1) Energy Saving” technology (reduces energy consumption • GHG Emissions Reduction Targets & Reduction Efforts Communications Award received the International Winner Awards in the Large by adjusting to ambient light). The winner of the EmergSustainable Products • Development & Delivery of Energy-efficient Products (ENERGY STAR TV Models) Screen TV and Emerging Technology categories from ing Technology category, the 47-inch LED TV was highly • Development & Delivery of Highly Innovative TV Model (EcoSmart TV) SEAD (Super-Efficient Equipment and Appliance Deploypraised for adopting diverse energy saving features and ment), a multinational initiative for energy efficiency. The technologies. Sustainability Leadership • The ENERGY STAR Awards in 2012 and 2013 winner of the Large Screen TV category, the LG Cinema • Ownership of Certified Green Buildings (LEED1)) 3D Smart TV (Model: 47LM670S), boasts the highest level of energy efficiency in North America, Austra1) LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design): Developed by the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC), LEED is a lia, India, and Europe and was recognized for its “Local rating system for the design, construction and operation of high performance green buildings, homes and neighborhoods. Dimming” technology (controls individual light emitting The USGBC scores a building’s design, construction, operations and maintenance solutions, and awards four types of cerdiodes for maximum energy efficiency) and its “Smart 1) CEM: Clean Energy Ministerial tifications based on the combined score (LEED: 40-90 points, LEED Silver: 50-59 points, LEED Gold: 60-79 points, LEED Platinum: 80 and higher) 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 48 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 49 EESH 1 ) Management System Organizational Structure for EESH Management LGE Strategies for Climate Change Response GHG Emissions Reduction EESH Management Policy & Process Deliver Low-Carbon Value to Customers through Voluntary Reduction of GHG Emissions Strategy for Climate Change Response EESH Management System EESH Department In 2009, LG Electronics established the four straOperation of EESH Management System tegic directions for climate change response (see LG Electronics established the EESH Management table on the left) and has been making a wide Regional EESH Conference System to facilitate integrated management of range of efforts to deliver results. LG Electronics Enhance Product Enhance Operational energy, environment, safety, and health issues, and Value Enhance Productivity Competitiveness Efficiency Social Contribution has set a target to reduce 150,000 tons of proreviews international standards and related laws duction-related GHG emissions by 2020, from the and regulations on an annual basis to incorporate Low-Carbon Factory Low-Carbon Product Low-Carbon Low-Carbon Culture base year 2008 (10% reduction), through producReduce GHG Reduce GHG Value Chain new requirements into the system. In 2010, HQ Environmental Policy Team Energy/Climate Team Industrial Safety & Health Team Strategic emissions at emissions at Reduce GHG Engage employees tivity improvement efforts, and expects to reduce took over control of the acquisition and manageDirection & communities a total of approximately 1 million tons (cumulative) Environment & Energy Forum Safety Forum production phase use phase emissions throughout ment of the Environmental Management System products’ life cycle of GHG emissions between 2009 and 2020. (ISO 14001) and Occupational Health and Safety In addition, LG Electronics plans to contribute to 150,000 tons by 60 million tons by Management System (OHSAS 18001) certificaManage Reductions Achieve Global Level the reduction of GHG emissions associated with Target 2020 (1 million tons, 2020 (400 million by 2015 by 2015 tions for production sites in Korea. Also, all our cumulative) tons, cumulative) product use by developing and introducing highly overseas production sites acquired the ISO 14001 EESH Teams at Korean/Overseas Business Sites energy efficient products. We have established a Establish Infrastructure for Effective GHG Emissions Management certification, except for two new sites (Johannestarget to reduce 60 million tons of GHG emissions burg in South Africa and Mexicali in Mexico) whose from BAU2) (base year 2007) by 2020. LG Eleccertification process is to be concluded in 2014 tronics estimates it will contribute to a total reduc(for details on certification status, see p.88). tion of about 400 million tons (cumulative) of GHG emissions associated with product use from 2008 Enhancing EESH Management System to 2020. In December 2013, LG Electronics reorganized and Internal EESH Audit Results (Based on 100 Point Scale) As part of our efforts to reduce GHG emissions Response to Risks & Opportunities for Climate Change expanded the EESH Department at HQ to faciliacross our value chain, we are continuously extate preemptive and effective responses to EESH panding our GHG management scope to include issues. We also improved our EESH training proCategory Risks Response 90.3 88.0 91.5 areas such as energy and GHG management supgrams to strengthen our employees’ capabilities Regulatory · GHG & Energy Target Management · Implement IT systems for GHG management & Set site-level 83.3 port for suppliers, emissions associated with office System reduction targets for EESH management, and operate a corporate81.3 76.1 buildings and logistics, emissions associated with · Emissions Trading Scheme · Establish corporate-level standards for regulatory response wide consultative body to promote internal com100 · Stronger standards on product & Adopt high-efficiency equipment and facilities employee business travels, and water use. In parmunication concerning EESH issues. energy efficiency · Perform LCA on core products & Acquire licenses to interticular, we have set reduction targets for our office 80 nally measure the carbon footprint of our business sites buildings located in the United States and Europe Corporate-wide EESH Audit Physical · Increase in natural disasters · Strengthen EESH audits on business sites and key facilities and logistics activities in Korea, and manage them LG Electronics performs an EESH audit on global · Deterioration of employee heath · All business sites to acquire the ISO certification & Expand 60 accordingly. We also plan to continue and expand the acquisition of the OHSAS certification production sites and Korean R&D sites to identify our support for GHG emissions reduction efforts Management · Tougher regulations & rising costs · Commodity price analysis & Supply chain management EESH issues in advance and prevent those issues 40 from supplier-side · Expand CSR activities, including the by local communities and strive for leadership in from developing into risks. First introduced in 2005, sourcing challenges dissemination of required technologies global “Greenovation. our annual EESH audit program adopted a new as20 · Decline in purchasing power · Strengthen external communication sessment system in 2012 to expand and further due to Climate Change Response to Risks & Opportunities refine the scope of assessment and doubled the 10 · Increased scrutiny by investors and NGOs The table presented on the left shows how LG number of assessment items. We implemented Electronics responds to risks and opportunities the new assessment system to Korean sites in 2011 2012 2013 that may impact our businesses and business sites. 2012 and expanded it to overseas sites in 2013. In our 2013 EEHS audit, Korean sites scored 3.5 Korea · The drop in the 2013 score of our overseas sites is due in large part to the Category Opportunities Response points higher than the previous year, while overseas Overseas new assessment method introduced the same year. Regulatory · Stronger standards on product · Smart grid, LED, geothermal cooling & heating system, etc. 1) EESH (Energy, Environment, Safety, Health) sites lost 5.2 points compared to the year earlier, energy efficiency · Increase in new business opportunities, including solar cell 2) BAU (Business As Usual): Projected GHG due in large part to the change in the assessment · Rise in energy prices & Growing technology development & production expansion emissions based on current level assumptions demand for renewable energy use · CDM3) business opportunities, method. Based on the audit results, each site forof GHG reduction technology and policy · Implementation of the GHG & including high efficiency refrigerators 3) CDM (Clean Development Mechanism) mulated and implemented an improvement plan. In Energy Target Management System particular, LG Electronics plans to focus comprePhysical · Rise in the average temperature · Expansion of the air conditioner and HVAC businesses hensive efforts and support on our overseas sites ·Deterioration of air and water · Expansion of business opportunities in air purifier, to improve their EESH management performance, Strengthening Training for Global EESH Staff Raising Employee Awareness on quality water filtration system, water softer, and water treatment which still remains at an 84% level of our Korean Environmental Management Management · Growing demand for · Strengthen R&D efforts for high efficiency and In 2013, LG Electronics launched a biannual EESH low carbon products low carbon product technologies sites. training program for our global EESH staff. The Between April and May 2013, LG Electronics con· Enhance brand and · Expand external communication EESH training was conducted in four different reducted mandatory education on environmental corporate image · Expand the acquisition of carbon footprint and Capacity Building gions (China, Europe & Middle East, South & Cenmanagement for all employees in Korea (88% · Expand product carbon low carbon labels Based on our 2012 EESH audit, which revealed our tral America, and Asia) to cover all our 33 overseas completed) to raise awareness on the issue and footprint disclosure need to improve the employee training system and production subsidiaries, beginning with Reynosa promote engagement. The program introduces raise employee awareness on EESH issues across (Mexico) in Mid-April 2013 and continuing with LG's group-level environmental initiative “Green the board, we conducted mandatory education for Cibitung (Indonesia), Mlawa (Poland), and Nanjing 2020” as well as LG Electronics’ own initiatives. In all employees in Korea in the first half of 2013, and (China). 2014, we plan to expand the education to all our established a training system for our global EESH employees at overseas subsidiaries. staff to offer professional training on a regular basis. 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 50 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 51 199K ton CO2e GHG Reductions in 2013 (Compared to 2008 Base Year) 173 Number of Suppliers Receiving Support for GHG Inventory Setup & GHG Management Training Reduction Efforts at Our Business Sites Production Level Reduction Target (Unit: 10K ton CO2e) Thank you note suppliers in our energy-saving initiatives. At the GHG Reduction Performance campaign’s launching ceremony, energy manageLG Electronics set a target to reduce 60,000 tons ment staff from more than 20 suppliers promised of GHG emissions in 2013 (base year 2008) 10.3 11.3 19.9 15.0 “Congratulations on the successful registo cooperate with our energy-saving efforts. As 150 across our business sites, and exceeded the tar146.3 tration of your UNFCCC CDM project!” part of the campaign, suppliers designated “Energy get by 140,000 tons through expanding investObservers” at each business site to identify energy 140 ments in high efficiency equipment and facilities, 136 135 saving opportunities and promote energy-saving improving operational efficiency of equipment 131.4 practices. Suppliers voluntarily maintained the inand facilities, and expanding the use of renewable 130 126.4 Dr. Ajay Mathur terior temperature at 26℃ or higher, distributed energy, together with employee efforts toward Director General, hand-held fans to employees, and encouraged energy saving. Our performance translates into a 120 Bureau of Energy Efficiency of India employees to dress “cool.” Thanks to such efforts, reduction of 199K tons compared to the base year we saved 14% of power during winter (January2008. In 2013, we also conducted an energy auLG Electronics’ CDM project not only improved energy efficiency of refrigerator products February) and 12% of power during summer (July110 and reduced GHG emissions but also contributed to the welfare of local communities August) compared to the same period from the dit on our business sites in Korea and discovered by directing part of profits to supporting education for females and children in poverty. opportunities to reduce additional 14,000 tons of 100 previous year. In addition, the LGE Labor Union is GHG emissions, and plan to implement energy savengaging in an energy-saving campaign under the ing and GHG emissions reduction efforts accordslogan “Turn off and Unplug (meaning, let’s turn ingly. In addition, we have acquired the ISO 50001 2008 (Base Year) 2011 2012 2013 2020 (Target Year) off switches/faucets and unplug power cables)” certification for all our Korean production sites and Support for Suppliers’ GHG Management 537 tons from the previous year. LG Electronics to support corporate-wide efforts toward GHG Emissions Reductions major R&D facilities to establish a management In 2010, LG Electronics established and announced plans to reduce GHG emissions from its logistics emissions reduction and to promote everyday lowsystem for our energy saving and GHG emissions a plan to expand its low-carbon procurement, activities through ongoing efforts toward logistics carbon practices by raising employee awareness reduction efforts, and plan to expand the certifimaking a commitment to expand our purchases system improvement, use optimization, and IT syson energy saving and promoting energy saving cation requirement to our overseas business sites. from suppliers that implement sustainable GHG tem implementation. LG Electronics also manages through everyday practices. Inspired by the camIncreasing Use of Renewable Energy has set an ambitious target to reduce its GHG reduction plans up to KRW 50 trillion by 2020. GHG emissions associated with employee business paign, local union chapters are pursuing energyImproving Facility Operations Efficiency LG Electronics continues to expand the use of enemissions in its U.S. operations 50% by 2020. In To this end, we provided GHG management traintravels and submits the annual data for third-party saving initiatives, such as turning off lights during As part of our ongoing efforts to reduce GHG ergy sources that produce no GHG by adopting support of this goal, LG joined the “Green Power ing and assistance for building a GHG inventory validation. In 2013, the total GHG emissions assolunch hour, managing radiators in restrooms, and emissions, LG Electronics continuously works to solar power generating systems and expanding rePartnership,” a voluntary partnership program led to 173 suppliers in Korea, and participated in the ciated with employee business travels amounted turning half of the lights off during shift changes. optimize and minimize our energy use by improvnewable energy purchases. We have in place solar by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) national initiative “Small, Medium and Large Green to 50,000 tons, reducing 22,000 tons from the ing the efficiency of our facilities and production power generating systems with a combined capacthat encourages organizations to reduce their enPartnership” led by the Ministry of Industry, Trade previous year by promoting video conferencing and Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) processes. In particular, we carry out such activities ity of 202 kWh at our Korean sites, and our office vironmental impact by using renewable energy. LG & Energy in 2012. For the following two years, we railway travels. In October 2013, LG Electronics’ Clean Developas optimizing capacity/control (of motors, pumps buildings in the United States and Europe are also is also reducing U.S. transportation-related emishave helped 32 suppliers set up a GHG inventory ment Mechanism (CDM) project in India was finally and utility equipment of cooling towers), enhancing expanding their purchase of renewable energy. In sions in its supply chain by using freight shippers and complete a third-party validation. We also conEmployee Participation in approved by the UNFCCC (United Nations Framethe differential pressure of air compressors, mini2013, our US facilities purchased a total of 2,285 that participate in the EPA’s SmartWay program. ducted an energy audit on 22 suppliers and discovEnergy-Saving Initiatives work Convention on Climate Change). Through mizing idle operations, and optimizing the washing MWh of renewable energy. Our European office In addition, the U.S. subsidiary is in the process of ered 33 instances of energy saving opportunities LG Electronics runs diverse campaigns that enthis project, we plan to acquire carbon credits in process, based on the results of regular energy asbuildings also used 1,170 MWh of renewable enreducing energy consumption in its offices through for them. courage employees to participate in its efforts to exchange for the sales of highly efficient refrigerasessments performed by internal experts. ergy in 2013. a series of measures, including upgrading building reduce GHG emissions and energy consumption in tors (18 models including GL-195OME4) in India. lighting systems to LED, encouraging employees to Logistics & Business Travels their daily activities at work. As part of our efforts, We expect to reduce 5.8 million tons of GHG emisInvesting in High Efficiency Equipment & Expanding GHG Management conserve energy at work by turning off electronic LG Electronics has set a target to reduce 1% of we ran a CEO message and public announcement sions annually over the next ten years, which is the Facilities throughout the Value Chain equipment and lights when not in use, and promotGHG emissions per unit weight, based on distance messages on our company broadcasting system to largest in scale among CDM projects pursued by LG Electronics establishes site-level reduction tarOffice Building GHG Management ing low carbon initiatives through its “Live Green traveled, for logistics activities in Korea and is makencourage employees to save energy during sumelectronics makers. LG Electronics also plans to dogets and operates site-level taskforces dedicated In order to reduce GHG emissions from major ofat LG” newsletter. Our European subsidiaries have ing diverse efforts to achieve the target. The total mer/winter peak seasons. In July 2013, LG Elecnate a part of the profits from the project to local to the initiative. Opportunities identified by the fice buildings at our overseas locations, LG Elecset targets to reduce 15% of GHG emissions from GHG emissions from logistics activities in Korea tronics and its major suppliers launched “Save Tocommunities. taskforces undergo assessment on their reduction tronics has set midto long-term reduction targets office buildings by 2020 from the base year 2010, in 2013 amounted to 41,807 tons CO2e, down gether,” a joint energy-saving campaign to include performance and financial feasibility before being for office buildings in the United States and Europe and are implementing diverse measures, such as implemented. and manages them accordingly. LG Electronics USA installing solar panels and expanding the use of renewable energy. GHG Emissions Reduction Initiative 1. L aunching Ceremony for the “Save Together” Campaign 1 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 52 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 53 Minimizing Environmental Water Use (Unit: K ton) Improving EESH at Impact at Our Business Sites Business Sites Basic unit (K ton/KRW 10 billion) Reducing Water Use Strengthening Chemical 2011 12,913 2.38 LG Electronics manages the amount of water it Management System uses and reuses at global production sites and 2012 11,544 2.27 At LG Electronics, a system for prevention and remajor R&D facilities. In 2013, the total volume of 2013 11,483 1.98 sponse against industrial chemical accidents takes water used at our business sites amounted to apup an important part of our risk management proproximately 11.5 million tons, and 640,000 tons grams. In order to strengthen our chemical manGrand Prize at the Korea agement system, we received consulting from an of the water was reused. We estimate that the Green Company Awards external professional agency and identified areas volume of water used at our business sites will continue to increase due to production capacity In 2013, LG Electronics’ Changwon Plant received the Grand Prize at the 3rd Korea Green Comto improve on. Although we already had in place expansion (including solar panels) and our growing pany Awards, hosted by the Ministry of Environment and organized by the Korean Environmental a site-level system for chemical management, the business portfolio (new businesses, including EV Industry & Technology Institute. The Changwon Plant was honored for its consistent efforts toward consulting revealed that we needed a corporateGenerated & Recycled Waste (Unit: ton) environmental management and green initiatives, such as the integrated EESH management system, level integrated management system. As such, we components). Despite the upward projection for development of products with greener features and active participation in environmental initiatives, implemented a new system that facilitates intewater use at our sites, LG Electronics set a target and contribution to promoting the effective use of local resources. The Plant also carried out diverse to reduce 20% of water use by 2020, compared 3.03 activities to help and improve the local environment, including “Green Day,” a joint campaign with grated management of chemicals at a corporateto 2007 (intensity target per revenue in KRW). To Basic unit (ton/KRW billion) 2.97 municipalities to promote a greener lifestyle (using public transportation instead of driving, reduclevel. The new system offers an advance screening function to minimize compliance risks prior to the this end, we are implementing a wide range of conservation efforts to manage water use and reuse. 2.88 ing food waste, etc.), cleaning activities at local streams and mountains, donation of proceeds from employee recycling activities, and “Green Mentor,” an environmental mentorship program for local arrival of chemicals, and information on laws and organizations. In addition, the Changwon Plant contributed to the effective use of local resources by regulations helps users easily and conveniently For instance, the Seocho R&D Campus in Korea colbuilding a steam supply system that utilizes the waste heat from the incinerator and by operating a 200,000 reference related legal and regulatory information lects and recycles rainwater, and the Noida Plant in 175,173 free e-waste take-back service and recycling center. 167,249 during the screening process. In addition, the sysIndia built a zero discharge system that recycles all 163,442 industrial wastewater from the plant and reuses it 150,000 tem enables better monitoring of the amount of after treatment. In 2013, we established a water 119,863 121,127 chemicals used and supports setup of emergency 113,332 inventory of our production sites in Korea and comresponse and chemical risk assessment processes pleted third-party validation of the data. 100,000 Striving for Harmony with Global ment in protecting biodiversity. Going forward, we to facilitate extensive and thorough safety manEnvironment will continuously work to establish biodiversity as agement at business sites. LG Electronics plans to Minimizing Discharge of Waste Protecting Biodiversity an important factor in our decision making process utilize the system to enhance the advance screen5,000 LG Electronics makes ongoing efforts to treat the LG Electronics fully recognizes the significance of to minimize adverse impacts to biodiversity that ing process and user safety monitoring from 2014, waste we generate and discharge in a safe manner, biodiversity and strongly believes it to be a value result from our business activities. further strengthening our capabilities for preventi.e. minimizing the amount of waste to be buried or worth protecting and conserving through coning industrial chemical accidents. 2011 2012 2013 incinerated, and identifying more items to recycle. certed efforts by all stakeholders. Based on this Global Volunteer Day Based on such efforts, we now recycle disposed Total Waste Generation · Basic unit was recalculated based on the global sales revised in line belief, we are pursuing a wide range of initiatives In 2010, the Labor Union of LG Electronics became Enhancing Fire Prevention Efforts with the changes to financial accounting standards. to move this important cause forward. In 2012, the first labor union in Korea to declare Union SoLG Electronics carries out a wide range of projects refrigerator doors that used to be incinerated, and Recycled Waste · Change in figures are due to typo corrections in the amount of reuse wooden pallets. We also increased the over“Total Waste Generated” from the previous year’s report. we amended our “Supplier Code of Conduct” to cial Responsibility (USR) and made a pledge to proto enhance our fire prevention capabilities on an all recycling rate to 3% by improving the efficiency · Recycling does not include heat recovery through incineration. require suppliers not to engage in the destruction tect the environment and ecosystems as part of its annual basis. In 2013, we cooperated with reinsurof our production processes and make continuof tropical rainforests and illegal logging in the procommitment toward social responsibility. Since the ers and engaged in diverse efforts, such as “Fire ous efforts to reduce carbon intensity per KRW. In cess of supplying products and services to LG ElecUSR declaration, the LGE Labor Union has continuRisk Index” setup, cost-benefit analysis of fire risk 2014, we will make continuous efforts to minimize tronics. We also included the related information ously pursued green initiatives based on employee management, and gap analysis against advanced waste generation and emission by setting internal in the “LGE Greener Packaging Design Guidelines” participation. In celebration of World Environment chemical management systems. targets for keeping the waste treated by landfill or and clearly specified the use of Forest StewardDay (June 5), the LGE Labor Union organizes the incineration to a minimum and by improving the Major Properties of Recycled Waste (Unit: ton, Korea) ship Council (FSC)-certified pulp. In addition, LG annual “Global Volunteer Day” event at business system to facilitate phased reduction efforts. Electronics participated in the “Government (Minsites across the world (more than 40 Korean sites istry of Environment)-Industry Joint Declaration on and all overseas subsidiaries) and engages in di4,993 Conservation of Biodiversity (September 2013)” verse volunteer activities to help protect the enOther 7,306 as a major signatory and actively engages with vironment and raise awareness on environmental Metal related organizations to promote business involveissues. 597 Oil 1,980 Sludge Total 29,003 Bio Diversity Promotion & Fire Protection Efforts 2,693 1. Signing Ceremony for the Government Wood 5,814 (Ministry of Environment)-Industry Paper Joint Declaration on Conservation of 5,620 Biodiversity Plastic 2. G  umi: Fire/Disaster Prevention Drill at Solar/TV Plant 1 2 · Other: PCB substrates, oil materials, etc. 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 54 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 55 Fire Risk Index Case Study Based on advanced standards for disaster risk Incident Rate: LTIFR management including the FM Global1) standards and the NFPA Code2), LG Electronics identified 20 key fire safety factors from the viewpoint of rein4 3.71 Green Initiatives at LG Electronics USA surers. We assessed all our Korean sites and overseas production subsidiaries (China, Russia, India, 3.5 etc.) against the key factors and made necessary 3.05 2.95 3 improvement efforts. Through these activities, we In 2013, LG Electronics USA made significant progress on a series of have developed a standard index against which we 2.5 voluntary environmental stewardship programs in cooperation with the can assess the fire safety performance of all our 2.27 2.00 U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to reduce the company’s business sites across the world. The index also en2 1.84 environmental footprint, including participating in initiatives to promote ables us to make comparative analyses of business 2.22 energy conservation, renewable energy use, environmental awareness, sites and to establish site-specific improvement 1.5 1.78 and supporting its goal to reduce its U.S. greenhouse gas emissions by 1.58 50 percent by 2020 (compared to 2008 baseline levels). measures. 1 Cost-Benefit Analysis for 0.5 Fire Risk Management 0.15 0.10 0.07 This analysis was performed to quantify fire risks 2011 2012 2013 at our business sites through the Event Tree Analysis (ETA), calculating the amount of potential losses before/after improvement efforts by applying Overall Average (Korea) Industry Average (Korea) LGE (Average) LGE (Korea) 1 Energy Conservation 2 Renewable Energy Use 3 Environmental Awareness · In our previous reports, incident rate was used to present this data. After LIFR was adopted for a set frequency to the amount of losses per key compliance with international standards, our 2011 and 2012 data was converted to an LTIFR. LG Electronics has been recognized by the U.S. LG Electronics USA increased the amount of reLG Electronics USA continues to expand its efforts production process incurred by fire, and reduced · LTIFR: Lost-Time Injuries Frequency Rate (Number of lost-time injuries x 1,000,000) / EPA as ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year for the newable energy used in its U.S. operations from to educate consumers about how their individual the amount of potential losses through invest(Total hours worked in accounting period) last three years for its role in manufacturing and about 1 percent in 2011 to 10 percent in 2013, actions to reduce energy consumption can make · Figures for overall average (Korea) and industry average (Korea) are based on data released by the marketing highly energy efficient products. As and began project activities to generate 80 MWH/ a difference in the fight against climate change. ments. Our analysis on the Solar Panel Plant at Korea Worker’s Compensation & Welfare Service. Industry here refers to the electronic product part of its commitment to reduce its carbon footyear from on-site solar panels. Highlights of 2013 initiatives include: Gumi identified a total of 44 improvement points. manufacturing industry. print, LGEUS began energy efficiency measures in We selected the top 22 items in terms of ROI and its own operations, including the roll out of a light1 Partnering with EPA’s “Team ENERGY STAR” made investments accordingly to bring down aning retrofit program to replace less efficient lightprogram for the third year in a row. Team ENnual potential losses by 65.5% (from KRW 1.23 billion to KRW 0.42 billion). ing in its U.S. facilities with LG’s energy efficient LEDs. The company completed lighting retrofit projects at four major locations in 2013 and has 5 Recycling ERGY STAR is a consumer awareness campaign to teach children and families how saving energy helps save money and prevent climate Although LG Electronics recorded 3,000 consecu2013, the program selected 119 employees as plans to replace the lights in additional locations in In 2013, LG Electronics collected and responsibly change with fun educational activities and Accident & Emergency Response Activities tive flight hours without an accident in 2011, this subjects for intensive management and offered 2014 and 2015. energy-savings actions. recycled nearly 50 million pounds of unused and In order to enhance the disaster readiness of our accident served as an important reminder about disease education, nutritional consultation, physical unusable electronics in the U.S., including more 2 Launching an energy savings campaign in its business sites, LG Electronics conducts diverse safety, and we will further strengthen our flight training, and U-Health rental devices. Thanks to exthan 500,000 pounds collected at voluntary reU.S. offices to encourage colleagues to turn off EESH drills and exercises. In particular, we conductsafety measures to ensure a safe flight for our tensive support, program participants have made cycling events throughout the year. Messaging at lights and office equipment during non-working hours or when not in use to save energy. 4 ed a public-private joint fire drill and emergency reemployees. great improvement, with 88 enrollees (73.9%) recycling events included encouraging consumers lowering their exposure risk level by 1 point or Greenhouse Gas Inventory to upgrade to ENERGY STAR qualified products 3 Participating in a number of community and sponse exercise in the Gumi area, which is exposed after responsibly recycling their old electronics. local school events to raise awareness about to considerable risks in terms of industrial safety Promoting Employee Health Promotion & more. LG Electronics also makes diverse efforts the importance of environmental stewardship. As a charter Gold level participant in the U.S. EPA’s and environmental consequences. The fire drill conEnhancing Working Conditions to improve working conditions for its employees. LG Electronics USA aligned its corporate accountSustainable Materials Management Electronics ducted in partnership with the Gumi Fire Station LG Electronics operates the Total Health PromoFor instance, we analyzed the cause of loud noises ing and reporting practices to the GHG Protocol Challenge, LG has voluntarily committed to sendfocused on enhancing our initial response to fires (close to 90 dB) from a welding production line (reCorporate Standard developed by the World Reing 100 percent of used electronics collected for tion (THP) program on an annual basis to promote sources Institute and World Business Council on reuse and recycling to third-party recyclers with and explosions. We plan to conduct fire drills on an and protect employee health. Based on the results frigerator unit) at the Changwon Plant and, based Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and received the e-Stewards certification, the highest level of annual basis to strengthen disaster readiness. of regular medical check-ups, we provide health on our analysis, replaced equipment and developed third party assurance for its 2008 base year instandards for recyclers. In November 2013, a helicopter owned by LG Elecconsultations to employees with diagnosed condia new technology to reduce the noise level by up ventory. In addition, LG is implementing a data tronics crashed into a high-rise apartment buildtions, and help our employees cope with emotional to 12 dB. We were also able to cut additional 11 management system to centrally track and maning located in Seoul, killing the two pilots onboard stress with counseling centers. We also maintain dB by improving air guns used in the production age energy, carbon and sustainability data across and damaging the exterior walls of the apartment process. LG Electronics is committed to promotits US operations. permanent medical staff (medical doctor or nurse) building. LG Electronics is fully cooperating with at all our Korean and overseas business sites to ening employee health and improving working condithe authorities to identify the cause of the accisure immediate responses to medical emergencies tions and intends to continue its ongoing efforts Change the World, Start with LG Hope Screen dent and is making every possible effort into the and to facilitate on-site management of employee in these areas. ENERGY STAR pledge response and recovery process. We also commishealth. sioned the Architectural Association of Korea to In partnership with the Seocho Community Health 1) FM Global: Factory Mutual, a U.S. insurance assess the structural safety of the damaged buildCenter in Korea, the Seocho R&D Campus and the company specializes in loss prevention services to large corporations ing, which concluded that the building was strucWoomyeon R&D Campus operate a health pro2) NFPA Codes: Fire response standards established turally sound and posed no safety concerns. gram for employees with metabolic syndrome. In by the U.S. National Fire Protection Association Asking consumers to do their part to save Educating Customers on energy and help protect the climate Climate Change Response (LGE Booth at a Fan Event for the 2013 (LG Electronics’ Digital Billboard at NCAA Final Four) New York Times Square) 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 56 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 57 Boundary With Customer Government Our Principles for our Suppliers NGO Community Subsidiary orga ni z ati on Investor Supplier Win-Win Growth Procurement Performance & Supply Chain For the effective management of its vast network Direct Purchases Amount by Region in 2013 (Unit: KRW billion) Supplier Selection In 2013, LG Electronics strengthened its potential/ of suppliers, LG Electronics groups its business new supplier registration process to include an asEmployee Affiliate partners into “direct suppliers,” who provide the raw sessment of corporate social responsibility (CSR) 352 issues, such as labor rights, human rights, and cormaterials and parts used for manufacturing prod1.1% ucts, and “indirect suppliers,” who provide services 2,503 CIS 52 porate ethics at the potential supplier. As for exInternational and other products such as advertisement and IT 7.7% 0.1% isting suppliers, we intend to include CSR aspects Organization services. The Procurement Center is in charge of Europe MEA in our supplier assessment criteria from 2014. For managing direct suppliers, and HQ’s General Pro4,968 further details, please refer to p. 62 “Supplier CSR OUTSide of the Risk”. curement (GP) manages indirect suppliers. 15.3% organization Americas In 2013, LG Electronics spent KRW 32.5 trillion in the form of direct purchases, and 76% of this Supporting Suppliers to Achieve amount, KRW 25 trillion, was spent in Asia includGlobal No. 1 Competitiveness Total ing Korea. We conducted business transactions 32.5 trillion Based on our definition, “No.1” suppliers are those OUR FOCUS O U R Perfor m a n ce with over 1,000 suppliers in Korea and approxiwho possess differentiated technologies and proAccording to the 2013 Materiality Analysis, our mately 3,000 suppliers overseas, and made transduction capabilities and are ready and willing to 3,961 stakeholders regard actions of KRW 100 million or higher with more 12.2% 13,977 undertake global operations. LG Electronics estab1) Establishing Fair Trade Practices and than 77% of them (approximately 3,000 suppliAsia 43.0% lished the “No. 1” Supplier Program to help its key 201 2) Raising Corruption/Cartel Awareness as the Selfers). LG Electronics maintains a list of over 7,000 Korea suppliers grow into such “No.1” suppliers. most important issues, while benchmarking Assessment registered suppliers (existing suppliers included) as 6,693 In 2013, we introduced a new assessment system against industry peers revealed that “Raising Suppliers potential business partners. In 2013, we conduct20.6% Supplier Awareness on CSR” is considered as to identify suppliers whose capabilities are at, or 9 China the most critical issue. CSR Audit/ ed business transactions with 40 new suppliers, close to, the global level and to provide the supConsulting Suppliers including 11 Chinese companies. port they need to become “No.1” suppliers. Based Improving Supplier CSR In 2013, LG Electronics spent approximately KRW on our supplier capability development strategy, we 1.2 trillion in Korea in the form of indirect purprovide suppliers with professional consulting and O U R A p p roac h chases. We conducted business transactions with HR support to address their weaknesses, and the LG Electronics strives for a shared growth with approximately 1,000 suppliers, and close to 50% process takes place in close cooperation with the suppliers based on its efforts toward fair and of our suppliers made transactions of KRW 100 program beneficiaries. transparent business transactions, ongoing million or higher with LG Electronics. HQ’s GP colIn 2013, a total of 16 suppliers were selected as communication, and win-win partnerships. We laborates with individual subsidiaries on managing “No. 1 Suppliers,” and we plan to at least double also make continuous efforts to help our suppliers establish a sustainability management system, including the Supplier Code of Conduct introduced in 2010. 16 Number of indirect purchases made at overseas subsidiaries, and this system is being extended to more subsidiaries and business areas. this number by 2015. No.1 Suppliers Over the past 20 years, Dong Yang Industries has been able to overcome O U R E v a l ua t i o n many challenges created by rapidly 58% LG Electronics operates the Fair Trade changing business conditions and grow Compliance Program and guarantees an equal together with LG Electronics thanks to our opportunity in our business transactions with partnership, which is built on their strong Amount and Percentage of Local Purchases by Key Subsidiaries, Breakdown by Product (Unit: KRW billion) suppliers. We also support our suppliers to Percentage of respect for suppliers as growth partners. acquire the sustainable competitiveness required Local Purchases We received a wide range of technological to compete in the global market. and financial support from LG Electronics Local Purchase Local Total Local Purchase Local Total under their warmhearted policy of WinAmount Purchase (%) Purchase Amount Purchase (%) Purchase 217 Win Growth, which was invaluable in our Amount Amount overcoming of business vulnerabilities. Number of Smelters Our Win-Win partnership has been further LGEKR Korea 11,895 72 16,588 LGEYT China Yantai 480 68 704 extended to overseas markets, Identified to Use and together we are striving to become Conflict Minerals “Global No. 1.” Dong Yang Industries LGEND China Nanjing 751 63 1,201 LGETH Thailand Rayong 462 69 666 will spare no efforts in technological F u t ure d i rec t i o n development and innovation to become the “Best Partner” for LG Electronics in LGEPN China Nanjing 766 86 892 LGEMM Mexico Monterrey 244 59 416 achieving Global No. 1. 1 2 3  4 LGEQD China Qingdao 144 73 198 LGERS Mexico Reynosa 92 6 1,456  Help suppliers Establish a system for Strengthen Track the origin of all CSR audit build CSR risk management tracking the origin of 3TG minerals contained 3TG minerals contained CEO, Other 4,126 40 10,384 Total 18,960 58 32,505 in our products Dong Yang Industries capabilities in our products Yong Hae Park The subsidiaries represented above are the leading subsidiary in their respective product categories: LGERS (TV), LGEYT/LGEQD (Mobile Phones), LGEMM (Refrigerator), LGEPN (Washing Machine), LGETH (Air Conditioner), LGEND (Monitor) 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 58 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 59 3 Philosophies and 5 Principles for 3 Philosophies and 5 Principles for Win-Win Growth toward acquiring core competitiveness, we are foPromotion of Core Technological Capabilities Improvement of Payment Conditions Win-Win Growth cusing on assisting our suppliers, both domestic & Support for Protection of Key Technologies LG Electronics processes invoices from subconLG Electronics established “3 Philosophies and and overseas, to address their weaknesses, create In line with our CEO’s strong commitment to protractors twice a month and makes cash payments 5 Principles for Win-Win Growth” and makes diObjective Keywords 3 Philosophies and 5 Principles value, and enhance capabilities. moting the local parts and materials industry, we within 10 days of invoice processing. We also adverse efforts to ensure that all our employees from are expanding support for local suppliers producjust payment schedules – for instance by increasing procurement and related departments fully underSupport for Production, Manufacturing ing major equipment and parts. In order to acquire the frequency of payment processing or shortenstand our philosophies and principles and put them and Management Stability and better protect technological competitiveness, ing payment periods – to alleviate the financial coninto practice. We have also made this information Securing Global No.1 Philosophy As part of our efforts to promote fair trade and we utilize the Technology Escrow Service in joint straints of our suppliers. In addition, we conclude available on our Win-Win Growth website. Competitiveness establish a sound win-win growth ecosystem, LG R&D projects for new technologies. Under the payments to suppliers ahead of schedule prior to 1. In pursuance of Win-Win Growth, LG Electronics annually renews the Fair Trade & WinTechnology Escrow Service, government organizanational holidays (New Year’s Day and Thanksgivwww.lgesuppliers.com/winwin Electronics strives to help suppliers grow No.1 Spirit into strong companies with Global No.1 Win Growth Partnership Agreement with our 1st tions take stewardship of suppliers’ technology and ing) to assist suppliers with their financial manageOrganization for Win-Win Growth competitiveness. tier suppliers, and encourages the same agreement ensure that the technology is safely protected. LG ment and employee welfare. As part of our efforts to secure core competitiveLG Electronics between our 1st and 2nd tier suppliers. Based on Electronics bears the entire costs incurred from us2. Suppliers are a valuable source of LG ness and create differentiated values, we select Electronics’ business competitiveness the initiative, we also formed a consortium with the ing the service. Training & HR Support · Support to promote Korean government (Ministry of Industry, Trade & prospective “No.1” suppliers from each product suppliers’ long term and partner in innovation. As part of our ongoing effort to strengthen supplicategory and focus our support resources on helpself-sufficiency Shared Drive Energy) and 1st/2nd/3rd tier suppliers, and proFinancial Support ers’ core competitiveness (talent management and 3. In pursuance of Win-Win Growth, LG ing them grow into “No.1” suppliers. We also oper· Partnerships based on Electronics should not simply share vide consulting on suppliers’ business operations LG Electronics makes continuous efforts to ensure capability development), LG Electronics provides ate the Skill Council to develop our own capabilities competitiveness existing resources but strive to share the (production and manufacturing, and promoting our suppliers’ financial stability by supporting them training and HR support to 1st and 2nd tier supin facilitating effective support as well as to offer · Two-way communication benefits from growing competitiveness innovation) and assessment of their Productivity with direct/indirect funding and improving paypliers. and fair transactions achieved through ongoing innovation. an ongoing support system for the program. In Management System (PMS). ment schedules and periods. order to build partnerships based on trust and to Win-Win Growth Academy and maintain fair business relationships, we also have Support for Developing Capabilities in Direct Funding Support Training Programs regular VOS (Voice of Suppliers) meetings and Win-Win Growth Next Generation Technology Since 2004, LG Electronics has provided no-interIn an effort to provide effective support for supstrive to create a respectful win-win growth culPrinciple LG Electronics continues its efforts to strengthen est, direct funding support to suppliers for their pliers’ talent management and capability imture based on two-way communication. suppliers’ capabilities in the next generation of efforts to improve productivity and quality, expand provement initiatives, LG Electronics established As part of our ongoing efforts toward win-win technologies. capacity and facility, establish overseas operations a dedicated facility for supplier training (Win-Win 1. We must reinvent and discipline ourgrowth as the foundation for world-class competiSupplier selves first to comply with global level for LGE projects, and develop advanced technoloGrowth Academy) at the LG Electronics Learning tiveness, in December 2013 we consolidated the processes and rules. Green Partnership Program gies. Center. We also set up a consortium with a local Strive to grow into a strong previously decentralized win-win growth support company with: Innovation Our Green Partnership Program aims to strengthuniversity (Changwon National University) and the 2. Carefully select suppliers with competiCombination/Indirect Funding Support Foundation for Cooperation between Large Comorganizations under the Procurement Center to · the organization size tiveness, and then provide support that en the technological capabilities of Korea’s smallgenerate a synergistic effect and move forward that ensures sustainable creates profound impact. and mid-size enterprises through joint R&D projIn partnership with financial institutions, LG Elecpanies and SMEs to offer training programs at the competitiveness with renewed drive. ects and contract R&D projects. Between the years tronics provides low-interest funding to suppliers university that provide easy access to local suppli· world class productivity 3. First, clearly establish the standards for and quality ; and 2011 and 2013 we invested a total of KRW 33.6 to ensure the financial stability of our suppliers ers and their employees. The training program ofGlobal No. 1, and then set goals and Securing Supplier Competitiveness with execute plans accordingly. billion on discovering and fostering suppliers with and to lay the foundation for sustainable win-win fers a range of training courses on core technical · technological Strong Drive for 5 Win-Win Growth competitiveness to advanced technologies and R&D capabilities, and partnerships. LG Electronics established the Winprocesses, including courses designed to enhance sustain independent 4. Comply with fair and transparent plan to expand these investments further in the Win Growth Fund with the Industrial Bank of Korea the quality of metal/plastic molding products and Objectives Jeong-Do standards with discipline and cooperate growth future. (IBK) to offer low-interest loans to our suppliers, welding. To promote learning and strengthen supEver since our pledge for win-win growth at the Management with each other. “LGE Win-Win Growth Camp” held in May 2011, and also set up a Win-Win Growth fund dedicated pliers’ core competitiveness, we also host a “LearnNo.1 Spirit·Shared Drive· we have strived to build true partnerships with Innovation·Jeong-Do 5. Make long-term and ongoing efforts Support for Open Innovation to our 2nd and 3rd tier suppliers in 2013. In ading Day” for the CEOs of our suppliers on a semianbased on communication and trust. suppliers based on our strong conviction that supManagement LG Electronics created a website dedicated to windition, we offer diverse support programs, such as nual basis. pliers are more than just business partners we have win growth to introduce our policy and programs the Network Loan (in association with financial transactions with; rather, they are the key to sucfor win-win growth, to attend to suppliers’ grievinstitutions), Overseas Business Partnership ProHR Support cess in our pursuit of Global No. 1. Demonstrating ances, and to encourage supplier suggestions. In gram, and Win-Win Growth Guarantee Support LG Electronics sponsors job fairs in partnership our unwavering commitment to win-win growth, addition, we also established a new business partProgram, and are continuously expanding the benwith government agencies and major media outwe established the “5 Win-Win Growth Objecnership request process and opened up the site to efits we offer to suppliers who have established lets to provide suppliers with opportunities to retives” as a foundation for relationships based on non-LGE suppliers to help businesses with new overseas operations for LGE projects. cruit quality talent and experienced professionals. trust. In 2013, we enhanced our action plans for 5 Win-Win Growth Objectives technologies and processes benefit from our winWe also provide consulting by internal/external the “5 Win-Win Growth Objectives” and are presswin partnership opportunities. experts from relevant fields to make a direct iming forward to secure Global No. 1 competitiveness pact on our suppliers’ capability development and 5 Win-Win Growth Objectives Support Programs by promoting the capabilities of our suppliers. to help them take a strong step toward world-class Support for Securing Global No.1 Support for Capability Improvement, Profit Sharing, competitiveness. 1 Competitiveness in Production/Quality Consulting, Partnership for Overseas Businesses Win-Win Growth Academy Implementation Strategy Fostering “No. 1” Suppliers Support for Developing Capabilities in Localization, Joint R&D, Technology Escrow Service, Securing No. 1 Competitiveness for Suppliers via Open Training Programs 2 Next Generation Technology Green Partnership Support for Securing Global No. 1 Competitiveness in Production and Quality No-interest/Low-interest Loans, Core Capabilities Win-Win Growth Academy Basic Capabilities LG Electronics has a differentiated suite of support 3 Financial Support Guarantee Support programs in place to help our suppliers acquire Acquisition of Competitiveness Cultivation of Core Talent Infrastructure for Talent Cultivation world-class competitiveness in terms of quality, Free Training Programs (LGE Learning Center, Changwon Enhanced Quality Competitiveness & Talent Cultivation for Stronger Provision of Basis for Talent Cultivation 4 Training Support Production Capacity Competitiveness production, and technology. In order to offer more National University, Ministry of Industry, Trade & Energy) effective support to our suppliers in their efforts Internal Process Improvement VOS, Win-Win Growth Website, Suppliers’ Competitiveness Determines LGE’s Competitiveness 5 –Strong Execution and Enhanced Grievance Reporting Channel Communication 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 60 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 61 Supplier CSR Risk Summary of Supplier CSR Risk Assessment Results (Unit: Number of Suppliers) Types of Suppliers' Non-Compliances from on-site audit (Unit: %) Management Number of 3 Employee Health Environment 1 & Safety Assessed suppliers Risk Assessment and Ethics (Number of Cases) Improvement Activities LG Electronics performs an annual CSR risk assess2011 213 25 38 Emergency Response 31 Management System Management System Employee Health Occupational Safety 11 ment of our major suppliers (top 80% of manufac36 (17%) 132 (62%) 45 (21%) (Unit: Number of Cases) & Safety Dormitory & Cafeteria 4 turers based on transaction amount) using the Employee Participation 8 Industrial Health 3 EICC’s SAQ (Self-Assessment Questionnaire). In our 2013 assessment of 201 major suppliers, 38 2012 234 Document Management Risk Assessment & 5 Equipment Safety 1 suppliers (19%) were rated high risk, and for 9 of Management 5 these suppliers we performed a CSR audit and pro47 (20%) 137 (59%) 50 (21%) Type of Supplier Responsibility 5 nonLabor vided on-site consulting. Communication 3 compliance (Unit: Number of Cases) Through our CSR audit and consulting, a total of 132 non-compliances were identified, and 79% of 2013 201 Declaration of Working Hours 10 Corporate Policy 2 them have been addressed (as of March 2014). Of 41 (20%) 122 (61%) 38 (19%) Other 7 the non-compliances identified through our audit, Training Program 2 Prohibition of Discrimination 7 health & safety related issues accounted for the Corrective Actions 1 largest share (38%), followed by labor rights and Low Risk Medium Risk High Risk following Audit 33 Voluntary Employment 6 Management Labor management system issues. Emergency response 1 Prohibition of Child Labor1) 6 Responsibility emerged as the most vulnerable area in the health Humane Treatment 5 Target & Performance & safety category, at 62%, with emergency drills Management 1 Freedom of Association 2 (e.g. fire drills) and management of fire fighting equipment being identified as the most pressing issues. Improvement tasks prescribed to all suppliers are listed in the table presented below. 1) Although no instances of child labor have been reported, we did find some non-compliances related to the issue (e.g. No provisions in place for handing child labor once such cases are identified). Beginning in 2014, we plan to require all major suppliers to use the EICC’s online assessment system (EICC-ON) to further advance our risk manSuppliers' CSR Risk Level by Region (Unit: %) agement programs. Adoption of this assessment tool, which is in full compliance with international standards, will also relieve our suppliers from mul22.2 12.6 Supplier CSR Risk Management by Case Study 22.2 25.0 37.5 31.2 tiple assessment requests made by different buyOverseas subsidiary ers and help them avoid wasting resources. In addition, we plan to shift our approach from assessing In addition to our corporate-level efforts toward Improvement Cases from Supplier CSR Risk Management supplier CSR risk management, our overseas subby Overseas Subsidiaries a new set of suppliers every year to assessing the sidiaries are strengthening CSR risk management same set of suppliers over a three-year period to Americas Europe/CIS China toward their suppliers. Based on our subsidiaries’ track their progress. In particular, we intend to ofrisk assessment, their suppliers are required to adfer detailed feedback to all high-risk suppliers, even dress risks associated with forced labor and child those who are not assigned for a CSR audit and 55.6 56.2 labor issues. We are requiring these suppliers to consulting, and encourage them to make voluntary 37.5 improvement efforts. carry out improvement efforts at a reasonable 1 2 level considering their circumstances. From our progress review conducted in September 2013, we In order to manage child labor issues at One of our subsidiaries performed a site were able to identify many improvement cases led suppliers, we informed them of our policy inspection on a waste treatment plant. on the issue (prohibition of child labor) With growing international concerns by subsidiaries, including the case study presented and introduced a termination clause into over e-waste, we made regular visits to Improvement Tasks Prescribed to All on the right. Suppliers based on CSR Consulting our purchase agreement, establishing the the plant to ensure that e-waste was beconfirmation of child labor as grounds for ing processed in an environmentally safe termination. manner, as well as in compliance with related laws and regulations, and to raise Improvement Task our suppliers’ awareness on corporate social responsibility. 1 Conduct Emergency Drills for all employees 22.6 17.8 2 Improve Access to Fire Fighting Equipment 33.3 41.7 Improvement Cases from On-Site Consulting Strengthen Employee Grievance 3 Resolution Process Asia Korea 4 Abolish Disciplinary Wage Reduction 1 2 Strengthen Management of Secure accessibility to Block access to 5 Employee contract fire fighting equipment dangerous equipment 25.0 59.6 Introduction of painted lines around fire Introduction of the exterior cover for 6 Perform Risk Assessment fighting equipment to prohibit storing high-heat equipment to prevent burn boxes or other objects in the area. injuries from the remaining heat. 7 Strengthen Management of Potential Risks Low Risk Medium Risk High Risk 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 62 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 63 Case Study Incorporation of CSR Issues into Supplier New Supplier Selection Process CSR Policy and Activities of TAIYO YUDEN KOREA Selection Process and Plan for Introducing CSR Issues to Regular Supplier Assessment LG Electronics has in place a multi-dimensional pro1 2 3 cess to screen suppliers who wish to conduct busiTAIYO YUDEN KOREA is a Masan based supplier of mobile phone comTAIYO YUDEN Group's Charter on Social Responsibility Registration Screening of Pool Interview ponents, and actively pursuing CSR initiatives in line with the policy (The Japanese parent company established the charter in February 2005, ness with our company. In 2013, we introduced Target Pool of its parent company based in Japan (Taiyo Yuden). In 2008, TAIYO and TAIYO YUDEN KOREA adopted it in 2008) CSR aspects to our prospective supplier assessment process under the Management (M) categoYUDEN KOREA adopted a CSR Charter and put it into practice with a ry. The strengthened screening process is designed Code of Conduct and CSR Management Manual based on the Charter. To win the trust and goodwill of society, the TAIYO YUDEN Group The Code of Conduct consists of 21 articles and 5 chapters on fair will respect human rights, keep abreast of and comply with laws and to verify prospective suppliers’ compliance with key trade, environmental protection, human rights protection, and contriinternational rules and regulations, and take a socially conscious requirements in HR and ESH during the plant in7 6 5 4 bution to the community, and designates the organization responsible course of action based on high ethical standards. spection, ensuring assessment of site conditions for managing each area. as well as required documentation. Through such System Final Plant Business Based on our 2013 CSR consulting for the company, TAIYO YUDEN measures, we require potential suppliers to comply Registration Approval Inspection Proposal KOREA agreed to revise its CSR Code of Conduct to incorporate the with key CSR requirements, encourage them to eslatest CSR requirements in an effort to fully comply with international · The TAIYO YUDEN Group will win our clients' confidence by developing and providing tablish a CSR framework, and strive to improve the standards, and plans to review its progress and make improvements high value-added products and services for which safety is thoroughly considered. working conditions of their employees. In 2014, we under third party inspections. · The TAIYO YUDEN Group will pursue global environmental preservation by reducing intend to introduce CSR performance indicators to environmental impacts caused by our business activities. · The TAIYO YUDEN Group will engage in fair, open, and free competition while our quarterly assessment of existing suppliers and maintaining sound relationships with governmental/administrative bodies, citizens, to offer incentives to suppliers who have shown and organizations. excellent performance in the CSR area. (CSR) Code of Conduct 1. Provisions Enhancing Capabilities of CSR Items for Plant Inspection (for New Supplier Selection) 2. About Business Activities · The TAIYO YUDEN Group will respect the dignity and individuality of each person based Procurement Staff on recognition of people's diverse backgrounds and characteristics. In 2013, LG Electronics continued its intensive CSR 3. Relationship with People · The TAIYO YUDEN Group will strive to create safe work environments that ensure our 4. Relationship with Society employees are able to perform their duties with a sense of reassurance. training for procurement staff. Our training course CSR Management on supplier management is composed of two ses5. Corporate asset and information control sions to help trainees acquire comprehensive unSub Criteria derstanding on CSR and practical skills for supplier Based on its risk registration system, TAIYO YUDEN KOREA identifies and man· The TAIYO YUDEN Group will actively participate in social contribution ages risks associated with business sustainability and other issues, and addresses CSR risk management, and a total of 50 employees them through response measures implemented at a corporate level. The comefforts while valuing co-existence with local and international communities. · The TAIYO YUDEN Group will promote widespread communication with society have completed the training. The program, which is pany assigns the management of each risk to those who have appropriate auand disclose corporate information on a timely basis in an appropriate manner. offered to employees from other LG affiliates as thority for the risk level, maintains a risk matrix based on the frequency and level well as our procurement staff, utilizes actual cases HR & Labor Relations ESH System Site Management of risk factors and manages risks accordingly, making regular progress reports to www.yuden.co.jp/ut/company/csr/charter/ involving suppliers to increase its effectiveness and • Management Commitment & • Environmental and occupational • Management of Hazardous top management. Management System Health & Safety Management Chemicals/Waste has gained a great response from procurement • Prohibition of Child Labor System • Infrastructure for Emergency staff members who regularly visit and manage • Employment Agreement • Risk Assessment & Management Response Situations suppliers. In 2013, we also launched a new CSR • Compliance with Legal Minimum • Compliance with ESH Laws & • Management of High-Risk Wage Regulations Equipment training program which requires a procurement CSR Management System of TAIYO YUDEN KOREA staff member in charge of the region to participate in supplier CSR consulting to further develop his/ • Rules of Employment • Management Manual • Employment Agreement • Records of Risk Assessment & • Site Inspection CSR Charter (Pledge to Stakeholders) her CSR capabilities. The program aims to groom • Payroll Records Management procurement staff members into CSR manageCSR Code of Conduct ment professionals, thus enabling our procure(Specific Action Plans) ment organization to take leadership in supplier CSR risk assessment and management in the long Review Criteria term. Going forward, we will also offer preparation Framework and Rules for Practicing Code of Conduct Corporate-level CSR Activities Laws & Regulations courses for professional certifications to help our P la n Do procurement employees develop professional capacity in CSR management. • Compliance with Laws & Regulations • Risk Management • Social Contribution Ac t i o n c h eck Audit/Notification Assessment Disclosure of Performance 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 64 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 65 Conflict Minerals Helping Female Refugees from the DRC Build Participation in Indonesian Tin Self-sustainable Livelihoods Working Group (TWG) Overview of the Conflict Minerals Issue In addition to making our supply chain free of conIn addition to our efforts toward addressing conSince the early 1990s, the Democratic Republic flicts and striving for responsible sourcing, LG Elecflict minerals issues in Africa, LG Electronics is of Congo (DRC), located in Central Africa, and its tronics is hard at work to support and alleviate the actively participating in discussions about tin minneighboring countries have been ravaged by fierce suffering of female refugees in conflict-affected ing at Bangka Island, Indonesia, which is causing a armed conflicts over the region’s vast reserves of regions. In association with the UN World Food great level of concern among industry peers. Many natural resources, which have caused grave violaProgramme (WFP), LG Electronics hosted the LG NGOs including Friends of the Earth (FoE) have extion of human rights (e.g. more than 5.4 million Helping Female Refugees from the DRC Build Global Cooking Competition in October 2013 and pressed concerns over the environmental destrucdeaths and injuries, violence against women, and Self-sustainable Livelihoods raised approximately USD 100,000. The funds will tion at the home of the world’s largest tin mine. Alchild abuse) and other atrocities, such as the debe used to help women and children suffering from though LG Electronics does not procure tin directly, struction of the environment, bribery, and illegal hunger at refugee camps in the North Kivu region our due diligence survey revealed that some of our trade of minerals. of the DRC. Women from the refugee camps will products contain tin produced by smelters located Proving Support to People from ConflictIn response to rising international concerns on the in their products to be supplied to LG Electronics and smelters. According to the survey conducted receive food and stoves in return for eco-friendly in the island. As such, LG Electronics joined the Indid not, directly or indirectly, provide financial reat January 2014 with the new system, 28,400 Affected Regions in Africa and Promoting biomass briquettes they produced, and the proissue, in July 2010 the U.S. enacted the Dodd-Frank donesian Tin Working Group (TWG) launched in sources or benefits to the armed groups commitcomponents sourced from 1,142 suppliers contain Collective Industry Action ceeds from briquette sales will be redirected to Consumer Protection and Wall Street Reform Act. July 2013, together with the Dutch research orgating grave human rights violations in the DRC and conflict minerals. Our probe into the origin of these Conflict Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI) helping these women build self-sustainable liveliUnder the conflict minerals reporting provisions nization IDH (the sustainable trade initiative), FoE, its neighboring countries. In addition, any smelters minerals identified a total of 217 smelters within Since 2010, LG Electronics has participated in the hoods. (Section 1502) of the law, corporations listed in the EICC, and other industry peers (Apple, Blackproducing tantalum, tin, tungsten or gold metals our supply chain, and 19% of those smelters (41) CFSI, a leading industry initiative launched by the the U.S. stock market must disclose on the origin of Berry, Phillips, Samsung Electronics, and Sony). subsequently used in LG Electronics products are are certified as Conflict Free Smelters. LG ElectronEICC and the GeSI (the Global e-Sustainability Other Activities conflict minerals (tantalum, tin, tungsten, gold and LG Electronics attends regular Working Group requested to seek and obtain certification through ics plans to continuously encourage non-certified Initiative) in response to the conflict minerals isLG Electronics held the Presentation on Response other minerals used to perpetuate the conflicts in meetings and contributes our opinions on the isthe “EICC/GeSI Conflict Free Smelter (CFS)” prosmelters to acquire the CFS certification and share sue. With the growing role and significance of the to Regulations on Conflict Minerals for Korean the DRC and its neighboring countries) and their sue, and participates in site surveys to help estabgram. At the same time, LG Electronics encourages the up-to-date list of CFS certified smelters via initiative, membership has increased to over 150 SMEs in association with the Korea Electronics derivatives contained in their products upon sublish a plan for the island’s sustainable development. its suppliers to purchase minerals legally sourced diverse channels including our corporate website. companies from 7 business sectors. In order to help Association (KEA), and is participating in the Conmission of their annual reports. The joint survey conducted by TWG members and and traded in conflict-affected regions to prevent In an effort to raise our suppliers’ awareness on companies make informed choices about conflictflict Free Minerals Workgroup led by the KEA. In local NGOs in December 2013 revealed many isnegative economic impacts on the affected nathe issue, we have developed a training program free sourcing, the CFSI develops and shares a wide addition, the “Guidance on Responsible Business LG Electronics’ Approach to sues, including local laws and regulations on mintions and the suffering of their people. that covers an overview of regulations on conflict range of tools and resources, such as the CFS proin Conflict-Affected and High-Risks Areas” jointly Conflict Minerals ing and illegal mining, and showed that the issue minerals, how to complete the EICC template, and gram, the smelter information, report templates, published by the UNGC and the “Principles for ReIn 2012, LG Electronics released “LG Electronics’ requires follow up surveys and the participation of and related guidelines. As an active member of the sponsible Investment” introduces our response to Statement on Conflict Minerals” on our corporate Management Efforts for Conflict Minerals how to track the origin of the four conflict minerdiverse stakeholders. als (evidence of the origin and the smelter) and ofinitiative, LG Electronics directs member comparegulations on conflict minerals and implementawebsite to make a full disclosure of our policy and In order to make preemptive responses to regufered the training since September 2013. To date, nies’ interest to important issues and informs our tion of the Conflict Mineral Management Systems to confirm our firm stance on this issue, as well as lations on conflict minerals, LG Electronics esa total of 154 LGE employees from major producKorean and overseas suppliers on key decisions to provide insight to other businesses in establishto update the public about our progress in this area. tablished a corporate-level taskforce led by the tion hubs and 511 staff members of over 400 made by the initiative to facilitate a responsible ing a conflict minerals management system. We have recently revised provisions on conflict Product Testing Laboratory at the Quality Center. suppliers have completed the training. In addition, sourcing of minerals in full compliance with interminerals in the Master Purchase Agreement and Throughout the year 2012, the taskforce conhttp://unglobalcompact.org/docs/issues_doc/ we are making diverse efforts (e.g. distribution of national standards. the Supplier Code of Conduct, and recommend our ducted due diligence surveys on conflict minerals, Peace_and_Business/B4P_Resource_Package_comsuppliers develop policies toward preventing the and based on the collected data, implemented the guidelines, operation of a Q&A bulletin board, etc.) pany.pdf use of conflict minerals sourced from mines conConflict Mineral Management Systems (CMMS) in to help our overseas subsidiaries and suppliers coltrolled by armed group. Suppliers to LG Electronics September 2013, establishing a system that our lect and manage information on conflict minerals must provide evidence that the four conflict minsuppliers can utilize to register and monitor informore efficiently. erals (tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold) contained mation on the use of conflict minerals, the origin, www.lg.com/global/sustainability/ business-partner/conflict-minerals Results of LGE’s Survey on Smelters Using the Four Conflict Minerals (As of February 2014) Conflict Minerals Management Initiatives Tantalum Key Locations China, USA, Germany CFS Certified 12 Non-CFS Certified 2 total 14 Tin Key Locations Indonesia, China, Japan CFS Certified 8 Non-CFS Certified 77 total 85 2 3 4 Tungsten Key Locations China, Japan, USA CFS Certified 7 Non-CFS Certified 19 total 26 1. G  uidance on Responsible Business in Conflict-Affected and High-Risks Areas Gold Key Locations Japan, China, Russia CFS Certified 14 Non-CFS Certified 78 total 92 2. 3. 4. Site Survey at Bangka Island, 5. 6. C Indonesia  onflict Mineral Awareness Total 41 176 217 1 5 6 Training for LGE Employees/ Suppliers/SMEs 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 66 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 67 Boundary With Customer Government Social Contribution the community NGO Community Subsidiary orga ni z ati on Investor Supplier Our Achievements in 2013 Throughout the year 2013, LG Electronics made organization-wide efforts to give back to com2013 Donations Breakdown (Parent) (Unit: %) ence. Supported by such partnerships, we fully utilize the powerful tools at our disposal – our munities, including volunteer activities and chari4 7 products, technologies, and infrastructure – to deCharitable donation Commercial Employee Affiliate table donations, with active participation from our Initiatives liver differentiated values that address the specific employees at 12 business sites in Korea and 41 needs of individual communities and to reach out overseas subsidiaries across 34 countries. In 2013, to their members. In an effort to make contribuLG Electronics made a total of KRW 24.3 billion in tions in a more effective and systematic manner, International Organization donations, and 45% of our donations were directwe have established the following three principles ed toward poverty eradication and environmental By for social contribution: 1) strengthen community OUTSide of the protection. Category engagement, 2) offer products and services using organization our infrastructure, and 3) expand employee particiContributions to the United Nations pation. Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) Under the slogan “Life’s Good with LG,” LG Elec89 Regular Assessment of Our OUR FOCUS O U R Perfor m a n ce tronics strives to contribute to meeting the United Community Social Contribution Efforts Investment According to the 2013 Materiality Analysis, our Nations Millennium Development Goals by delivIn order to align our social contribution efforts to stakeholders regard ering sustainable solutions to global-scale issues, our values, we assessed social contribution proThe expenditure type for strategic contributions to grams (in operation as of 2013) and based on the 35 1) Strengthening Engagement with Communities, such as the environment, poverty, and diseases. LG partner organizations, such as the WFP andthe Social 2) Promoting Collaboration with Stakeholders, and Electronics is also actively supporting the SustainSolidarity Bank, has been adjusted from “charitable results, further improved our plan for social con3) Developing Products/Services Customized for Countries able Development Goals (SDGs) set forth in “The donation” to “community support.” tribution. The assessment was performed against Local Needs as the most important issues, 42 Future We Want,” the outcome document from the following two criteria: “Do these programs while benchmarking against industry peers revealed that “Community Engagement” is Subsidiaries the UN Conference on Sustainable Development 7 1 utilize our core strengths effectively?” and “Are considered the most critical issue. (Rio+20) held in Rio de Janeiro. To this end, LG Culture Education these programs effective in resolving social issues 53 Electronics, together with its holding company LG 7 47 at hand?” Our assessment revealed that 11 out of Business Sites Corp., is pursuing longer-term initiatives that aim Poverty Win-Win the 18 programs required improvements. Based on to improve the global environment, eradicate disEradication Growth the findings, we plan to focus on increasing causeO U R A p p roac h Based on partnerships with stakeholders, LG Participation in eases associated with environmental factors, and marketing campaigns that take advantage of our Electronics actively contributes to resolving social Social Contribution fight poverty in underdeveloped countries. core capabilities, raising our brand profile through issues with a longer-term commitment. In particular, Initiatives global partnerships, and expanding employee parBy we utilize our core capabilities (products and Social Contributions at LG Electronics Area ticipation programs for our global members. Going technologies) in developing products that satisfy Based on its management philosophies of “Cusforward, we will organize an assessment comlocal needs. LG Electronics also provides active 27 tomer-Value Creation” and “People-Oriented Manmittee composed of experts in the field of social support to employee social contribution programs. Companies agement,” LG Electronics strives to contribute to contribution and local stakeholders to perform an the sustainable development of the humanity. LG annual assessment of our social contribution proO U R E v a l ua t i o n KRW 1.75 billion Since 2010, LG Electronics has supported the IVI (International Vaccine Institute)-LG Ethiopia Project, which aims to introduce Electronics pursues partnerships with governmental and non-governmental organizations across regions, regardless of its corporate network pres38 Environment grams to strengthen engagement with local communities. Taking advantage of its vast global network, Support for Start-up in Ethiopia a new low-cost oral cholera LG Electronics strives to help resolve social issues Social Enterprises vaccine developed by the IVI, the first time with global implications. We regularly organize the cholera vaccine will be introduced in global social contribution programs, such as blood Africa through the public health system. 773 donation campaigns and World Environment Day With LGE’s support, the IVI and local 2013 Social Contribution Performance events, and our subsidiaries (local and overseas) partners completed a study that evaluated engage with diverse stakeholders from the Employees Inputs Outputs Impacts the safety and protection level of the oral 4,208 respective communities on an ongoing basis. cholera vaccine, and trained local health and Costs Support for Local Communities Social lab workers on how to detect and report • Charitable Donation: • Supported the socially marginalized from the local community • Supported start-up social enterprises (Korea) – 27 Hours cholera cases in the community. A mass KRW 24.3 billion (Parent) • Sponsored and supported welfare facilities start-ups (KRW 1.75 billion, 15% increase in employee vaccination campaign will be conducted size, 40% increase in revenue) Workday Volunteer Region Stakeholder Participation • Established overseas presence with suppliers – 57 Program (Korea) in Oromia Region in 2014, which will be • Korea: 12 business Sites • Created maximum impact through partnerships with international suppliers (7.6% sales increase from the previous year) integral to demonstrating to policymakers • Overseas: 41 subsidiaries from organizations: UNEP, WHO, WFP, and IVI that vaccination is an effective way to 34 countries • Utilized sports marketing: LA Dodgers, Leverkusen, and Formula 1 Business Performance prevent and control cholera in high-risk • Enhanced brand profile with press releases: Issued press F u t ure d i rec t i o n communities. The IVI-LG partnership is an Number of Participating Employee Participation releases to news outlets (Network TV, daily newspaper, Employees • Life's Good Volunteer Group (Korea) 1,489 employees from 114 teams and online news media) on the donation of “Bookimportant contribution to the IVI’s efforts (Multiple Participations) • Life's Good Day Donation (Korea) 57,212 employees in 5 events reading” mobile phones (1,500 units) and employee to reduce death and illness from infectious • Korea: 65,444 (Raised KRW 24.2 million) volunteer activities 1 2 3 diseases through vaccines and vaccination. • Overseas: 74,380 •Global Blood Donation Campaign – 1,540 employees from 12 Korean • Promoted corporate culture through the expansion of Discover talented youths with business sites and 12 overseas subsidiaries employee participation programs  • Workday Volunteer Program (Korea): 4,208 hours, 773 individuals • Promoted brand value and sales through social Develop “good” technologies underprivileged backgrounds from Expand employee social contributions with our products and services and products that contribute emerging markets/ less developed M.D., Associate Research Scientist, contribution programs International Vaccine Institute Cause Marketing to local communities nations and groom them into • Issued over 40 press releases (Korea) talented professionals Samuel Teshome • Implemented CSR slogan – 12 Korean business sites and 18 overseas subsidiaries from 15 countries 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 68 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 69 vested KRW 6 billion to foster start-up social enPerformance of Start-up Social Enterprises Support Program (2011~2013) terprises that are expected to make strong growth and great contributions to their communities, and a total of 39 social enterprises in the environment Total Support, Breakdown by Year (in KRW millions) sector (including start-ups and excluding repeat 1,732 10 beneficiaries) have received support over the past Financial Number of 2011 three years. Support Beneficiaries Program Details 1,605 14 LG Hope Family The program provides start-up social enterprises Financial Number of 2012 (Bangladesh) with a wide range of support, including grants to Support Beneficiaries Copyright © 15 May 2013 by Ranak Martin promote their organizational capabilities, business independency, and sustainability. The program 1,750 27 Key Social Contribution strives to build and foster a success model for 2013 Financial Number of Programs social enterprises in the environment sector and Support Beneficiaries pursues a strong and collaborative network with related organizations to ensure that necessary Strengthening Engagement with CommuniLG Hope Screen ducted, and a total of 3,525 individuals (approxisupport is provided effectively and efficiently. Furties and Diverse Stakeholders Since 2012, LG Electronics has made our Times mately 500 beneficiaries per session) received a ther details are as follows: LG Electronics actively pursues partnerships with Breakdown by Business Type Square digital billboard available to international free check-up and medication, and 8,800 people government agencies and professional organizaorganizations, including the UNDP and UNEP, to (approximately 1,300 beneficiaries per session) 1. Beneficiaries of Program: Start-up social enterprises tions to identify local needs, and strives to deliver raise public awareness of global issues such as attended the healthcare classes. with high potential to make strong growth and great differentiated long-term values that address them poverty eradication and environmental protecLG Electronics intends to continue the campaign contributions to their communities 2. Program Operation Model: Effective utilization of Renewable Energy 2 Green Food and Product 14 successfully. We also maintain ongoing communition, by featuring public announcement videos. In in Myanmar through the year 2014 and plans to disparate expertise of stakeholders, including cation channels with various NGOs through MOUs 2013, the LG Hope Screen program was expanded establish the campaign as one of its key social conbusinesses, government agencies, and NGOs and share the details of our communications on to the UK’s Piccadilly Circus. In Germany, we joined tribution programs in neighboring Asian countries. (Multilateral Cooperation) Recycling and our corporate website. forces with the Bundesliga football club Bayer 04 3. Way to support Financial Support: Combination of grants and loans. Waste Handling 13 IT-based Green Business 1 Leverkusen and offered uniform advertisement “Life’s Green” Class LG Hope Series Incentives provided to high performers. Other Green Business rights to a local children’s heart foundation for In order to educate children on the importance of Technological Support: Productivity improvement Since 2009, LG Electronics has operated the LG Energy Efficiency (Healthcare, Hope Series, in association with the United Nations three games, during which the Leverkusen squad played in official club uniforms bearing the founthe environment and help them practice a green lifestyle, LG Electronics offers Life’s Green Classes consulting from the Labor Union of LG Electronics Training Support: Monthly seminars, workshops, and (Housing) 1 New Materials, etc.) 8 World Food Programme (WFP) and the Internadation’s logo. The players also auctioned off auin association with the Teenagers into Science and overseas training opportunities tional Vaccine Institute (IVI), to help those in need tographed large-size posters and donated all the Technology Center at Hanyang University and InDistribution Support: Joint marketing at industry in developing countries cope with the impacts of forums and trade fairs proceeds to the foundation. dia’s Pune University. The mobile science class visits 4. Other: Development and implementation of KPI for Number of Beneficiaries Acquiring climate change and establish self-sustainable elementary schools in underserved areas to offer Government Designation & Certification Job Creation social enterprises in the environment sector livelihoods. The LG Hope Family (Bangladesh and Health Promotion Campaign in Myanmar hands-on science classes. To this date, the program Certified Social Enterprise by 10 Number of Jobs Created 75 Cambodia) and LG Hope Village (Ethiopia) are key Since 2013, LG Electronics has been operating has visited 1.3 million students from 541 schools Developing KPI for Social Enterprises in the Ministry of Employment & Labor Total Increase in Employment Rate 15% parts of the LG Hope Series programs that provide the health awareness campaign “For Health of its and helped raise children’s awareness of environEnvironment Sector Designated Social Enterprise by 14 people in developing countries with support they People” in Myanmar in cooperation with the Seoul mental science by presenting educational perforIn an effort to contribute to building a framework Municipalities and Other Agencies need to secure a financial basis for self-sufficiency. National University Hospital. The campaign visited mance about environmental issues and offering lab for academic studies on social enterprises, LG ElecIn Ethiopia, our partnership for waterborne disease medically underserved rural areas and provided classes with special test kits, all from a special tour tronics is cooperating with the Research Institute eradication led to the successful development of a free check-ups and healthcare classes. The healthvehicle fitted with cutting-edge test equipment. for Social Enterprise to develop Key Performance cholera vaccine, which has been approved by the care classes, conducted with LG Electronics’ 3D Index for social enterprises. This index combines Sales Increase (in KRW millions) World Health Organization (WHO). A large-scale TVs and projectors, have generated strong interSupport Program for Start-up Social Enterthe target enterprise’ financial performance and vaccination campaign is scheduled for the second 11,137 est among local residents. In an effort to promote prises in the Environment Sector 40 social performance based on SROI1) to calculate % half of 2014, which will cover 20,000 local resilocal interest and participation for the campaign, This program was conceived by LG Electronics and “Blended Value,” based on which the social value Gross Sales Increase Gross Sales Growth Rate dents, including those from LG Hope Village. We LG Electronics also set up a space next to the free LG Chem with the aim of providing comprehensive of the enterprise is measured. Upon completing will also conduct health awareness classes in difclinic to hold various events, including singing consupport to start-up social enterprises in the envidevelopment, the index will be provided to the Minferent regions to educate area students (primary tests, instant photo sessions with Pocket Photo, ronment sector through multilateral cooperation istry of Employment and Labor and the Ministry and secondary) and residents on disease prevenand 3D movie screenings. In the year 2013 alone, 7 between the public sector, private sector, industry, of Environment to support the establishment of tion (including cholera), and health and hygiene sessions of health promotion campaign were conand academia. Since 2011, the program has intheoretic grounds for measuring performance of Interview care. social enterprises. “The Program Provided Invaluable Help to Build the Ground for Our Business” Contribution Programs for Local Communities 1) SROI (Social Return On Investment) 1. LG Hope Series in Ethiopia 2. Bayer 04 Leverkusen Players Jun Seo Lee, CEO of Ecojun Company (2013 Beneficiary) Donate Auction Proceeds (Germany) “When we were struggling with a lack of funding and knowhow, the program provided 3. Health Promotion Campaign invaluable support from knowhow on business success to consulting on a wide range of (Myanmar) management issues. In particular, financial support from LG Electronics helped us greatly 4. Life's Green Class (India) 1 2 3 4 in building a strong foundation for the business.” 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 70 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 71 11,500 Book-reading Mobile Phone Donation 773 employees 4,208 Hours Workday Volunteer Program (Korea) Providing Products and Services for passionate support from 14 overseas subsidiaries, terials utilizing the product. The LG Mouse Scanner, Life’s Good Volunteers (Korea) Life’s Good Day (Korea) blood donation campaign at a blood center in SoGreat Causes based on Our Business the campaign raised a total of USD 100,000 and a hybrid device combining the functions of a mouse Since 2005, LG Electronics has operated employee On the second Friday of every even month, LG chi, the host city of the 2014 Winter Olympics, in Infrastructure awareness on the issue through social media covand a scanner, converts text scanned from books volunteer groups. In 2010, the employee volunteer Electronics operates Life’s Good Day at company partnership with the Ministry of Labor & Social AfLG Electronics utilizes its core capabilities and erage of the event. During the final round of the or newspapers to digital text on the computer, groups expanded to talent donation programs cafeterias across Korean business sites. On the fairs of Russia, the Russian Federal Medical-Biologproducts to deliver solutions to community issues. contest held in Cape Town, South Africa, LG Elecand then converts the text to voice using textwith the launch of “Life’s Good Volunteers,” who event day, company cafeterias offer a reduced price ical Agency, the nation’s largest electronics retailer In particular, we are focusing our capabilities on tronics took the finalists to visit “Infinity Culinary to-speech software, highly effective for assisting visit places where help is needed and utilize their menu, and the employees who choose that menu Eldorado, and famous Olympic athletes from Ruspoverty eradication, education, and healthcare to Training,” a local culinary school run by an NPO, to students with learning challenges, such as vision special talents, interests, and expertise to provide pay the original price and donate the difference. sia. LGERA organized another large-scale blood docontribute to addressing global issues and to help provide a cooking class using the LG Light-wave disabilities and dyslexia. assistance. In 2013, a total of 1,489 employees The fund raised through Life’s Good Day events is nation campaign, “LG Blood Drive Boat.” With more the underprivileged build a basis for self-sustainOven Range to students, and donated our prodfrom 12 business sites in Korea participated in a directed to helping children from underprivileged than 100 participants onboard, including LGE emable livelihoods. ucts. Disaster Relief Mission (Philippines) variety of volunteer works, including photo shoots backgrounds and supporting free lunch programs. ployees, staff from the federal youth organization, In the South Central Philippines, LG Electronics for elderly citizens, computer classes for children Launched in 2011, the Life’s Good Day program will world famous boxers and runners, Russian sports “Mosquito Away” Air Conditioner “Book-reading Mobile Phone” for participated in emergency relief efforts for the vicunder care of welfare facilities, and painting murals be expanded to new business sites (Incheon Camstars, and volunteers, the boat traveled down the Introduced to Nigerians in 2012, the Mosquito People with Vision Disabilities tims of Typhoon Haiyan, offering our products and for community beautification. pus and Gangnam R&D Center) in 2014. rivers Volga and Kama, visiting eight major Russian Away Air Conditioner features a special ultra sonic Since 2005, LG Electronics has developed special technologies to help the recovery mission. In order cities (including Perm, Kazan, Samarra, Saratov, and wave developed by LG Electronics to chase away mobile phones for the visually impaired and, beto alleviate power supply issues that undermined Employee Donation Programs Global Employee Participation Programs Volgograd) and raising awareness of the issue. The malaria-causing mosquitoes. The air conditioner’s tween the period of 2006 and 2013, donated a recovery efforts, we installed the LG Solar Power LG Electronics makes diverse efforts to create a LG Electronics operates diverse social contribution campaign stopped at each city for one day to host effectiveness for repelling mosquitoes has been total 11,500 units. In 2013, we developed an LTE Generations System and donated USD 500,000 to corporate culture and environment that encouragprograms to provide our employees with more opa blood drive and carry out activities to promote proven by respected certification agencies, such as smartphone optimized for people with vision disthe relief fund. es employees to make donations in their everyday portunities to participate in volunteer activities. In the cause. LGERA became the first corporate partIntertek and TUV NORD. In addition, the air condiabilities based on a careful need analysis. The memlives. One of these programs is the Salary Roundcelebration of World Environment Day (June 5), ner of the Russian government to champion the istioner works smoothly even with unstable power bers of LGE employee volunteer groups delivered Employee Participation Programs ing Fund, which is raised by voluntary participation we organize the “Global Volunteer Day” event evsue in 2009, when a sharp drop in blood donation supplies and features a powerful compressor that the smartphones to beneficiaries and provided atGuided by the “Charter of Social Contribution” esof more than 96% of LGE Korea employees who ery year at our business sites across the world as in the country created a serious blood shortage ensures 24-hour operation even in a harsh extehome user training. tablished in 2005 and the LG Social Contribution donate less than KRW 1,000 from their monthly part of the LGE Labor Union’s URS (Union Social problem, and since then, the subsidiary has orgarior climate, such as sand storms and high temThe book-reading smartphone features a UI dePolicy introduced in 2012, LG Electronics strives to salaries. In 2013, the fund was directed to emerResponsibility) initiatives. In 2013, global LGE emnized more than 50 blood donation events. peratures, delivering features genuinely helpful to signed specifically for people with vision disabilicreate a corporate culture that promotes employgency disaster relief efforts for the victims of a ployees from all of our business sites in Korea and local residents. LG Electronics also introduced the ties, including various touch/gesture commands ees’ voluntary participation in social contribution typhoon that ravaged the Philippines. Launched in 40 overseas subsidiaries (including India, Vietnam, product to Myanmar and Bangladesh and other for search convenience and improved voice guide. efforts. 2004, the Executive Contribution Fund is another Ukraine, and Mexico) organized events in line with Asian countries exposed to the danger of malariaThe new edition also has the latest version of DMB employee donation program operated with the this year’s theme “Reducing Food Waste,” such as causing mosquitoes, to support local communities app and the LG Sangnam Library’s “LG Digital TalkWorkday Volunteer Program (Korea) participation of about 80% of LGE Korea execucomposting food waste, tree planting, and engagto handle the problem effectively. ing Book Library” mobile app to provide an environAs part of our efforts to promote employee voltives. In May 2013, executives representing diverse ing in campaigns for reducing food waste. ment in which users can enjoy audio books regardunteering, we introduced the “Workday Volunteer organizations established a steering committee In addition, LG Electronics has been organizing an Global Cooking Competition with Light-wave less of time and location, while offering the voice Program” in 2013. Under the program, employees to discuss the longer-term direction for the fund. annual “Global Blood Donation Campaign.” In 2013, Oven Range (LG Home Chef Championship) search function “Q Voice” for improved access to can take up to 8 hours of paid leave to volunteer on Based on the discussion, the committee decided to 1,540 employees from 12 business sites in Korea In an effort to raise funding and public awareness information. weekdays every year by signing up on the schedulsupport the IVI’s cholera vaccine development and and 12 overseas subsidiaries participated and on social contribution with cause marketing, LG ing system. In 2013, a total of 773 employees took the health awareness campaign in Myanmar. The donated blood. In line with the global campaign, Electronics, in partnership with the WFP, hosted Mouse Scanner advantage of the program and volunteered a total committee also decided to direct part of the fund LGERA (Russia subsidiary) organized a large-scale a global cooking contest featuring its Light-wave In September and October 2013, we visited schools of 4,208 hours. to supporting employee family members suffering Oven Range. In order to raise funds to support fefor children with vision disabilities in Cheongju and from intractable diseases (Korea). male refugees from Congo, LG Electronics made a Daejeon, where our business sites are located, and USD 5 donation for every contest participant. With donated mouse scanners and presented class maProducts & Services Contributed based on LGE Business Infrastructure Social Contribution Initiatives based on Employee Participation 1. Mosquito Away Air Conditioner 1. Life's Good Volunteers 2. Global Cooking Competition 2. Workday Volunteer Program featuring LG Light-wave Oven 3. Global Blood Donation Campaign Range (Sochi, Russia) 3. Book-reading Mobile Phone 4. LG Blood Drive Boat (Korea) 4. Emergency Relief Mission 1 2 3 4 (Philippines) 1 2 3 4 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 72 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 73 Around the World 07 Germany 05 Levant 01 02 Korea 06 Nigeria 08 Ethiopia 04 03 South & Central America Indonesia Global Social Contribution LG Electronics makes earnest efforts to Region spread hope to local communities across Korea_LG IT Angels Korea_“Sneakers with Dreams” Levant_LGE Eid Bus Nigeria_Mosquito Away the world. Volunteers from the MC Company visit people with severe disabilities at their homes and provide oneCampaign In their personal time, more than 100 designIn celebration of Iftar (the first meal after the Ramadan fast), LGE Levant invited children from unAir Conditioners In order to support the local community’ fight Korea 12 business Sites on-one IT training to help them lead more socially ers from the Corporate Design Center visited The derprivileged backgrounds to fun time at a theme against malaria, LG Electronics introduced the active lives. Salvation Army Broadview Children’s Home and presented children with sneakers after drawing a picture picked by the children on the shoes. park. Children enjoyed the Iftar dinner and received a backpack filled with school supplies as gift. “Mosquito Away” Air Conditioner designed and developed specifically to meet local needs. In addition, LG Electronics donated malaria medicine and mos41 subsidiaries from quito nets to provide further protection against mosquitoes. Overseas 34 countries South & Central America_ LG Creating Smiles Campaign The eight subsidiaries from Central & South Indonesia_LG Sound of Guidance Germany_LG Helps Flood Victims Ethiopia_Pocket Photo Day Number of Participating America (Ecuador, Mexico, Guatemala, Panama, Run as part of the “LG Loves Indonesia” campaign, In Germany, LG Electronics operated the “LG Helps LG Electronics hosted a Pocket Photo event “My Employees (Multiple Participations) Colombia, Argentina, and Peru) joined forces with a “LG Sound of Guidance” encouraged customers to Flood Victims” program to help victims from the First Family Portrait” at an Ethiopian village. The 65,444 non-profit organization TECHO Panama to run an participate in this social media campaign to supSouth East region hit by the worst flooding in event was organized to present a memorable piconline CSR campaign, which encouraged customport a school for children with vision disabilities. A a century and provided free repair service to the ture moment to the villagers, a majority of whom Korea ers to post a picture of them smiling. LG Electronics total of 2,223 individuals participated via mobile flood victims. As part of the program, LG Electroncannot afford to buy a camera and thus have never made a donation for every picture posted on the app, 41,523 fans through Facebook, and 4,881 ics donated 1,400 units of electric products and taken pictures with their families and friends. In the campaign website, and the fund raised was directed toward building houses for underprivileged families. followers from Twitter. The fund raised through the campaign was used to purchase class materials for the school and provide scholarships to students. operated a mobile laundry service. event, LG Electronics took photos of the residents and presented them with prints instantly produced Overseas 74,380 with Pocket Photo. 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 74 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 75 Boundary With Customer Government GLOBAL WORKFORCE Number/Percentage of Female Employees our employees NGO Community Subsidiary orga ni z ati on Investor Supplier In order to support its successful global operations, LG Electronics has more than 100 subsidiaries and R&D centers in place around the world, and 2011 2012 2013 Korea 5,770 5,830 5,791 Overseas 19,969 15,684 13,632 Total Female Employees 25,739 21,514 19,423 Total Employees 91,045 86,697 82,432 Percentage 28.3% 24.8% 23.6% strives for business sustainability together with its Employee Affiliate global workforce. As of 2013, LG Electronics has employed 82,432 talented individuals across the globe, with 38,440 employees based in Korea and Number of Employees Using Child Birth/Maternity Leave (Korea) 43,992 employees in overseas business sites. International Gender 2011 2012 2013 Organization Number of Employees Using Child Birth/Maternity Leave Male 9 16 26 Global HR System Female 403 403 466 OUTSide of the In an effort to support our global operations eforganization Percentage of Employees Returning after Leave Male 100% 94% 92% fectively, LG Electronics manages and fosters both Female 100% 99% 99% Korean and overseas employees under the same Percentage of Employees Remaining at Work for 12 Months or Male 89% 90% 82% HR system. To create a corporate culture that inLonger after Returning from Leave (=Retention Rate) Female 86% 96% 97% spires strong teamwork among employees with OUR FOCUS O U R Perfor m a n ce diverse minds and personal values, LG Electronics According to the 2013 Materiality Analysis, established the Global Labor Policy, which strongly our stakeholders regard renounces and prohibits discrimination, and aims and successful implementation of the Global HR Percentage of Non-Regular Employees (Korea) 1) Guarantee of Basic Labor Rights/ foremost to ensure that all our employees are emSystem, we are working on building a global-level Human Rights and braced as part of a team, regardless of their naorganization and staffing to provide both flexibility 2011 1.4% 2) Improving Labor Relations/Grievance Resolution tionality, gender, race, and education level, and as34 (i.e. the ability to adjust guidelines to accommo2012 2.7% as the most important issues, and benchmarking signed to a position that best suits their individual date local conditions) and consistency (i.e. the abil2013 1.7% against industry peers also identified “Guarantee Sites of Basic Labor Rights/Human Rights” as the most aptitudes and capabilities. ity to press forward with issues requiring uniform critical issue. (85%) Diversity Management Based on the conviction that diversity leads to implementation across the global network) to the system. Percentage of Employees with Disabilities (Korea) O U R A p p roac h greater organizational competitiveness, LG ElecOperation of Retirement Pension Fund 2011 1.3% Production Sites Rated LG Electronics implements an identical HR system to be at Low Risk tronics makes every effort to create a working In an effort to ensure stable pension payments 2012 1.3% across the globe and provides ongoing support to environment where employees from diverse backto our employees, LG Electronics is operating the 2013 1.4% help its employees develop professional capabilities. grounds, including females, foreigners and the dis“Retirement Annuity Insurance Fund.” As of yearLG Electronics is committed to protecting the labor abled, are respected and given fair opportunities to end 2013, our employee pension fund was manrights and human rights of our employees and to utilize their individual capabilities to the fullest exbuilding forward-looking labor-management aged by nine different fund management groups, tent. At LG Electronics, no employees are subjected and retirement pension was paid to employees in much higher overseas because a high percentage relations based on the Labor Union’s USR efforts. to discrimination or inconvenience because of their service with LG Electronics for a year or longer, in of our overseas subsidiaries are located in emerg76% LG Electronics’ communication programs play a vital role in building strong trust gender, race, education level, or religion. As of year-end 2013, female employees made up approximately 24% of the entire workforce at LG full compliance with operation guidelines set forth by the Korean government. For our overseas employees, the program was operated in accordance ing economies that present much less stable social, economic, and cultural conditions than Korea. In order to address this issue, we are continuously Compliance with and relationships among employees and Electronics, and we are making ongoing efforts to with guidelines prescribed by the local government. strengthening our retention and management 60 Hours per Week in improving our business performance. recruit and foster female talent. In order to conprograms for high performers, such as hiring back Working Hours In 2013, the employee turnover rate at LG ElecO U R E v a l ua t i o n Supported by these communication tribute to addressing the low birth rate caused by tronics was 4.3% within Korea and 27.8% at overretiring or resigning employees with excellent track LG Electronics actively protects employees’ programs, LG Electronics has made its child-care issues, we encourage our female emseas locations. Our employee turnover rate was records and capabilities as an adviser. labor rights as the key part of its employee employees feel that the Company cares ployees to take advantage of the maternity leave motivation efforts and constantly works to for them, values their work, has their best program and provide active support to help them reduce labor rights/human rights risks across the interest in mind, and accepts them as a achieve work-life balance. Currently, 3.3% of our supply chain. We also have in place an employee 4 part of an integral team. As such, HR and team leaders in Korea are female. In addition, LG grievance resolution process, which utilizes the leadership at LGEAP (Australia) see a Electronics is working to reduce the percentage of Turnover Rate (Unit: %) diverse channels to deliver a fast resolution. Instances great opportunity in these communication non-regular workers to improve the financial staEICC Third-Party programs and are working to fully embrace bility of our employees, while encouraging hiring of 38 Validation them. In particular, the New Leader Softpeople with disabilities to increase their percent40 landing Program has been highly effective 30 age in the workforce. 28 in establishing new leaders and received positive feedback from both the team and 30 the leaders. Regional HR Meeting F u t ure d i rec t i o n LG Electronics holds regular HR meetings with overseas subsidiaries (Americas, Asia, Europe, CIS, 20 1 2 3 MEA) to implement the standardized Global HR System across our global network. The Corporate 6 6 4 10 HR makes all its resources available to HR managCreate a corporate culture Expand targets for Enhance systems that promotes third-party designed to protect ers from the region representative or subsidiary work-life balance CSR validation employee’s human rights HR Manager, LGEAP (Australia) that requires a consultation to build close work2011 2012 2013 Amanda Jackson ing relationships between HQ and subsidiaries for the initiative. As part of our efforts toward a full Korea Based on the average number of regular employees (business/production) Overseas for 2013 (including cases of both voluntary and involuntary resignation) 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 76 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 77 Talent Acquisition & HR Development Process Employee Training Overview (Korea) Motivating Employees with Cultivation Fair Evaluation & Reward System LG Electronics has a single standardized corporateTalent Acquisition Programs Progress Review & CDP Revision Training Costs (Unit: KRW billion) 45.1 44.0 48.2 wide process that governs the evaluation and inLG Electronics continuously works to find and accentive systems for our employees. Our business quire quality talent through a wide range of recruit51 staff is evaluated based on their achievement Selected for against individual and group performance targets, ing activities, including recruitment events at major Business Leader Job Assignment universities and countries (US, Germany, UK, and Track/Training Promotion 48 and rewarded accordingly in the form of salary Korea). We also participate in the group-wide rePromotion raise or performance bonus. We also offer diverse cruitment event hosted by our holding company LG 45 types of performance incentives to our employees, Corp., called the Techno Conference, which is held including regular incentives based on individual Business Leader Job Training Program 42 performance, ad-hoc incentives for extraordinary both in Korea and the U.S. on a semiannual basis Training Mandatory Training (during the first and the second half). In addition, performance, differentiated incentives based on MBA • Establish Targets & CDP1) Program group performance, and retention incentives for we have in place an ongoing recruitment program Job Experience Job Experience 2011 2012 2013 (Job Rotation) • End of First-Half Performance (Job Rotation) high performers. In particular, LG Electronics rethat invites talented professionals to technology Review & CDP Progress Review seminars and interviews. As part of our efforts, From the amount of training costs disclosed in 2011 (KRW 54.9 billion), the amount wards high performers with differentiated com• Year-end Performance Review & KRW 9.8 billion (identified as improper receipt of employment insurance benefits and we operate an industry-academia cooperation subsequently reclaimed) was excluded. pensation to motivate our employees to strive for CDP Performance Review strong performance. program called the “LG Track (a form of an emAdvance Selection of One-on-One Caring ployment contract)” to recruit bright students in Candidates Interview by Direct In 2013, the starting salary for newly hired emadvance and groom them into young professionals Development Planning Led by Company Supervisor Establishment of CDP Training Hours (Unit: Number of Hours) 62 85 93 ployees with college education was 303.5% higher (business staff) than the legal minimum wage. tailored for LG Electronics. In order to create a rePresident/Division (Job Assignment/ cruitment process that places the individual merit Leader Training) 100 There is no salary gap between male and female of candidates over their education level or academemployees (both business and production staff), 80 and all employees are compensated fairly based on ic performance, we actively recruit contest winners and top performers from math and science compe60 their individual merit. titions. Our talent acquisition efforts extend to LG 40 Review & Career Confirmation Electronics’ recruitment fair “Job Camp,” through & Adjustment Confirmation Development 20 which we provide job seekers with useful trainby HR Dept. Map by Training Dept. ing and information, such as lectures on how to High Potential All Employees Employees choose a career, how to strategize for a job inter2011 2012 2013 view, how to write a resume, and mock interviews. As part of our efforts to create diverse types of 1) CDP: Career Development Plan jobs, we operate a dedicated course called “LG Electronics Class” at vocational high schools, help retirees find consulting jobs, promote hiring of people Employee Training System with disabilities through our subsidiary Hanwoori, expand part-time positions at our service call cenAll Employees HR Development System Training System for Business Entrepreneur ter, and promote female employment by expanding In an effort to foster great talent based on a Function Experts Domestic Overseas child care facilities at our business sites. longer-term strategy, LG Electronics offers three In order to foster experts in diverse business funcdifferent career development tracks (Business tions, LG Electronics established the Business HR Development Program Leader, Function Leader, and Expert) to satisfy disFunction College for each of its 12 business funcNew/Promoted Required/ Global CEO LG Electronics makes ongoing efforts to enhance parate career development needs of our employLife Planning Employee Required Job Position LGE College Job Position Job Conference tions and offers more than 610 onand offline our employee development programs. At the core ees. We have in place training programs specific to courses. Internal experts in each business function of our employee development programs is “Oneemployees’ career development stage, and utilize serve as instructor for offline courses and provide on-One Caring” interview, which aims to provide all actual job assignments, as well as regular training My LG, Level I Leadership R&D Global Biz. Marketing / Sales / Service New Vice relevant training based on actual cases to increase My Life our employees, both at home and overseas, with programs, to groom high performers into future Coaching Leader President the effectiveness. (Retiree) Level II SW Manufacturing / Quality EnDP career development support tailored for their indibusiness leaders. Newly Appointed Manager New Senior As these training courses are operated in compliSelf-Management Level III Operator Manufacturing Business Management 1) vidual needs. Based on the program, LG Electronics LG Electronics also strives to create a work enviEntrepreneur Technology Enhancement (Finance / SCM / HR) Vice President ance with international standards, the number of (1st year manager) Required helps our employees realize their career vision, and ronment that encourages our employees create New Team Leader Newly Appointed New Executive hours per employee is increasing every year and Employee Material strives to strengthen our business capacity in the personal value for their own career by exerting Self-Examination Enhancement Manager averaged 93 hours per employee in 2013 (based (2nd year assistant Purchasement New Entrepreneur long term. themselves. In most cases, employees begin their manager ~ manager Newly Appointed New Employee on office staff). On average, assistants completed Business Unit In addition, we established the “In-Nation Sercareer at LG Electronics as an assistant/associate Team Leader Quality IMPM2) Leader 170 hours of training, while assistant managers Self-Growth Global New Hire vice Employee (ISE) High Potential Individual Pool research engineer (4 years) and advances to as(2nd year Part Leader SCM On-boarding averaged 65 hours, managers 69 hours, senior Entrepreneur Candidate (HIPO) HQ Job Assignment/OJT Program” to foster sistant manager/research engineer (4 years), mannew employee) managers 58 hours, and executives 18 hours. LG Marketing Pre-Manager overseas employees who possess great potential ager/senior research engineer (5 years), and senior Electronics spent a total of KRW 62.4 billion on Product Planning and invite them to work and train at HQ (Korea). manager/principal research engineer (5 years). PBL employee training, which is translated to KRW B2B Organized into shortand long-term tracks, the Although the position structure and the years of Pre1.62 million per employee based on the average GLP3) Expatriate MBA program trains approximately 30 HIPOs a year, and service required for promotion constitute the basis Finance number of employees (office staff/Korea) for the FSE has trained a total of 108 high potential employees our HR policy, high performers are fast tracked for HR year 2013. from overseas subsidiaries since its establishment promotion to help them develop their potential to EIP4) FSE CS Candidate in 2009. the fullest extent. 1) EnDP: Entrepreneurship Development Program 3) GLP: Global Leadership Pool 2) IMPM: International Masters in Practicing Management 4) EIP: Early Identified Pool 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 78 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 79 Corporate Culture/ New Leader Soft Landing Program Work-Life Balance Division A Working Style Unique to LG Electronics Leader In an effort to create a sound organizational culture, Cross Open Communication we have fashioned a working style unique to LG This discussion session between executives and Electronics and are making ongoing improvement members from a different business unit aims to efforts to establish it as an integral part of our corTeam promote inter-organizational understanding. Alporate culture. Based on the belief that improveLeader though executives and all members of other busiment starts from putting small things into practice, ness organization are encouraged to participate in our improvement efforts for the year 2013 were the session, participation is limited to opinion leadfocused on ①striving for market-leading creativity Team ers in some cases. and a corporate culture that promotes autonomy, Members ②making bottom-up, voluntary efforts toward New Leader Soft Landing Program change, ③establishing communication programs This program provides new leaders and their team ecutives, and Junior Board members make an anthat promote horizontal communication, ④remembers (within the chain of reporting) with an nouncement to urge employees to go home. vamping unproductive meeting/reporting practices Direct Line of Reporting Covered by the Program opportunity to communicate and build teamwork Our Employee Family Care Program sends a mesto help our employees focus their energy on work, early on from their tenure. Developed and refined sage card and small gift in the name of executives and ⑤highlighting the importance of work-life from “Open Communication,” this program is recto employees’ children to congratulate their enterCooking School Event balance. In addition, we introduced a multi-party ommended for organizations with new leaders ing elementary school, or to wish them good luck Kazakhstan (LGEAK) horizontal discussion feature to the approval sysand encouraged to be held within three months on their college entrance exam. In 2013, a total of tem in March 2013 to promote speedy communiof their arrival. In January 2013, we conducted the 3,272 children and teenagers received this token 24,000 cation. As a result, we were able to reduce the time tablished the corporate-wide IDEAS bulletin board New Leader Soft Landing Program throughout the of recognition. required for approval by one third, and the number in 2005, and have collected more than 24,000 company, targeting organizations with new execuWe also provide counseling centers and employee of delayed approvals (the total number of cases employee ideas to date. Pocket Photo is one of tives. lounges at each business site to help our employwhere approvals required more than 24 hours to the great examples of creating a brand new prodees cope with professional and personal stress. event concluded in a family-like atmosphere, with be completed) decreased by 10%. uct through employee participation. The employee Renewed Focus on Employee Counseling centers offer professional diagnoses on participants sitting together as a family and enjoyNumber of Product Ideas Posted on who submitted the idea for Pocket Photo received Corporate-wide IDEAS Bulletin Board Work-Life Balance psychological and emotional health and provide ading a recent movie. In addition, 12 healthcare staff Market-Leading Creativity & Corporate an unprecedented reward for discovering a brand (Cumulative Since 2005) Korea vice on how to handle emotional stress. In addition, and employees from LGEPH provided free mediCulture Promoting Autonomy new business area. At LG Electronics, we believe that the happiness we make company cars available to our employees cal checkups to 262 local residents and made our Since 2012, LG Electronics has placed a strong of our employees, both personally and profession(Special Car Event) and help them celebrate special employees, as well as their family members, very emphasis on creating a “market-leading working Programs for Promoting Horizontal ally, leads to strong business performance and that occasions with their loved ones in style. proud to be part of the LG family. style unique to LG Electronics.” In line with our colCommunication work-life balance is an integral part of making our LGEAK, based in Almaty, Kazakhstan, hosted a lective commitment toward “delivering products LG Electronics has a unique set of carefully deemployees happy. As such, LG Electronics engages Overseas cooking event for employees. In the event, particiand services that transform the lives of customers,” signed communication programs to promote in a wide range of efforts to help our employees Our overseas subsidiaries also offer diverse propating employees had the opportunity to increase our employees actively participate in ideation proemployee engagement and communication. In achieve work-life balance. “Core Hours (9:00 to grams and events designed to promote employees’ their sense of belonging and share their product cesses and discussions for improving our working particular, these programs place a great emphasis 11:00 am)” is a corporate-level program designed work-life balance based on their comprehensive ideas as they cooked and enjoyed food with their style to create a corporate culture that promotes on promoting horizontal communication that ento help our employees avoid working overtime, by understanding of local cultures. LGEPH (Philipcolleagues. creativity and autonomy. courages employees to generate and then act on encouraging them to focus on work and increase pines) organized a company sports day in Manila Canada (LGECI) hosted a sports day event to build Our employees also take on their own initiatives their ideas. productivity. Each business site has a “Family Day” and invited more than 200 employees and their employee teamwork and promote partnerships in our organization-wide efforts toward creatto encourage its members to leave work on time family members. While participants competed with charitable organizations. In the event, employing a sound corporate culture, such as by actively Harmony 1+1 and spend quality time with their families. On in various sports events, children enjoyed video ees teamed up and competed to win cash prizes leading efforts to improve on current meeting/ This communication program aims to address the “Family Day,” the internal broadcasting system, exgames on LG LED TVs and other LG products. The on behalf of the charitable organization of their reporting practices (Campaign: Improving Ineffisilo effect and create a strong synergistic effect choice. cient Meeting and Reporting Practices), based on through collaboration by promoting active interdecisions reached at biannual team discussions team discussions. Participants at these discussions and workshops during the first and second half of are required to arrive at a conclusion and reach the year and participating in internal idea contests an agreement on a particular issue, based on the held both on a regular and irregular basis. In order process of 1) issue discovery, 2) task identification, Work & Life Balance Activities to further promote employee participation, we esand 3) execution/review. Programs for Promoting Horizontal Communication 1 2 3 4 1,2. Harmony 1+1 1. Special Car Event (Korea) 3. New Leader Soft Landing Program 2.3.4. Events Day (Philippines) 5. Cooking School (Kazakhstan) 6.7. Sports Day (Canada) 1 2 3 5 6 7 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 80 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 81 Protection of Labor Rights Grievance Resolution Process CSR Risk Management Program LGE CSR Risk Management Process Results of CSR Risk Self-Assessment Employee with Grievance In accordance with the CSR Risk Management Pro1 2 3 4 Global Labor Policy gram introduced in 2010, LG Electronics assesses SelfCSR Audit & Response to Progress Review LG Electronics complies with international stanIdentify its production sites for their compliance with the assessment Consulting Client Assessment & Monitoring dards as well as labor laws and regulations, such Grievance Global Labor Policy. In 2013, we conducted the & Third-Party as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights by Global Labor Policy Validation EICC assessment (self-assessment) on our 40 the United Nations, the ILO Tripartite Declaration Organization Report Labor Leader Grievance Union/JB production sites (7 in Korea and 33 overseas) bianof Principles Concerning Multinational Enterprises Article 1: Respect for Human Dignity, nually. In 2013, the number of assessment targets and Social Policy, the OECD Guidelines for MultinaArticle 2: Avoidance of Forced Labor, Article 3: Prohibition of Child Employment, increased to 40 from 37 in the previous year as the Risk Level by Country/Region (Based on Self Assessment Results of EICC) tional Enterprises, the United Nations Global ComArticle 4: Fair Treatment, Submitted assessment was expanded to include joint venture pact, and the EICC Code of Conduct. Article 5: Working Hours, to Grievance and new sites (Jeonju, Haiphong in Vietnam and Established in 2010, LG Electronics’ “Global Labor Resolution Total/ Labor Ethics Environment Health & Management Article 6: Wages and Benefits, Upon Failure of Upon Failure of Turkey). In the assessment, our production sites Average Safety System Policy” recognizes the rights of all employees to Resolution Committee Resolution Article 7: Voluntary Association, and (Processed averaged 88.25 points, up 1.54 points from 2012 Korea ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ pursue happiness, to work with dignity and to be ◐ Article 8: Compliance of Regulations Immediately) (86.71). The number of production sites rated to China respected as human beings. It has been translated ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ be at low risk also increased from 28 (2012) to into 18 different languages for distribution to all Asia/CIS ○ ◐ ○ ◐ ◐ ○ www.lg.com/global/sustainability/ 33. We plan to increase the number to 37 in 2014, LGE business sites throughout the world and made employee/labor-rights-protection Europe ○ ○ ○ ◐ ○ ○ Upon Failure of Notify Result and to lower the risk level of newly included proavailable from our corporate website. In March Resolution within 10 Days America ○ ○ ○ ◐ ◐ ○ duction sites to “low risk” by 2015 through root2013, we amended provisions concerning the Middle East & Africa ◐ ◐ ◐ ◐ ○ ○ cause analyses and intensive management efforts prohibition of child labor and working hours (for Inform Management Support Staff tailored for each individual site. greater details and clarity), and established guidemanagement relations, which have allowed us to ○: Low Risk ◐: Medium Risk ●: High Risk & Resolve Grievance lines for each provision to support efforts at all our conclude annual bargaining without dispute for the Improvement Plan & Voluntary Efforts business sites toward the protection of employees’ past 25 years. We also utilize diverse communicaBased on the self-assessment results obtained Number of Low Risk Sites in Self-Assessment (Based on Self Assessment Results of EICC) human rights. tion channels, such as Junior Board (Business Staff Notify Result in the first half of 2013, our production sites esCouncil) and regular meetings with diverse groups tablished improvement plans to address the risks Labor Relations (Korea) Labor-Management Relations is a term adopted (business unit, job position, etc.) to collect the opinions of non-union members. identified through the assessment and made vol28 33 37 untary improvement efforts. We also reviewed by LG Electronics to describe the company’s exthe progress of their performance through the as40 ceptional labor relations based on mutual trust Employee Grievance Resolution sessment performed in the second half, and plan and respect. In contrast to the conventional term System (Korea) to share best practice cases with other production “labor–company relations,” charged with negative In order to protect employees’ human rights, pro4 Programs at Counseling Center (Korea) sites. Moving forward, we intend to reward best 30 connotations such as conflict and vertical relationmote workplace satisfaction, and provide a healthy production sites and relevant staff members to ships, the term “Labor-Management Relations” and sound working environment, LG Electronics Individual Counseling provide further motivation toward improving CSR Increased by 6, implies that labor and management fulfill their Decreased by 1 makes every effort to handle employee grievances Family/Romantic Relationship, Interpersonal compliance. 20 respective roles and create exceptional value toin a fair and reasonable manner. To this end, we opRelationship, Personality, Emotional Health, Work In 2014, LG Electronics plans to make more sysgether. LG Electronics and the Labor Union of LG erate a three-step employee grievance resolution Stress Management, Career Development, etc. tematic CSR risk management efforts based on Electronics are working in cohesion to take our laprocess composed of submission, resolution, and the revised EICC Self-Assessment Questionnaire. 10 bor-management relations to the next level – from feedback & awareness promotion. We also cat1 The revised questionnaire categorizes risk types value creating labor-management relations that egorize employee grievances into the following six based on their inherency, controllability, and manstrive to improve business competitiveness and areas: career development, HR, working conditions, agement system to help corporations perform Oct. 2012 Sep. 2013 2014 enhance employees’ quality of lives, to socially rework environment, relationships, and personal more accurate root-cause analysis and formulate Number of Assessed Sites (37) (40) (40) sponsible labor-management relations that strive matters, after which diverse channels are emeffective responses. to fulfill their respective responsibilities as a global ployed accordingly (e.g. semiannual meetings with corporate citizen and to create value for customthe team leader, grievance resolution committee & ers. All employees of LG Electronics are eligible counseling center, JB Council, Labor-Management 2 3 to join the Labor Union under the labor collective Council) to resolve employee grievances in an exagreement and the union bylaws, and as of yearpedient manner. Group Counseling Family Counseling Case Study end 2013, membership has reached 8,172 emAt our business sites in Korea, we have also estabployees (about 21% of all employees in Korea). lished counseling centers and offer counseling and Communication & Interpersonal Relationship, Couple, Spouse, Children, etc. Notable Improvement Cases regarding Major In addition to official meetings, such as quarterly therapy programs with guarantee of anonymity to Diagnosis & Management of Occupational Stress, Risks Identified through Self-Assessment labor-management council meetings and annual actively address various grievances and emotional Risks Identified in 2013 Understanding Oneself, 1 wage negotiations and collective bargaining, LG issues arising from our employees’ personal and etc. Electronics engages in ongoing communication professional life. Counseling centers operate a Risks Factors Shared by Large 50% 40% Some of our production sites were collecting personal information that could potentially lead to discrimination (i.e. marital status, ethnicity, etc.) during their hiring with the Labor Union through diverse channels, fowide range of programs, including individual, group, 4 Number of Collection of personal Inadequate assessment process. Such information was removed from hiring documents, and a non-discrimcusing on labor conditions and other labor issues. and family therapy sessions, and employees are ination statement was added to hiring notices. Psychological Test Production Sites information that could and management of We have close discussions with the Union when required to make an appointment to protect their potentially lead to site-level labor and major changes are made in our businesses, and anonymity. If needed, employees are provided with Personality Test, Mental Health discrimination ethics risks Assessment Test, Aptitude Test, 2 agreements made in collective bargaining are apan interpretation session on the result of their Occupational Stress Test, etc. plied to all Korean employees, including non-union psychological tests, and group sessions are also 30% 30% 30% In accordance with the agreement made at the 2013 collective bargaining, LG Electronics removed wage reduction from our disciplinary options at all business sites in members. During the collective bargaining held in offered to facilitate the resolution of internal conInadequate Inadequate age Inadequate management Korea, and is in the process of implementing the amendment to overseas business March 2013, we agreed on the inclusion of regular flicts within a team. In 2013, a total of 4,158 emdocumentation of labor verification process of forced labor & sites (Wage reduction is a disciplinary option that carries the risk of violating legal bonuses in the ordinary wage and the revision of ployees and 470 teams participated in individual management system child labor issues at minimum wage, and the voice for its removal is growing internationally). supplier sites HR rules. LG Electronics is proud of its strong laborand group therapy sessions. 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 82 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 83 Promoting Improvement Efforts with Percentage of Non Compliances Identified by CSR Audit, Breakdown by Area (Unit: %) In order to reduce overtime, LG Electronics moniIt also came to our attention that the security CRS Audit (Validation) tors employee schedules at its production sites. Article 5 of the procedures we implement to protect our busiLG Electronics welcomes requests for CSR audits Employee schedules are monitored monthly at the Global Labor Policy ness sites could potentially lead to cases of human and validations by our buyers as they are an op10 organizational level, and a warning is issued both rights infringement. In response to this concern, portunity to assess and improve our CSR compliEnvironment to employees who clocked in excessive hours and LG Electronics will comply with the local labor we conducted training for our entire security staff, laws with respect to working hours, including ance. Based on such CSR audits and validations, we to their organization leader. In addition, we analyze regular and overtime hours, and holidays. If covering topics such as sexual harassment, caseare able to identify areas we need to improve on by 13 the root causes behind such extended schedules to relevant laws are absent, LG Electronics will by-case responses to customers, and hospitality comparing our performance against requirements Ethics 36 help our employees maintain reasonable hours. As comply with the EICC standards. training. We believe that such efforts as these will presented by buyers and making efforts to bridge Labor part of our ongoing efforts to comply with internahelp us better protect the human rights of visiting the gap. In addition to actively accommodating tional standards on working hours, LG Electronics customers, as well as our employees. Going foraudit and validation requests from external stakewill continue to monitor employee work schedules ward, LG Electronics will offer training programs on holders, we voluntarily perform independent CSR and strengthen our management of weekly workdiverse topics and enhance our HR system to fully audits on strategically important production sites ing hours and excessive overtime. The National Human Rights comply with the United Nations Guiding Principles for our business. Commission of Korea’s Human on Business and Human Rights. As the first step In 2013, we accommodated 5 instances of CSR HR Staff Training and HR System Rights Management Checklist forward, we plan to create a training program that (100 indicators under 35 items in 9 areas) audit requests from a wide range of buyers (elecAfter a careful analysis of the United Nations covers recurring HR issues at our business sites and tronics manufacturer, carmaker, mobile service carGuiding Principles on Business and Human Rights to refine our grievance resolution system. In 2014, rier, and retailor), with the result of our Pyeongtaek (UNGPs)1), LG Electronics conducted an internal 1. Establishment of Human Rights we will also develop an impact/risk assessment Plant being rated “Excellent (A).” Our Yantai Plant 22 discussion on enhancing our existing CSR risk Management System tool for frontline staff to establish a comprehen19 Health & Safety 2. No Discrimination in Hiring (China) was selected as the best case for its cafManagement System management programs. According to the EICC’s 3. Freedom of Association and sive system that covers the entire HR cycle from eteria for pregnant employees. analysis, our risk management (assessment) proCollective Bargaining recruiting/hiring to resignation and that helps us In addition, we also voluntarily submitted some of grams well reflect the principles set forth by the 4. Prohibition of Forced Labor detect and address labor and human rights issues our production sites for third-party validation. A United Nations. Our analysis, however, showed us 5. Prohibition of Child Labor in our HR process and business sites. LG Electrontotal of four production sites (Gumi Korea, Nanjing that training and capacity building is becoming as 6. Industrial Safety ics plans to develop and utilize the labor and hu7. Supply Chain Management China, Cibitung Indonesia, and Taubate Brazil) unLabor Health & Safety important as accurate assessment. In response to 8. Human Rights of Local Community man rights impact/risk assessment tool based on derwent the EICC’s CSR Audit (VA: Validated Audit) (Unit: Number of Cases) (Unit: Number of Cases) such emerging needs, we carried out a suite of CSR the EICC CSR Risk Assessment Tools (international Members and are working to improve on non-compliances Voluntary Employment 14 Emergency Response 13 training programs for HR staff members from di9. Human Rights of Consumers standards), the National Human Rights Commisidentified through the process. According to the reWorking Hours 9 Occupational Safety 4 verse areas in 2013. sion of Korea’s Human Rights Management Checksults, the largest portion of non-compliances came Freedom of Association 5 Dormitory & Cafeteria 3 In January 2013, we performed a site inspection at list (announced in 2013), and the United Nations from Labor (36%), followed by Health & Safety Humane Treatment 3 Industrial Health 2 our production sites in China and held a CSR forum Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. (22%). Non-compliances commonly found in all at LGE China HQ in Beijing. At the forum, we caresues and specific requirements prescribed by the Prohibition of 3 Equipment Safety 1 four of the production sites – working hours and Discrimination fully reviewed HR risks such as child labor, workEICC standards. In January and March 2014, CSR working-level risk management process – will be ing hours, and wages & benefits, and agreed to experts from HQ participated in the HR Managers Prohibition of Child Labor 2 addressed as midto long-term improvement tarmake improvement efforts to address the issues Workshop held in Nanjing, China (for HR managOther 1 gets. Going forward, LG Electronics will continue to (see p.70 from our 2012-2013 report). In Februers from China) and Korea (for HR managers from 1) U  N Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights: assess the compliance level of our production sites ary, we conducted working-level CSR training for Asia), respectively, to share prevailing CSR issues in Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect against objective standards and make improveEthics HR staff based on business sites to educate them their respective regions and raise their awareness and Remedy” Framework ment efforts based on the results. We also plan to (Unit: Number of Cases) on CSR risk management. on the types of CSR risks associated with HR isManagement System Business Ethics 5 strategically select and expand assessment targets (Unit: Number of Cases) to address business risks preemptively. Fair Trade 3 Supplier Responsibility 4 Protection of Personal Management 2 Special Inspection on Working Hours Responsibility 3 Information In Article 5 of the Global Labor Policy, LG ElecImproper Benefits 1 tronics clearly states that it will comply with local Risk Assessment & 3 Case Study Management Intellectual Property 1 labor laws concerning working hours. However, Rights working hours has been a persistent issue in the Corrective Measures after Review 2 Protection of Privacy 1 Improvement Cases for Non-Compliances electronics industry and is seen as a multidimenDeclaration of Policies 1 Responsible Mining 1 Common Non-Compliances Identified through Self-Assessment Identified by CSR Audit sional challenge that requires longer-term efforts. (based on VA Results of Four Production Sites in China) Document Management 1 1 As part of our efforts to address working hour issues, which CSR audits have identified as being a Requirement Management 1 Details Plant A in China, which received a non-compliance assessment for the extended common nonconformance at our production sites, Target & Performance 1 Working hours exceeded 60 hours per week and night-time working hours of its student workers, brought down the percentManagement 1 2 Lack of site-level emergency evacuation drills and age of student workers to a minimum level, and prohibited the assigning of student LG Electronics conducted due diligence surveys at Environment workers to extended/night shifts and dangerous processes. In recognition of stuTraining Program 1 (Unit: Number of Cases) inadequacy of related records 33 overseas production sites. Based on the EICC dent workers’ inherent vulnerability to human rights infringement, Plant A intends Communication 1 Management of 3 Violation of day-off schedule (one day-off per seven days) Working Hour Template, we collected and analyzed 5 to carefully manage student workers based on the management standards for stuHazardous Materials 4 Inadequate communication with suppliers on labor provisions of the data on the weekly working hours of all employees Employee Participation 1 EICC Code of Conduct dent workers recently introduced by the EICC. from overseas production sites for the period beEnvironmental Licenses Review & Assessment 1 2 5 Inadequate management of emergency exits (number, location, access) & Permits tween May and July 2013. According to our analy6 Inadequate procedures for counting, recording, managing, 2 sis, our production sites averaged a compliance Prevention of Pollution 1 and controlling working hours Plant B in China was cited for non-compliance with weekly working hours (exceedrate of 75.83%, based on the international stanWastewater & Waste 7 Inadequate policy and process for effective avoidance of forced labor ing 60 hours per week) and day-off schedule (one day-off per seven working days). Materials 1 dard of 60 hours per week. 8 Inadequate risk management process To address these issues, Plant B’s HR team began monitoring the working hours Air Pollution 1 (identification, assessment, minimization) for each organization/employee and is implementing a wide range of working hour management programs, such as designating “No Overtime Day” and requiring em9 Inadequate management of hazardous materials (organizing, labeling, handling, storing) ployees to obtain advance approval from HR before working overtime. 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 84 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 85 Appendix 01 Economic Data 01 Economic Data 85 Summary of Consolidated Statements of Income (Unit: KRW million) 02 Environmental Data 86-88 Category 2011 2012 2013 03 Social Data 89 1. Net sales 57,739,899 55,122,623 58,140,376 04 Independent Assurance Statement 90-91 2. Cost of sales 45,150,515 42,252,184 44,720,669 05 Membership/Awards & Recognitions 92 3. Gross profit 12,589,384 12,870,439 13,419,707 07 GRI/UNGC Index 4. Selling and marketing expenses 12,257,765 11,653,716 12,135,038 93-96 5. Operating income 331,619 1,216,723 1,284,669 Past LGE Sustainability Report/ 97 6. Financial income 603,263 464,507 426,107 Contributors to Report Preparation 7. Financial expenses 1,044,632 854,248 826,761 8. Gain (loss) from equity method (225,737) 86,917 126,000 9. Other non-operating income (expenses) (136,232) (365,239) (433,481) 10. Profit (loss) before income tax (471,719) 548,660 576,534 11. Income tax expense 6,913 445,858 353,830 12. Profit (loss) for the year (478,632) 102,802 222,704 • Past data was revised to reflect changes and additions to financial accounting standards. Summary of Consolidated Statements of Financial Position (Unit: KRW million) Category 2011 2012 2013 I. Current Assets 17,279,504 16,308,435 16,325,058 Trade receivables 7,338,759 7,332,761 7,117,402 Inventories 5,321,845 5,074,500 4,838,830 Other current assets 4,618,900 3,901,174 4,368,826 II. Non-current Assets 18,239,634 18,457,615 19,203,006 Investments in jointly controlled entities and associates 4,252,408 4,182,878 4,329,583 Tangible assets 9,593,424 9,889,204 10,341,993 Intangible assets 1,167,567 1,222,302 1,363,690 Other non-current assets 3,226,235 3,163,231 3,167,740 Total assets 35,519,138 34,766,050 35,528,064 I. Current liabilities 15,455,733 14,514,292 15,014,004 II . Non-current liabilities 6,906,993 7,546,011 7,824,691 Total liabilities 22,362,726 22,060,303 22,838,695 I. Paid-in capital 3,992,348 3,992,348 3,992,348 Capital stock 904,169 904,169 904,169 Share premium 3,088,179 3,088,179 3,088,179 II. Retained earnings 8,792,879 8,723,950 8,885,523 III. Accumulated other comprehensive loss (327,469) (675,098) (907,440) IV. Other components of equity (242,223) (242,111) (231,229) V. Non-controlling interest 940,877 906,658 950,167 Total equity 13,156,412 12,705,747 12,689,369 Total liabilities and equity 35,519,138 34,766,050 35,528,064 • Past data was revised to reflect changes and additions to financial accounting standards. Fore more details, please refer to our Annual Report available at our corporate website. 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 86 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 87 02 Environmental Data Input Data Output Data Health & Safety Data Energy (Unit: TJ) GHG Emissions (Unit: K ton CO2e) Waste Water Discharge (Unit: ton) Safety Data Category 2011 2012 2013 Category 2011 2012 2013 Category 2011 2012 2013 Category Region 2011 2012 2013 Electricity 6,056 6,093 5,658 Korea Scope 1 145 145 145 Korea 4,140,130 3,783,044 3,789,726 LTIFR1) Korea 0.15 0.1 0.07 Steam 807 770 616 Scope 2 534 517 499 Overseas 1,451,776 1,252,379 1,234,801 Overseas 3.06 2.16 2.41 LNG 997 1,202 1,090 Overseas Scope 1 297 264 234 Total 5,591,906 5,035,423 5,024,527 Average 2.22 1.58 1.78 Coal 1,223 1,160 1,067 Scope 2 385 425 386 OIFR2) Korea 0 0 0 Other 353 409 501 Total 1,361 1,351 1,264 Overseas 0 0 0 Total 9,436 9,634 8,932 Intensity 2.51 2.65 2.17 Average 0 0 0 (K tonCO2e/KRW 100 billion) Fatality Korea 0 0 2 • Applicable business sites: 16 Korean (production, office and R&D centers) and (No. of case) Overseas 0 0 0 55 overseas (production and office) sites • Applicable business sites: 16 Korean (production, office and R&D centers) and Waste Generation (Unit: ton) • Applicable energy usage: Combustion facilities in business sites, and external electricity 55 overseas (production and office) sites Total 0 0 2 and heat usage (energy consumed by vehicles excluded) • Based on the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories, • Energy consumption is calculated based on net heating value. Incident Korea 8 5 3 the WRI’s GHG Protocol, etc. Category Region 2011 2012 2013 • Verification status: Third party verification completed (2008-2013), • Verification status: Third party verification completed (2008-2013), (No. of case) Overseas 406 279 302 except for refrigerant emissions except for refrigerant emissions Recycle Korea 38,739 30,332 29,003 • Data correction may occur after the completion of third party verification • Data correction may occur after the completion of third party verification Total 414 284 305 Overseas 81,124 83,000 92,124 Total Hours Korea 53,862,314 50,830,658 45,885,203 Total 119,863 113,332 121,127 Worked Overseas 132,892,824 128,970,653 125,296,405 Landfill Korea 6,848 7,012 7,280 Total 186,755,138 179,801,311 171,181,608 Overseas 2,300 7,004 5,000 Water (Unit: K ton) (Unit: ton CO2e) Total 9,148 14,016 12,280 1) LTIFR: Lost-Time Injuries Frequency Rate (Number of lost-time injuries x 1,000,000) / (Total Incineration Korea 5,437 5,432 5,261 hours worked in accounting period) Category 2011 2012 2013 Category 2011 2012 2013 Overseas 40,726 30,662 28,581 2) OIFR: Occupational Injuries Frequency Rate (Number of occupational illness cases x 1,000,000) / (Total hours worked in accounting period), LG Electronics has employees who Korea 6,373 5,498 6,921 Scope 3 Leased Properties 7,987 9,377 10,196 Total 46,163 36,094 33,842 work in special conditions or who work with special materials undergo a special medical Overseas 6,540 6,046 4,562 Domestic Logistics 95,282 42,344 41,807 checkup on an annual basis. The results indicate that none of our employees contracted Total Korea 48,490 39,636 39,309 occupational diseases for the period between 2011 and 2013. Total 12,913 11,544 11,483 (Transport) (General) Intensity 2.38 2.27 1.98 Business Trips 62,153 72,400 50,481 Korea 2,533 3,140 2,235 (K ton/KRW 10 billion) Commuter Vehicles 6,314 5,075 3,679 (Regulated) Korea 51,023 42,776 41,544 • Verification status: Third party verification completed for leased properties, commuter vehicles (2009-2013) and for business trips (2011-2013) Total Overseas 124,150 120,666 125,705 Total Total 175,173 163,442 167,249 Ozone-depleting Substances (Unit: ton) Air Emissions (Unit: ton) • This report only presents the hazardous waste data from Korea as the definition of hazardous wastes varies from country to country. Category 2011 2012 2013 Category Region 2011 2012 2013 • Heat recovery is included in incineration. HCFC Korea 1,070 772 514 NOx Korea 3.3 2.2 3.2 (R22) Overseas 2,881 2,548 3,419 Overseas 79.0 74.3 75.3 Total 3,951 3,320 3,933 Total 82.3 76.5 78.5 SOx Korea 0.6 0.8 0.4 Overseas 47.6 46.7 46.4 Total 48.2 47.5 46.8 Dust Korea 7.5 7.3 9.9 Overseas 58.1 66.5 39.5 Total 65.6 73.8 49.4 VOCs Korea(THC) 33.4 (11.1) 28.3 (9.4) 16.7 Overseas 30.3 30.3 27.8 • Instead of VOCs, the emissions of Total Hydrocarbon(THC) is required to report for our Korean manufacturing sites according to Korean Environmental Regulation for painting facilities. • The figures in “( )” is the data disclosed in the previous year’s report, which was All LG Electronics business sites are managed according to internal environmental standards that far exceed the legal requirements (by 50%). Such disciplined expressed in ppm. The unit of measure for VOCs emissions has been changed to management approach helps us reduce risks and contribute to protecting the environment of local communities. In order to increase the integrity of our environmetric ton. mental data, we are in the process of establishing a data validation system for each business area and improving our internal management system to manage the entire data from the system in the long term. We promise our stakeholders that we will continuously work to enhance the integrity and reliability of the data we disclose by improving the management of environmental data. Based on the internal materiality analysis, the data “volume released by product” and “discharge into water” is excluded from the 2013 disclosure. 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 88 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 89 03 Social Data EESH Certification Employees Data: Total 82,432 (As of December 31, 2013) Global Certification Status (As of December 31, 2013) By Region (Unit: No. of employees (%)) By Position (Unit: No. of employees (%)) By Age (Unit: No. of employees (%)) Region Subsidiary Country City Environmental Management Health & Safety Energy 2,045 1,792 2.5% 2.2% 306 3,564 North, Central LGEMX Mexico Mexicali 0.4% Middle East & North America 4.3% & South America LGERS Mexico Reynosa ISO 14001 Africa Executive 50’s and over LGEMM Mexico Monterey ISO 14001 2,378 1,414 13,788 2.9% 1.7% 28,571 16.7% 28,832 LGEBR Brazil Taubate ISO 14001 35.0% CIS Other 34.6% 40’s Brazil Manaus ISO 14001 38,440 20’s and 4,432 Operator Europe LGEMA Poland Mlawa ISO 14001 46.6% under 5.4% Korea LGEWR Poland Wroclaw ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 India LGEAK Kazakhstan Almaty ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 5,183 LGERA Russia Ruja ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 6.3% Total Total Total Middle East & Africa LGEEG Egypt Ismailia ISO 14001 Europe 82,432 82,432 82,432 LGEAT Turkey Istanbul ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 LGESR Saudi Arabia Riyadh ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 LGESA South Africa Yohanesberg Asia LGEIL India Pune ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 Noida ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 ISO 50001 11,518 LGETH Thailand Rayong ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 9,309 13.9% 5,921 11.3% China 53,555 36,248 LGEVN Vietnam Hung Yen ISO 14001 7.2% South & 65.0% 44% LGEVH Vietnam HaiPhong ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 Central America Staff 30’s Asia LGEIN Indonesia Cibitung ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 Indonesia Tanggerang ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 China LGEND China Nanjing ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 LGESY China Shenyang ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 Employee Benefits and Support Programs LGEHN China Hangzhou ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 LGEHZ China Huizhou ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 LG Electronics has in place systematic employee Employee Benefits and Support Programs (Korea) LGESH China Shanghai ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 benefits and support programs to provide employLGEKS China Kunshan ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 ees with personal time for vacation, child birth, and Category Details LGEQD China Qingdao ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 GB/T23331 maternity leave. Our diverse benefits and support Leisure Activities • Vacation: Employees plan their yearly vacation at the beginning of the year and are encouraged to take their leaves freely LGEYT China Yantai ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 GB/T23331 programs help our employees achieve work-life • Resort Facilities: Employees have access to 10 resort facilities (i.e. condominiums and pensions) LGETR China Taizhou ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 balance and promote creativity at workplace. across Korea LGETA China Tainjin ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 • Informal Groups: Hobby and volunteer groups Childbirth and • Lounge and nursing room for female employees: For female employees and pregnant/ LGEQH China Qinhuangdao ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 Maternity Leave nursing employees LGEQA China Qingdao ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 Employee Benefits (Unit: KRW billion/Korea) • Childcare Facilities (Available in Seoul, Pyeongtaek and Changwon). LGEPN China Nanjing ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 Plans in place for expansion to all business sites • Maternity Leave: P  aid maternity leave for female employees before/after childbirth (up to 90 days) Korea LGEKR Korea LGdigital park ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 ISO 50001 202.9 time-off offered in the event of miscarriage/stillbirth (30-90 days), Korea Gumi_TV ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 ISO 50001 60.8% time-off offered for fertility issues (2 days) Legally Required Time-off offered to employees whose spouse has given birth (5 days) Korea Gumi_Solar ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 ISO 50001 Benefits1) Time-off offered to employees to raise infants and Korea Changwon1 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 ISO 50001 children under six year of age (up to 12months) Korea Changwon2 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 ISO 50001 -R  educed work hours offered to employees during child-rearing years (15-30 hours/week) Korea Cheongju ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 ISO 50001 Housing and • Housing Loans: Housing loans offered to employees who have served at least two years Korea Incheon Stable Living • Relocation Costs: Assistance offered to employees who relocated for work related reasons, Korea Jeonju ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 Total such as transfer 333.9 • Congratulatory/Condolence Cash Gift: S upport for congratulatory events and funerals of employees and their families * Based on all 41 production sites (the Incheon Site in Korea, which went into operation recently, is currently undergoing the certification process.) • Disaster Relief Support: Financial support offered to employees and their families who have ※ Our 2013 report incorrectly stated that the Monterey Site acquired the ISO 18001 Certification. suffered property damages caused by natural disasters Medical/Health • Medical expenses for employees and their family members 131.0 • Group insurance related to disasters: Operation of Health Care Center and Counseling Center • Paid sick leave: 70% of average wages are offered to employees on sick leave due to occupational 39.2% injuries, 30-100% of wages to employees on sick leave due to illnesses Other Benefits2) Education • Scholarship for employees’ children: Support for employees starting/resuming their education • Special lectures on healthcare, personal finance/investment, family life, etc. Legally Required Benefits • National Pension, Health Insurance, Employment Insurance, 1) Legally Required Benefits: National Pension, Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance Health Insurance, Employment Insurance, and • Retirement Pension: Fixed benefits Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance 2) Other Benefits: Support programs other than Optional Benefits • KRW 1,000,000 worth of points awarded to employees annually legally required benefits • Points can be redeemed for personal development, leisure/health, gift & product purchasing 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 90 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 91 04 Independent Assurance Statement To the Stakeholders of LG Electronics Methodology munication channels for each stakeholder group and defining their expecta1. Building a synergistic system for sustainability management The Korea Productivity Center (the Assurer ) was requested by LG ElectronThe following method was used to provide the assurance about the Report: tions. In particular, we highly think of LG Electronics' semiannual Stakeholder We found that LG Electronics shows good performance in each key area such ics, Inc. to provide independent assurance on the information presented in LG Consultation in that the conference serves as a core communication channel as environment, CSR, and ethics, and that the company's management system Electronics 2013-2014 Sustainability Report (the Report ) and hereby pro1 V erified whether requirements from the core option on for the company's stakeholders. After each conference, LG Electronics implehas been changing to focus on performance. We suggest LG Electronics to vides following assurance statements: GRI G4 Guidelines were fulfilled ments appropriate response measures to stakeholders’ feedback presented further advance the system to be more integrated so as to strengthen inter2 V erified consistency with the principles dictating the content and quality at the conference to bring about tangible improvements in its management connection among its activities and performances across the areas to create Responsibility and Independence of sustainability reports based on the GRI G4 Guidelines. practices. synergistic effect. LG Electronics is entirely responsible for the reliability and accuracy of all in3 V erified objectivity and appropriateness of key issues selected and formation and opinions presented in this Report. The Assurer is responsible content of the Report by reviewing media research and 2. Materiality: Identification and Reporting of Material Issues 2. Improving accessibility in sharing information solely for providing a third party verification of the content in the “Report”. performing benchmark analysis. The principle of materiality articulates that organizations should focus on isLG Electronics shares various information on its sustainability management As an independent assurance agency, the Assurer was neither involved in the 4 V erified the suitability of the information and the accuracy of sues relevant and material to both the organization and their major stakeactivities and performances through reports and website. We further sugprocess of preparing this “Report” with LG Electronics, nor in any conflicts of holders. The Assurer found that LG Electronics successfully identified issues gest LG Electronics to create a comprehensive information sharing system expressions through comparison analysis with other publications. interest that may undermine our independence. relevant and material to the company and its major stakeholders based on a that covers diverse communication channels to cope with possible informa5 V erified the feasibility of LG Electronics' sustainability management logical materiality analysis process. The Assurer verified that LG Electronics tion expansion in the future. Extending online reporting may be an advisable strategies and executives' message presented in the Report through Verification Standards conducted materiality analysis on a yearly basis based on the Five-part Materimeasure to this end since it can enhance faithfulness and timeliness in reportinterviews with key executives. ality model of AA1000SES (2008), a global standard for stakeholder engageing information. The independent assurance was performed in accordance with Type 1 and a 6 V erified the evidence of data and information through on-site inspection ment. In 2013, LG Electronics drew 11 material issues through the analysis. moderate level of assurance engagement based on AA1000AS (2008) assurof Seoul headquarters, as well as internal processes and systems. The Assurer also verified that LG Electronics fairly presents its major activities 3. Monitoring improvements in employees' CSR activities ance standards. In order to check the reliability of the data collection process, such indicators including water consumption, waste and accident rate were and performance related to the key issues in each section of the Report. we found that the CSR awareness of LG Electronics' employees has been reviewed in accordance with the Type 2 verification. Findings & Conclusion constantly improving over the years, recording 75 points in 2013. In this reFor specific indicators, such as water consumption, waste and accident rates, The Assurer verified that the Report accurately and fairly illustrates LG 3. Responsiveness: Response to Issues gard, we further suggest LG Electronics to establish a longer-term roadmap Type 2 verification has been applied in order to check the reliability of the data Electronics’ sustainability management activity and performance. Moreover, The principle of responsiveness articulates that organizations should be refor raising employees’ CSR awareness to promote changes in awareness and collection process. The assurer checked the suitability of inclusivity, materiality, through the assurance, the Assurer verified that LG Electronics’ Report fulsponsive to issues that may impact the performance of their stakeholders. business approach, which will help bring about ongoing CSV activities and perand responsiveness by following AA1000APS (2008) assurance principles. filled the requirements of the GRI G4 Guideline’s Core Option. The Assurer found that LG Electronics successfully identified issues that may formances by employees, as evidenced in the case of the greener packaging We also verified whether the information on the Report complies with the In case of General Standard Disclosures, the Assurer verified that the Report impact stakeholders’ performance, implemented measures to address them initiative. GRI G4 Guidelines. is prepared in compliance with the requirements of the Core Option. For Speand adequately presented relevant information in the Report. LG Electronics cific Standard Disclosures, the Assurer reviewed Disclosure on Management organized its responses into 5 different areas (environment, employee, shared Limitations Approach (DMA) and indicators about material issues by using the reporting growth, customer, and local community) for each material issue to enhance criteria process presented below. The Sustainability Management Center of Korea Productivity Center is an asThe Assurer conducted an assurance engagement on LG Electronics’ 2013 its responses to these issues based on strategies formulated for each area. In surance agency officially certified by AccountAbility [organization established performance by following the above assurance standards. We verified the particular, we highly value that the range of LG Electronics' CSR activities have 1. Inclusivity: Participation of Stakeholders AA1000, the international standard for stakeholder participation and verificareliability of LG Electronics’ performance presented in the Report in followconstantly extended to include its supply chain and overseas subsidiaries. In The principle of inclusivity articulates that organizations should include staketion] and is qualified to independence assurance engagements. Our Assurance ing manners: financial data was verified based on the financial statement and addition, we applaud the company for making a shift from simply monitoring holders in the development and achievement of accountable and strategic Committee is comprised of competent experts who have in-depth experience disclosure documents audited by the auditing agency, and environmental and resource efficiency to developing a model for measuring the performance of responses to sustainability. LG Electronics identifies its key stakeholders into in sustainability management consulting and assurance and have completed social performance data was verified by applying Type 2 and a moderate level its CSR initiatives and resulting social changes, and regard such efforts as an 9 groups, including shareholders, assessment institutes, customers, employthe relevant training. of assurance engagement. The scope of on-site inspection was limited to the exemplary case of strengthening the sustainability and significance of CSR company’s Seoul headquarters, and if further assurance process is performed, ees, and business partners. The Assurer verified that LG Electronics makes initiatives. the result may change accordingly. proactive communication with stakeholders by establishing dedicated comMay 2014 Recommendation The Assurer applauds LG Electronics for making a variety of efforts to enChairman, Korea Productivity Center hance sustainability and for the resulting performances, and presents the Hong Jin following recommendations for improving future sustainability reports and sustainability management. Sub Category Material Issues DMA & Indicators Environment • Reducing GHG Emissions DMA-with the Environment Director Team Leader • Developing Highly Energy Efficient Products EN3, EN4, EN5, EN6, EN7, EN15, EN16, EN17, EN18, EN19, EN27, EN28 Dong Soo Kim Ki Hwan Lee Employees • Guarantee of Basic Labor Rights/Human Rights DMA-with our employees • Improving Labor Relations/Grievance Resolution G4-10, G4-11, LA1, LA2, LA3, LA4, LA5, LA6, LA7, LA8, LA9, LA10, LA11, LA12, LA13, LA16, HR3, HR4, HR5, HR6, HR7, HR9, HR12 Suppliers • Establishing Fair Trade Practices DMA-with our Suppliers Team Leader Researcher • Raising Corruption/Cartel Awareness G4-12, G4-13, G4-56, G4-57, G4-58 Tae Ho Park Sung Sang Lee EC9, EN32, EN33, LA14, LA15, HR1, HR2, HR10, HR11, SO3, SO4, SO5, 000-81 SO7, SO8, SO9, SO10, Community • Strengthening Engagement with Communities DMA-With the Community • Promoting Collaboration with Stakeholders SO1, SO2, SO11 • Developing Products/Services Customized for Local Needs * AA1000AS (2008): AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) is an international assurance standard, set by AccountAbility, that provides method of reporting sustainability Customers • Strengthening Product Stewardship (Defect/Post-Accident Response) DMA-With our Customers management issues by evaluating the organization management on performances, compliance with principles, and reliability of performance information * AA1000APS (2008): AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard (2008) is an international assurance standard set by AccountAbility that provides principles • Providing Accurate Product/Service Information PR1, PR2, PR3, PR4, PR6, PR7 of AA1000 standards. 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 92 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 93 05 Memberships/Awards & Recognition 06 GRI/UNGC Index Membership GRI Index Council of Economic Organizations Federation of Korean Information Korean Industrial Technology Association Korea Intellectual Property Association G3.1 G4.0 Indicators Related Contents Application Level Page Strategy and 1.1 G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker CEO Message, Top Management Messages, ● 4-5 International Vaccine Institute Industries, CIO Forum Korea Association of Industrial Designers (KINPA) Analysis (2) 1.2 G4-2 Provides a description of Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Key Progress and Performance ● 4-6, 28-29 International Trademark Association (INTA) Korea Association for ICT Promotion (KAID) Society of CAD/CAM Engineers Organizational 2.1 G4-3 Report the name of the organization Corporate Overview & Economic Performance ● 12-17 Organization of Consumer Affairs Professionals Korea Business Council for Sustainable Korea Listed Companies Association Korea Home Network Industry Association Profile 2.2 G4-4 The primary brands, products, and services Corporate Overview & Economic Performance ● 12-17 (14) 2.4 G4-5 The location of the organization's headquarters Corporate Overview & Economic Performance ● 12-17 in Business Development (KBCSD) (KLCA) Korea Audit Bureau of Circulations 2.5 G4-6 The number of countries where the organizaion operates, and names of Corporate Overview & Economic Performance ● 12-17 Industrial Health Association Korea Employers Federation Korea Forum for Progress Korea Investor Relations Service countries where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report Korean Society of Mechanical Engineers (KSME) Korea Economic Research Institute Korean Society for Noise and Vibration Digital Europe 2.6 G4-7 The nature of ownership and legal form Corporate Governance ● 8 Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry Fair Competition Federation Engineering (KSNVE) European Committee of Domestic 2.7 G4-8 The markets served Corporate Overview & Economic Performance ● 12-17 The Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers Accreditation Board for Engineering Korea Smart Grid Association Equipment Manufacturers (CECED) (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries) 2.8 G4-9 Scale of the organization Corporate Overview & Economic Performance ● 12-17 Trade Related IPR Protection Association (TIPA) Education of Korea GS1 Korea Quality Brand Protection Committee LA1 G4-10 Total workforce Global Operation, Employees by Country ● 16-17, 75, 89 Korean Academy for Trade Credit Insurance Korea Advertiser Association Korea Electronics Association (QBPC) LA4 G4-11 The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Protection of Labor Rights ● 80-83 Maekyung Safety and Environment Korea Management Association Korea Association of Electronics ZigBee Alliance G4-12 The organization's supply chain Win-Win Growth ● 57 2.9 G4-13 Any significant changes during the reporting period regarding Corporate Overview & Economic Performance ● 12-17 International Council Society of Industrial Design Licensing Executive Society Korea Environment Japan Article Management Promotion the organization's size, sutructure, ownerhsip, or its supply chain (ICSID) (LES Korea) Korean Information Display Society (KIDS) Consortium (JAMP) 4.11 G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization CSR Management System, CSR in Supply Chain ● 18-19, 60-63 4.12 G4-15 List Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, Membership/Awards & Recognition ● 92 Center for Asian Law Korea Micro Joining Association (KMJA) Telecommunication Technology Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses The Foundation of Korean Industries Korea International Trade Association Association (TTA) (EICC) 4.13 G4-16 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) Membership/Awards & Recognition ● 92 Korea Electronics Association (Private Sector Korea Invention Promotion Association Korea Products Safety Association United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization Identified Material 2.3 G4-17 A. A ll entities included in the organisation’s Corporate Overview & Economic Performance, ● 12-17 Council for Electronics Trade Promotion) Korea Association of Information & Korea Intellectual Property Protection UNGC Korea Network Aspects And consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. LG Electronics Business Report 2013 Korea Radio Promotion Association Telecommunication Association (KIPRA) Boundaries (7) B. Whether any entity included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report 3.5 G4-18 A. The process for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries. Stakeholder Engagement & Communication, ● 20-23, 26-27 B. How the organisation has implemented the reporting principles for defining report content. Materiality Analys G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content Materiality Analys ● 26-27 3.6 G4-20 For each material Aspect, report Aspect Boundary within the organization Disclosure on Management Approach ● 30, 38, 56, 66, 74 3.7 G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization Disclosure on Management Approach ● 30, 38, 56, 66, 74 3.10 G4-22 The effect of any restatements of information provided in Some data from the previous report ● 85, 86-88 Awards & Recognition previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements have been adjusted. 3.11 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries Report Overview ● 2 Stakeholder 4.14 G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Stakeholder Engagement & Communication ● 20-23 Date Award/Recognition Awarded by Engagement (4) 4.15 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Stakeholder Engagement & Communication ● 20-23 February 2013 LG Drum Washing Machine ranked first in sales for the sixth consecutive year (U.S.) Stevenson Company 4.16 G4-26 Organization’s approach to Stakeholder Engagement & Communication, ● 20-23, February 2013 23 product models were honored in the product category (Discipline 1.0) and three in the iF Design Award stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement Stakeholder Consultation on CSR, 24-25, 26-27 by type and by stakeholder group Materiality Analys communication category (Discipline 3.0) at the 2013 iF Design Award 4.17 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the Stakeholder Engagement & Communication, ● 20-23, March 2013 Received ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year Award U.S. Environmental Protection Agency organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Stakeholder Consultation on CSR, 24-25, 26-27 April 2013 Received the International Winner Awards in the Large Screen TV and SEAD Materiality Analys Report Profile (6) 3.1 G4-28 Reporting period such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided Report Overview ● 2 Emerging Technology categories 3.2 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) June, 2013 ● 97 June 2013 Received the Intersolar Award in the Photovoltaics category at the 2013 Intersolar Exhibition Intersolar EU 3.3 G4-30 Reporting cycle such as annual, biannial) Report Overview ● 2 3.4 G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Report Overview ● 2 June 2013 Received the Best Audio-Visual Brand Award at the 2013 Which? Awards Which? 3.12 G4-32 GRI Index ('In accordance' option, GRI Content index, and the external assurance report) Independent Assurance Statement, GRI Index ● 90-91, 93-96 June 2013 Four LG product models (including TV and Monitor) received the Best Product of the Year German Media Association 3.13 G4-33 A. Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Report overview, ● 2, 90-91 Award at the 2013 Plus X Awards B. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, Independent Assurance Statement the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. July 2013 Received the Prime Minister’s Prize at the 17th Energy Winner Awards Consumers Korea/Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy C. Relationship between the organisation and the assurance providers. (for the second consecutive year) D. W hether the highest governance body or senior executives are August 2013 LG 55-inch Curved OLED TV received the European Design TV 2013-2014 Award at the EISA European Imaging and Sound Association (EISA) involved in seeking assurance for the organisation’s sustainability report Governance (22) 4.1 G4-34 Report the governance structure of the Corporate Governance ● 8 Awards 2013-2014 organization, including committees of the highest governance body September 2013 LG Curved OLED TV and G2 received the Innovation Award at the KES 2013 KES G4-35 Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental ○ 8 and social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees October 2013 Received the Presidential Prize at the Good Design Awards Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy/Korea Institute of G4-36 Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with Corporate Governance, ● 8, 18-19 (for the third consecutive year) Design Promotion (KIDP) responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report CSR Management System November 2013 Received the Grand Prize at the 2013 Korea Green Company Awards Ministry of Environment/Korea Environmental Industry directly to the highest governance body 4.4 G4-37 Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on Corporate Governance ● 8 & Technology Institute economic, environmental and social topics If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and November 2013 Received the Presidential Commendation on the Product Safety Day Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy/Korea Products Safety any feedback processes to the highest governance body Association 4.1 G4-38 Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees Corporate Governance ● 8 4.2 G4-39 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, Corporate Governance ● 8 November 2013 LG product models received 15 Innovations Awards at the International CES 2014, U.S. Consumer Electronics Association (CEA)/ his or her function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement) including the Best of Innovations Award for the 77-inch Ultra HD Curved OLED TV Industrial Designers Society of America (IDSA) 4.7 G4-40 Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its commitCorporate Governance ● 8 tees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members December 2013 LG OLED TV received the Grand Prize (Minister of Environment) at the Ministry of Environment/ Korea Environment Packaging 4.6 G4-41 Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure Corporate Governance ● 8 Green Packaging Awards Promotion Institute conflicts of interest are avoided and managed 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 94 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 95 G3.1 G4.0 Indicators Related Contents Application Level Page G3.1 G4.0 Indicators Related Contents Application Level Page 4.6 G4-42 Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, Corporate Governance ● 8 Boidiversity (4) EN11 EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas LGE's facilities are located in ● 53 and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and EN12 EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on Biodiversity industrial complexes. goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts EN13 EN13 Habitats protected or restored G4-43 Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective Corporate Governance ● 8 EN15 EN14 Total number of IUCN red list species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics afected by operaions, by level of extinction risk 4.10 G4-44 A. Processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to Corporate Governance ● Emissions (7) EN16 EN15 Direct greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions (scope Environmental Data (Input Data (GHG)) ● 86-87 governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Report whether such evaluation is EN16 EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions (scope Environmental Data (Input Data (GHG)) ● 86-87 independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such evaluation is a self-assessment. EN17 EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions (scope Environmental Data (Input Data (GHG)) ● 86-87 B. Report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Environmental Data (Input Data (GHG)) ● 86-87 with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a EN18 EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions Low-carbon Management ● 49-50 minimum, changes in membership and organisational practice.” EN19 EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Environmental Data ◐ 86-87 4.9 G4-45 A. The highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, Corporate Governance, ● 8, 18-19 (Ozone Depleting Chemicals) environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. CSR Management System EN20 EN21 Nox, Sox, and other significant air emissions Environmental Data (Air Emissions) ● 86-87 B. Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s Effluents and EN21 EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination Environmental Data (Air Emissions) ● 86-87 identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, Waste (5) EN22 EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Minimizing Discharge of Waste, ● 52, 86-87 and opportunities. Environmental Data G4-46 Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness Corporate Governance ● 8 EN23 EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills No Significant Spills Occurred in 2013 ● of the organization’s risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics EN24 EN25 Weight of trnsported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous ○ G4-47 Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s review of Corporate Governance, ● 8, 18-19 EN25 EN26 Identity, size, proteted status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and realted ○ economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities CSR Management System habitats significantly affected by the organization's discharges of water and runoff 4.4 G4-48 Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s Corporate Governance ● 8 Products and EN26 EN27 Extent of impact mitication of environmental impacts of products and services Product with Greener Features, ● 42-47, 48-55 sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered Services (2) Low-carbon Management G4-49 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body CSR Management System ◐ 18-19 EN27 EN28 Percentage of porducts sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category Life Cycle Assessment ● 42-44 G4-50 Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest ○ Compliance (1) EN28 EN29 Monetary value of significatn fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions None of significant spills occurred in 2013 ● governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them for non-compliance with environmental laws and regluations 4.5 G4-51 Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives Corporate Governance ◐ 8 Transport (1) EN29 EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods Low-carbon Management, ● 49-51, 86-87 G4-52 Report the process for determining remuneration Report whether remuneration consultants are ○ and materials ofr the organization's operations,, and transporting members of the workforce Environmental Data involved in determining remuneration and whether they are independent of management Report Overall (1) EN30 EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type ○ any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organization Supplier Environmental EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using enviromental criteria CSR in Supply Chain ● 62 4.4 G4-53 Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, ○ Assessment (2) EN33 significant actual and potential engative environmental impacts in the supply chain CSR in Supply Chain ◐ 62 including the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable and actions taken G4-54 Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in ○ Environmental GrievEN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, ○ each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees ance Mechanisms (1) addressed, and resolved through formal grievnce mechanisms (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country Social G4-55 Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s ○ Labor Practices and Decent Work highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median percentage Employment (3) LA2 LA1 Total number and rates of new empoyee hires and empoyee turnover by age group, gender, Global Workforce, Social Data ◐ 75, 89 increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) and region in the same country LA3 LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time Social Data ● 89 Ethics and G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards Jeong-Do Management ● 10 employees, by significant locations of operation Integrity (3) and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics LA15 LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender Global Workforce ● 75 G4-57 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, ○ Labor/Management LA5 LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are Labor Relations ● 80 and matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines Relations (1) specified in collective agreements G4-58 Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or Jeong-Do Management ● 10 Occupational Health LA6 LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and Labor Relations ● 80 unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, and Safety (4) safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines LA7 LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total Incident Rate, Safety Data, ● 54, 87 number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender EESH Management LA8 LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation EESH Management ◐ 53-54 LA9 LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions EESH Management ◐ 53-54 Training and LA10 LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee, by gender, and by employee category Talent Management ● 77 Education (3) LA11 LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability Global Workforce, Talent Management ● 75, 76-77 G3.1 G4.0 Indicators Related Contents Application Level Page of employees and assist them in managing career endings DMA G4Report why the Aspect is material Disclosure on Management Approach ● 30, 38, 56, LA12 LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, Global Workforce, Talent Management ● 75, 76-77 DMA Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts 66, 74 by gender and by employee category Report the evaluation of the management approach Diversity and LA13 LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category Global Workforce, Social Data ● 75, 89 Economic Equal Opportunity (1) according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Economic EC1 EC1 Direct econmic value generated and distributed Shared Economic Gains ● 13 Equal remuneration for LA14 LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant Fair Evaluation and Rewards ● 77 Performance (4) EC2 EC2 Financial implications and other risks Exploring Opportunities and Managing Risks As● 49 women and men (1) locations of operation and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change sociated with Climate Change Supplier Assessment LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practice criteria CSR in Supply Chain ● 61 EC3 EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations Social Data (Benefits and Support Programs) ● 89 for Labor Practices (2) LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain CSR in Supply Chain ◐ 60-62 EC4 EC4 Financial assistance received from government Shared Economic Gains ● 13 and actions taken Market Presence (2) EC5 EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage Fair Evaluation and Rewards ● 76-77 Labor Pracitces GrievLA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal Labor Relations ● 80 at significant locations of operation ance Mechanisms (1) grievance mechanisms EC7 EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community ○ Human Rights at significant locations of operation Investment (2) HR1 HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements CSR in Supply Chain ● 60-63 Indirect Economic EC8 EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported Shared Economic Gains, Social Contribution ● 13, 66-73 and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Impacts (2) EC9 EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts Shared Economic Gains, Social Contribution ◐ 13, 67 HR3 HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of Jeong-Do Management ● 10 Procurement EC6 EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation Win-Win Growth ● 57 human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Practices (1) Non-discrimination (1) HR4 HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Jeong-Do Management ● 10 Environmental Freedom of AssoHR5 HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and CSR in Supply Chain, ● 60-62, 80-83 Materials (2) EN1 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Environmental Data ● 86-87 ciation and Collective collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these Protection of Labor Rights EN2 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Life Cycle Assessment ● 42-44 Bargaining (1) rights Energy (5) EN3,4 EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Environmental Data ◐ 86-87 Child Labor (1) HR6 HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, CSR in Supply Chain, ● 60-62, 80-83 EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization ○ and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Protection of Labor Rights EN5 Energy intensity ○ Forced of Compulsory HR7 HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory CSR in Supply Chain, ● 60-62, 80-83 EN5 EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Low-carbon Management, Minimizing ● 49-51, 52-53 Labor (1) labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Protection of Labor Rights Environmental Impact at Our Business Sites Security Practices (1) HR8 HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human Protection of Labor Rights ● 83 EN6 EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Product with Greener Features, ● 39-44, 49-51 rights policies or procedures that are relevant to operations Low-Carbon Management Indigenous Rights (1) HR9 HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and actions taken LGE’s Facilities are Located in ● Water (3) EN8 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Water Use Management, Environmental Data ● 52, 86-87 Industrial Complexes. EN9 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water ○ Assessment (1) HR10 HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or Protection of Labor Rights ● 80-83 EN10 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Water Use Management, Environmental Data ● 52, 86-87 impact assessments 2013-2014 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 96 G3.1 G4.0 Indicators Related Contents Application Level Page LG Electronics' Sustainability Report Supplier Human Rights HR2 HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria CSR in Supply Chain ● 61 Assessment (2) HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the CSR in Supply Chain ◐ 62 supply chain and actions taken Human Rights GrievHR11 HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal Jeong-Do Management, ● 10, 80 ance Mechanisms (1) grievance mechanisms Grievance Resolution System Society Local Communities (2) SO1 SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, Social Contribution ● 60-63 and development programs SO9 SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities EESH Management, Environmental Data ● 48, 86-87 Anti-corruption (3) SO2 SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption Compliance, Jeong-Do Management ● 9-10 and the significant risks identified SO3 SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures Compliance, Jeong-Do Management ● 9-10 SO4 SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Jeong-Do Management ● 10 Public Policy (1) SO6 SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary Prohibited in Korea by Law ● Anti-competitive SO7 SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices Fair Trade 11 2005 2006/2007 ● 2008 2009 Behavior (1) and their outcomes Published in Oct. 2006 Published in Oct. 2008 Published in July 2009 Published in June 2010 Compliance (1) SO8 SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliFair Trade ● 11 ance with laws and regulations Supplier Assessment SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society CSR in Supply Chain ● 60-62 for Impacts on SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken CSR in Supply Chain ◐ 60-62 Society (2) Grievance Mechanisms SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, Grievance Resolution System ◐ 80 for Impacts on addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Society (1) Product Responsibility Customer Health and PR1 PR1 Percentage of significant products and services categories for which health Eco-Index ● 39 Safety (2) and safety impacts are assessed for improvement PR2 PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the Responsible Communication ◐ 96 health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Product and Service PR3 PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product Product with Greener Features ● 39-47 Labeling (3) and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements 2010 2011-2012 2012-2013 2013-2014 PR4 PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and Compliance, Responsible Communication ◐ 9, 96 Published in May 2011 Published in May 2012 Published in June 2013 Published in June 2014 voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes PR5 PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Consumer Satisfaction Activities ● 33 Marketing PR6 PR6 Sale of banned or disputes products Jeong-Do Management ◐ 10 Communications (2) PR7 PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning Fair Trade ◐ 11 marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Contributors to Report Preparation Customer Privacy (1) PR8 PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding Personal Information Protection ● 36-37 breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Compliance (1) PR9 PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with Compliance, Responsible Communication ◐ 9, 96 Corporate Legal Team Hye Joo Jung laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services Compliance Team In Kyoung Lee • Responsible Marketing Communication: LG Electronics fully complies with all applicable laws and regulations pertaining to marketing & communication activities including advertisements, Ethics Bureau Team Jiwon Yoon sales promotions and sponsorships in countries where we operate, and follows up on non-conformances with voluntary improvement efforts (2011-2012 Sustainability Report pp.28-29). Fair Trade Team Woo Sub Kim Brand Strategy Team Jong Po Choi Information Security Team Ji Hoon Kim PL/Safety Team Soo Youn Kim CS Planning Team Jee hye Jung UNGC Index Compliance/Environment Team Young eun Lee, Ji yong Lee NA Regulatory & Environmental Affairs Team Christine Ackerson, Jong Su Choo, Byung Wook Ye Ten Principles Our Activities Related Content page Environment & Safety Department Soo Jeong Jeong, Min Chul Shin, Chan Ki Kim, Moo Jun Kim Human Principle 1: B usinesses should support and respect the Based on our management philosophy People-oriented Management, LGE respects Management Philosophy 7 Shared Growth Bureau Jong Tae Woo Rights protection of internationally proclaimed and complies with the standards, laws and regulations established by international institutions CSR Management System 18-19 human rights; and and organizations such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights by the United Nations. Win-Win Growth 57-59 Procurement Strategy Team Soo Hyun Kim Principle 2: m ake sure that they are not complicit in To ensure fundamental human rights and labor rights of employees as well as those CSR in Supply Chain 60-63 HR Planning Team Seung Hwan Shin human rights abuses. of our suppliers. Protection of Labor Rights 80-83 Labour Principle 3: B usinesses should uphold the freedom LGE continues its efforts to establish a corporate culture that values the diversity of our Protection of Labor Rights 80-83 Corporate Culture Team Yong Eun Kim Standards of association and the effective recognition employees and promotes creativity and autonomy. Owing to its efforts, LGE is leading an Win-Win Growth 57-59 Labor Relations Innovation Team Jin Ho Kim, Jae Woong Kim of the right to collective bargaining; exemplary labor management relationship, reaching an agreement in collective bargaining CSR in Supply Chain 60-63 Principle 4: t he elimination of all forms of forced and wage negotiations without labor dispute for 24 consecutive years (as of February 2013) CSR Management System 18-19 CSR Team Roy Kim, Ho Sung Joo, Jung Min Song, Se Won Min, Ji Young Kim, and compulsory labour; and declaring Union Social Responsibility (USR) charter. Additionally, LGE joined the Electronic Chang Woo Yu, Seong Mi Hwang, Jung Hyun Park, Yong Hee Kim Principle 5: t he effective abolition of child labour; and Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC), established an enterprise-wide policy for protecting labor Principle 6: t he elimination of discrimination in respect rights across the supply chain and amended standard purchase agreement forms accordingly. of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: B usinesses should support a precautionary LGE strives to contribute to the society’s sustainable growth by minimizing negative Product with Greener Features, 38-55 Planning/Design IM creative • Tel: 82-2-303-4266 approach to environmental challenges; environmental impacts resulted from our business activities. LGE made great strides in Low-carbon Management Principle 8: u ndertake initiatives to promote greater improving energy performance and carbon disclosure in development of greener products. environmental responsibility; and The company also surpassed its GHG reduction targets across products’ life cycle, while being Principle 9: e ncourage the development and diffusion highly recognized by Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Korea for its efforts towards promoting of environmentally friendly technologies. low-carbon culture. LGE strengthened the integrated EESH (Energy, Environment, Safety, and Health) certification system and global EESH audit system at all production sites. LGE is currently participating as a member of the steering committee represent Korean companies at Caring for Climate. AntiPrinciple 10: B  usinesses should work against corruption in LGE’s “Jeong-Do Management” is a guiding principle for all action taken by employees. Jeong-Do Management 10 Corruption all its forms, including extortion and bribery. To help our employees remain true to the spirit of Jeong-Do Management, LGE established Protection of Labor Rights 80-83 Code of Ethics and Conduct Guidelines. LGE also applies the same standard to all suppliers Win-Win Growth 57-59 and business partners. LGE translates and distributes code of ethics handbook and requiring CSR in Supply Chain 60-63 This report was printed with soy ink on environmentally-friendly, FSCTM-certified paper. The Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) mark is employees and suppliers to sign a pledge for Jeong-Do Management. Additionally, awarded to paper and pulp products that meet the strict standards set to ensure forests are managed responsibly and remain a truly LGE maintains the ethics category in its CSR risk management program to monitor renewable resource. As opposed to traditional petroleum-based ink, soy-based ink is more environmentally-friendly and has low levels its business sites’ and suppliers’ ethics management systems. of VOCs (Volatile Organic Compounds), which helps to reduce air pollution by minimizing toxic emissions.
