0 13 T 2 R E PO R C SR 2 STOCKMANN CSR REPORT 2013 CONTENTS We are committed to sustainable development, and we offer our customers responsible shopping experiences. By engaging in close cooperation with our partners we can take responsibility into account throughout the value chain. 8 2013 IN A NUTSHELL Management, strategy 3 Reporting principles and CSR goals 4 CEO’s review The CSR strategy supports the goals of business 5 Responsibility in figures operations, and responsibility is managed as part 6 Stockmann in 2013 of our business. The strategy, goals and the focus 7 Recognitions and awards areas of Stockmann’s responsibility work in 2014 are 13 described on page 8 onwards. INTRODUCTION TO RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS 8 Strategy and goals 10 Focus areas in 2014 11 Responsibility work in the fashion product value chain Where do our fashion products 12 Cooperation with stakeholders come from? Responsibility is one of our core values. A responRESPONSIBILITY IN OUR DAILY WORK sible way of operating ensures that our values are 13 Working at the Stockmann Group evident every day. Examples of our everyday work, 14 Where do our fashion products come from? such as the journey of our fashion products to the 15 Recycling and international environmental projects 18 store can be found on page 13 onwards. 16 Environmental responsibility milestones in the 2000s GRI CONTENT COMPARISON AND INDICATORS 17 GRI index 18 Management of social responsibility and indicators 24 Management of environmental responsibility and indicators 28 Stockmann Group’s carbon footprint GRI indicators 29 Management of financial responsibility and indicators The GRI indicators have been compiled into a separate section in the 2013 report. The indicators CONTACT INFORMATION can be found on page 18 onwards. 31 Contact us 3 2013 in a nutshell STOCKMANN CSR REPORT 2013 REPORTING PRINCIPLES This report presents the focus areas and results of company’s website. the Stockmann Group’s responsibility work. The CSR The CSR report for 2013 is the Stockmann Group’s report is intended for our key stakeholders (p. 12). fifth CSR report that has been published separately The reporting period for this report is the financial from the company’s Annual Report. The previous year from 1 January to 31 December 2013. report for 2012 was published in April 2013. All of the The CSR report for 2013 covers all of the StockGroup’s CSR reports are available in Finnish, Swedmann Group’s own operations, which comprise of ish and English at stockmanngroup.com. In the two divisions (Department Store Division and Group’s Fashion Chain Division, Lindex publishes Fashion Chain Division) in 15 countries, the Corpomore detailed information about its corporate social rate Administration operations in Finland and the responsibility on its website at lindex.com. purchasing offices in 5 countries in Asia. The According to Stockmann’s own assessment this report does not include information about Lindex’s report meets the requirements of Application Level C franchising stores. There are a total of 35 franchiof the GRI guidelines. PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy Stockmann’s Annual Report sing stores in 6 countries, which are managed by has advised the Group in the calculation of its car2013 provides information on four franchising partners. Some of the indicators bon footprint that is presented in the report. The the Group’s key financial describing personnel and the environment are audit of the indicators of financial responsibility was indicators. reported only for Finland, which accounted for carried out at the same time as the audit of the 48% of revenue and 46% of personnel in 2013. figures in the financial statements. The audit was These exceptions and the measurement and implemented by Authorised Public Accountants accounting principles are described in connection KPMG in all countries of operation and for all subwith the relevant indicators. The goal is to gradusidiaries. The report has not been reviewed in full by ally expand the reporting regarding these indicaa third party. tors to make it more comprehensive. GLOBAL COMPACT AND REPORTING FRAMEWORK COMMUNICATION ON The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 reporting PROGRESS (COP) guidelines have been used as the framework for the Stockmann supports the UN’s Global Compact report. The report complies with the GRI accounting initiative. In accordance with the Global Compact principles where applicable. The GRI indicators have initiative, Stockmann promotes human rights, labour been selected according to relevance (p. 9). The rights, environmental work and anti-corruption indicators have been compiled into a separate measures. The CSR report for 2013 is also the Stocksection in the report. The indicators can be found on mann Group’s third COP report. page 18 onwards. A more detailed comparison and CSR reports and Annual Reports: an index of GRI indicators can be found on the stockmanngroup.com 4 2013 in a nutshell STOCKMANN CSR REPORT 2013 CEO’S REVIEW: RESPONSIBILITY IS BASED ON FORESIGHT AND PRACTICAL ACTIONS 2013 was a challenging year on our main markets STOCKMANN LEADS THE WAY operating environment and development of proin Finland and Russia. However, during the reporThe ISO 14001 management system has been in cedures are also necessary. To improve our corpoting year we did achieve successes and figures use at the Department Store Division in Finland rate social responsibility work we carried out a that we can be proud of. This CSR report contains for over 10 years and separate environmental stakeholder survey during 2013, and over 500 the highlights of our responsibility work during guidelines have been compiled for our purchasing loyal customers responded to this survey. We also 2013, important indicators and a glance at the offices. We are constantly improving the method interviewed shareholders, partners and represenfuture in the form of our focus areas for 2014. used to calculate our carbon footprint: this year we tatives of other key stakeholders. The feedback Stockmann’s vision is to be a forerunner in the carried out the calculation for all of the Group’s from the survey has provided us with new direcretail trade. This leadership is evident in our resoperations centrally. We provide our customers tions for our operations. I would like to thank ponsibility work in the form of foresight and our with the opportunity to make responsible choices everyone for their feedback and cooperation, practical actions. We strive to manage the risks with our broad selection of products. which we will use to help build a sustainable associated with our own operations and supply Our goal is also to make a financial profit and future. chain with our anticipatory approach. The Group’s provide added value for all our stakeholders. Code of Conduct that was approved in 2013, our Stockmann’s earnings for 2013 fell short of the Helsinki, 23 April 2014 commitment to the Global Compact initiative and target, and we have been forced to make personother policies and agreements provide our emplonel reductions due to the radical changes in the yees and partners with guidance on how to operetail sector. In order to ensure our competitiverate responsibly every day. ness in the future, we launched a cost savings During spring 2013, Stockmann signed the programme in the spring of 2013 and we will Accord on Fire and Building Safety in Bangladesh. implement structural changes during 2014. In spite Hannu Penttilä The goal of the agreement is to improve the occuof the challenging market conditions, our goal is to pational safety of textile industry workers, and the look after our employees’ wellbeing and compeagreement is part of Stockmann’s long-term work tence, and through that continue exceeding our to ensure the responsibility of the supply chain. customers’ expectations. We respond to our customers’ requests for more information about the countries in which our CSR IS DEPENDENT ON products are manufactured by publishing a list of COOPERATION the main part of the factories used by Stockmann Responsible business operations are based on and Lindex on our website. Seppälä’s list will be good and trustworthy partners at every stage of published later during 2014. the value chain. Continuous observation of the 5 2013 in a nutshell STOCKMANN CSR REPORT 2013 RESPONSIBILITY IN FIGURES 8.7 APPROX. In the own brand fashion product 60 000 15 000 In total we employed around 378 supply chain, in total The department store operations in Finland joined the shareholders, many of whom are also people in 15 countries. Most of ENERGY MILLION LOYAL CUSTOMERS loyal customers. Stockmann has offered loyal customer share option schethese people were employed in factory inspections were carried out. EFFICIENCY We offer our customers benefits with mes since 1999. Finland, Russia and Sweden. agreement scheme for the Of this figure, 186 were external BSCI a monetary value through the StockFinnish retail sector. Stockmann audits and 171 were inspections carried mann, Hobby Hall, Seppälä Klubi has set a target to reduce its out by Stockmann. We also carried out and More at Lindex loyal customer energy consumption by 9% from 21 electrical inspections at the factories programmes. the figure in 2005 by 2016. that we use in Bangladesh. In 2013, Lindex led the way in the Group by publishing a list on MORE RESPONSIBLE MATERIALS IN WE SORT OUR WASTE CAREFULLY FASHION PRODUCTS The waste sorting target for the Finnish department stores is 95%. its website of the suppliers and factories that it uses. During 2013, Stockmann started the work involved in publishing its In October Lindex extended its The stores exceeded this ambitious target with a figure of product selection and launched its 96.2 % own list of factories that manufacture its own brand fashion . products. The list was published on the company’s website on 29 April 2014 . LXM Seppälä’s list will be published later during 2014. RANGE OF MEN’S PRODUCTS that are manufactured using 95% environmentally friendly The Stockmann Group is committed to improving factory safety in Bangladesh and joined materials. Over 12 million products made from organic THE ACCORD ON FIRE AND BUILDING SAFETY IN cotton, recycled or Tencel fibre or from Better Cotton were BANGLADESH on sale during the reporting year. in May 2013. It is the only Finnish signatory in the initiative. The target is to improve the safety of the working conditions of textile industry workers and to implement systematic supervision. Many retail sector companies are involved in the initiative. The accord was initiated by the Industry ALL Global Union and the UNI Global Union and there are over 150 signatories from 20 countries. Find out more about our responsibility work: stockmanngroup.fi/en/csr 6 2013 in a nutshell STOCKMANN CSR REPORT 2013 STOCKMANN IN 2013 Established in 1862, Stockmann is a Finnish listed company engaged in the retail trade. The Stockmann Group’s divisions are the Department Store Division and the Fashion Chain Division. The Group has operations in 21 countries. DEPARTMENT STORE DIVISION FASHION CHAIN DIVISION PURCHASING OFFICES Revenue: EUR 1 232.6 million Revenue: EUR 805.2 million The Stockmann Group’s purchasing offices are Average personnel: 8 469 Average personnel: 6 357 located in Bangladesh, India, China, Pakistan and Turkey. They procure fashion for Lindex, Seppälä STOCKMANN: More than I expected LINDEX: World-class fashion experience and the Department Store Division’s own fashion Offers uniquely extensive and high-quality ranges Offers inspiring, affordably-priced fashion. The brands from a network that includes around 200 of international brands and excellent customer product range covers a variety of fashion concepts suppliers and around 360 factories. At the end of service in a modern and inspiring shopping within women’s, men’s and children’s wear, 2013, around 150 people were employed at the environment. lingerie and cosmetics. purchasing offices. 16 479 The Stockmann Group’s revenue was EUR 2,037.1 million and operating profit declined to EUR 54.4 million. Earnings per share were EUR 0.67. The personnel amounted to 15,441 at the year-end 2013. 479 stores in 16 countries. The lindex.com online Stockmann plc shares are listed on NASDAQ department stores in four countries, 12 Stockmann store also operates in the EU countries and in OMX Helsinki. The company had 59,475 shareholBeauty stores, the shopping centre Nevsky Centre Norway. ders at the end of 2013. The dividend policy in St Petersburg, one Outlet and one Hobby Hall defined by Stockmann’s Board of Directors is store. In addition three online stores in Finland: SEPPÄLÄ: A bold challenger more than half of the earnings from ordinary stockmann.com in international fashion retail operations. The dividend for 2013 was EUR 0.40 akateeminen.com Offers an extensive selection of international per share, i.e. 59.5% of the earnings. hobbyhall.fi fashion for women, men and children. 209 The Stockmann Group has 16 department stores, around 700 fashion stores in 16 countries and five online stores. In addition, the Stockmann Group has six purchasing offices in five Asian countries. The Group’s parent company’s headstores in 5 countries. The seppala.fi online store quarters are located in Helsinki, Finland. also operates in Finland. More detailed information on the company’s financial key figures: stockmanngroup.com. 7 2013 in a nutshell STOCKMANN CSR REPORT 2013 REVENUE BY MARKET 2013 RECOGNITIONS AND AWARDS Stockmann has a firm position in international department store and fashion retailing. The Stockmann Group has 16 department stores, and around 700 fashion stores in 16 countries. In 2013 fashion was sold for approximately EUR 1.4 billion. Vinnare 48% Finland Countries with stores: 1 Finland, 2 Russia, 3 Estonia, 4 Latvia, 5 Sweden, 6 Norway, 7 Lithuania, 8 Poland, 27% Sweden and Norway 9 Czech Republic, 10 Slovakia, 11 Iceland, 12 Croatia, 13 Bosnia and Herzegovina, 14 Serbia, 15 Saudi Arabia, 17% Russia 16 United Arab Emirates. 8% Baltic countries and Central Europe AWARDS REVENUE BY DIVISION 2013 Stockmann’s Helsinki city centre department store’s facade lighting won the Outdoor lighting project of the year award in 2013. Lindex received the prestigious Fashion Chain of the Year award at the Habit Fashion Gala in Stockholm. Stockmann was rated as the company with the second best reputation in the retail sector in the Corporate Reputation and Responsibility survey 60% Department Store Division conducted by TNS Gallup in 2013. 40% Fashion Chain Division Seppälä won Cosmopolitan magazine’s Bloggers’ choice award. REVENUE BY MERCHANDISE AREA 2013 At the Vertaa.fi Web Awards gala, the best online stores of the year received awards in eight different categories. Stockmann’s online store came second in the fashion category and Hobby Hall’s online store came third in the online department store category. Business students surveyed by the Universum consulting and market research company voted Stockmann the sixth most attractive employer in 68% Fashion and cosmetics Finland. 15% Food In a study carried out by Retail Lab Helsinki Oy, 8% Leisure Stockmann made the Top 10 by securing eighth 7% Home place for the quality of its customer experiences. 2% Books, publications, stationery 8 Introduction to responsible operations STOCKMANN CSR REPORT 2013 STRATEGY AND GOALS: TOWARDS A MORE SUSTAINABLE FUTURE Commitment to responsible operations forms a core retail trade. In our CSR work this means making a out by the company and divisions in the form of of the company’s responsibility work by the compart of Stockmann’s values and daily ways of workcommitment to working towards a sustainable future. various training sessions and working groups. pany’s management. The responsibility work is also ing. Responsibility work is steered by the Group’s In our everyday work, the vision and goals of our CSR The Stockmann Group provides information about described on the company’s website at corporate social responsibility strategy and policies, are evident in the form of numerous measures assoits responsible operations transparently and regularly stockmanngroup.com. Stockmann’s Annual Report, the national legislation and regulations of the counciated with responsibility and as active cooperation on an annual basis in its CSR report, and about which was published in February 2014, provides tries of operation, and by international agreements with our partners: together we are developing the climate change management in the Carbon Discloinformation on the Group’s key financial indicators and recommendations, the most important of which responsibility and procedures within the entire sector. sure Project report (CDP). The CSR report is a review and goals. is the commitment to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. The Group’s Code of RESPONSIBILITY IS MANAGED Stockmann’s Board of Directors discussed the responsibility of the supply chain at their meeting in Turkey in Conduct, which was approved by Stockmann’s AS PART OF OUR BUSINESS September 2013. At the same time the Board of Directors also visited a factory of one of Stockmann’s clothing Board of Directors in 2013, and other policies provide Stockmann’s Corporate Social Responsibility Steersuppliers and learnt about the inspection process at factories. At the table, from the left, Christoffer Taxell, guidance for Stockmann’s employees and partners. ing Group, whose Chairman is Maisa Romanainen, Chairman of the Board, Hannu Penttilä, CEO, Dag Wallgren, Member of the Board and Elisabeth Hedberg, In its supply chain, Stockmann complies its Supplier Executive Vice President and Director of the Departdirector in charge of Stockmann Group’s purchasing offices. Code of Conduct, which is based on the principles of ment Store Division, is responsible for implementing, the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI). developing and monitoring CSR within the StockThe CSR strategy, which was approved in 2011, mann Group. The CSR Steering Group approves supports the goals of business operations. StockGroup-level procedures, sets goals for responsibility mann takes environmental impacts and its stakeand defines procedures which are implemented with holders into account in its efforts to improve the the help of normal management systems. Separate profitability and productivity of its operations. The working groups related to CSR targets and topical goals of the Stockmann Group’s CSR strategy are issues are set up as necessary to prepare or impledivided into the following categories: People (social ment the issues or decisions that have been dealt responsibility), Planet (environmental responsibility) with by the CSR Steering Group. The divisions take and Profit (financial responsibility). These goals cover the targets set at the Group level into account in their the entire value chain. Responsibility is taken into own operations and regularly compare their own account in the buying and design of products, in performance with these targets. deliveries and in store operations. We provide During 2013, responsibility for the management of responsible shopping experiences and offer our CSR was transferred to the Director of Corporate customers the opportunity to do good deeds with us Communications in the Corporate Communications through various commercial charity campaigns. We department. The department has a CSR Specialist also participate in the operations of the recycling who coordinates the planning and development of systems for the products and packaging that we sell the practical aspects of the responsibility work. and we encourage our customers to recycle. Employees are offered the opportunity to participate Stockmann’s vision is to be a forerunner in the in the development of the responsibility work carried 9 Introduction to responsible operations STOCKMANN CSR REPORT 2013 other environmental impacts of operations were MATERIALITY MATRIX WE PRIORITISED OUR FOCUS also key issues for respondents. External stakeAll of the perspectives selected for the materiality tes the significance of the perspective to stakeholAREAS OF RESPONSIBILITY holders also highlighted the importance of prodmatrix are important for the Stockmann Group. ders and the horizontal axis describes the current During 2012 and 2013 we carried out an extensive uct safety, employee wellbeing and, in particular, The emphasis given by individual stakeholders to or potential impact on the Stockmann Group. analysis of the stakeholders in our main markets the importance of customer service in the departdifferent perspectives is not illustrated in full in the from the perspective of CSR. We used the stakement store chain. matrix, as significance to stakeholders groups has holder analysis to ask our key stakeholders to At the end of 2013, the company’s strategy and been assessed as a whole. The vertical axis illustraassess our focus areas of responsibility. We also goals was analysed based on the information surveyed the stakeholders’ wishes regarding collected from the responsibility-themed surveys Stockmann’s CSR and the related reporting. and feedback. The most important responsibility The stakeholder analysis was launched at the factors for stakeholders were taken into account in end of 2012 when we mapped the representatives a materiality assessment that was approved by the of key stakeholders at the Group level based on CSR Steering Group in December 2013. The comresponsibility work, and we compiled any issues, piled materiality assessment steers the CSR and wishes and feedback regarding responsibility work stakeholder work and defines the focus areas for Customer Financial orientation profitability that had arisen during our cooperation. After this, 2014 to meet the expectations of our stakeholders. a total of 13 qualitative interview studies were Product carried out at the beginning of 2013 on representasafety tives of the company’s key stakeholders and the Responsible media that were chosen from Finland and Swesupply den. In September–October 2013 loyal customers The Group’s stakeholders are presented chain on page 12. Employee Corporate of Stockmann department stores in Finland were wellbeing governance sent a questionnaire asking which responsibility factors are most important for them. Random IMPORTANCEFOR FORSTAKEHOLDERS THE STAKEHOLDERS Employment IMPORTANCE sampling was used to select 3,000 Finnish speaking and 500 Swedish speaking loyal customers. In total over 500 loyal customers responded to the questionnaire. Energy The stakeholder analysis highlighted responsiand material Charity bility in the supply chain and communications on efficient operations responsibility matters as areas for development at the Group level. Respondents considered information on the origin of products and management of the supply chain as important matters. Respondents also wanted to be able to find information more easily and more information to be available on the company’s CSR work and actions. Matters associated with energy efficiency and IMPACT ON STOCKMANN IMPORTANCE GROUP FOR THE COMPANY 10 Introduction to responsible operations STOCKMANN CSR REPORT 2013 FOCUS AREAS IN 2014 PEOPLE – WE WORK Stockmann complies with the Supplier Code of Leadership based on values clothing design and the procurement of materials RESPONSIBLY WITH Conduct, which is based on the principles of the As a continuation to the discussions on values and products that is carried out by the Stockmann INDIVIDUALS AND ENTITIES Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI). Local held by the Department Store Division in 2012, Group. Training on themes of responsibility will be wellbeing and environmental protection is supleadership criteria that are in accordance with arranged during 2014 for designers and buyers New Code of Conduct implemented ported with various projects. these values were defined. The criteria will be working in the divisions. The amount of environIn 2013 Stockmann’s Board of Directors approved Stockmann’s goal is to provide transparent introduced to HR practices and supervisory work mentally friendly raw materials will systematically the Group’s Code of Conduct, which provides communications on its responsibility issues. during 2014. Supervisor skills will also be strengthbe increased in the Group’s own brand products, guidance for employees. The Code of Conduct Therefore the amount of information provided on ened through training. In the Fashion Chain Diviand during 2014 clothing made from organic deals with the following matters: compliance with the origin of its clothing has been increased and sion, Seppälä has launched a value project as a cotton will be introduced to the Stockmann legislation and ethical operations, free competition Stockmann Department Store Division has folpart of its comprehensive brand renewal and department stores’ own brand products. and consumer rights, employees and working lowed Lindex’s example and has published a list of Lindex will focus on updating its own strategy conditions, the environment, and corruption and the main part of the suppliers of its own fashion during 2014 in its Lindex Express project, which will PROFIT – WE ARE PROFITABLE conflicts of interest. The implementation of the brands on its website. Seppälä’s list will be pubalso deal with values. new Code of Conduct was started at the beginning lished later during 2014. As of fall 2014, informaProfitable growth is part of our business of 2014. tion on the country in which a garment has been PLANET – WE WORK FOR THE Profitable growth forms the core of Stockmann’s manufactured will be gradually added to products GOOD OF THE ENVIRONMENT strategy. Without competitiveness and positive Responsible, transparent and traceable from the department stores’ own clothing brands. financial performance we are unable to meet our fashion product supply chain The information will be provided on the care label, Reducing the carbon footprint investors’ profit expectations, create permanent Stockmann is continuing its work to promote which provides laundry and care instructions, that of our operations jobs, or focus on personnel development or the responsibility in its supply chain. In its purchasing, is attached to the inside of the garment. The Stockmann department stores have been development of society as a whole. The goal is for focusing on the reduction of energy consumption, the Stockmann Group’s operating profit in 2014 to loss and waste for over 10 years. The systematic be slightly better than its operating profit in 2013. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY GOALS environmental work is supported by CO2 emission targets that will be set for the coming years. Active cooperation with stakeholders The Fashion Chain Division’s new store conListening to stakeholders and providing informaPeople Planet Profit cepts take energy efficiency into account, for example in material selections and energy solution and reports on the progress of responsibility work is part of Stockmann’s responsibility work. In Employee wellbeing and To reduce the To support our tions. Stockmann strives to reduce the adverse 2014 Stockmann will intensify the cooperation with education in CSR issues environmental impact core business targets environmental effects of the supply chain by parits key stakeholders that is associated with responticipating in projects which deal with the use of sibility. The target is to provide the next report on Products Responsible products and responsible supply chain water and chemicals in production. stakeholder work and responsibility work in 2014 according to the GRI’s new G4 reporting guideResponsible design and materials lines. Responsibility is part of the process involved in 11 Introduction to responsible operations STOCKMANN CSR REPORT 2013 RESPONSIBILITY WORK IN THE FASHION PRODUCT VALUE CHAIN USE AND RECYCLING In the retail sector, the value chain – a product’s journey from raw material to The impact of the company’s operacustomer – is often long and contains many stages. By engaging in close cooperation tions covers the use of the products with our partners, we can take responsibility into account throughout the entire value and their disposal. Customers are offered information on how to use chain. Based on the risks, we target specific actions at STORE OPERATIONS and wash products, and recycling alternatives, so that the lifecycle of the particular product groups and supplier countries. Attention is focused on energy effiproduct can be extended and environThe fashion product value chain is described in ciency and waste sorting at stores. mental impacts can be reduced. The packaging materials selected are more detail on this page. those with a low impact on the enviLOGISTICS ronment. The fashion chains’ stores • In addition to the instructions proand online stores focus on the vided when a customer purchases a The Group has operations in over 20 responsible display of fashion prodproduct, a list of tips has been comcountries. The large operating area ucts: shelf signs and product labelling piled and published on the internet. requires the support of well-functioning provide customers with information. For example, a list of care instructions logistics chains. In logistics, responsibilfor clothes aimed to reduce their PRODUCTION ity work focuses on the management of environmental impact has been environmental impacts. • The Group has 16 department stores, compiled on the Lindex website. Stockmann does not own any clothing approximately 700 stores and 5 online • The divisions participate in the operafactories or manufacture any clothing • Goods are transported from purchasstores. tions of recycling systems for the itself. Working conditions, occupational ing offices to distribution centres • Over 12 million pieces of clothing products and packaging that they safety and wellbeing in supplier countries mainly as sea freight. manufactured from responsible sell. DESIGN AND BUYING are promoted with local projects and with • The adverse environmental effects of materials were on sale in 2013. • We look into ways of preventing external and internal inspections. deliveries are reduced by increasing • The department stores have optimised textile waste in cooperation with Well-known brand products and own capacity utilisation and thus reducing their ventilation and lighting. Energyvarious parties. We also actively brand products are purchased for sale the number of deliveries. saving LED technology was taken into follow the discussion on utilising at Stockmann department stores. The • Approximately 80% of own brand • The new distribution centre, use at the new Itis department store, textile waste. For example, Lindex is fashion chains sell their own brand fashion products are bought via scheduled for completion in 2016, and approximately 90% of the lighting involved in a Nordic project which products. purchasing offices through a network will serve the department stores in at this department store is produced promotes the recycling and reuse of made up of around 200 suppliers and Finland and the Baltic countries will with LED lighting. textiles. around 360 factories. reduce the number of internal • Lindex’s new concept store in Stock• 12 fashion designers at Stockmann, 35 at Lindex and 18 at Seppälä can have • In 2013, 186 external BSCI and 171 internal audits were carried out at the deliveries and their emissions. holm was designed in cooperation with the Basta organisation, which Stockmann is a • The logistics centre in Moscow serves an impact on the responsibility of factories of clothing suppliers. the department stores in Russia and carries out environmental assessforerunner in fashion. fashion based on their choice of raw • Responsible materials, such as Better material used in a product, for example. Cotton (BCI) and organic cotton, and ensures efficient goods flows. ments. Particular emphasis was placed on material choices and energy Almost 70% of the • In the Fashion Chain Division, Lindex • In its purchasing Stockmann complies recycled materials, such as cotton, has a logistics centre in Partille in solutions. company’s revenue with the Supplier Code of Conduct. wool, polyester and polyamide, and • The collection of shrinkwrap and • Responsibility issues regarding internaTencel, are increasingly used as the Sweden and an outsourced centre in the Czech Republic. Seppälä’s logisplastic film used for packaging clothcomes from fashion tional and domestic brand products are assessed during purchase negotiations. raw material for own brand fashion products. tics centre is located with its head ing was extended in the department stores. and cosmetics. office in Vantaa in Finland. 12 Introduction to responsible operations STOCKMANN CSR REPORT 2013 COOPERATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS WE ASK AND LISTEN flagship store in Helsinki was comfort: customers do good deeds with us through various commerend of 2014 will be donated to the project. In addiIn 2013 we celebrated the 120th anniversary of the wanted reading corners and a larger café. Stockcial charity campaigns. tion to this commercial cooperation, Stockmann Academic Bookstore. In honour of its anniversary mann responded to this: there are now areas where The Pink Ribbon campaign and Lindex have also made its Christmas donation to the project in year, the book store was remodelled and customcustomers can look at books and the Starbucks been working together for 11 years. In 2013, EUR 1.2 2013. The Academic Bookstores also supported the ers’ wishes were taken into account in the remodelcafé on the ground floor of the book store provides million was donated to the fight against breast Child’s Hospital: EUR 2 was donated to the project ling. At the start of the year the Academic Booka place for customers to buy refreshments. cancer. In November the fashion chain provided its from the price of each 875 grammaa Pirpanan store conducted the ”Your dream book store” One important form of stakeholder interaction is customers in Sweden, Norway and Finland with the tarina (875 grams– the story of a tiny baby) book customer survey and 3,889 respondents provided customer feedback, which provides valuable inforopportunity to round up the total of their shopping that was sold. The book tells the story of a prematheir opinions on the strengths of the book store mation on how to develop operations. In 2013, the purchase and donate the extra amount to victims of ture baby girl. In 2013 Stockmann also supported chain and the areas requiring development. most frequent questions concerning responsible the typhoon in the Philippines. A total of EUR the work of the Finnish Association for Nature According to the results, the best thing about the issues in department stores were: the origin of 321,000 was raised through this campaign and Conservation with a donation and the sale of the Academic Bookstore is its extensive and varied clothes, working conditions in manufacturing coundonated to the Red Cross typhoon emergency Association’s 75th anniversary Swan Wing camselection, good customer service and the central tries, and angora wool towards the end of the year. appeal. paign poster by Erik Bruun. location of the stores. Almost 75% of respondents In December Stockmann launched its cooperaMore information on the stakeholder analysis replied that the Academic Bookstore lives up to the WORKING TOGETHER tion with the New Child’s Hospital 2017 project. 50 that was carried out in 2013 on page 9. image of their dream book store well or very well. WITH OUR CUSTOMERS cents from every order placed by a loyal customer Economic added value by stakeholder group in An important area requiring development at the We provide our customers with the opportunity to through the Stockmann.com online store until the the context of the EC1 indicator, page 29. In 2014 Lindex will celebrate the work of Tove Jansson with a new Moomin range. 10% of the GROUP’S KEY STAKEHOLDERS Personnel Goods suppliers and service providers sales of this collection will be donated via UNICEF The key stakeholders were identified and selected Stockmann is a good place to work. Our working We commit our suppliers and providers to our to promote literacy. in conjunction with drawing up the coprorate atmosphere is great and we try to continuously responsibility work. We collaborate with them to social responsibility strategy. improve it. We value our personnel and their develop our partnerships in order to ensure good commitment to the company. We reward success. business environment conditions for all and the Customers Our goal is to be a sought-after employer on the best possible service to our customers. Customers are our most important stakeholders. labour market. We want to improve our dialogue with our custoAuthorities and organisations mers and better understand their needs and Shareholders and investors We work actively with the authorities and various expectations towards Stockmann. Customer Stockmann wants to be an attractive and soughtorganisations. We network and promote sustaiorientation is one of the core values of this comafter investment target on the capital market. We nable development. pany and it steers us strongly to place customers’ have rewarded our loyal customers and gained a needs first. substantial amount of new shareholders by offering loyal customer share option schemes. 13 Responsibility in our daily work STOCKMANN CSR REPORT 2013 WORKING AT THE STOCKMANN GROUP Excellent customer service is an important competitive factor in the retail sector. In order to be able to exceed customers’ expectations we need to carry out active training of personnel and have well-functioning internal communications. These issues and internal job rotation are focused on within the entire Group. TEAM MENTOR PROVIDES ensures that customers receive prompt and firstDEVELOPING INTERNAL SUPPORT: THERE IS NO NEED class customer service. COMMUNICATIONS TO WORK ALONE Communications and interaction have great Salla Karjalainen has been working at the Stockmann INSPIRING ROLE IN FASHION importance for increasing motivation and wellDelicatessen at the Helsinki city centre department Elisabeth Peregi has a fast-paced job. She is Country being at work. We focused on smooth-functioning store for about a year. She became a permanent Manager at Lindex Sweden. She is responsible for communications in 2013 by renewing the tools of employee after working at the department during more than 200 stores and visiting these stores is part internal communications and by training supervibusy Christmas and Crazy Days periods on several of her job. “Store visits are inspiring and educational sors. occasions. because the members of staff are passionate about Karjalainen has been working on the fish counter fashion,” says Peregi. ”On my visits to the stores, I New intranet under the guidance of team mentor Perttu Laakoli. also see how our values are applied in our everyday Seppälä and the Department Store Division launThe mentoring includes training in customer service, work. Lindex pays a lot of attention to value leaderched a new intranet. Modern tools for internal procedures at the fish counter and work area and ship. Communications also plays an important role in communications boost the distribution of inforfamiliarisation with products. Mentoring has provided achieving success. In internal and external communimation and take into account users’ individual Karjalainen with valuable support in her work: cations, the actual message and the way that the needs better than before. The new intranet was “It feels safe joining a new team when you know message is communicated are both important. created by combining the traditional intranet and there is someone by your side providing help and Peregi started working at Lindex Sweden in 1999 as online information management. The goal is to mentoring.” a sales controller. She has had many roles during her reduce the amount of emails and target the inforTeam mentor Perttu Laakoli has been working for career at Lindex, which has lasted about 15 years. In mation better than before. Stockmann for almost 6 years. He started his career addition to the sales figures of Lindex Sweden and the at the age of 18 on the checkout at the Stockmann other countries, she is also familiar with the fashion Supervisor as a messenger Delicatessen. Laakoli has already had many roles in chain’s operations in Norway and Saudi Arabia. The supervisor training in communications was the department and he has been a team mentor, Peregi’s strong enthusiasm for learning new things launched in the Department Store Division. The where he mentors new employees, for half a year and the opportunity to be involved in developing the aim of the training is to improve supervisors’ now. “The best thing about my job is that it is varied company has spurred her on in the various roles. understanding of their own role as a messenger and I have the opportunity to help my colleagues to “Internal career development provides an excellent and to provide assistance in the planning and learn their new roles and about new things,” says At your service! opportunity to learn new things and advance within implementation of communications with shared Laakoli. Laakoli’s mentoring team has 29 members. Team mentor Perttu Laakoli and sales assistant Salla the company. It is possible to advance in many tools. Approximately 150 supervisors in Finland He provides these members with mentoring or other Karjalainen are helping customers at the fish counter different directions. In an international company, and about 30 supervisors in Russia participated in training every week. Laakoli likes to focus in particular in the Helsinki city centre department store. experience can be gained for example by changing the training in 2013. The training will be continued on a new employee’s first day and provide the new Elisabeth Peregi, Country Manager at Lindex Swedepartment, roles, the country of operation or even in all four countries of operation in 2014. employee with all the help that he or she needs. This den, has worked in the fashion chain for 15 years. division,” says Peregi. 14 Responsibility in our daily work STOCKMANN CSR REPORT 2013 WHERE DO OUR FASHION PRODUCTS COME FROM? A significant share of the fashion products on sale at vided by the buying and planning organisation and countries. We are involved in the School of Hope, SIX PURCHASING OFFICES Stockmann’s divisions are clothes that have been purchasing offices regarding materials and trends. Solmaid High School, Shanghai Sunrise and Health FOR OWN BRAND FASHION designed at Stockmann. For example, almost all of the Stockmann does not have its own clothing factories, so Enables Return projects. We are also involved in the PRODUCTS clothes sold at Lindex and Seppälä are our own brand the own brand product clothing that is sold at stores is Sustainable Water Resource and Partnership for Our purchasing offices employ a total of about 150 products that cannot be purchased anywhere else. The mainly bought through the six purchasing offices. The Cleaner Textiles projects that are both associated with members of staff. Their task is to supervise purchasing tastes and preferences of Stockmann department store purchasing offices make their purchases through a the use of water and that were both launched in the and production. The purchasing offices review the customers are catered for by Stockmann’s own fashion network of about 200 suppliers with about 360 factoreporting year. In May 2013 we signed the Accord on procedures of each factory that they use before any collections that are designed specifically for the customries. Fire and Building Safety in Bangladesh initiative, and in orders are placed. After the preliminary inspection, the ers and include the following brands: BEL, Bodyguard, We buy most of our clothing from China where we connection with this all the factories that we use in systematic responsibility work continues and internal Bogi, Cap Horn, Cristelle&Co, CUBE CO, Global Essenpurchase 43 per cent of our own brand fashion prodBangladesh have been surveyed and their fire and and external inspections are carried out on the supplitials and NOOM. ucts. Next is Bangladesh with 22 per cent of purchases building safety has been inspected. ers. The goal is to be able to develop the operations at The journey of an own brand product starts on the and Turkey where we purchase 17 per cent of all own The journey from an idea to production and then on factories while supervising the production operations. fashion designer’s table. Clothing collections are brand fashion products. to the store takes a year at the most, and 6–8 weeks at designed for a specific brand: 12 Stockmann, 35 Lindex the least. The manufacturing country is often selected and 18 Seppälä fashion designers create collections for WHO MANUFACTURES during the initial planning stage when the material their own units while also listening to suggestions proOUR PRODUCTS? selections have been made. The speed of delivery is We want to ensure that work is carried out in safe workalso taken into account when selecting the manufacturing conditions in the supplier companies that manufacing country. Out of our purchasing office countries, ture products for us. The Stockmann Group is a memTurkey is the most natural choice, due to its location, ber of the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI), when a collection needs to go on sale quickly. India has which is committed to improving working conditions at special expertise in the embroidery and decoration of production facilities of goods suppliers. The Stockmann clothing and Pakistan produces excellent-quality denim Group insists that the Supplier Code of Conduct based and fleece products. Large batches of various cotton on the BSCI’s principles and Stockmann’s own addiproducts are manufactured in Bangladesh and products China 43% tional requirements, which apply to the environment, which require precision, such as underwear, are manuBangladesh 22% chemicals and animal rights, are observed in the supply factured in China. Turkey 17% chain for its own brand products. All the clothing that is sold by the fashion chains India 12% A significant share of the own brand fashion products includes information on the country in which the garPakistan 2% are manufactured in areas classified as risk countries by ment has been manufactured. The amount of informathe BSCI. Our clothing orders create employment tion provided will gradually increase and from fall 2014 The share of purchasing of the Stockmann Group’s opportunities, particularly for women, in developing the own brand fashion products sold at the department own brand fashion products in terms of purchase countries. We focus on local projects to support the stores will also start to provide this information. The prices. status and wellbeing of women, education of children Stockmann website provides more information on the Find out more about the supervision of the and environmental protection in the manufacturing factories that we use. supply chain on pages 18 and 20. 15 Responsibility in our daily work STOCKMANN CSR REPORT 2013 RECYCLING AND INTERNATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECTS WORK CLOTHES HAVE MORE SYSTEMATIC RECYCLING We encourage our customers to recycle Better Cotton Initiative, India 2008– THAN ONE LIFE Stockmann department stores and the centralised We provide our customers with the opportunity to Since 2008, we have been involved in the Better The work clothes of the sales personnel who work operations of the Department Store Division work recycle with us. For example, customers can return Cotton Initiative, which aims at reducing the harmat Stockmann department stores are made from together to promote recycling by donating proused electrical appliances and electronic equipful environmental impact of traditional cotton cultihigh-quality and durable materials. When the ducts that are no longer on sale and fashion studio ment, batteries, fluorescent lamps and energy vation. The project has provided training to over clothing wears out it does not end up in a landfill products that cannot be used to previously agreed saving bulbs to Stockmann department stores and 2,000 farmers to use less water, chemicals and site as Stockmann aims to utilise all clothing that is local partners and various recycling workshops. Hobby Hall store. fertilizer in cotton production. In addition, the BCI no longer used as carefully as possible. Work When the Itis department store and the StockDuring 2013 various recycling campaigns were works to improve workers’ conditions and encouclothes can end up as a raw material in oil-absormann Outlet store moved in 2013, their store organised in cooperation with goods suppliers. For rages farmers to cooperate and share tried-andbing mats that are used to clean up oil disasters, fixtures and equipment were distributed for reuse example, a campaign to recycle frying pans was tested practices. as a donation to handicrafts and hobby workto the department store chain, the Reuse Centre organised with Hackmann in all the department shops or as an energy source. and the Uusix workshops. Leftover bakery prostores in Finland. In a campaign organised with Sustainable Water Resource project, ducts from the Helsinki, Jumbo, Tampere, Tapiola Knowledge Cotton Apparel, jeans were collected India, 2013–2014 New and old work clothes met at the new Itis and Turku department stores are donated to in the men’s department in the Helsinki city centre The goal of this two-year project is to improve the department store. Salesperson Marita Tuominen is charity through agreed partners. department store. Linen, old bicycles, saucepans management of water use. In 2013 we participated holding an oil-absorbing mat made of old work clothes. In the Fashion Chain Division, Seppälä launand frying pans, and during the Christmas period, in the project with the four main goods suppliers in ched cooperation with the charity organisation toys, were collected in various campaigns by India and five dye works. In the project, water and UFF during 2013 and donated products that were Hobby Hall. electricity meters are installed at production factono longer on sale to development cooperation in ries and the use of chemicals is optimised in the Africa. Seppälä also donates its clothing samples WORKING FOR dyeing process. to people with limited means via the Hope organiCLEANER PRODUCTION sation and to afternoon clubs and groups of In cooperation with other fashion industry compaPartnership for Cleaner Textiles, school children for their hobby activities via the nies we are committed to projects that boost the Bangladesh, 2013–2016 Windmill-House Association. efficiency of production and make it more enviThe programme is implemented together with In the run-up to Christmas members of staff at ronmentally friendly. The projects have helped to other international clothing suppliers and it deals Seppälä’s head office and warehouse were given reduce the use of water, chemicals and energy at with the consumption of groundwater, pollution of the opportunity to make charity donations to several factories and lowered factories’ production the surface water and issues involved with the use those in need by donating their own good-condicosts. Employee health and occupational safety of energy and chemicals. Our ten large suppliers tion children’s clothes and shoes, toys and sports matters have also been improved. are participating in the programme, which covers equipment. Lindex organised its traditional charity 80% of our production operations in Bangladesh. drive at its head office. This involved donating the fashion chain’s clothing samples as Christmas presents to the disadvantaged in cooperation with Göteborgs stadsmission. 16 Responsibility in our daily work STOCKMANN CSR REPORT 2013 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY MILESTONES IN THE 2000S The department store chain aims high in its environmental goals and work. To achieve the goals, training and internal information are provided to improve the personnel’s environmental awareness. 2006 2012 Department store chain More certifications and environmental Stockmann Delicatessen systems extended received MSC certificaComment by an important stakeholder: The Jumbo department 2010 tion and Stockmann’s EFFICIENT RESULTS store was opened at the Range of organic central kitchen was 2014 WITH KEY PARTNER end of 2005. The products increased granted ISO 22000 Duplicating good requirements of the A new Delicatessen food certification for food practices Stockmann and L&T’s Environmental Services 2002 environmental managedepartment and separate safety management. Environmental managestarted working together in Finland in 2011. Over Environmental policy ment system were organic food department ment models are being the past few years, L&T has become a key partner The Board of Directors observed in the departwas opened at the HelCDP reporting extended to Stockfor Stockmann. Environmental work has been approved the environment store’s operations sinki city centre departStockmann was awarded mann’s operations in the right from the beginning ment store. In 2013 the the highest scores in the developed and targets have been achieved. mental policy. ISO 14001 Baltic countries. The environmental manageand the department organic department’s Nordic Carbon Disclowork will start with train”Stockmann achieved its recycling and reuse ment system introduced store was granted ISO selections already consure Leadership Index in ing, instructions for targets in 2013 with a sorting rate of over 95 per at the Helsinki city centre 14001 certification in the tained over 1,600 organic the Consumer Discresorting waste and intercent. L&T calculated the CO2 emissions from department store. spring of 2006. products. tionary sector. nal audits. Stockmann’s waste management and compiled a report of the climate impacts of waste management deliveries. Next we will expand our coopera2003 2009 2011 2013 tion in the area of services that improve material Responsibility added First CSR report Calculation of carbon Environmental policy and energy efficiency,” explains Tiina Kemppainen, to Stockmann’s core Corporate social reportfootprint and CDP was updated values and the first ISO ing was removed from reporting were launched The Group’s environmental Account Manager at L&T. 14001 certifications the Stockmann Group’s The calculation and policy was updated. The ”Stockmann is a forerunner which places great All department stores in Annual Report and reporting were carried out Department Store Division emphasis on environmental matters and personFinland and the Pitäjänmade into a separate for the first time for the in Finland joined the nel training. Stockmann is also very receptive to mäki office were granted report. Reporting was year 2010. Finnish retail sector’s new development ideas and the company encouISO 14001 certification. developed in accordance energy efficiency agreewith GRI indicators. ment scheme. rages us to do our best every day,” says Petri Salermo, Vice President, Environmental Services. 17 GRI content comparison STOCKMANN CSR REPORT 2013 GRI INDEX GRI References Level Location (page) and notes Strategy and analysis 1.1. CEO’s statement 4 Organisation profile 2.1–2.9 6–7, AR, WWW 2.10 7 Report parameters 3.1–3.4 2, 8, 31 3.5 2, 9 3.6, 3.7, 3.10, 3.11 2, 6. Possible changes or specific limitations mentioned in connection with the text or table relating to the key indicator in question. 3.8 Leased out commercial premises in the Nevsky Centre shopping centre not included. 3.12 17, WWW Governance, commitments and engagement 4.1–4.4 29, AR: Corporate Governance Statement 4.14 12 4.15-4.17 9, 12 Management of social responsibility and indicators LA1*, LA13* 18, 21 LA2*, LA3, LA4*, LA6, LA7*, LA8*, LA10, LA11, LA12 18–20 HR2*, HR4*, HR6*, HR7* 22 HR5 22 PR2, PR3*, PR5, PR8 23 Management of environmental responsibility and indicators EN3*, EN4*, EN10, EN11*, EN16*, EN17*, EN21*, EN22*, EN23*, 24–27 EN25, EN28*, EN29 EN1*, EN5, EN7, EN8*, EN12, EN15, EN18, EN26*, EN27* 24–27 Management of economic responsibility and indicators EC1*, EC4*, EC7*, SO7 29–30 EC2* 30 Reported Partially reported AR Annual Report 2013 WWW Stockmanngroup.com A more detailed GRI content comparison at * GRI core indicator stockmanngroup.com 18 GRI indicators: PEOPLE – We work responsibly with individuals and entities STOCKMANN CSR REPORT 2013 MANAGEMENT OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND INDICATORS The company’s HR policies are based on the comthe field of social responsibility established by Euroagement system of the central kitchen is certified gramme across the organisation. The target was to pany’s values and HR strategy. The Board of Directors pean companies and international trade associations according to the ISO 22000 standard. reduce fixed operating costs in the Department Store of Stockmann ratified the Code of Conduct covering and managed by the Brussels-based Foreign Trade Division and the Fashion Chain Division by over EUR the entire Group in 2013. The divisions comply with Association (FTA). BSCI aims to improve working INDICATORS OF 10 million in 2013. The target was exceeded. Stockthe common Group-level operating principles, but conditions in suppliers production factories and to SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY mann also introduced lay-offs of 12 working days for they also have their own more detailed HR policies clarify and harmonise oversight. In addition, our The Stockmann Group is a major employer: the most of its personnel in Finland, and due to that EUR that support the success of individuals and the welldepartment stores are committed to the principles of company has almost 15,500 employees in 15 coun5 million of savings were achieved in 2013. The being of the staff. The implementation of good HR responsible import trade of the International Associatries. Therefore, the measures and objectives of the Department Store Division is also undergoing strucpolicies is monitored through personnel surveys, tion of Department Stores (IADS). social dimension of corporate responsibility are tural changes in order to improve cost structure. The performance appraisal discussions and other feedThe Stockmann Group requires that the supply particularly focused on the Group’s own personnel. changes are being implemented in stages, and they back channels. Cooperation also takes place in local chain of its own brands comply with the Supplier were first applied in marketing operations in the personnel committees and the Group committee. Code of Conduct, which is based on the BSCI princiLABOUR / POLICIES CONCERNING autumn 2013. A plan to introduce a new distribution The Stockmann Group appreciates its employees. ples. Furthermore, we set requirements related to EMPLOYEES AND WORKING CONDITIONS centre for department stores in Finland and the Baltic As a minimum standard, we comply with the local animal rights, chemicals and environmental matters countries to be taken into use in 2016, was announlegislation in all of the countries where we operate for our suppliers. Some of our suppliers are also LA1 Description of personnel by employment ced in January 2014. In April 2014, Stockmann and treat our employees equally and according to the SA8000-certified. relationship, employment contract and announced a plan of a new organisational model in principle of equal opportunities in all HR matters. The Stockmann does not accept child or forced labour operating area and LA2 Staff turnover the department stores in Finland. Stockmann initiated HR Director, who is a member of the Group Managein any shape or form and requires its suppliers to Stockmann Group’s personnel amounted to 15,441 at codetermination negotiations covering the personnel ment Committee, is responsible for HR at the comabide by this principle. Stockmann does not permit year-end 2013. The highest number of employees at Stockmann’s department stores in Finland, the pany. any treatment of individuals or working conditions was in the Department Store Division, which had customer service employees of Stockmann.com and Our aim is to be an attractive and well-liked that contradict international treaties or accepted 8,955 employees at the end of the year. The decrease Akateeminen.com and after-marketing personnel. employer in the labour market. This means that, in international conventions. Factories in countries in the number of Department Store Division personPersonnel turnover was 23 per cent in 2013. Howaddition to the personal and professional developclassified as high-risk by the BSCI where Stockmann nel is partly attributable to the discontinuation of ever, the turnover depends to a great extent on the ment of employees, we pay attention to healthy and department stores’ and the fashion chains’ own franchising operations in 2013. local labour market. In Finland, the turnover rate was safe working conditions. Employees are also encourbrand products are manufactured are regularly The Fashion Chain Division had a total of 6,186 10 per cent, which was significantly lower than in the aged to take care of their personal wellbeing through audited both by ourselves and by BSCI. If deficiencies employees at year-end, of whom 4,999 are in Lindex retail sector on average*. In Russia, the turnover rate various clubs, among other means. in the supply chain are identified, an action plan for and 1,346 in Seppälä. The number of Seppälä is higher, but the rate is similar to local labour market. correcting these will be drawn up and the implemenemployees was slightly lower than the previous year The number of full-time employees remained almost Supply chain oversight tation of this plan is monitored. Local working condidue to the shop closures made in 2013. Lindex unchanged from the previous year and was 6,765, The company’s responsibility also extends indirectly tions are also influenced through various international opened 11 own stores during 2013, which increased while the number of part-time employees was 8,676. to the product supply chain, manufacturing and conventions and initiatives. the number of employees. Stockmann’s Group product safety. The Stockmann Group has been a The Stockmann Group does not have its own administration employed 141 persons at year-end and *Source: Finnish Commerce Federation press release member of the Business Social Compliance Initiative factories or production facilities, apart from the centhe Company’s purchasing offices 159 persons. 19 March 2013. Personnel turnover in commerce in (BSCI) since 2005, which is a cooperative organ in tral kitchen of the department store chain. The manIn April, Stockmann launched a cost savings proFinland is approximately 23%. 19 GRI indicators: PEOPLE – We work responsibly with individuals and entities STOCKMANN CSR REPORT 2013 The need for fixed-term employees is high in retail, supporting sports and through various staff clubs and awarded. Stockmann Riga was opened in October Wages and salaries as the summer and Christmas seasons, for example, the opportunity to rent holiday homes in Finland. In 2003, and the tenth anniversary of the department Even though the average number of the Group’s increase the need for seasonal employees. Of Stock2013, the leisure activities of the personnel were store could be seen in Latvia where a total of 56 personnel decreased slightly during the year, the total mann Group’s employees, 16 per cent had fixed-term supported less than in 2012 due to the cost saving medals for 10 years of service were awarded in 2013. wages and salaries remained almost on a par with the employment contracts in 2013. Compared to previous programme concerning the entire company. In 2013, One 50-year career medal was awarded to an previous years. Employee benefit expenses totalled years, the number of seasonal employees decreased the company’s support for employees’ leisure activiemployee of the Helsinki city centre department EUR 397.8 million, or 19.5 per cent of revenue. in the Department Store Division in particular, where ties amounted to approximately EUR 0.1 million. store. Medals of merit for such a long service career In 2014, the personnel were paid EUR 5,654 in temporary lay-offs and other austerity measures were Every year, Stockmann awards medals of merit to have been awarded rarely in the company, with the incentives for the financial performance of 2013. In carried out during the reporting year. its long-serving employees. The tradition started in total being 68 over the years. Lindex has its own 2013, the personnel were paid EUR 0.2 million incenThe Department Store Division and the Fashion 1924, and over 20,000 medals have been distributed reward scheme according to which employees are tives for the financial performance of 2012. In addition Chain Division offer many young people an opportuover the 90 years. Medals of merit are awarded for rewarded for 25 years of service. In addition, all units to that personnel were paid EUR 1.0 million salesnity for becoming familiar with the functioning of the careers of 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45 and 50 years reward employees on their 50th birthdays. based incentives for the sales of 2013. Key senior and retail sector in the form of practical training periods of with the Stockmann Group. In 2013, 659 medals were middle management of the Stockmann Group are various educational institutions, for example. During 2013, Stockmann’s Finnish department stores had a STAFF FIGURES 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 total of 1,403 Crazy Days campaign helpers in the Number of personnel 31 December 15 441 16 041 15 960 16 184 14 836 spring and 1,512 in the autumn. In addition, the in Finland 7 033 7 553 7 237 7 430 7 153 department stores and support functions offered abroad 8 408 8 488 8 723 8 754 7 683 work experience to more than 300 summer employPersonnel on average 14 963 15 603 15 964 15 165 14 656 ees and 700 interns during the reporting year. Lindex Personnel as full-time equivalents, on average 11 422 11 898 12 172 11 503 11 133 cooperates with universities and offers on-the-job Average age of personnel 35 34 34 35 35 training opportunities in offices and shops. Each year, in Finland 35 34 34 36 36 20–30 interns find a position at the design and purabroad 34 34 37 34 34 chasing department of Lindex’s head office. Seppälä Turnover of permanent employees, on average, % 23 26 30 24 23 has also a similar trainee practice. In 2013, 18 interns in Finland 10 13 15 14 15 worked at the Seppälä’s head office. abroad 34 37 42 34 30 Sickness absences, % 4.2 4.5 4.9 4.3 5.4 LA3 Personnel benefits in Finland 3.8 4.2 4.5 4.4 4.7 Stockmann Group offers the personnel benefits abroad 4.6 4.8 5.6 4.2 6.6 required by the local legislation in all of the countries Share of full-time/part-time employees of personnel, % 44/56 42/58 45/55 42/58 44/56 in which it operates. In most countries, the employees in Finland 45/55 42/58 43/57 41/59 42/58 are offered benefits that clearly go beyond the abroad 43/57 42/58 46/54 43/57 45/55 requirements set by legislation, such as health insurReported workplace accidents in Finland, number 238 212 243 271 231 ance and meal benefits. All employees can purchase Staff costs, EUR million 397.8 405.1 390.0 361.9 327.4 products with employee discount in stores belonging Staff costs, share of revenue % 19.5 19.1 19.4 19.9 19.3 to the Group. Staff training expenses in Finland (excluding direct wage costs), EUR million 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.7 na Stockmann supports recreational and leisure Of the Group’s fashion chains, Lindex publishes more detailed staff figures on its site lindex.com. activities for permanent employees, for instance by 20 GRI indicators: PEOPLE – We work responsibly with individuals and entities STOCKMANN CSR REPORT 2013 covered by a key personnel option scheme, which did tive to establish a European Works Council (EWC) in land. The rate of absence due to sickness and occuon the strategy and values. A total of 30 persons from not result in costs in 2013. More detailed information the Stockmann Group and negotiations between the pational accidents is clearly lower than in the sector three countries and the Department Store Division on the management’s salaries and bonuses (Remuemployer and trade unions on the issue have comon average in Finland*. and Group administration took part in the proneration Statement) can be found on the company’s menced. gramme for six days. During 2013, Department Store website. Two employee representatives participate in meetLA8 Counselling employees Division supervisors were trained for a total of more ings of Stockmann’s Board of Directors. One of these on severe diseases than 350 days, or 2,625 hours, on various training EMPLOYEE-MANAGEMENT COOPERATION representatives is elected by the employee repreAs part of its normal operations, occupational health courses. sentatives of Stockmann’s Group Council and the services aim to advise the employees on severe The environmental awareness of the personnel is LA4 Coverage of collective other by the association representing Stockmann’s work-related diseases and any other risks associated increased through continuous training and regular labour agreements senior salaried employees. The employee representawith work. internal communication. For example, a total of In Finland, around 84 per cent of the Stockmann tives have the right to attend and speak at Board In 2013, medical care-level occupational health approximately 200 employees took part in the Group’s personnel are covered by collective agreemeetings. They are not Board members. care covered all employees in Finland whose employmonthly environmental training sessions at the Helments. Stockmann respects its personnel’s freedom ment had continued for more than 4 months, i.e. sinki city centre department store during the year. of association and right to engage in collective agreeOCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 5,556 persons. The occupational health care services Topical environmental matters were also discussed in ment activity. The company does not monitor the of the Group’s units in Finland are arranged by way of a few department-specific morning briefings with a extent of union membership, but it does compile LA6 Representation of employees in an own occupational health clinic and outsourced total of approximately 400 employees. In addition, statistics on those employees in Finland whose trade occupational health and safety councils services. In Helsinki, the staff of the Group’s own tailored environmental training was arranged for union membership fee is deducted from their salary. Occupational health care is arranged in accordance clinics mainly serve all employees in the Helsinki some of the department store’s lessees. In the In 2013, these employees accounted for 29 per cent with local laws and regulations in all countries of region. In other locations and Finnish Lindex and department store chain, environmental training was of the Group’s personnel working in Finland. In other operation. Employee wellbeing and occupational Seppälä stores, occupational health services are also arranged in the Turku, Itis and Oulu department countries of operation, statistics on union membersafety are discussed regularly in the employees’ counprovided through outsourcing. In Finland, the costs of stores, for the office staff in Pitäjänmäki and in the ship have not been collected. cils, which operate in accordance with the requireoccupational health services totalled EUR 2.0 million. Viinikkala logistics centre. Environmental and food ments of local legislation and represent all personnel The net expenses of occupational health services safety training was arranged for all personnel of the Long tradition of employee–management groups. Preventative work is also focused on in the were approximately EUR 150 per employee in 2013. central kitchen. Approximately 40 employees took cooperation whole Group’s occupational safety day, which is part in the joint chemical training for the purchasing Stockmann has played a leading role in codeterminaorganised every other year. In addition, coaching on TRAINING organisations of the Department Store Division, tion issues in Finland. The company’s Employees’ working ability has been arranged for supervisors in Hobby Hall and Seppälä in the autumn. In addition to Council was set up in 1924. It was not until 1979 that Finland, aiming to increase wellbeing at work and LA10 Average hours of training, training, sound environmental practices are regularly legislation was passed on legal requirements for reduce absence and the costs incurred from absence. LA11 Personnel competence development presented on the personnel premises information codetermination between employees and employers and lifelong learning programmes and screens. in companies. LA7 Accidents and sickness absences LA12 Regular performance reviews Lindex has its own Souls coaching programme for In Finland, the divisions have their own Employees’ Sickness absence rate was 3.8 per cent of regular The Department Store Division in Finland arranges seeking new solutions that will accelerate the success Councils. Seppälä’s Employees’ Council convenes working hours in Finland in 2013 and abroad it was various training courses for everyone taking part in of the entire chain. During the reporting year, eight two times a year and others four times a year. A 4.6 per cent of hours worked. There was a total of 238 sales activities; all new employees of the Finnish employees took part in the programme. They focused similar model is followed in the Baltic countries. reported workplace accidents in Finland. Most of Group administration also take part in the first-level Human resources matters concerning Finland are them were accidents related to the journey to or from START training. A new coaching programme, LEAD, * Source: Finnish Commerce Federation press handled at the Group Council, which is held twice work, mainly slipping. No occupational accidents was launched in 2013. It aims to deepen managerial release 23 August 2011: average absence rate in the annually. In 2012, the employees launched an initialeading to severe injuries took place in 2013 in Finskills and strengthen the management culture based Finnish commerce sector is 5.8 per cent. 21 GRI indicators: PEOPLE – We work responsibly with individuals and entities STOCKMANN CSR REPORT 2013 STAFF BY DIVISION 2013 on matters related to improving the sales margin and per cent. The responses reckoned supervisory work, managerial staff working in Finland and abroad, 63 particularly discussed cooperation with production for example, particularly positively. Compared to the per cent were women. On the Stockmann Board of factories and suppliers. During the year, training on 2011 survey, the biggest positive change had taken Directors, three out of eight members were women. diversity, working environments and employment law place in Russia and Latvia in the willingness to There were two women in the Group’s Management was arranged for the supervisors at Lindex’s head assume personal responsibility for one’s work and in Committee. office. The head office also had some training sesEstonia in the increase of team spirit. In Russia and At the end of 2013, 54 per cent of the personnel, or sions on social responsibility, safety and the future of Latvia, for example, an increasing sense of work8,408 people, worked outside Finland. One of the Lindex. Customer service, product and safety training related stress and in Estonia the development of tools factors behind the international success is that the was arranged for the shop personnel. The average emerged as targets for development. Lindex carried company makes use of the local expertise of the 58% Department Store Division number of training hours at Lindex in 2013 was 11.5 out a personnel survey at the Swedish head office country in question. Using local personnel brings 31% Lindex hours per employee, amounting to a total of 57,500 and distribution centre in December 2013. A total of additional expertise and diversity to the company’s 9% Seppälä hours. 317 employees responded to the survey, and the operations and produces knock-on economic effects 1% Administration For Seppälä, 2013 was a year of change. The chain response rate was 67 per cent. Most of the respondfor the local area. 1% Buying offices deployed new Enterprise Resource Planning software ents were satisfied with their job and aware of Lindex’s In operations outside Finland, there were six perand the brand was renewed. Change management strategy and objectives. Giving and receiving feedsons working in senior and middle management was supported by various types of training, such as back was mentioned as a target for development. positions in Russia and the Baltic countries in the change coaching and induction of employees in the STAFF BY MARKET AREAS 2013 Seppälä conducted a number of surveys during the Department Store Division and one person in Nornew tools and processes. In addition, Seppälä year, monitoring adaptation to the changes in organiway at Lindex. This means that in operations outside arranged several training days for the purchasing sation and ensuring that induction in the new things Finland, over half of senior and middle management organisation. Seppälä employees also took part in the has been sufficient. are local retail sector professionals. In 2013, all the chemical training arranged together with the DepartContinuous development at work and an active members of the Department Store Division’s Manment Store Division. Seppälä also continued its own internal labour market are Stockmann’s strengths. agement Committee and the Finnish department Spirit coaching programme in which Spiritors act as Opportunities to switch duties between divisions, stores’ management were Finns. In total, 81 per cent the coaches. With the programme, Seppälä’s new functions and countries promote learning and the of the management and members of the Country and old employees alike receive induction and inforretention of competent personnel in the company’s Management Committees of the Baltic and Russian 46% Finland mation. In 2013, Spiritors implemented the changes service. Many members of the Group’s management department stores were locals. In 2013, all the mem24% Sweden and Norway concerning the chain in the shops. In addition to the have worked in customer service duties earlier, and bers of Lindex’s top management were Swedish. Sixty 19% Russia head office’s five-member Spiritor team, the chain many also have experience from various parts of the per cent of Lindex’s country directors were locals. In 11% Baltic countries and Central Europe has 27 Spiritors in five countries. The amount of company. For additional information on the opportu2013, Seppälä’s Management Committee consisted 1% Other countries training totalled 15,000 hours at Seppälä during the nities for job rotation, see page 13. of seven Finnish members and also one Russian reporting year. member. The Stockmann Group monitors the implementaDIVERSITY Information on the average age of the employees tion of good HR practices through personnel surveys, is presented in the ”Staff Figures 2013” table. performance reviews and other feedback channels. LA13 Make-up of the organisation’s During 2013, the Department Store Division impleadministration and personnel mented the SOUND personnel survey in Latvia, In 2013, women comprised 85 per cent and men 15 Russia and Estonia. Almost 2,700 people responded per cent of the Group’s personnel. The proportion of to the survey, with the response rate being over 80 female managers is high in all functions: of all the 22 GRI indicators: PEOPLE – We work responsibly with individuals and entities STOCKMANN CSR REPORT 2013 BSCI AUDITS IN 2013 (N=186) HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN own brands in terms of purchase value. 43% of group that they use before entering into a contract and level purchases come from China, 22% from Banglastarting production. Own inspections focus on HR2 Review of human rights in desh, 17% from Turkey, 12% from India, and 2% from employees’ working conditions and environmental subcontracting, HR6 and HR7 Functions Pakistan. issues. In addition to the above-mentioned audits of associated with the risk of use of child and Stockmann does not accept child or forced labour factories, Stockmann is specifically involved in develforced or penal labour in any shape or form and requires its suppliers to oping the safe working conditions of factory workers Stockmann’s social compliance indirectly also abide by this principle. Stockmann does not permit in Bangladesh. Stockmann joined the Accord on Fire extends to working conditions in the supply chain. any treatment of individuals or working conditions and Building Safety in May 2013. Even though the Reporting on human rights in the supply chain that contradict international treaties or accepted inspections related to the Accord did not commence 22% Approved focuses on the procurement of own brand products, international conventions. If deficiencies in the supply in 2013, we carried out electrical inspections in all of 38% Approved after improvements on which we report based on our own and external chain are identified, an action plan for correcting the 21 factories supplying garments to the Stockmann 40% Fails to meet requirements audits of suppliers. The supply chain complies with these will be drawn up and the implementation of this Group in Bangladesh. The inspections did not result the Stockmann Group’s Supplier Code of Conduct, plan is monitored. in the need for discontinuing cooperation with any of which is based on the BSCI principles. In the reporting The identified risks in Stockmann’s supply chains the factories. BSCI AUDITS IN 2012 (N=173) year, 13 goods suppliers had the Social Accountability include deficiencies that have emerged in audits and Additional information on the Stockmann Group’s 8000 (SA8000) certificate. also in public debate, which are particularly related to supply chain is presented on pages 14. The majority of the product selection in wages, working hours, occupational health and safety Stockmann’s department stores consists of internaas well documentation in the risk countries. In order NON-DISCRIMINATION tional and domestic brand products in which responto improve the practices, Stockmann encourages its sibility issues are assessed during purchase negotiagoods suppliers to take part in the company’s develHR4 Cases of discrimination and tions. Over half of the Department Store Division’s opment projects as well as training on these matters actions taken own brand fashion products are procured through the arranged by the BSCI. The company was not suspected of, prosecuted or 46% Approved Group’s own purchasing offices. All of Lindex’s prosentenced for discrimination during the reporting 31% Approved after improvements ducts and a significant portion of the products in Regular factory audits period. 23% Fails to meet requirements Seppälä’s selection are procured through the same A total of 186 BSCI audits were conducted in factories purchasing offices. The purchasing offices are located located in risk countries that manufacture own brand FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION in Bangladesh, India, China, Hong Kong, Pakistan products for Stockmann department stores and BSCI AUDITS IN 2011 (N=199) and Turkey. They purchase the garments from a fashion chains in 2013. Of these, 119 were full audits. HR5 Freedom of association and network of about 200 suppliers and about 360 factoDue to overall stricter Stockmann and BSCI demands right to collective bargaining ries. The number of suppliers and factories was reduin 2013 the audit results are lower than previous years. The freedom of association and right to collective ced significantly during the year, which will make the The BSCI audits are conducted by internationally bargaining of the personnel of the Stockmann Group contacts and supplier relationships even closer. The accredited independent auditors. In addition to these is reported on in section LA4. The freedom of assoStockmann Group does not have garment factories external audits, the Stockmann Group carried out 171 ciation in the supply chain is monitored through BSCI or production facilities of its own. of its own inspections through its purchasing offices. and SA8000 audits as well as our own inspections A significant number of the Stockmann Group’s Each purchasing office has responsibility experts who conducted by the responsibility experts of the purown fashion products come from areas classified as monitor the production processes and the responsichasing offices. 53% Approved risk countries by the BSCI. China is the most imporbility of operations. The purchasing offices review the 25% Approved after improvements tant purchase country for Stockmann Group fashion operating models and quality levels of each factory PRODUCT LIABILITY 22% Fails to meet requirements 23 GRI indicators: PEOPLE – We work responsibly with individuals and entities STOCKMANN CSR REPORT 2013 PR2 Violations of health and safety PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELLING PR5 Customer satisfaction customer programmes: Stockmann’s and Hobby Hall requirements for products The Stockmann department stores are known for loyal customer programmes in the Department Store The Stockmann Group is responsible for the safety of PR3 Product information related to products their customer-oriented service. Top-rated, profesDivision and the Seppälä Club and More at Lindex in the products it sells, ensuring that they do not pose a and services and obeying the legislation sional customer service does not happen by itself, but the Fashion Chain Division. These have 8.7 million risk to customers’ health or property. The company’s Lindex’s products made from responsible materials instead requires regular personnel training from the customers in total. The companies keep in touch with purchasing organisation makes sure that products are marked in the shops clearly with the chain’s own recruitment stage onwards, including comprehensive their loyal customers on a regular basis and offer comply with the valid requirements set in chemical Sustainable Choice label, and these products are induction arrangements for employees. Customer them benefits with a monetary value. and product safety legislation. In addition to Finnish presented on a separate product page in the online orientation strongly guides the company’s operations, All the loyal customer programmes have their own Customs, products are tested regularly by their manushop. and considerable attention is given to providing a customer registers, which are compiled in order to facturers and importers, and by Stockmann in the Seppälä’s products marked with the Organic Cotton first-class service that exceeds expectations. Cusmanage customer relationships and for customer case of own brand products. Testing ensures that the label are made from organic cotton. The range of tomer satisfaction surveys and customer and service and marketing purposes. The personal data of products fulfil all quality and safety requirements set these products includes men’s and women’s jersey employee feedback provide valuable information that Stockmann’s customers and of shareholders attendby legislation or the stricter requirements set by shirts and some of the clothing in the Seppälä Baby guides the Group’s divisions in developing their ing its General Meetings is handled confidentially in Stockmann. In addition, Stockmann follows product line. Additional information on responsible products is operations. Information concerning customer relaaccordance with the applicable legislation. In 2013, notifications issued by the European Union in order presented in section EN 26. tionships is utilised in improving customer service and Stockmann received some queries from customers to inform customers as quickly as possible about We tell our customers about the origin of the prodsales, in daily management of personnel, in developregarding how we use personal data. These cases products that pose a risk. ucts. The country of manufacture is marked (on the ing the skills, remuneration and commitment of were dealt with and did not lead to follow-up measThere were no public recalls involving own brand care label of the garment) on all products of the fashsupervisors, and in the design of training programures. There were no complaints or cautions about the products sold by Lindex, Seppälä and the Stockmann ion chains. With regard to the Department Store mes. loyal customer systems from the authorities. The loyal department stores in 2013. Division’s own brand products, the same information The Group’s divisions regularly measure customer customer systems’ data file descriptions can be found Stockmann Delicatessens and the company’s is marked on the price labels of the products in Russia satisfaction and recognition and develop their operaon the respective units’ websites. central kitchen have an extensive internal quality and Latvia, where the legislation requires that informations according to the results. Tools that are used assurance system for product safety. Stockmann’s tion on origin is reported. In the future, information on include online surveys and exit polls, and in the central kitchen has been certified in accordance with the country of manufacture will also be available to Department Store Division the mystery shopper the ISO 22000 international food safety standard. customers in other countries, as a decision was made method. Customer satisfaction is also monitored STOCKMANN GROUP’S The central kitchen complies with the legal requirein 2013 to mark the information on the products of the actively in relation to the wider competitive situation CORE VALUES ments and those of the authorities, and is seeking to department stores’ own garment brands. The aim is and the general retail market. Leadership based on values is an important issue further improve its operations. In 2013, there were no that the country of manufacture will be reported on In the Stockmann Group, the divisions use sepafor the whole Stockmann Group. The Stockmann product safety, quality or other similar defects requirthe products in phases, starting from fall 2014. rate given customer feedback channels, and a reply is Group’s core values together define the value ing product recalls regarding the central kitchen’s New EU regulations on food labelling will result in made to all customers who request this. framework within which the Group operates and products, products imported by Stockmann or the changes in information reported to consumers on on which its decision-making is based. own brand products. packaging. The changes concern, for example, the PROTECTION OF THE CUSTOMERS’ During the reporting year, there were no legal naming of the product, the readability of the packagPRIVACY • Profit orientation actions or fines associated with the health or safety of ing and the reporting of allergens. Making the changes • Customer orientation own brand products. to packaging labels required by the EU regulations PR8 Legitimate complaints related to • Efficiency began in 2013 for Stockmann’s own brand products violations of customers’ privacy protection • Commitment and foodstuffs imported by Stockmann. The work will and loss of customer information • Respect for our people continue in 2014. The Stockmann Group’s divisions have four loyal • Responsibility 24 GRI indicators: PLANET – We work for the good of the environment STOCKMANN CSR REPORT 2013 MANAGEMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY AND INDICATORS Our environmental work is based on the Groupwaste management and chemicals and emissions materials used in the Environmental Register of ENERGY AND WATER CONSUMPTION 2011–2013 level environmental policy. The operational mancontrol in the supply chain. The personnel of the Packaging (PYR) in accordance with the EU Pack2013 2012 2011 agement of environmental responsibility is organpurchasing offices conduct environmental inspecaging Directive. Lindex also reports on its use of DIRECT ised as a part of the divisions’ day-to-day managetions of factories and monitor compliance with packaging materials to other countries in which it CONSUMPTION Heating fuel (l) 3 402 532 4 325 ment. The divisions (Department Store Division environmental protection legislation and the operates, such as Sweden, Norway and the Baltic Natural gas (MWh) 19 954 13 526 15 055 and Fashion Chain Division) independently set requirements set by the Stockmann Group. countries. INDIRECT specific environmental targets, define indicators for Stockmann’s aim is to manage the environmenThe Stockmann Group can influence the packCONSUMPTION monitoring the achievement of these targets and tal impacts of its business operations. Stockmann aging materials and their volumes, especially when Elecricity (MWh) 166 548 171 585 169 900 District heating and 111 975 90 058 96 883 establish appropriate management practices. considers environmental aspects in the planning procuring goods for its own use. The divisions’ cooling (MWh) The Department Store Division has a certified and management of operations and in the procurepurchasing offices actively monitor the developmanagement system in Finland: All Stockmann ment of products and services for sale and the ment of the packaging industry and thereby aim to Water (m3) 305 536 287 297 267 185 department stores and support functions in Finland Group’s own use. Operations are continuously introduce high-quality packaging to the market and Reporting on the consumption of light fuel oil has been expanare ISO 140001 certified and Stockmann’s central being developed with energy saving in mind, and reduce unnecessary use of packaging material ded. It now includes the fuel consumed by reserve power equipment in Finland, the Baltic countries and Sweden. The kitchen has been granted the ISO 140001 and solutions that have less environmental impact are through material efficiency. comparison data for natural gas consumption from previous ISO22000 certificates. The operating methods of sought in store furnishing, lighting and mainteInformation on the use of packaging materials by years has been converted to megawatt-hours (MWh). Electricity consumption covers all the Group’s functions, excluding Stockmann’s environmental system will also be nance. the Finnish department stores will be published franchising operations. Heating and cooling energy consumpadopted in the department stores in the Baltic The fulfilment of the set environmental goals and later during 2014 on the company’s website. tion covers all the Group’s functions, excluding franchising operations and consumption by Stockmann Beauty stores. In countries during 2014. The Fashion Chain Division objectives and the implementation of agreed poli2013, the calculation was expanded to cover cooling energy does not use a certified environmental managecies is measured and monitored to ensure continuENERGY consumption at more sites and heating consumption at Seppälä stores. Reporting on water covers all the Department ment system. The Lindex and Seppälä shops ous improvement. Every employee is required to Store Division’s functions (excluding Stockmann Beauty stores mainly operate in leased premises in shopping commit to the achievement of these common EN3 Direct energy consumption and and the department store in Itis), Lindex’s distribution centre and Seppälä’s headquarters and logistics centre. centres, which means that in addition to the shop’s goals and objectives. The environmental awareness EN4 Indirect energy consumption energy-efficient concept, environmental issues are of the personnel is increased through continuous The Group’s energy consumption mainly consists taken into account to the extent possible within the training and regular internal communication. of electricity, heating and district heating. Energy is AUDITS OF CERTIFICATES 2013 property in question. consumed by the lighting, ventilation, heating and External Internal Stockmann’s purchasing offices operate near INDICATORS OF ENVIRONcooling systems in the stores, warehouses and production and offices have made efforts to assess MENTAL RESPONSIBILITY offices, as well as by the equipment and machinery ISO 14001 5 14 and minimise the harmful environmental impacts in these facilities, including lifts, escalators, refrigISO 22000 1 1 of their suppliers’ factories. The purchasing offices MATERIALS eration and IT equipment. Increasing attention is MSC 4 7 have their own guidelines concerning the environbeing given to environmental matters in the store ment that the suppliers must use, and an environEN1 Use of materials modifications and new store concepts within the In the Finnish department stores and support functions a total of 10 external and 22 internal audits of certificates mental policy that addresses sewage treatment, The Stockmann Group reports on the packaging Department Store Division and the Fashion Chain were carried out in 2013. 25 GRI indicators: PLANET – We work for the good of the environment STOCKMANN CSR REPORT 2013 Division. For example, the atrium of the new Stockthrough night purging by utilising cool night air in sanitary facilities. In the divisions and the Group’s BIODIVERSITY mann Itis department store makes use of natural the ventilation of the department stores. In logistics, support functions, the water used at the different light, and approximately 90 per cent of the departthe number of transports is continuously optimised business locations is supplied by the local water EN11 Owned and controlled areas from the ment store’s lighting solutions have been made with efficient transport solutions. Savings were utility. Water consumption is minimised by instructpoint of view of biodiversity and EN12 using energy-saving LED solutions. Lindex has achieved, for example, by directing non-commering personnel and lessees, preventing and repairing Impact of the company’s operations on more than quadrupled the production capacity of cial deliveries to the central warehouse from which even the smallest leaks and procuring more effibiodiversity in conservation areas or areas its data centre compared to 2007. At the same they were distributed to the sites in connection with cient water fittings to replace older ones. rich in terms of biodiversity time, the energy consumption of the centre has other transports. Optimising the size of waste comStockmann has one production facility of its The company’s department stores and shops are been reduced by more than 50 per cent. Energy pactors made it possible to optimise the number of own, the food safety certified (ISO 22000) central located in areas zoned as commercial properties. consumption in 2013 is also presented in section weekly waste transports. Lindex stores have also kitchen preparing Meals, Deli, sushi and cafeteria As commercial functions are not located in conserEN7 and in connection with the carbon footprint focused on minimising energy consumption, and products for the department stores in the Helsinki vation areas or other areas rich in terms of biodivercalculation on page 28. all stores follow an efficient energy consumption region in Finland. The wastewater from operations sity, the Group’s impacts on biodiversity are low. checklist as a routine practice. goes to municipal sewer systems. Stockmann has EN7 Measures to reduce indirect energy In May 2013, the functions of Stockmann’s no other production facilities or factories, and the EN15 Endangered species in the sphere of consumption and achieved savings and Department Store Division in Finland were company has no emissions into the water system, influence of the organisation’s operations EN5 Energy savings from saving measures accepted in the Energy Efficiency Agreement for nor is water recycled or reused in the operations. The company’s direct operations do not have and efficiency improvements the Commerce Sector. Under the agreement, impacts on endangered species. Indirect impacts The Stockmann department stores have worked for Stockmann will conduct energy reviews in its premWater consumption in the supply chain are caused through the sold products, product a long time to minimise energy consumption. ises and prepare an action plan for 2014–2016 for We have been involved for years in sustainable guidelines pertaining to the EN15 indicator are Energy and material efficiency, waste management increasing the efficiency of energy use. projects to reduce water consumption and other presented in more detail in section EN26. and logistics are the Group’s common focus areas Environmental aspects and impacts are also environmental impacts in India and Bangladesh, in saving energy. reviewed in the support functions. During 2014, the which are important production countries for the EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas The properties of the Finnish department stores head office of the Department Store Division will Group. Garment production accounts for a signifiemissions and EN17 Other significant continued the energy efficiency programme relocate to new energy-efficient and sustainable cant share of water consumption in these countindirect greenhouse gas emissions launched in 2012, which has also succeeded in premises. Energy efficiency also plays a key role in ries. The Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) in India, Stockmann has reported on its greenhouse gas significant savings in operating costs. The running the planning of the new distribution centre serving Sustainable Water Resource (SWAR) project in emissions since 2010, improving the coverage of hours of building systems, such as ventilation and the department stores in Finland and the Baltic India and Partnership for Cleaner Textile (PaCT) in the reporting year after year. The reporting of electricity consumption, were reviewed in the procountries, which will be opened in 2016. Bangladesh are examples of long-term cooperagreenhouse gas emissions functions as a managegramme, and start-up and shutdown times were tion projects to reduce water consumption and ment tool in the company, and it lays the foundaoptimised. WATER other environmental impacts in different phases of tion for defining and setting the emission reduction Lighting control was reviewed at all department garment production from the cultivation of cotton targets. In 2013, reporting and the documentation stores in Finland during 2013, and lighting was EN8 Water consumption, EN10 Water to the dyeing of the fabric. Additional information of related background data was developed. The optimised, especially with regard to cleaning at recycling and reuse, EN21 Emissions into on our environmental projects is available on page reporting now covers the Department Store Divinight and other night-time work. In addition, the water systems and EN25 Water bodies on 15 and the company’s website. sion and the Fashion Chain Division in all countries Delicatessen grocery departments made the use of which the organisation’s emissions have a of operation, apart from franchising operations. To refrigeration curtains more efficient through new significant impact the extent that measured data was not available, guidelines, thereby decreasing the need for cooling Most of the Group’s water consumption takes place estimates have been used as the basis of the calcufoodstuffs. In the summer, energy was saved in the department stores’ restaurant, kitchen and lations. 26 GRI indicators: PLANET – We work for the good of the environment STOCKMANN CSR REPORT 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy acted as the advisor mate partnership network aiming to create coopstarted as a new waste fraction at the Helsinki City EN23 Significant leaks in the calculation of the carbon footprint in 2013, eration in reducing carbon dioxide emissions. Centre Department Store. Collection is currently During 2013, there were no environmental acciand it was carried out in accordance with the interunderway at three department stores and three dents or breaches related to environmental national Greenhouse Gas Protocol reporting princiEN22 Waste warehouses. As a result of the favourable experiaspects. ples (GHG). The Stockmann Group also reports its The waste generated by the divisions’ operations is ence, it is planned to start the collection at other carbon footprint annually in the international Carmainly packaging waste, such as cardboard and department stores as well. PRODUCTS AND SERVICES bon Disclosure Project (CDP) survey. The carbon plastic. The Department Store Division also generThe Finnish department stores exceeded their footprint calculation is presented on page 28 of the ates biodegradable waste as a result of the operaambitious target of a 95 per cent waste sorting rate EN26 Measures to mitigate the report. tions of the central kitchen, the Delicatessen food with a result of 96.2 per cent. Sorting at source is environmental impacts of products and departments and restaurants and cafés. used at the head offices and logistics centres of services and extent of the impact of these EN18 Initiatives, actions and achievements The waste sorting results for the various business Lindex and Seppälä, and a total of 99 per cent of measures in reducing greenhouse gas emissions locations are monitored on a monthly basis, and the waste generated was utilised. Environmental impacts are considered in all operaStockmann’s department stores focus on energy the aim is to keep the amount of landfill waste as The waste management systems differ between tions and also in the product range, which includes efficiency in Finland through voluntary measures low as possible. The Finnish department stores Finland, the Baltic countries and Russia; for examboth own products and, in the Department Store and various projects and agreements. These meashave paid attention to waste sorting and recovery ple, waste legislation, the number of waste fractions Division, also international and domestic brand ures and efficiency improvements to reduce indiby providing training for personnel, developing the and final disposal of waste all differ. products. rect energy consumption and the savings achieved guidance and making sorting practices more conWith regard to the Fashion Chain Division, waste are discussed in connection with the EN5 and EN7 venient. reporting concerns the head office functions and Stockmann department stores indicators. The total amount of waste decreased in 2013. the distribution centres at the head offices. The Stockmann department stores offer an extensive The Stockmann department stores in Finland The amount of landfill waste could be decreased Lindex and Seppälä shops mainly operate in leased range of products, consisting of more than 1.7 and Lindex’s head office and several stores took through more accurate sorting, thereby improving premises in shopping centres, which means that million product titles. They include various opportupart in the WWF’s global Earth Hour event, switchthe recovery ratio. sorting and utilisation of waste take place to the nities for making responsible purchase choices. In ing off the facade, showcase and vestibule lights for In 2013, the metal and glass collection system extent possible within the property in question. the areas of fashion, cosmetics and household the event hour. In addition, the Helsinki city centre was expanded by including the new Itis department products, the choice includes products made from department store joined the City of Helsinki’s clistore. The collection of film and shrinkwrap was organic and recycled materials and products with WASTE MANAGEMENT STATISTICS 2011–2013 (tons) Department stores, Finland Department stores, abroad Lindex Seppälä Total 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 RECYCLABLE WASTE Cardboard and paper 2 199 2 201 2 242 613 536 300 1 234 3 181 1 166 257 277 309 4 303 6 195 4 017 Combustible waste 1 260 1 344 1 227 0 102 n/a 0.1 21 28 15 17 20 1 275 1 483 1 274 Bio waste 2 280 2 310 2 433 410 256 354 0 2 1 4.9 5 5 2 695 2 573 2 794 Other (plastic film, metal, glass) 142 131 81 28 22 26 31 104 83 7.3 4 7 208 260 198 LANDFILL WASTE 228 334 484 5 460 7 104 6 115 1.8 0 4 5.7 5 7 5 695 7 444 6 610 HAZARDOUS WASTE 5.5 10 7 5.5 5 n/a 0.2 1 n/a 1.1 0 0 12 16 7 TOTAL 6 115 6 330 6 474 6 516 8 021 6 796 1 267 3 307 1 282 291 308 348 14 189 17 972 14 899 WASTE UTILIZATION, % 96 95 93 16 11 10 100 100 100 98 98 98 60 59 56 Figures for the Department Store Division cover all division’s functions and operation countries, excluding Stockmann Beauty stores. The availability of the data and reporting have changed from the previous year with the figures concerning Russia (”Department stores, abroad”). Lindex figures cover the distribution center and part of the HQ functions. Seppälä figures cover the HQ and the logistics center. 27 GRI indicators: PLANET – We work for the good of the environment STOCKMANN CSR REPORT 2013 an eco label, such as the Swan Label, energy label couple of years. In 2013, Seppälä had 400,000 lines on the range of fish, eggs and tropical wood. TRANSPORT or the Ökotex 100 label. products manufactured from organic cotton in its Additional information on the guidelines is availPlenty of organic and Fair Trade food products selections. In addition, the selection included able on stockmanngroup.com and lindex.com. EN29 Significant environmental impacts are available at Stockmann Delicatessen food 10,000 tights made from recycled polyester. The related to transport departments. The Delicatessens’ selections include number of organic cotton products doubled from EN27 Recycling and reuse of products and The Stockmann Group comprises 16 department more than 1,600 organic products. Stockmann the previous year, and the objective for 2014 is to packaging materials stores and over 700 other stores. The stores extend Delicatessens have a Marine Stewardship Council double the number of the products again, with Much attention has been paid to reducing the from the Nordic countries to Russia and Saudi (MSC) certificate. The MSC-certified fish products organic cotton products accounting for 4 per cent amount of waste in the operations of the departArabia. We serve customers in different countries consist of imported wild fish that is caught responof the selections as a result. Products made from ment stores and fashion chains. The department and continents, and so emissions are produced in sibly, without endangering fish stocks, and the organic cotton are marked with the ”Organic stores donate bakery products to charity via partthe distribution of goods to our stores. Much attenorigin of the fish is traceable all the way to where it Cotton” label. ners. In addition, the Finnish department stores tion is paid to the efficient and environmentallywas caught. have commenced cooperation to utilise discontinfriendly movement of product flows. Freight from Stockmann requires the sales assistants to idenProduct guidelines ued products, surplus materials and old work unithe Asian purchasing offices to the distribution tify eco-labelled products in their areas of responsiThe Stockmann Group’s divisions prepare guideforms and sales and office furniture with a few centres is usually delivered as sea freight. Lindex bility and be able to offer them to environmentallylines on product selections and purchasing operapartners. The old work uniforms of Stockmann takes part in the Clean Shipping project and conscious customers, if necessary. The sales assistions as necessary. Respect for animal rights, for Beauty sales assistance were also donated for requires the shipping companies to act on behalf of tants’ knowledge of eco-labels is surveyed annually example, is one of the fundamental requirements reuse. Seppälä’s model garments and discontinued cleaner shipping and register their vessels in the in audits, and it is recorded in the audit reports. set for our suppliers. The Supplier Code of Conduct products were donated for reuse via charity organiClean Shipping Index registry. includes requirements for leather and fur products, sations. Lindex has for years given surplus garments Videoand teleconferencing equipment is Fashion Chain Division treatment of Merino sheep, animal hair, plumes from the shops and purchasing and product utilised in meetings. Attention is paid to emissions In 2013, Lindex had in its assortment 12.4 million and feathers as well as animal testing in cosmetics. departments to charity, recycling or reuse. from business travel, and low-emission options are products manufactured from organic cotton, Better One of the guidelines concerning the Group’s own Portable batteries and disposable batteries, preferred for the trips; for example, trains are used Cotton, recycled fibre or Tencel fabric. Lindex fashion brands is a ban on sandblasting of jeans. household electrical and electronic appliances, for business trips between Helsinki and St. Peterslaunched the new men’s LXM line in October. The The guideline was specified further in 2013 with fluorescent lamps and energy-saving lamps can be burg and between Gothenburg and Stockholm. products of the range are manufactured using 95% regard to Angora wool, with the treatment of returned to Stockmann department stores. In The new distribution centre for the department environmentally-friendly materials. Cotton that Angora rabbits rising to public discussion as the addition, both of the company’s divisions encourstores, which will open in 2016, is estimated to complies with the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) is result of a video published by the animal rights age customers to recycle with campaigns realised decrease the transport distances in the Helsinki increasingly used as the raw material of products. organisation PETA in November 2013. With the in cooperation with various associations or suppliregion significantly. The aim is to decrease the Its farming focuses on reducing environmental guideline, only Angora products from suppliers that ers. For additional information on this, see page 15. emissions from transport by 20 per cent. impacts and increasing the well-being of the entire can provide evidence of the exact source of the The more detailed CO2 emissions are reported community. In 2013, Lindex had 150,000 products Angora wool and good treatment of animals are COMPLIANCE in connection with the carbon footprint calculation manufactured from BCI cotton on sale. Products accepted in the selections of Stockmann’s own (p. 28). made from responsible materials account for fashion brands. Therefore, the range of Angora EN28 Significant breaches of almost 17 per cent of Lindex’s selections. The longproducts was reduced considerably in 2014. The environmental legislation and regulations term objective of the Fashion Chain Division is to Group’s Lindex and Seppälä fashion chains have There were no breaches during 2013. The Stockmann Group’s environmental policy increase the use of these raw materials further. decided to give up the use of Angora wool altowas updated during the reporting year, and it covers the company’s own operations in all of Seppälä has been increasing the use of organic gether for the time being. the countries where it operates. The policy is cotton as the raw material of its products for a Stockmann department stores also have guidepresented on the company’s website. 28 GRI indicators: PLANET – We work for the good of the environment STOCKMANN CSR REPORT 2013 STOCKMANN GROUP’S CARBON FOOTPRINT Reporting on greenhouse gas emissions serves as a came from the generation of purchased energy, espeGREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 2012–2013 (tCO2e) management tool in the Stockmann Group, providing a cially electricity. The other main sources of emissions basis for defining the areas where emissions should be were import freight and the units’ waste management. 2013 2012 Change in the calculation for 2013 reduced and for setting reduction targets. The calculaConsumption of purchased electricity (kWh) Direct emissions (Scope 1) 206 742 Own energy generation 206 742 Calculation expanded for fuel consumption tion of Stockmann’s carbon footprint in 2013 covers the declined but at the same time carbon dioxide emisby reserve power equipment. Vehicles functions of the Department Store Division and the sions grew slightly due to changes in the energy supplimoved to Scope 3. Fashion Chain Division in all the countries of operation, ers’ production profile. Indirect emissions from consumption of 75 645 72 759 purchased energy (Scope 2) excluding franchising operations. This is the fourth time It was possible to reduce the proportion of estimated Electricity 52 683 50 748 Estimated data replaced with measured that Stockmann is reporting its greenhouse emissions, data regarding the Fashion Chain Division as more data. covering the whole Group. However, the comparison actual data on electricity consumption was available. Heating and cooling energy 22 962 22 011 Calculation expanded: heating and cooling energy consumption at new sites included. figures are only presented for 2012 due to significant The reported consumption of heating and cooling Other indirect emissions (Scope 3) 39 058 24 639 changes in the scope of the calculation from 2011 to energy increased due to the fact that the calculation Import freight 24 272 14 969 Calculation expanded. 2012. The changes in the scope of the calculation are was expanded to cover heating consumption at SepDistribution transportation 4 339 3 393 See ’Avoided emissions’. Waste 4 477 1 350 Calculation expanded so that it covers the explained in the table ”Greenhouse gas emissions pälä stores and cooling energy consumption at more Department Store Division’s emissions in 2012–2013”. sites. This also increased the amount of reported Russia, Estonia and Latvia. PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy acted as a consultant in emissions. Refrigerants 3 175 3 391 Business travel 2 419 1 536 Calculation expanded. the calculation of the carbon footprint in 2013. The Scope 3 indirect emissions in 2013 are presented Vehicles 376 0 In 2012 reported in Scope 1. calculation was carried out in accordance with the where relevant; the biggest such emissions can be Avoided emissions 1 983 0 Reported separately. In 2012, reduced from international Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol reportattributed to import freight, distribution transports and distribution transportation. ing principles. In addition to publishing its CSR report, waste. Stockmann also reports on its greenhouse gas emissions in the international CDP survey. EMISSIONS IN 2013 SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 SCOPE 3 We are constantly developing the way we calculate our Direct greenhous gas Indirect greenhous gas emissions Other material indirect carbon footprint. The calculation for 2013 was carried emissions from purchased energy greenhouse gas emissions out centrally for the entire Group for the first time. At the same time the scope of the reporting areas was • Own energy generation • Electricity • Import freight (self-procured) expanded and the reliability of the data was improved. (reserve power equipment) • Heating and cooling energy • Distribution transportation The waste generated in Russia was included in the • Waste calculation for the first time and the reporting on import • Refrigerants freight was increased. These changes are evident in the • Business travel reported emissions, which were higher than last year in • Vehicles the reporting areas in question. The highest emissions 29 GRI indicators: PROFIT – We are profitable STOCKMANN CSR REPORT 2013 MANAGEMENT OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND INDICATORS The operations of the Stockmann Group are based Most of the Stockmann Group’s financial indicachallenges for resolute anti-corruption action. INDICATORS OF FINANCIAL on the local legislation and regulations in each countors are published in the consolidated financial Stockmann has prepared guidelines for personnel RESPONSIBILITY try, and they comply with the Group’s intrinsic values statements for 2013 (published on 13 February 2014), in situations of abuse and conflicts of interest. In and Code of Conduct. which are prepared in accordance with International addition, Stockmann is a founding member of FINANCIAL ACTIVITY Stockmann plc, the parent company of the StockFinancial Reporting Standards (IFRS), and in compliTransparency Suomi ry, the Finnish chapter of mann Group, is listed on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki. In ance with Finnish financial reporting and corporate Transparency International, an organisation that EC1 Created and distributed economic its decision-making and administration, Stockmann legislation supplementing the IFRS. The Group’s works to combat international bribery and corrupadded value complies with the Finnish Limited Liability Companies Chief Financial Officer and the Finance and Control tion. Transparency International operates in 90 The Stockmann Group’s operations bring economic Act, the provisions of its Articles of Association, Department are responsible for the Group’s financial countries. added value to the company’s stakeholders, operaNASDAQ OMX Helsinki’s insider guidelines and reporting. Auditors elected by the General Meeting ting areas and market areas. The majority of the other applicable legislation and regulations. Stockaudit the company’s accounting, financial stateeconomic added value goes into personnel salaries mann complies in full with the Finnish Corporate ments and administration. The Internal Audit Governance Code, which is issued by the Securities examines and assesses the efficiency of business Market Association. operations, risk management and internal control. DISTRIBUTION OF ECONOMIC ADDED VALUE TO DIFFERENT STAKEHOLDERS Stockmann plc’s highest decision-making body is The Internal Audit functions as an independent unit EUR million 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 the General Meeting, which approves the company’s under the Chief Executive Officer and reports its Producing added value financial statements, discharges the Board of Direcfindings to the Board of Directors. Customers Sales excluding 2 041.6 2 118.8 2 006.1 1 830.1 1 702.9 VAT, other operators and the Chief Executive Officer from liability and The purpose of Stockmann’s disclosure policy is to ting income, elects the Board of Directors. ensure that, as a basis for establishing the price of financial income The Board of Directors has eight members, none Stockmann shares, all those operating on the market Goods suppliers and service providers Costs of goods, -1 567.3 -1 610.4 -1 533.8 -1 474.8 -1 380.6 materials and of whom are full-time and all of whom are independhave sufficient and accurate information on Stockservices purent of the company. The majority of the members are mann available to them simultaneously, promptly chased, includes capital goods and also independent of the company’s major shareholdand impartially. All investor information is published paid rents ers. The personnel have elected two representatives on the website stockmanngroup.com in Finnish, Added value produced by Stockmann 474.3 508.4 472.3 355.3 322.2 who have the right to attend and speak at Board Swedish and English. Financial information is pubDistribution of added value meetings. The Board of Directors appoints the CEO, lished on the parent company, the Group as a whole Personnel Salaries, wages -353.5 -361.0 -348.6 -324.0 -294.6 and pension who is responsible for the company’s operations in and its divisions. contributions accordance with the instructions and policies issued Stockmann has been listed in the OMX GES Shareholders Dividends -28.8 -43.2 -35.9 -58.3 -51.2 by the Board. The Board also appoints the other Finland Sustainability Index since 2010. In addition, Investors Financial expenses -32.1 -34.2 -34.9 -22.8 -28.4 members of the Group Management Committee. Stockmann is included in the Kempen / Smaller Public sector Other social -22.7 -45.4 -46.4 -33.7 -40.1 More detailed information on Stockmann’s corporate Europe SRI sustainability index of the Dutch investsecurity payments, taxes governance is available in the Annual Report and on ment companies Kempen Capital Management and Distributed to stakeholders in total -437.0 -483.8 -465.8 -438.8 -414.3 the Group’s website, where the Corporate GovernSNS Asset Management. Retained in the company to develop 37.2 24.6 6.5 -83.5 -92.0 ance Statement has been published. The Group’s international operations also pose operations 30 GRI indicators: PROFIT – We are profitable STOCKMANN CSR REPORT 2013 DIVIDEND FOR THE FINANCIAL YEARS 2009-2013 and other remuneration. In 2013, Stockmann empsented in the table on page 29. The company’s food and garments made from responsible materials loyed an average of 14,963 people, who were paid financial key indicators and financial statements are has been increasing for several years. This creates EUR mill. % EUR 353 million in salaries, other remuneration and available on the company’s website. opportunities for expanding the range of responsible 60 180 pension contributions. The cost savings programme products. Today’s customers also appreciate ease 50 150 that was initiated in 2013 is presented in connection EC2 Economic consequences of climate and variety of forms of service, which create growth 40 120 with indicators LA1 and LA2. change and other risks and opportunities to opportunities for our online stores. 30 90 Stockmann plc shares are listed on NASDAQ the organisation’s operations The overall economic impacts of the risks and 20 60 OMX Helsinki. The company had 59,475 shareholdIn all of its operations, Stockmann aims to take social opportunities of climate change on the company’s ers at the end of 2013. The dividend policy set by impacts into account and to make use of opportunibusiness are not estimated in this report. We aim to 10 30 Stockmann’s Board of Directors is more than half of ties, and to manage risks with the help of the risk acknowledge long-term risks related to climate 0 0 the earnings from ordinary operations. The dividend management principles confirmed by the Board of change, such as the development of energy prices 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 for 2013 was EUR 0.40 per share. Directors and with the divisions and function-specific and availability of raw materials, and we continuously Dividend As part of its corporate social responsibility, Stockguidelines. seek new solutions for improving the energy effi% of earnings mann annually makes donations to charity. Charity For the company, the year 2013 was challenging, ciency of our operations. work is guided by donation policies, which are availand a cost-saving programme was launched early in To ensure the availability of products to customers, able on the company’s website. The Group’s divithe year. Prolonged uncertain economic developwe monitor the availability of raw materials and DISTRIBUTION OF SHARES 2013 sions may support worthy causes in their commercial ment affected the result of the Finnish and Russian thereby also the sufficiency of natural resources. In campaigns. In 2013, the Stockmann department operations in particular. Stockmann’s short-term designing and procuring own brands, it is possible to stores in Finland became sponsors of the New challenges are particularly connected with the genensure already in the product planning stage that the Child’s Hospital 2017 project. Lindex took part in the eral economic situation and changes in consumer selected materials and the product manufacturing Pink Ribbon campaign for the eleventh time with its behaviour. process have a minimum adverse impact on the customers. Additional information on the campaigns The significance of responsible consumption has environment. is available on page 12. increased. Our customers increasingly think about The breakdown of the added value from Stockthe origin of products and effects of the supply chain EC4 State subsidies received mann’s operations to the key stakeholders is preon the environment and society. Interest in organic The Stockmann Group did not receive financial 42% Foundations and associations subsidies from the state during the reporting year. 23% Households MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS 31.12.2013 25% Private and public corporations Percantage of shares Percantage of votes MARKET POSITION 3% Banks and insurance companies 1. HTT STC Holding Oy Ab 11.7 10.7 7% Nominee registrations(incl. foreign shareholders) 2. Föreningen Konstsamfundet grouping 9.4 15.1 EC7 Local recruitment 3. Society of Swedish Literature in Finland 7.6 15.7 Reported in connection with the LA13 indicator. 4. Niemistö grouping 5.8 9.4 5. Stiftelsen för Åbo Akademi 4.3 6.7 ANTI-COMPETITIVE ACTIVITY 6. Etola Group 4.2 6.1 7. Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company 3.1 0.6 SO7 Actions concerning anti-competitive 8. Samfundet Folkhälsan i svenska Finland r.f. 2.2 2.7 activity, cartels and monopolies 9. Jenny ja Antti Wihuri’s Fund 1.9 2.1 No legal actions or fines in 2013. The Group’s market areas and division-specific 10. Inez och Julius Polins Fond 1.5 0.8 information are presented on pages 6-7. 31 Contact information STOCKMANN CSR REPORT 2013 CONTACT US The cover of the 2013 CSR report has a picture of a coat from Lindex, which has been manufactured Stockmann plc in Turkey and a top from Seppälä’s Organic Cotton Corporate Communications collection, which has been manufactured in BanglaP.O. Box 70, 00621 Helsinki, Finland desh. Tel. +358 9 121 3089 stockmanngroup.com/en/responsibility Questions and feedback concerning the report and CSR: csr@stockmann.com CSR CONTACT PERSONS Nora Malin Director, Corporate Communications nora.malin@stockmann.com Johanna Stenbäck CSR Specialist johanna.stenback@stockmann.com Lindex’s CSR affairs: Linda Skogsberg Sustainability Communications Coordinator linda.skogsberg@lindex.com Seppälä’s CSR affairs: Maarit Kautto Communications Coordinator maarit.kautto@stockmann.com Corporate Communications P.O. Box 70, 00621 Helsinki, Finland Tel. +358 9 121 3089 www.stockmanngroup.com/en/responsibility
