Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 2 Contents Policy statement Policy statement 3 For a number of years, Witteveen+Bos has endeavoured to Embedding sustainability 4 make sustainable practices part of the daily routine of every Sustainable design principles 6 engineer in the company. We have made significant progress Impact 7 in 2013 on truly embedding sustainability in our corporate Our daily practice 8 culture, for instance, by introducing a new training course Performance in 2013 12 on Integrated Design. At Witteveen+Bos we believe that Summary: results and targets 14 the innovative, ground-breaking solutions required for susKey figures 16 tainability can only be developed through interdisciplinary UN Global Compact progress 20 collaboration. Additionally, new skills need to be developed Management disclosure 22 to address the growing complexity of engineering projects. GRI index 24 In 2013 Witteveen+Bos participated in a number of attractive External assurance 28 and complex design projects in the Netherlands and other Addresses 30 countries, projects that require an interdisciplinary approach. Climate change and the world’s growing population and prosperity present complex challenges. Witteveen+Bos is committed to finding sustainable solutions to these challenges. To do so, we must stay close to our clients and operate at the heart of society. A passion for our work and development of top-class knowledge are essential in this respect. Witteveen+Bos is proud to be able to combine these qualities with sound financial results. In 2013, our turnover, operating result and workforce all grew compared to 2012. In 2012 Witteveen+Bos defined four sustainability topics on which the company’s activities have a significant impact. In 2013 we continued to focus our sustainability efforts on these topics, both internally and in our relationships with our clients and society at large. Reporting was also focused on these four topics, as you can read in the chapter ‘Our daily practice’. Our main CSR priority for 2014 remains the embedding of CSR principles in our projects in the Netherlands and other countries. In 2014 we will continue to endorse and implement the United Nations Global Compact principles. This Corporate Responsibility Report is based on GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) guidelines. For this report, we have used the GRI G3 matrix to achieve GRI level B+. Assurance has been sought through review of the current CSR Report by a stakeholder panel consisting of external experts. The panel process helped contribute to wider learning and debate. The findings of the panel have been incorporated in this report. This Corporate Responsibility Report covers the period from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013 and is based on a balance of economic, environmental and social performance. Board of Directors of Witteveen+Bos N.V. Karin Sluis Henk Nieboer 4 Embedding sustainability In 2013 Witteveen+Bos introduced a new training course on projects. We invited the three clients to attend the sessions, Integrated Design. The goals of this training course were: to participate in discussions, and to evaluate the outcomes. To strengthen our operational skills on integrated design, We noticed that starting the design process with a system thereby responding to the growing demand for integrated analysis and broadening the context to include the natural solutions to interdisciplinary issues and human environment motivates engineers to come up with To embed sustainability principles in the design process, innovative solutions. At the same time, a cyclic approach to e.g. by applying the ‘Building with Nature’ approach. the design process enhances quality and saves time and money. Such an approach involves discussing design dilemA group of 45 participants from all our Product-Market mas in the initial project phase, and working out a more deCombinations (PMCs) completed the course, accompanied tailed design based on these outlines. The winning design by a group of fifteen trainers, coaches and case managers. solutions for our three case studies offered greater quality at The course lasted several weeks. During this period, nine less costs and could be implemented in a shorter period. You multidisciplinary groups of five participants worked on three could say that Integrated Design is nothing new, and I would real design case studies, supported by lectures in which the agree: engineers have been talking about it for over 75 years. underlying theories were explained. What is new is incorporating the principles of value creation and cyclic design into our daily practice.’ In this section of our Corporate Responsibility Report, we give the floor to the organiser and three trainers, who will ... ‘Resisting’ the client: providing unsolicited advice explain the set-up of the course, the topics covered, and the Eric Holtrop MSc, case manager for the Enclosure Dam results. (Afsluitdijk) project ... Multidisciplinary teams and natural processes ‘Teams of engineers went head to head to develop the best Marcel Klinge MSc, initiator and organising manager of the design for the Enclosure Dam. We rewarded those teams that training course on Integrated Design tried to think beyond or even ignore the client’s wishes, focusing entirely on functional requirements and sustainability. ‘The course embraced the learning-by-doing principle: 45 Clients generally base their decisions only on cost considertrainees worked for several weeks on applying a cyclic deations. Our winning team looked at costs as well as benefits. sign procedure to three real Witteveen+Bos design case In the Enclosure Dam case study, our client explicitly did not studies. The three projects were the Closure Dam (Afsluitwant us to consider the installation of wind turbines along dijk) for the Directorate-General of Public Works and Water the dam, partly because of the high costs involved. However, Management (Rijkswaterstaat), the Markerwadden project when the team considered a broad range of options, installfor Boskalis, and the A27 motorway for the City of Utrecht. At ing wind turbines and creating an additional water reservoir the start of the course, the clients explained the integrated at the same location turned out to be a very favourable soludesign challenges. The groups then began their work. The tion in terms of sustainability as well as benefits. To develop course included a number of lectures to explain topics like a truly sustainable solution, it is sometimes necessary to resustainability, creativity, the principles of cyclic design, and sist the client’s instructions and provide unsolicited advice, the ‘Building with Nature’ approach. The lectures were imbased on functional requirements instead of a priori estimediately put into practice in the design case studies. The mates of feasibility and affordability.’ course concluded with an intensive two-day training session ‘in the field’, at the end of which the groups presented their ... Making sustainability tangible designs to the clients. The course was a true success. The Inge Blom MSc PhD, trainer of master class on Sustainability participating engineers were encouraged to think outside the box, employees from different departments collaborated ‘My task in this training course was to provide real-life more closely, and the skills required for cyclic design proexamples of how to incorporate sustainability in a design cedures were enhanced. Based on the success achieved, brief that has already been drawn up. When the client’s Witteveen+Bos will select new case studies and a new group instructions have been translated into desired functions of engineers to attend a similar training course in 2014.’ and societal values, the engineer must make choices about materials, energy consumption and construction methods. ... Designing for benefits The course was aimed at raising awareness of sustainability Rob Nieuwkamer MSc PhD, trainer of master class on issues like the carbon implications of designs and the posIntegrated Design sibility of making designs more carbon-friendly Discussions automatically arise concerning the level of impact: the great‘In my master class I focused on the concept of ‘designing est sustainability benefits can be achieved early in the planfor benefits’. I pointed out to the participants that engineers ning phase of a design project. However, design decisions at should carefully analyse the design brief, and create value a more detailed level can still have a significant impact and for the broader system in which the design is embedded, this is pre-eminently the engineer’s field of expertise. Making rather than just following the instructions provided by the clisustainability tangible at this level calls for a life cycle apent. For example, let’s say the client wants to build a road. proach and focusing on the key issues in a project. If there is This requirement should be translated into desired functions heavily polluted soil at a construction site, for instance, this and societal values. How can we expedite traffic flows while will be the major sustainability issue in your design project. simultaneously enhancing quality of life? How can we reTicking the boxes for all the possible sustainability issues is duce travel times and noise nuisance, so that local residents not a recommended approach, because it often leads to no can enjoy more sleep and thus improve their health, while measures being taken at all. The motto is: focus on the main the value of their properties increases? During the course benefits to be achieved.’ we worked on three case studies for current Witteveen+Bos 6 Sustainable design principles Impact ... Nature and climate Witteveen+Bos has defined four overarching CSR priorities. We endeavour to produce nature-based and climate-proof These priorities are meant to guide the company in formulatdesigns. Our designs take into account the natural enviing policies and taking action with respect to our operational ronment as much as possible. The ecosystem is our startmanagement. ing point and we strive to use natural processes wherever possible, thus maintaining or even improving biodiversity. In addition to the four CSR priorities, we have also defined four topics where our company’s products and services ... Trias principle have a major impact. Based on the voluntary international We employ the Trias principle for our sustainable solutions. standard ‘Guidance on social responsibility’ (ISO 26000), This principle is applied to design aspects such as energy, Witteveen+Bos has identified the four main topics relevant to commodities, water, soil, waste, CO 2 and other greenhouse our consultancy practice where we can contribute to sustaingas emissions, mobility and operation, and maintenance. able development. Justification for selection of these topics is provided below. The three steps of the Trias principle are: Step 1: limit the demand and prevent unnecessary use 1. Climate change mitigation and adaptation Step 2: use renewable resources Engineers advise and make fundamental choices that, in Step 3: use non-renewable resources intelligently and many cases, affect the physical organisation of society. efficiently. Throughout the life cycle of development and design projects, the choices made by engineers exert a major influence ... Chain on the causes and consequences of climate change. In our designs we try to consider the entire process and project chain as an integrated whole. Our aim is to provide 2. Development of and access to technology sustainable solutions which offer optimum results from the Developing innovative technology that helps (local) commupoint of view of the entire chain, as established through life nities to solve social or environmental problems is part of cycle analyses, for instance. Where possible, we aim to apply the core business of Witteveen+Bos. Education and research a Cradle to Cradle ® approach by taking the closing of is one of our four CSR priorities. Witteveen+Bos works with biological and technological cycles into account in our local research institutions, local engineers and local commudesigns, enriching the environment and using renewable nities to pursue technological development. energy options. Thus, we strive to provide upcycled products with a new life cycle. 3. Protection of the environment and biodiversity, and restoration of natural habitats ... Optimisation of functions Some projects undertaken by Witteveen+Bos are specifically In developing the built environment, we endeavour to alloaimed at protection of the environment and biodiversity and cate the right function to the right location and search for restoration of natural habitats. Although integrating this topic the optimum use of existing values. In combining functions in ‘regular’ projects is a challenge, research on ecosystem such as living, employment and recreation, this enhances services and biodiversity impact assessments can offer an sustainable development. Multifunctionality and flexibility are important contribution. important requirements for sustainable design. For the existing built environment we focus on efficient revitalisation. 4. Sustainable use of resources Engineers advise and make fundamental choices that, in ... Participation many cases, affect the physical organisation of society. We recognise the importance of public participation by Throughout the life cycle of development projects, the choicstakeholders and end-users when it comes to decision es made by engineers exert a major influence on the use of making within the design process. We value effective comresources (materials, energy). munication because sustainable design requires extensive public support. The chapter ‘Our daily practice’ shows that our company’s activities can have a positive impact on these topics. ... Well-being Human well-being – physiological needs, safety, social contact, respect from others and self-actualisation – is our basic principle for the design process. 8 Our daily practice 1. Climate change mitigation and adaptation 2. Development of and access to technology ... Jakarta master plan ... Asset Management The northern part of the Indonesian capital Jakarta is freThe rapid growth of prosperity in the last century led to the quently hit by severe floods from the main rivers and the sea. construction of a lot of wet and dry infrastructure, such as Land subsidence of up to 17 cm per year and climate change plants for treating, producing and managing water. In the will increase the risk still further in the years ahead for 4.5 coming decades many of these ageing assets will require million people living in northern Jakarta and for USD 103 replacement or major maintenance. Many organisations are billion of economic value. The city of 11 million inhabitants implementing Asset Management in order to make and opis also being urbanised rapidly, resulting in mounting chaltimise the right choices. Asset Management coordinates all lenges in areas such as housing, wastewater treatment, waof an organisation’s activities to obtain value sustainably, roter supply and mobility. Witteveen+Bos is working with partbustly and cost-efficiently from their physical assets throughners on a comprehensive National Capital Integrated Coastal out their life cycle. Key aspects include availability, reliability, Development plan for Jakarta. The primary objective of this sustainability, legislation and safety. MaxGrip (a company mega-project is to assure flood protection and urban develthat specialises in Asset Performance Management) and opment of the coastal zone until 2080. An integrated solution Witteveen+Bos entered into a unique joint venture in 2013. addresses numerous other issues, including sanitation. By combining forces and values, the joint venture aims to become a leader that offers total solutions for Asset Man‘Developing a business case to finance the flood protection agement in the infrastructure and water sectors. Knowledge of Jakarta is very challenging, with continually changing of Asset Management is being shared and used within and preconditions. Arriving at a positive financial outcome is outside Witteveen+Bos in projects spanning the entire width tremendously satisfying for all of us.’ of the firm’s operations. Michel Hek, Ecorys ‘MaxGrip and Witteveen+Bos uniquely complement ‘It is very challenging and rewarding to develop each other. By linking and sharing specialised experiences, integrated solutions for flooding and other problems systems and know-how, you can develop a concept that together with our Indonesian counterparts.’ adds value for water and infrastructure managers.’ Leon Valkenburg, Witteveen+Bos Marcel Morsing, MaxGrip ... Climate adaptation application ‘The core of Asset Management is the ability Witteveen+Bos teamed up with partners to develop a climate to weigh up choices and strike the optimum balance adaptation app. The app quickly generates a selection of between risk, performance and costs.’ feasible climate adaptation measures for a project. It gives Erwin Castelijn, Witteveen+Bos urban planners, engineers and other professionals an insight into practicable measures for a project with a specific cli... Active Marking mate adaptation goal. An example is urban development in The Interprovincial Consultative Body (IPO) contracted a flood plain that must be prepared for river flooding. The Witteveen+Bos and public lighting specialist De Kruijter basic set-up for the app was developed in 2013. The app has Openbare Verlichting jointly to provide substantive knowlbeen tested with municipalities, provinces and other organiedge for, and to edit a new Active Marking guidance docusations that are supporting the project. The app is scheduled ment to be published by the Netherlands Lighting Foundation for release in the spring of 2014. It will be available for free (NSVV). Active Marking is an environment-friendly alternadownloading. tive to conventional street lighting when it comes to showing the course of a road. Active Marking promotes road safety ‘We managed to create a practical app that allows users to and traffic flow. It has been used for more than ten years now navigate the many different climate module libraries.’ and rapid advances are being made thanks to advanced LED Stijn Koole, Bosch Slabbers garden and battery technology. and landscape architects ‘Back in 1998 the North Holland provincial authority was ‘Thanks to our multidisciplinary team we developed convinced that it could put forward an added-value concept an app with a user-friendly interface and a very solid basis.’ for road safety in the dark. It has now become reality, as Leon Valkenburg, Witteveen+Bos evidenced by the collegial cooperation that now exists between provincial authorities, municipal authorities and the Directorate-General for Public Works and Water Management in publishing the new guidance document for Active Marking. This working group believes this has benefited Dutch road managers.’ Paul Rutte, North Holland provincial authority ‘Active Marking is an elegant, sustainable solution for safely guiding traffic in darkness. The new guidance document has made it easy for all road authorities to use Active Marking.’ Erik Jongenotter, Witteveen+Bos 10 3. Protection of the environment and biodiversity, and 4. Sustainable use of resources restoration of natural habitats ... 3D printing of concrete ... Improving water quality models In 2013, Eindhoven University of Technology (TU/e) and the Witteveen+Bos is working with Wageningen University & Reprivate sector agreed to create 250 additional PhD posisearch Centre, the Netherlands Ecological Institute and the tions in the coming years to conduct research in the fields Netherlands Environmental Assessment Agency on improvof energy, health, mobility and materials. Witteveen+Bos is ing ecological models. The unique models play a key role in involved in a proposed project devoted to materials research, analysing and improving the water and ecological quality of namely a study into the possibilities for 3D printing of conlakes (PCLake) and ditches (PCDitch). STOWA (Foundation crete. The advantages of such a 3D printing process would for Applied Water Research) and the water managers that include better working conditions, more attractive buildings are involved are financing the project. The practical experithanks to greater freedom in design, and reduced material ence of Witteveen+Bos provides input for scientific partners consumption because materials are only used where truly in devising and implementing improvements to the models. needed. This research project was initiated by Theo Salet, This enhances a unique set of instruments for maximum wawho combines his work at Witteveen+Bos with a position as ter system knowledge and more effective water management. Professor of Concrete Structures at TU/e. Witteveen+Bos is currently holding talks with the university on our participation ‘STOWA is contributing to the project by laying an in this project, thus creating an innovative form of collaboraimportant foundation for managing ditches, canals and tion between TU/e and the private sector. lakes far more efficiently.’ Bas van der Wal, STOWA ‘It is inspiring to explore new ideas, to promote integration in the chain, and to create designs that ‘We are showing in this project that the PCLake and are both attractive and sustainable.’ PCDitch models foster a better understanding of individual Theo Salet, Witteveen+Bos water systems. This helps to prevent the write-off of investments and to ensure investments are made at ... Producing bioplastics from waste water places where gains are really achievable.’ Sustainable use and recovery of resources (water, energy, Sebastiaan Schep, Witteveen+Bos nutrients) is a key criterion for the successful optimisation, design and operation of (waste)water treatment plants. ... Remediating lakes around Baku Witteveen+Bos is actively involved in research and develWitteveen+Bos carried out a feasibility study in Baku into opment, optimisation, business cases and design, and is the remediation of nine heavily polluted lakes. The lakes supervising the construction of a number of treatment faciliwere severely affected by the illegal dumping of waste, unties that recover energy and resources from waste(water). treated sewage and residual water from oil extraction. EnviWitteveen+Bos is working together with universities and ronmental quality looked likely to restrict economic growth. international companies to develop an alternative converWitteveen+Bos is advising the authorities in Azerbaijan on sion route for organic matter (which is normally converted how to approach remediation strategically and tactically. The into biogas). The process will convert waste into high-value multidisciplinary study includes a research programme, sysresources by producing bioplastics using polyhydroxyaltem analysis and master plan for potential developments, in kanoates (PHAs). In 2013, Grondstoffenfabriek and STOWA combination with remediation measures. The next step will commissioned Witteveen+Bos to conduct a feasibility study be to tackle part of the largest lake with a view to the Euroin order to assess the technical and economic feasibility pean Games in 2015. of bioplastics production using PHAs extracted from waste water and sewage sludge. In 2014, we will continue research ‘In Baku we can come up with environmental measures and development work on this resource recovery process, in that really do make a difference. I have seldom cooperation with Wageningen University & Research Centre, seen such an awful mess as this.’ several water boards and international companies. The bioBjent van der Enden, Witteveen+Bos plastic production route from sewage sludge is technically feasible and economically attractive because the process can be integrated into existing treatment plants. PHA bioplastics can be applied in consumer and catering products, pharmaceutical and medical products, agriculture and horticulture, and packaging materials. ‘We have years of experience in optimising water treatment processes and increasing water quality. We are now discovering and developing ways to valorise wastewater by converting it into green energy and valuable resources like phosphorus and bioplastics. Greater awareness of the potential applications is creating a lot of enthusiasm.’ Arjen van Nieuwenhuijzen, Witteveen+Bos ‘Turning waste into resources is one of my dreams and it is increasingly becoming a reality. Let’s close the cycle!’ Erwin Bluemink, Witteveen+Bos 12 Performance in 2013 ... Employee ownership ... Works Council Witteveen+Bos has been wholly owned by its employees In 2013, the discussions about the conditions of employment since 1992 under a shareholding system. Entrepreneurresulted in an agreement with the Board of Directors. The ship is not only the responsibility of the management, but main changes concerned increases to the compensation for is a characteristic of all our employees. Responsibilities are secondments and working abroad, and the number of holiassigned at the lowest possible level of organisation, where days. Elections were held for half of the seats on the Works employees have direct contact with their clients. The particiCouncil. The renewed Works Council has been working on pation system is a key element of our identity and provides several organisational developments. The Works Council adan important stimulus for commitment and entrepreneurship. vised on the merger of the offices in Maastricht and Breda and the offices in Almere and Amsterdam. The main focus Participation in the shareholding system is a long-term comwas on the interests of the employees under current laws and mitment, with continuity of the company as the main goal. regulations. This resulted in an additional package of benEmployees with a permanent contract of employment can efits. The Works Council also spoke with the Board of Direcacquire shares in the company’s equity on a voluntary basis. tors about plans to discontinue the activities of the Facade Restoration and Environmental Measurement Service units. The shareholding system has the following noteworthy asIn both cases the employees of these units had to move to pects: another company. In 2014 the Works Council will conduct a The involvement of the employees is expressed in the survey among employees to gain input on the activities of ownership ratio. the Council. The focus is on issues including sustainable emDecision-making and governance are geared to the need ployability, the effects of changes to the business structure, for decentral initiatives and independence, and the need and flexible working arrangements (‘Plus Working’). for coordination and integration. The ownership system is a positive influence on joint ... Priorities and actions ventures and participating interests. Priority 1: Embedding CSR principles in products and services The participation system consists of four categories of Although our employees are aware of the importance of shareholders: senior partners, premium partners, partners sustainability, it is not easy to explicitly embed sustainable and participants. The senior partners and premium partdesign principles in our daily design practice. Sustainabiners form the senior management of the company. They are lity is not yet fully incorporated in the procurement systems nominated by the Board of Directors and appointed by the of our major clients. Consequently, sustainability does not General Meeting of Shareholders. The partners are other key result in a direct competitive advantage in our daily pracemployees of the company. They are nominated and appointtice. A proactive attitude is needed and we are determining ed by the Board of Directors. The category of participants is the best approach to achieve this without jeopardising our open to all staff with a permanent contract of employment position in the market. Cooperation within the engineering who work at least one day a week (0.2 FTEs). The degree to sector is one of the ways in which we try to achieve this. which employees can participate in this category depends on their position (salary) and the number of years they have Priority 2: Education and research been with the company. We value high-quality engineering and we understand that innovation requires ongoing investment in education and The degree of participation is 76.4 %. The senior partresearch. Various partnerships with knowledge institutes ners (18) and the premium partners (7) hold 63.0 % of the are initiated or supported by Witteveen+Bos. Professor shares, the partners (79) hold 22.0 %, and the participants and collegue Theo Salet is chair in Concrete Structures at (466) hold 15.0 %. At 1 July 2013, the internal price of the Eindhoven University of Technology. This will help build our Witteveen+Bos share stood at € 5.36 (compared with € 6.06 expertise while raising our profile and attractiveness among at 1 July 2012). students. We also stimulate young colleagues to work on icon project such as the Enclosure Dam (Afsluitdijk). ... Stakeholder involvement In 2013 Witteveen+Bos organised a number of innovation Priority 3: Being a preferred employer sessions on sustainability topics such as sustainable road Witteveen+Bos aims to be a preferred employer. We try to design, ‘Theme Park Russia’ (the design of the planned achieve this aim by realising a diverse workforce, discusstheme park close to Moscow) and financing renewable ing employee satisfaction, and expanding our in-company energy. As clients and partners regularly participate in training programmes. these sessions, they are an inspiring way to receive direct feedback from key stakeholders and to explore new marPriority 4: Reducing the ecological footprint of the compakets and products. In 2013 Witteveen+Bos set up a new ny’s operations in-company training course on Integrated Design (see also Witteveen+Bos has calculated the carbon footprint of the the chapter ‘Embedding sustainability in the design procompany’s business operations in the Netherlands using cess’). The course is unique because it involves three real the updated SKAO emission factors. In 2007, CO 2 emiscase studies for real clients. Witteveen+Bos also developed sions from our operations amounted to 5.41 tonnes of a strategic communications plan in 2013, in which we commit carbon per capita (recalculated figures). By 2012, the CO 2 ourselves to place the needs of our stakeholders at the heart emissions had been reduced to 3.76 tonnes per capita. In of our corporate communications. A panel of stakeholders 2013, the CO 2 emissions from our operations amounted to reviewed our Corporate Responsibility Report and CSR 4.48 tonnes per capita, a decrease of 17 % compared to policy in 2011, 2012 and 2013. the reference year 2007. 14 Summary: results and targets Table 1: Summary: results and targets Priority 1: Embedding CSR principles in products and services Priority 3: Being a preferred employer Target 2012 and beyond Result 2012 Target 2013 and beyond Result 2013 Target 2014 Target 2012 and beyond Result 2012 Target 2013 and beyond Result 2013 Target 2014 Partnerships To continue existing partInitiative for Smart Tailing To continue participating Participation in the Smart To continue participating Increase number of To continue to facilitate The network of female enTo conduct a research on A female Managing DirecTo develop PMC-specific nerships and our partiPlatforms and MAREC. in the Smart Tailings PlatTailings Platform was conin the Smart Tailings Platfemale employees the network of female engineers and consultants is causes for the continutor was appointed in April targets on increasing the cipation in the Dutch form. tinued. form and to collaborate gineers and consultants. operational. The number ous low representation of 2013. number of female employSustainable Remediation with European universities of female partners/senior women in management ees. Forum. on mining studies. partners decreased in 2012. positions. Measurability To identify the top five Four topics relevant to our To develop action plans Initial actions for each To monitor the action Audits and reviews To increase the number of The number of perforTo develop SMART tarTo develop PMC-specific and tools sustainable development consultancy practice were for each of the four sussustainability topic were plans for each sustainabilperformance and career mance and career develgets on becoming a pretargets on increasing the topics relevant to our conidentified. tainability topics in order defined. The impact was ity topic, and to monitor development reviews. opment reviews was inferred employer. number of performance sultancy practice. to reduce negative impact evaluated for each PMC. improvements of relevant creased. and career development and enhance positive imaspects for each PMC. reviews. pact, and to measure impact on the four topics per Employee Regulations To provide input for the Input for reviews was proPMC (if material). review of the Employee vided. Regulations. Meeting clients’ To develop a ‘practical We developed a sectorTo integrate carbonA training course on InteTo organise the trainrequests guideline’ to measure the based tool for reduction of friendly design standards grated Design was attending course on Integrated CSR benefits of the comCO 2 emissions. Carbonand a calculation tool in ed by 45 engineers, with Design for an additional Priority 4: Reducing the ecological footprint of the company’s operations pany’s services and defriendly design standards the design process at the aim of enhancing ingroup of 45 engineers in Target 2012 and beyond Result 2012 Target 2013 and beyond Result 2013 Target 2014 signs for our clients. have been incorporated Witteveen+Bos. terdisciplinary design pro2014. in procurement processes cesses and focusing on as of December 2012. sustainable design princiReduction of carbon To reduce the carbon footThe carbon footprint per To reduce the carbon footThe carbon footprint per Due to an increase in ples. footprint per capita print per capita by 25 % capita was reduced by print per capita by 25 % capita was reduced by 17 our international activicompared to 2007. 27 % compared to 2007. compared to 2007. % compared to 2007. ties (and a corresponding In-company To include a paragraph on CSR and sustainability To evaluate all strategic The four sustainability topTo improve the integragrowth in air travel), the implementation CSR and sustainability in have been included in the annual plans and to inteics were communicated tion and implementation target is to reduce the car(products/services) the strategic annual plans strategic annual plans of grate the action plans for to the PMCs. of the targets set for the bon footprint per capita by of all PMCs. all PMCs. the four sustainability toprelevant topics for each 25 % compared to 2007. ics in the relevant PMCs. PMC (including quarterly monitoring). CO 2 Awareness To obtain the Level 5 CO 2 We obtained the Level 5 To retain the Level 5 CO 2 We retained the Level 5 To retain the Level 5 CO 2 Certificate Awareness Certificate. CO 2 Awareness CertifiAwareness Certificate. CO 2 Awareness CertifiAwareness Certificate, inReporting and To develop a CSR Report Development of a CSR To start the process toInternal discussions about To broaden internal supcate. cate. cluding new requirements communication for 2012 based on the GRI Report based on GRI wards integrated reportintegrated reporting were port for and awareness in expected updates (verG3 guidelines, application G3 guidelines, application ing: the CSR Report 2014 initiated. However, it is of integrated reporting. sions 2.2 and 3.0). level B+. level B+. will be the first integrated too early to start with inteTarget date for integrated report. grated reporting in 2014. reporting: 2015. Car pollution To develop a separate We developed and imTo increase the use of reduction plan for carbon plemented a separate electric/hybrid cars to 15 % Priority 2: Education and research emissions resulting from reduction plan for carbon of total car use. travel by car for business emissions resulting from Target 2012 and beyond Result 2012 Target 2013 and beyond Result 2013 Target 2014 purposes. travel by car for business purposes. Practical knowledge Practical implementation Knowledge gained during To conduct a Biodiversity Two specific biodiversity To gain knowledge on gained of knowledge gained in research for ‘Factory of Impact Assessment for at projects were carried out: urban heat. studies of the ‘Factory of the Future’ concept was least one project. improving water qualthe Future’ concept. applied in the Biodiversity ity models and remediaFuture Industry initiative. tion of lakes near Baku, Azerbaijan (see Our daily This summary shows the results and targets in the company’s four practice). CSR priorities. Summarising, we can state that Witteveen+Bos has made substantial progress in 2013 in increasing awareness Exchanging knowledge Continuation of partnerWe continued our coopTo organise two workA workshop on Urban AgTo set up two new partof employees in implementation of sustainable principles in the with institutions ships with knowledge eration and partnerships shops on sustainability riculture was organised nerships with knowledge design and consultancy practice. Furthermore, a number of proinstitutes on sustainable with Saxion University of topics (e.g. Agro City Entogether with Alterra. institutions on sustainable jects and programmes is operative in the field of education and development topics. Applied Sciences and Wagineering or sustainable development topics. geningen University. mining) together with Alresearch. These programmes will continue the next year. Results terra and Wageningen within the priority ‘Being a preferred employer’ are disappointing. University. We will continue to reduce our carbon footprint to ultimately 30 % in 2020, as set out in the 2020 reduction scheme. Contribution to national To continue contributing We actively contributed To apply the BwN apWitteveen+Bos participaTo initiate/cooperate in research initiatives to national research inito ‘Building with Nature’: proach to the design of at ted in two Building with one (international) climate tiatives in the field of suswe signed the BwN covleast two water engineerNature projects: the Oysadaptation project. tainable development. enant on carbon footprint ing projects, and to conter Dam project and the reduction. duct a joint project with Sand Engine project. BwN partners to identify carbon impacts of the design, execution and maintenance of a water construction project. In-company To continue to promote We conducted four reTo implement carbonWe introduced carbonTo improve the implemenimplementation in-company research prosearch projects on carbonfriendly design as part of friendly design as part of tation of carbon-friendly (education/research) jects for development of friendly design. the procurement process. the procurement process design in procurement sustainable products and for several projects, e.g. processes. services. Enclosure Dam and ZuidasDok. 16 Key figures Witteveen+Bos bases its reporting on the Performance In... Employment dicators outlined in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Our workforce (2013 average: 875 FTEs) forms the basis for sustainability guidelines. our sustained success. At 31 December 2013, Witteveen+Bos employed 967 employees. In 2013 a total of 14 employees ... Economic were employed under an on-call contract. The workforce may Turnover increased by 11.6 % to reach € 111.0 million. be classified according to employment type, employment Outsourced work totalled € 18.9 million. Operating income contract and country. increased by 56.4 %. Net profit came to € 14.2 million and our net margin was 12.8 %. Table 4: Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and country (31 December 2013) Table 2: Key financial figures 2013 2012 Full-time (Netherlands) 583 527 2013 2012 Part-time (Netherlands) 276 318 Turnover* 111.0 99.4 Fixed-term or temporary contract 118 103 Salaries and social security payments* 53.6 51.2 Indefinite-term or permanent contract 741 742 Result before taxation* 18.9 12.1 Netherlands 859 845 Result after taxation* 14.2 9.8 Indonesia 29 26 Net profit margin (expressed as percentage of turnover) 12.8 % 9.9 % Kazakhstan 55 44 Cash flow* 15.9 11.7 Russia 2 2 Total number of staff at year-end in FTEs (consolidated) 875 860 Latvia 8 8 Total turnover per FTE** 126.8 115.6 Belgium 12 9 Value per share € 5.59 € 5.36 Vietnam 2 1 Dividend per share € 1.09 € 0.77 Total workforce in the Netherlands (FTEs) 789.3 774.1 Community investment*** € 190,799 € 96,795 Total global workforce (FTEs) 892.4 859.7 * Amounts in millions of euros ** Amounts in thousands of euros *** In 2013 Witteveen+Bos invested in several projects in the fields of sport, education, This breakdown shows that a large majority (86 %) of the health, renewable energy and culture, as well as in the Art+Technology Award. AdWitteveen+Bos workforce is employed under a permanent ditionally, we made a significant in-kind contribution to socially relevant projects. contract. For the year ending at 31 December 2013, volun... Environment tary employee turnover as a percentage of the total workEnvironmental protection entails more than just complying force population amounted to 8 %. The average length of with legislation and official regulations. It also covers all service was 10.1 years. We do not publish employee turnover aspects of sustainability, which we consider a management by region. The approximate breakdown of the total workforce issue. We carefully manage our impacts at all stages, from by gender was 74 % male and 26 % female. Witteveen+Bos business operations to the impact of our designs. To ensure a does not register composition of governance bodies accordsystematic approach in our business operations, we apply an ing to gender or age group. Witteveen+Bos does not register environmental management system based on international minority group membership. guidelines and standards. We apply sustainable design principles to our products and services. Table 5: Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group and gender (The Netherlands) ... Materials 2013 2012 In 2013, Witteveen+Bos used 46,208 kg (46.208 tonnes) of Employees leaving 69 63 Female employees leaving 23 % 38 % photocopying paper in its offices in the Netherlands. The paEmployees below the age of 30 leaving 23 % 38 % per does not contain any recycled materials. Employees in the age of 30 to 45 leaving 54 % 42 % Employees over the age of 46 leaving 22 % 16.3 % Average number of years with the company 10.1 9.9 ... Energy We use natural gas for office heating purposes. The remaining direct energy consumption results from the use of fuel In our company, employees with a temporary contract and by our carfleet. The direct and indirect energy consumed regular part-time employees receive the same benefits as is shown in the tables below. The chapter ‘Our daily pracfull-time employees, except for stock ownership, which is tice’ provides an insight into company initiatives to develop only possible for employees with a permanent contract. energy-efficient or renewable-energy-based products and Table 6: Benefits provided to employees services. Benefits Full-time/part-time employees Table 3: Energy consumption Accident insurance with life All employees and disability/invalidity coverage 2013 2012 Collective health care insurance All employees can participate District heating (hot water GJ) 874 1042 Maternity/paternity leave All employees Use of gas for heating purposes (m 3 ) 290,849 242,022 Retirement provision All employees Use of company cars for business 219,310 207,840 Stock ownership Full-time and part-time employees purposes (litres of fuel)* with a permanent contract Use of company cars for commuting purposes (km)* 288,034 348,918 Tax-free savings scheme and All employees Electricity consumption (kWh) 1,711,573 1,720,153 life course savings scheme Air travel (km) 7,245,532 4,598,852 Use of private cars for business purposes (km)* 4,029,135 3,059,670 Paper use (kg)** 46,208 46,096 Use of private cars for commuting purposes (km)* 2,100,539 3,842,139 Use of public transport (km) 5,957,059 5,660,865 * For our carbon emissions inventory, we use the following units: litres of fuel for the use of company cars for business purposes, kilometres for the use of hybrid cars for business purposes, and kilometres for the use of private cars for business and commuting purposes. ** This category only includes office paper; printed books and leaflets are excluded. 18 2007 2012 2013 Witteveen+Bos has a system of in-company training courses Table 8: Emissions per scope in tonnes of CO 2 * 875 for its employees. Additionally, the company contributes 860 financially to relevant private courses of study undertaken by 2013 2012 2007 employees and to external seminars, workshops and training 708 Scope 1 sessions. As the different business segments have specific Use of company cars for 642 608 620 training needs and training programmes that are not centralbusiness purposes 5.41 Gas consumption 531 442 258 ly managed, Witteveen+Bos does not expect that it will be 2013 4.48 Total for Scope 1 1,173 1,050 878 able to report company-wide statistics on the annual aver3.76 age number of training hours. In 2013, Witteveen+Bos spent Scope 2 Electricity consumption 26 26 849 € 513,925 on leadership and employee development. Air travel 1,117 753 606 District heating 10 12 Table 7: In-company training and trainees at Witteveen+Bos Use of private cars for 786 614 655 business purposes 2013 2012 2007 2012 2013 Total for Scope 2 1,939 1,405 2,110 Number of employees that received 437 687 in-company training 2007 2012 2013 Scope 3 Money spent on training per employee € 598 € 727 ■ Number of employees Paper consumption 4.4 4.3 4.4 Number of trainees 113 130 Use of private cars for 420 387 389 ■ Tonnes of CO per capita commuting purposes 2 Use of public transport 328 311 362 Figure 2: Per capita carbon emissions in tonnes of CO 2 ... Carbon footprint Use of company cars for 58 74 90 in 2007, 2012 en 2013 commuting purposes In absolute figures, our 2013 carbon footprint has increased Total for Scope 3 810 776 845 compared to our 2012 footprint. The most significant increase Total for Scope 1, 2, 3 3,922 3,231 3,833 may be observed in air travel. Witteveen+Bos has increased its turnover from international operations and a geographical 2012 * According to the SKAO CO 2 Performance Ladder scope classifications shift is occurring from (Southern) Europe to Africa and South America. Travel by company car for business purposes is inBecause larger companies obviously will have higher emiscreasing, as Witteveen+Bos has started using leased cars sions, emissions per capita are used for comparison pur50 % for long-term projects and longer distances. More leased veposes. In 2013 Witteveen+Bos produced total emissions of hicles were deployed in the second half of 2013. Gas con3,922 tonnes of CO 2 , and had a workforce of 875 FTEs. CO 2 sumption increased in 2013 due to an extremely cold spring 2012 40 % 2013 emissions per capita decreased from 5.41 tonnes in 2007, to 2007 (March, April and May). 3.76 tonnes in 2012, to 4.48 tonnes in 2013. This adds up to a total reduction per capita of 17 % compared to the refer30 % In order to meet the ISO 14064 standard, a carbon footprint ence year 2007. report should take account of the effects of inaccuracies on the results. The accuracy of this carbon footprint report is deTable 9: Carbon emissions per capita in tonnes of CO 2 in 2007, 2012 and 2013* 20 % termined by the accuracy of the data provided for the SKAO Number of employees** Emissions per capita CO 2 Performance Ladder emission factors and the complete2013 875 4.48 ness of the activity data. 10 % 2012 860 3.76 2007 2007 708 5.41 0% * Based on SKAO emission factors ** Annual average in FTEs 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Witteveen+Bos has set a reduction target of 29 % (compared to 2007) for the year 2015. Internally we developed a reduction schedule to achieve this target, by formulating a target0,0% reduction target ■ Emission 1,0% line. Due to the positive international developments in the 0,6%0,4% ■ Emission reduction achieved year 2013, we were not able to reach our own formulated 0,2% 0,8% targetline. In the upfollowing years this plan will be adapted Figure 3: Carbon emission reduction schedule (per capita) to still achieve the target for the year 2015. 2013 2012 2007 Table 10: Emission reduction schedule (per capita) ■ business travel by car 36 % 38 % 33 % Year Reduction planned Reduction achieved ■ air travel for business purposes 28 % 23 % 16 % 2020 30 % 12 % 14 % 12 % 2015 29 % ■ commuter travel by car 2013 17 % ■ electricity <1% <1% 22 % 2012 25 % 30 % 2011 17 % 22 % ■ heating 14 % 14 % 7% 2010 9.5 % 11 % ■ paper <1% <1% <1% ■ public transport 8% 10 % 9% Figure 1: Emissions per activity and/or source in tonnes of CO 2 in 2013 20 UN Global Compact progress In 2013 Witteveen+Bos continued its commitment to Corpo... Principle 1: rate Social Responsibility and increased its efforts to contribOur Code of Conduct states that ‘Assignments in contraute to a sustainable society. Our objectives and intentions for vention of national and international law and rules will not 2013 were listed in the Corporate Responsibility Report for be accepted’. We support and respect the protection of 2012. Our UN Global Compact Communication on Progress internationally proclaimed human rights. Safe and good work(CoP) has been integrated into our existing communications ing conditions for employees in the Netherlands are also of with stakeholders via the annual Corporate Responsibility concern to the company. In 2013 we did not take specific Report. All employees and major clients receive a paper copy action based on this principle. of the report and it is published on our external websites. ... Principle 2: Witteveen+Bos is pleased to be able to report on the key Corruption is not a significant issue in the Netherlands; our actions in terms of progress on each of the UN Global performance in other countries will be analysed in 2014 for Compact principles. risks related to corruption. No cases of complicity in human rights abuses were reported in 2013. The UN Global Compact principles are: 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of ... Principle 3: internationally proclaimed human rights. Witteveen+Bos is an employee-owned company. Through shareholder meetings, employees can influence the com2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in pany’s policy. Furthermore, employee involvement is guarhuman rights abuses. anteed through the Works Council. The Works Council looks after the interests of all employees. Witteveen+Bos 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and is not bound to formal agreements with trade unions as the the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaincompany has its own agreements with employees. These ing. agreements have been ratified by the Works Council and laid down in the Employee Regulations and the Quality Manual. 4. Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. ... Principles 4 and 5: Our Code of Conduct prohibits forced and compulsory labour 5. Businesses should support the effective abolition of child in our operations. Witteveen+Bos endorses the ILO Declaralabour. tion on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. 6. Businesses should support the elimination of discrimina... Principle 6: tion in respect of employment and occupation. In 2013 Witteveen+Bos made active efforts to appoint more women in key positions. A female Managing Director was ap7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to pointed in April 2013. environmental challenges. ... Principles 7, 8 and 9: 8. Businesses should undertake activities to promote greater Finding solutions to environmental challenges is one of the environmental responsibility. core activities of our company. We promote innovative technologies and approaches and enhance partnerships. We 9. Businesses should encourage the development and provide our clients with unsolicited advice on environmentaldiffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ly friendly alternatives in investment projects. We promoted the principles of sustainable design within the company in 10. Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, 2013 and provide training to our designers in order to imincluding extortion and bribery. plement the principles in all our projects. Further information on progress in this regard may be found in the chapter ‘Embedding sustainability in the design process’ and the chapter ‘Our daily practice’. ... Principle 10: We will not engage in bribery and we will not accept any assignment which has been assigned to us on dubious grounds. We reject payments which can influence our objective and socially responsible approach. Corruption-related issues have been incorporated in the Employee Regulations, in the chapter on standards and values. By signing the employment contract, every employee agrees to comply with these values. An Integrity Committee oversees compliance with our business code and employees can contact a confidential adviser, appointed by the directors, to report integrity issues or dilemmas. In 2013 no incidents were reported. 22 Management disclosure This index summarises the approach of Witteveen+Bos to Social: labour practices and decent work managing sustainability topics associated with risks and Employment; labor/management relations; occupational health and safety; Our approach is based on our CSR policy. opportunities, and was drawn up in accordance with the training and education; diversity and equal opportunity Witteveen+Bos aims to be a preferred employer. We try to achieve this aim by Global Reporting Initiative G3 guidelines. realising a diverse workforce, discussing employee satisfaction, and providing training. Witteveen+Bos values high-quality engineering and we understand that innovation requires ongoing investment in education and research. Various educational and research programmes are either initiated or supported by Witteveen+Bos. Table 11: Profile Disclosures Information on our approach to occupational health and safety may be found on page 9 of the Annual Report. Witteveen+Bos endorses and implements the ten Economic principles of the UN Global Compact. Economic performance, market presence and indirect economic impact Our Annual Report and our sustainable design principles describe the manageGoals, performance and contextual information Detailed information on goals and performance may be found in the chapter ment approach to economic and financial performance. ‘Performance in 2013’. Goals, performance and contextual information Detailed information on financial goals and performance may be found in our Organisational responsibility See our policy statement (page 1 of this report). Annual Report, as well as in the progress towards targets, and the economic performance data (page 12). Monitoring and follow-up Available certificates: ISO 9001, SCC**, BTR (operations in the high-risk area of railway infrastructure), Level 5 CO 2 Awareness Certificate, ISO 17025 (air). Further information can be found at the link below Annual Report: www.witteveenbos.com/annualreport Further information can be found at the links below Corporate Responsibility Report: www.witteveenbos.nl/mvo Environmental UN Global Compact: www.unglobalcompact.org/participant/10135-Witteveen-Bos Overall; materials; products and services; compliance; We carefully manage our impacts at all stages, from business operations to the Social: human rights transport; emissions; effluents and waste; water; biodiversity impact of our designs. We apply an environmental management system based on international guidelines and standards. We apply sustainable design principles to Investment/procurement practices; non-discrimination; freedom of association Witteveen+Bos endorses and implements the ten principles of the UN Global our products and services. and collective bargaining and other human rights issues Compact. Goals, performance and contextual information See the chapter ‘Performance in 2013’ (page 12 of this report). Goals, performance and contextual information Information on goals and performance may be found in the chapter ‘UN Global Compact Progress’ (page 20 of this report). Organisational responsibility See our policy statement (page 1 of this report). Organisational responsibility See our policy statement (page 1 of this report). Monitoring and follow-up Monitoring and follow-up is carried out as part of the environmental management system for our business operations, and during project evaluations for our Monitoring and follow-up See the chapter ‘UN Global Compact Progress’. products and services. Further information can be found at the links below Further information can be found at the links below Corporate Responsibility Report: www.witteveenbos.nl/mvo CSR policy: www.witteveenbos.nl/mvo UN Global Compact: www.unglobalcompact.org/participant/10135-Witteveen-Bos Energy and climate change: www.witteveenbos.nl/energie-en-klimaat Eco-Dynamic Design Guideline: publicwiki.deltares.nl/display/BWN/Guideline Social: society ‘Building with Nature’ initiative: www.ecoshape.nl Investment/procurement practices; non-discrimination; freedom of association Witteveen+Bos endorses and implements the ten principles of the UN Global Social: product responsibility and collective bargaining; other human rights issues. Compact. Customer health and safety; product and service labeling; marketing communicaThe safety assurance system applicable to relevant services of Witteveen+Bos Goals, performance and contextual information Information on goals and performance may be found in the chapter ‘UN Global tions; customer privacy; compliance has been certified against the SHE Checklist for Contractors (SCC**). Compact Progress’ (page 20 of this report). Witteveen+Bos has produced instructions on health and safety in the design phase. These prescribe the preparation of health and safety plans and records Organisational responsibility See our policy statement (page 1 of this report). as well as Risk Assessments & Evaluations for all designs. The plans include questions concerning health and safety in the design and implementation stage. Monitoring and follow-up See the chapter ‘UN Global Compact Progress’. Goals, performance, policy Information on goals, performance and policy may be found on our website. Further information can be found at the links below Corporate Responsibility Report: www.witteveenbos.nl/mvo Organisational responsibility Witteveen+Bos Construction and Industrial Safety Group. UN Global Compact: www.unglobalcompact.org/participant/10135-Witteveen-Bos Training and awareness SCC instruction courses at two levels are offered to employees providing relevant services. Monitoring and follow-up Available certificates: SCC**, ISO 9001 Further information can be found at the link below Policy on health and safety in design phase: www.witteveenbos.nl/bouwveiligheid, www.witteveenbos.nl/risicomanagement, www.witteveenbos.nl/veiligheid 24 GRI index Table 12: Profile Disclosures Strategy and analysis GRI reference Description References Page GRI reference Description References Page 3.6 Boundary of the report While this report covers the entire Witteveen+Bos organisation, 12 the performance data are focused primarily on operations in the 1.1 Vision and strategy statement (Board of Directors) Policy statement, Priorities and actions, Summary: results and 3, 14 Netherlands. The scope of this report does not include sustainabiltargets ity performance data from external organisations or activities over which the company has limited control or influence, such as those 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities Impact, Performance in 2013, Priorities and actions, Summary: 7, 12, 14 of contractors and suppliers. More information may be found in the results and targets chapter ‘Performance in 2013’. Organisational pofile 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report See the chapter ‘Policy statement’ 3 GRI reference reference GRI Description Description References References Page Page 3.8 Reporting on joint ventures and subsidiaries No significant impacts 2.1 Name of the reporting organisation Witteveen+Bos Raadgevende ingenieurs N.V. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases of calculations Key figures 16 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Annual Report 2013 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information proKey figures 16 vided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such restatements 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including main divisions, Annual Report 2013 16 operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods (scope, boundKey figures ary, measurement methods) 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters Van Twickelostraat 2, 7411 SC Deventer, The Netherlands 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the GRI index, the chapter ‘Management disclosure’ 24, 22 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names Seven countries with major operations: The Netherlands, Indonesia, report of countries Russia, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Vietnam, Belgium 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurExternal assurance obtained through report review by external 28 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Employee-owned, private limited company ance for the report stakeholder panel 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, National, regional and local government and private companies in and types of customers/beneficiaries). the Netherlands and other countries where we operate, international financial institutions. Governance, commitments and engagement GRI reference Description References Page 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation We have a workforce of more than 900 specialists, see also chapter 16 ‘Key figures’. 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation Annual Report 2013 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period None 4.2 Independence of board members Annual Report 2013 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Annual Report 2013 4.3 Independence of unitary governance body Not relevant Report parameters 4.4 Shareholder and employee feedback mechanisms Performance in 2013 12 GRI reference Description References Page 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governPerformance in 2013 12 ance body, senior managers, and executives, and the organisation’s 3.1 Reporting period 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013 3 performance (including environmental performance). 3.2 Date of most recent previous report June 2013 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conNot in place 4.6 flicts of interest are avoided. 3.3 Reporting cycle Annual 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the Not in place 3.4 Contact person for questions regarding the report or its contents H.E. Nieboer, Director, info@witteveenbos.nl members of the highest governance body for guiding the organisation’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. 3.5 Process for defining report content Witteveen+Bos Corporate Responsibility Report is aligned to GRI 3, 28 G3 level B sustainability reporting guidelines; see also chapter ‘poliInternally developed statement of mission or values, codes of conEmbedding sustainability in the design process 4 4.8 cy statement’. We selected and prioritised our material topics within duct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and sothis report by taking into account topics that are signifcant to the cial performance and the status of their implementation. (policy/success of the) organisation. Our mission and vision leads to ‘being a preferred employer’ and to ‘education and research’ (see Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the orPerformance in 2013 12 4.9 www.witteveenbos.com/en/mission-and-vision). Topics that reflect ganisation’s identification and management of economic, environour significant economic, environmental and social impact are mental, and social performance. pointed out in the chapter ‘Impact’. The most important stakeholders are our employees and clients. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own perPerformance in 2013 12 4.10 formance. Our employees value state of the art knowledge and working on innovations, working at a first-rate engineering and consultancy firm Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or Sustainable design principles 6 4.11 with a diverse workforce and possibilities for continuous training principle is addressed by the organisation. and learning, and contributing to the protection of the environment and natural recourses. Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charUN Global Compact, Code of Conduct of Dutch Association of Con4.12 ters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subsulting Engineers Over the years we measure the interests and needs of our clients. scribes or which the organisation endorses. Embedding CSR principles in products and services and reducing the ecological footprint of the company’s operations is in many casMemberships in associations FIDIC, Dutch Association of Consulting Engineers 4.13 es a selection criteria in engineering tenders. One of the main topics in consultancy regarding urban development is climate change resilience (worldwide). Most government bodies are obliged to present the environmental impacts of their projects. 26 Stakeholder engagement Social performance indicators: labour practices (LA) GRI reference Description References Page GRI reference Description References Page 4.14 List of engaged stakeholders. Our stakeholders include employees/shareholders, suppliers, cusLA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and Key figures 16 tomers, government authorities, local communities, NGOs, and the region. general public. LA2* Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender Key figures 16 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to Following consultation with the senior partners, Witteveen+Bos has and region. engage. invited stakeholders that are important to our business and relevant to our four CSR priorities to engage in a stakeholder dialogue. The LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to Key figures 16 engagement of stakeholders is an ongoing process. temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of enIn 2013 Witteveen+Bos set up a new in-company training course on LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agree0 %, see LA9 gagement by type and by stakeholder group. Integrated Design (see also chapter ‘Embedding sustainability in ments. the design process’). The course is unique because it involved three real case studies for real clients. Our stakeholder panel includes LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, Number of occupational health injuries that resulted in absenteerepresentatives of our clients, environmental NGOs and partners. and total number of work-related fatalities by region. ism: 1 The panel held a workshop in March 2014 in order to review and comment on the Corporate Responsibility Report 2013. Progress LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade None. Witteveen+Bos is not bound to formal agreements with trade in addressing last year’s issues and points for improvement was unions. unions as the company has its own agreements with employees. discussed, and the outcome was recorded in the stakeholder panel These agreements are ratified by the Works Council and laid down statement. in the Employee Regulations and the Quality Manual. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder External review 28 LA10* Average number of hours of training per year per employee by emPerformance in 2013 12 engagement. ployee category. LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees Performance in 2013 12 per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity. Table 13: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA’s) Economic performance indicators (EC) Social performance indicators: society (SO) GRI reference Description References Page GRI reference Description References Page EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revKey figures, retained earnings: € 14,160 (in thousands of euros) 16 SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks 0% enues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and Retained earnings after dividend to shareholders: € 0. Operating related to corruption. other community investments, retained earnings and payments to costs: € 19,279 (in thousands of euros). capital providers and governments. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption 0% policies and procedures. Environmental performance indicators (EN) SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy developNot applicable ment and lobbying. GRI reference Description References Page SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, No contributions EN1 Materials used by volume. Key figures 16 politicians and related institutions by country. EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Key figures 16 SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, antiNo legal action in the Netherlands trust and monopoly practices and their outcomes. EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Table 3: Energy consumption, total direct energy use: 20,848,720 MJ 16 SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-moneNo fines and/or sanctions in the Netherlands EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source. Table 3: Energy consumption, total indirect energy use: 7,035,662 MJ 16 tary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable-energy-based Our daily practice 8 products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a Social performance indicators: human rights (HR) result of these initiatives. GRI reference Description References Page EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions Performance in 2013 12 achieved. HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements No significant investment agreements that include human rights and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights conclauses or that have undergone human rights screening EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Performance in 2013 12 cerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Performance in 2013, Key figures 12, 16 HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business 0% partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions Performance in 2013, Key figures 12, 16 taken. achieved. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures conNo employee training provided, 0 %. Human rights issues have cerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, been incorporated in the Employee Regulations (in the chapter on including the percentage of employees trained. standards and values, and in the chapter on responsibilities). Social performance indicators: product responsibility (PR) GRI reference Description References Page PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and Management Disclosure, section headed ‘Social: product respon22 services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of signifisibility’ cant products and services categories subject to such procedures. * Partial reporting is carried out for indicators marked with an asterisk. Full reporting takes places for all other indicators. 28 External assurance For the third year, Witteveen+Bos has asked a panel of exter2. Work on the measurability of targets and results nal stakeholders to provide feedback on our CSR reporting We recommend formulating the targets and results in practices, to give us an independent opinion on our perfora ‘SMARTer’ way. This will make it possible to provide even mance, and to make recommendations for improvements. more insight into the results achieved and how they compare against the targets defined, thus promoting further ... 2014 stakeholder panel development and improvement. At present, Witteveen+Bos The 2014 stakeholder panel consisted of the following memstill formulates its targets and results in terms of ‘efforts’ bers: rather than concrete ‘results’. Jessica van den Bosch, Innovation & Sustainability Project Manager, ProRail 3. Choose a position in the chain Frank Hoekemeijer, Sustainability Manager, Heijmans Witteveen+Bos can enhance its ability to stand out in the Wegen & Civiel market by adopting a proactive approach and assuming Daan Wensing, Head unit Natural Capital and value Chains, responsibility within the chain. The stakeholder panel IUCN NL recommends Witteveen+Bos to challenge its suppliers and Sander Dekker, Sustainability Manager, Van Oord clients in the field of sustainability. The company can do so by imposing requirements on its suppliers and by surprisThe role of this stakeholder panel is to offer a balanced and ing clients with sustainable solutions. impartial view of Witteveen+Bos’s sustainability approach and reporting, and to provide appropriate recommendations 4. Gear the contents of the report to the characteristics for improvement. of the target group Employees are a key target group of the Corporate ... Statement Responsibility Report. Consequently, the report can also The panel concludes that Witteveen+Bos has demonstrated serve as a vehicle for engaging in dialogue with employees how progress has been achieved in the key areas in which on topics such as embedding sustainability in projects and the company’s activities have the greatest impact. It is good realising targets. to see the prominent role assigned to the personal stories of employees. After all, they represent the company’s most imUtrecht, 28 March 2014 portant asset and are a major target group of the Corporate Responsibility Report, alongside the company’s clients. The main points of feedback and/or improvement are the following: 1. Provide insight into the strategic importance of sustainability to Witteveen+Bos In the past few years, Witteveen+Bos has achieved good sustainability results by adopting a ‘learning by doing’ approach. We believe that the importance of certain key themes (priorities) can be made clearer by providing insight into the strategic importance of sustainability, and by demonstrating its significance to employees and/or clients. Targets may be defined based on these priorities (‘what does Witteveen+Bos want to achieve’), thus contributing to day-to-day management of sustainability performance. 30 Addresses Witteveen+Bos Raadgevende ingenieurs B.V. Deventer (office ‘Leeuwenbrug’) Belgium (Witteveen+Bos Belgium N.V.) Latvia (SIA Witteveen+Bos Latvia) Leeuwenbrug 8 Posthoflei 5-1 Torna iela 4, III-C, Office 203 The Netherlands P.O. Box 233 2600 Antwerpen-Berchem, Belgium 1050 Riga, Latvia Deventer (office ‘Van Twickelostraat’) 7400 AE Deventer t +32 3 286 75 75 t +371 6 722 31 44 Van Twickelostraat 2 t +31 570 69 75 11 f +32 3 281 86 01 f +371 6 722 38 30 P.O. Box 233 e belgium@witteveenbos.com e latvia@witteveenbos.com 7400 AE Deventer Deventer (office ‘Stationsplein’) i www.witteveenbos.be i www.witteveenbos.lv t +31 570 69 79 11 Leeuwenbrug 27 f +31 570 69 73 44 P.O. Box 233 Indonesia (Witteveen+Bos Raadgevende ingenieurs B.V.) Russia (Witteveen+Bos Russia B.V.) e info@witteveenbos.com 7400 AE Deventer Park View Plaza, 6th floor Nab. Reki Moyka 24, Office 16 i www.witteveenbos.com t +31 570 69 75 11 Jl. Taman Kemang no. 27 191186 Saint Petersburg, Russian Federation Kemang Jakarta Selatan 12730 t +7 812 570 02 13 Almere P.O. Box 1687 JKS 12016, Indonesia f +7 812 312 75 41 Louis Armstrongweg 6 t +62 21 719 12 82 e russia@witteveenbos.com P.O. Box 10095 f +62 21 719 12 83 i www.witteveenbos.com 1301 AB Almere e indonesia@witteveenbos.com t 036 548 29 00 i www.witteveenbos.co.id Singapore (Witteveen+Bos South-East Asia Pte. Ltd.) 2 International Business Park Amsterdam Kazakhstan The Strategy #02-01 Hoogoorddreef 56 F Aktau (Witteveen+Bos Kazakhstan B.V.) Singapore 609930 P.O. Box 12205 Building 39B (Business center ‘Baiterek’), 1st floor e singapore@witteveenbos.com 1100 AE Amsterdam Microdistrict 8 i www.witteveenbos.com t +31 20 312 55 55 130000 Aktau, Republic of Kazakhstan t +7 7292 30 04 50 Vietnam (Witteveen+Bos Raadgevende ingenieurs B.V.) Breda f +7 7292 30 04 51 91 Nguyen Huu Canh street Willemstraat 28 e kazakhstan@witteveenbos.com Ward 22, Binh Thanh district P.O. Box 3465 i www.witteveenbos.kz Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam 4800 DL Breda t +84 862 85 33 58 t +31 76 523 33 33 Atyrau (Witteveen+Bos Kazakhstan B.V.) f +84 862 85 33 58 Novaya Street 2 e vietnam@witteveenbos.com The Hague 060005 Atyrau, Republic of Kazakhstan i www.witteveenbos.com Alexanderstraat 21 t +7 7122 32 01 20 / 97 00 69 P.O. Box 85948 f +7 7122 97 00 70 2508 CP The Hague e kazakhstan@witteveenbos.com t +31 70 370 07 00 i www.witteveenbos.kz Heerenveen Almaty (Witteveen+Bos Caspian LLP) K.R. Poststraat 100-3 Begalin Street 130 P.O. Box 186 050010 Almaty, Republic of Kazakhstan 8440 AD Heerenveen t +7 727 341 09 98 t +31 513 64 18 00 f +7 727 341 09 97 e kazakhstan@witteveenbos.com Rotterdam i www.witteveenbos.kz Willemskade 19-20 P.O. Box 2397 3000 CJ Rotterdam t +31 10 244 28 00 Colophon Editing and design Witteveen+Bos Photography, illustrations APM Terminals Bram Goots climatetechwiki.org De Kruijter public lighting Erik Karst Fonger de Vlas Gerard Dubois Jurriaan Nijkerk Rijkswaterstaat Santiago Calatrava Witteveen+Bos Printing Te Sligte-Olijdam, Enschede Witteveen+Bos N.V. Van Twickelostraat 2 P.O. Box 233 7400 AE Deventer The Netherlands t +31 570 69 79 11 f +31 570 69 73 44 e info@witteveenbos.com i www.witteveenbos.com Trade Register Enschede number 38020751
