ONE COMPANY, THOUSANDS OF OPPORTUNITIES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ONE COMPANY, THOUSANDS OF OPPORTUNITIES CANADA & USA Overview In 2013, Goldcorp’s Canada and US-based operating assets included five mines. Operating assets in Canada include Red Lake, Porcupine and Musselwhite, and in the US include Wharf and Marigold, which was sold in early 2014. Additional Canadian projects, including Éléonore in Québec and Cochenour in Ontario, will allow for growth in production for years to come. Mining responsibly requires close engagement with a variety of community stakeholders to properly identify and address their issues and concerns. Recently in Canada and the US, these have included matters relating to community consultation, economic development, employment and the physical impacts of mining, such as dust and noise. Within the five material issues for Goldcorp’s global operations, the following issues are significant priorities in Canada and the US: Be safe enough for our families Improve greenhouse gas reduction and energy efficiency Strengthen relationships with Aboriginal communities Create local employment and procurement opportunities Invest in neighbouring communities Develop the Éléonore, Cochenour and Hollinger projects Adapt to new regulatory compliance requirements MEXICO Overview Goldcorp’s Mexico-based operating assets include three mines: Peñasquito, Los Filos and El Sauzal. Additionally, the Camino Rojo project in Zacatecas will allow for growth in production for years to come. Mining responsibly requires close engagement with a variety of community stakeholders to properly identify and address their issues and concerns. Recently in Mexico, these have included matters relating to land use, the physical impacts of operations (water usage, cyanide, blasting and dust), community development and mine closure planning. Within the five material issues for Goldcorp’s global operations, the following are significant priorities in Mexico: Be safe enough for our families Improve our engagement with communities Strengthen security and human rights practices Ensure local development addresses local priorities Support technical and higher education initiatives CENTRAL & SOUTH AMERICA Overview Goldcorp’s Central and South America-based operating assets include the Marlin mine in Guatemala, the Pueblo Viejo mine in the Dominican Republic (40% ownership) and the Alumbrera mine (37.5% ownership) in Argentina. Additionally, the Cerro Negro project in Argentina and the El Morro project in Chile will allow for growth in production for years to come. Mining responsibly requires close engagement with a variety of community stakeholders to properly identify and address their issues and concerns. Recently in Central and South America, these have included matters relating to sustainable livelihoods, environmental impacts, water use, and land access/compensation. Within the five material issues for Goldcorp’s global operations, the following are significant priorities in Central and South America: Be safe enough for our families Offer job opportunities Engage with communities, particularly in closure planning Understand community perceptions and concerns about how our operations may impact them and the environment OVERVIEW We are committed to being responsible stewards of the environment and to complying with the highest applicable health and safety standards. We hold the respect of human rights to be a primary requirement in our operations and maintain a principled, conscientious approach to corporate citizenship. Materiality OVERVIEW Responsible Mining See the indicators that are of critical importance to our At Goldcorp, responsible mining is a company-wide commitment that’s at the core of every business decision we make. Every one of us, from senior stakeholders and which will management to the work crews at each of our operations, strives to conduct help us track and improve our our business to create economic growth and positive outcomes for all sustainability performance – stakeholders throughout the life of a Goldcorp mine and well beyond. also a key part of the We are committed to being responsible stewards of the environment and to sustainability reporting complying with the highest applicable health and safety standards. We hold process. the respect of human rights to be a primary requirement in our operations and maintain a principled, conscientious approach to corporate citizenship. We aim to design, construct, operate and close all our facilities in accordance with the highest applicable health, safety and environmental standards. We actively seek partnerships based on open, transparent communication with the aim of being responsible, respected and welcomed everywhere we do business. Creating Sustainable Value We call our approach to doing business “Together, Creating Sustainable Value”. Our programs are designed as catalysts for positive, lasting contributions in the communities where we do business. We implement them, working in partnership with host governments, local communities, Indigenous groups, non-governmental organizations, contractors, academic institutions, investors and suppliers. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO In a year that challenged the entire industry, Goldcorp’s commitment to delivering sustainable value to our stakeholders was unwavering. Our successes in 2013 were largely due to our financial discipline and agility in the face of challenging market conditions. Economic pressures sharpened our focus on reducing all-in sustaining costs and our Operating for Excellence program drove efficiency gains at every operation. That exercise, however, was not done at the expense of our commitment to sustainability. On the contrary, we remained as focused as ever on our Six Pillar Strategy, which puts people, safety and partnerships at the core of our operations. Our Planet. Our Choices. Our Legacy One of 2013’s major achievements was the launch of our Sustainability Excellence Management System (SEMS). The SEMS is a framework and set of standards that incorporate best-in-class environmental, safety, social and human rights practices. Developing and implementing the SEMS is an enormous project for a company that operates within many jurisdictions. The SEMS will be the Goldcorp template for sustainability standards and compliance. The human rights, labour and anti-corruption principles of the UN Global Compact – which we continue to uphold as a signatory member – are embodied in the SEMS, as are the standards of the International Cyanide Management Code, and the transparency and accountability responsibilities that come from our memberships and obligations in the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) and the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI). To mark the launch of the SEMS, we held a company-wide contest for an expression that captures the essence of our approach to environmental stewardship, just as Safe Enough for Our Families represents workplace safety. From hundreds of entries, the unanimous winner was: Our Planet. Our Choices. Our Legacy. We are implementing the SEMS throughout 2014 under this banner. Marking Our Day of Remembrance Despite our continuing emphasis on Fighting Fatalities at Goldcorp, we failed in that objective in 2013. We were all deeply saddened by the death of two colleagues in Mexico during the year. In order to reinvigorate the focus on safety, we held our first annual Day of Remembrance on October 30, 2013. This was a milestone event for Goldcorp; the entire company – every office and every mine site – stopped work and paid respect to those who had lost their lives in a workplace incident. During this day, we all took part in safety awareness exercises and training. Since the Day of Remembrance, we have seen a company-wide increase in safety leadership and accountability, and a marked decrease in incidents. With a renewed commitment to making Goldcorp Safe Enough for Our Families, I am certain we will continue to make progress toward eliminating fatalities in the workplace. Collaborating with Our Communities Last year saw the finalization of collaboration agreements with the Lac Seul and Mishkeegogamang Ojibway First Nations in northern Ontario. These are major agreements, years in the making, which establish the terms of employment and training opportunities, business opportunities and our financial contributions to the local communities. I believe they will set a framework for future collaborations, as we expand our operations in northern Canada and continue to collaborate on economic and social development. As you will see in this report, we made significant investments in every one of our host communities, and not only in mining regions. Near our Vancouver head office, where some of Canada’s most vulnerable people struggle with poverty and addiction, we continue to contribute to the Goldcorp Centre for Mental Health, which hosts Vancouver’s Assertive Community Treatment (ACT) team, and many other valuable initiatives and organizations such as BC Special Olympics, Pacific Salmon Foundation and the Vancouver Symphony Orchestra. Promoting and Supporting Education In every region, we provide financial and scholarship support to help local community members improve their prospects through education. In Mexico and Central America, we constructed, renovated and repaired classrooms, installed five fully equipped computer centres, and funded teachers to accommodate 1,600 students. We also funded 35 scholarships for students at the Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México. This year we also continued supporting the CONALEP technical college near our Peñasquito mine, which has supplied many graduates to our operations. We are active in our support of higher education in other jurisdictions as well: we made major donations for scholarships and program funding at universities with respected programs in mining geology, geophysics, chemistry, metallurgy and earth sciences, in Mexico City, South Dakota, Colorado, Nevada, Montana and British Columbia. Environmental Stewardship In recent years, energy management has become a key issue in our industry, as companies are increasingly recognizing the financial and physical impacts of climate change. In 2012, we announced a company-wide Energy Strategy with ambitious targets for energy efficiency, greenhouse gas emissions and the use of renewably sourced energy. While we made significant progress towards those goals – for example, our new natural gas pipeline in northern Ontario is reducing greenhouse gas emissions at the Red Lake mine and in nearby communities – in some regions we have been challenged to meet our targets. In 2014, we will review and reassess our goals, while we also incorporate the objectives of the Energy Strategy into our overall SEMS. Transparency in Reporting This Sustainability Report is an opportunity to celebrate our achievements over the past year and to evaluate areas for improvement going forward. This year, we again engaged Ernst & Young for external assurance, in accordance with our commitment as a member of the ICMM. As we look to 2014 and beyond, we are focusing on putting in place a best-in-class sustainability management system that will ensure we deliver on our vision: Together, Creating Sustainable Value. I would like to take this opportunity to extend my personal thanks to our employees, our partners, our communities and all the stakeholders who support Goldcorp as we work towards this vision. This was a year when we, and our industry, were put to the test, and we still have work to do, but I am justifiably proud of our progress. Chuck Jeannes President and Chief Executive Officer OUR COMPANY Goldcorp Inc. is a leading gold producer engaged in the operation, exploration, development and acquisition of precious metal properties in the Americas. Goldcorp’s operating cash flows are from the sale of gold, silver, copper, lead and zinc. Goldcorp is the world’s fastest-growing senior gold producer. Our strategy is to provide shareholders with superior returns from high-quality assets. We maintain an investment-grade balance sheet and remain 100% unhedged. Headquartered in Vancouver, British Columbia, Goldcorp employs and contracts approximately 18,000 people worldwide at operations and development projects. Goldcorp is committed to responsible mining practices that protect the health and safety of our workers and the quality of the environment that we all share. Our concern and actions extend to the social and economic effects of our activities, with the aim of creating sustainable value for all our stakeholders. Key Statistics1 Key performance indicators for 2013, as at December 31, 2013 (dollar amounts are US$), include: Financial and Operational KPIs 2013 2012 Workforce (approximate) 18,000 16,000 Adjusted revenues ($ millions)2,3 4,657 5,435 Net earnings (losses) ($ millions)4 (2,709) 1,749 Adjusted net earnings ($ millions) 634 1,642 Gold production (oz) 2,666,600 2,396,200 Silver production (oz) 30,326,100 30,470,500 Total assets ($ millions)5 29,564 30,979 Dividends paid ($ millions) 486 438 Operational Structure Goldcorp is a leading gold producer engaged in gold mining and related activities including exploration, extraction, processing and reclamation. Goldcorp’s operating assets include the Red Lake, Porcupine and Musselwhite gold mines in Canada, the Peñasquito, Los Filos and El Sauzal mines in Mexico, the Marlin mine in Guatemala and Wharf mine in the United States, the Pueblo Viejo mine (40% interest) in the Dominican Republic and the Alumbrera mine (37.5% interest) in Argentina. Goldcorp also had a 67% operating interest in the Marigold mine in the United States, which was sold in April 2014. Goldcorp has a solid pipeline of projects including Cerro Negro in Argentina, Éléonore and Cochenour in Canada, Camino Rojo in Mexico and El Morro in Chile. These valuable assets will allow for growth in production for years to come. Goldcorp is organized into three operating regions (Canada and United States, Mexico, and Central and South America). Significant Changes during the Reporting Period In 2013, there were a number of important events and developments: On February 27, 2013, Goldcorp announced the appointment of Charlene Ripley as Executive Vice President and General Counsel. On May 7, 2013, Goldcorp announced the appointment of Russell Ball as Executive Vice President, Capital Management. On August 19, 2013, Goldcorp announced that it had signed the Obishikokaang Collaboration Agreement between Red Lake Gold Mines (“Red Lake”) and the Lac Seul First Nation. On January 22, 2014, the Mishkeegogamang Ojibway Nation signed a Cooperation Agreement with Goldcorp establishing the basis for both parties to work together with respect to company activities in the “Mish” traditional territory. On February 3, 2014, Goldcorp and its joint venture partner, Barrick Gold Corporation, announced the divestiture of the Marigold mine. The transaction closed at the end of March 2014. Further information regarding these events is available in our Annual Report and Annual Information Form. Ownership Goldcorp is a public company listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the Toronto Stock Exchange. Goldcorp’s top institutional shareholders are identified on our website. 1 As per our 2013 Annual Report. 2 Non-GAAP measure on an attributable basis thereby includes the company’s mining operations, including discontinued operations and projects and the company’s share of Alumbrera and Pueblo Viejo. 3 Excludes pre-commissioning revenues from Pueblo Viejo prior to January 1, 2013. 4 Attributable to shareholders of Goldcorp Inc., as per the Consolidated Statement of (Loss) Earnings. Attributable performance measures include the company’s mining operations, including its discontinued operations, and projects, and the company’s share of Alumbrera and Pueblo Viejo. The company believes that disclosing certain performance measures on an attributable basis is a more relevant measurement of the company’s operating and economic performance, and reflects the company’s view of its core mining operations. 5 As per the Consolidated Balance Sheet. VISION AND MISSION At Goldcorp, responsible mining is a company-wide commitment, which is at the core of every business decision we make. Every one of us, from senior management to the work crews at each of our operations, strives to conduct our business to ensure lasting social progress and economic growth for all stakeholders throughout the life of a Goldcorp mine and well beyond. Vision Goldcorp is dedicated to responsible gold mining practices balanced to promote long-term shareholder value and the health and well-being of employees and host communities. Our goal is to be a low-cost gold producer with geographic diversification and low political risk operating in a responsible manner with our neighbours, local communities and the environment. Our vision statement is: “Together, Creating Sustainable Value.” Sustainability Vision Our sustainability vision is to foster the integration of sustainable development principles into our operating philosophy. We are committed to implementing consistent policies and practices across our diverse group of operations and projects, while recognizing the vastly different environmental, physical, social and cultural circumstances that shape each operation. Our sustainability goal is to achieve a balance of economic prosperity, environmental stewardship and social responsibility that extends beyond the economic lives of our mining operations. Goldcorp is committed to responsible mining and sustainable value for all our stakeholders. Our Six Pillar Strategy At Goldcorp we recognize and promote our six pillar strategy that guides every aspect of our business. These Six Strategies are relevant for all of us in the organization, no matter where we work. Growing People is about providing opportunities for personal and professional growth for everyone, and developing our people to their fullest potential. We value and respect each individual’s contributions. Growing Safety is an integral requirement of Goldcorp’s business. We are committed to protecting our people by looking out for each other, by recognizing the complexity of the task at hand, and by enhancing our abilities to recognize and deal with risk. Growing Partnerships within and outside the corporation is a requirement of being a good corporate citizen in the communities where we operate, and facilitates the teamwork and application of our collective expertise. Growing Margins requires all of us to consider the financial implications of our decisions and exercise financial discipline. Strong margins will ensure Goldcorp remains one of the lowest-cost senior gold producers and will allow us to deliver on our commitment to shareholders. Growing Reserves is fundamental to the long-term viability of our business. By replacing the gold we produce, we provide the resources for future development. Growing Reserves ensures Goldcorp’s future. Growing Production reflects a desire to get better in quality and output against whatever technical measure is relevant to where we work. Our overall gold production is the result of thousands of different technical inputs. Through the balanced application of these Six Strategies, Goldcorp aims to create a culture and working environment that sets the standard among our peers for sustainable mining operations. AWARDS Participating in external awards programs can have a positive effect on both the company and the individuals concerned. At Goldcorp, we do not view awards as an end in themselves; however, we appreciate being formally recognized by outside organizations because it gives us external feedback on how our programs are fulfilling the goals we have set. Corporate Awards Communications Presenter Recipient Randstad Best Employer Randstad Goldcorp Award Excellence in Electronic Chartered Professional Accountants Goldcorp Disclosure Peter Dey Governance Canadian Society of Corporate Secretaries Ms. Anna Tudela Achievement Award BC Best CEO BC Business Mr. Chuck Jeannes Sustainable Performance in Enablon Goldcorp Mining Giving Hearts Award Association of Fundraising Professionals Goldcorp Socially Responsible The Mexican Centre for Philanthropy (CEMEFI) and the Goldcorp Company Alliance for Corporate Social Responsibility (AliaRSE) Recognition for Socially Concepcion del Oró (local government) Peñasquito Responsible Practices Chantier d’importance 2013 Québec Construction Association Éléonore Trophy Tom Peters Memorial Canadian Land Reclamation Association Porcupine Gold Mines Mine Rehabilitation Award Canada’s Top 100 Canada’s Top 100 Employers Goldcorp Employers ABOUT THIS REPORT Goldcorp has committed to using the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Reporting Framework as the basis for our sustainability reporting. This report is the seventh we have prepared under the GRI framework. Information in this report covers the 2013 calendar year, which coincides with the corporation's financial year. We report annually on our sustainability performance. Our previous Sustainability Report covered the 2012 calendar year and was published in July 2013. Report Scope and Content As a member of the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), Goldcorp has implemented programs and procedures in line with the ICMM Sustainable Development Framework. A key part of our commitment to public disclosure is to report in line with the GRI G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and Mining and Metals Sector Supplement. The GRI provides reporting principles and reporting guidance to help define report content, ensure the quality of reported information, and set the report boundary. We provided responses to most of the GRI Indicators (core and additional). We also apply the principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness as defined in the AccountAbility Principles Standard (AA1000 2008) in our reporting. Materiality KEY CRITERIA The scope of the report, and the depth of reporting, is governed by our external commitments (see above), our materiality process, our industry and our audience. Our external commitments are listed under the Commitment to External Initiatives section. Key topics that arose through our materiality assessment are discussed in that section and in the Key Impacts, Risks and Opportunities section. THE MINING INDUSTRY The nature of the mining industry and, in our case, the precious metals component of that industry means that some elements of the GRI Guidelines are more significant than others. The Mining and Metals Sector Supplement to the GRI Guidelines addresses many of these elements, and we have reported against them. However, we have applied less emphasis to the following key sections: Economic Performance – As a public company, Goldcorp’s accounts are audited on a regular basis and included in our publicly available Annual Report. As a result, we have not attempted to include comprehensive coverage of economic indicators in the Sustainability Report. Product Responsibility – Our primary products are gold and silver. Gold is an inert mineral and both gold and silver are extensively recycled. In addition, we do not sell our products directly to the public, but to refineries or smelters for secondary treatment. For these reasons, the Product Responsibility indicators are less relevant to our business and have not been addressed in the same depth as some of the other indicators in this report. OUR AUDIENCE Of our stakeholder groups, capital market participants and non-governmental organizations are most likely to read through the entire report in order to satisfy their respective constituencies. Other stakeholder groups (such as shareholders, host communities, employees and contractors, customers, suppliers, media and regulators) are likely to be more selective in accessing certain sections of the report. The report is structured to be accessible to all stakeholders. Materiality Process Our Sustainability Report is an opportunity to provide direct communication to our stakeholders about the issues that matter most to them. It is also a tool for performance management, as we look for year-on-year improvement in our execution. Determining which indicators are of critical importance to our stakeholders and will help us track and improve our sustainability performance is a key part of the sustainability reporting process. In 2013, we embarked on an in-depth program to reassess our assumptions about what is important to our employees, peers and partners when it comes to reporting on our sustainability impacts. To identify material issues, we used a modified version of a Five Part Materiality Test1 that uses (a) policy commitments, (b) peer-based norms, (c) behaviour and concerns of stakeholders, (d) societal norms and regulations, and (e) financial impacts (including risk and governance factors). Considering these elements, we designed a process made up of three components: A documentation review that covered internal documentation on stakeholder engagement, complaints and risk assessments as well as external documentation such as peer reports, industry standards and corporate responsibility guidance. A survey that was sent to a wide range of employees in relevant positions across the organization as well as key external stakeholders who have shown an interest in our sustainability reporting and performance in the past. Interviews with Goldcorp’s executive team and sustainability leaders. We were pleased with the quality and rate of responses to our surveys. This feedback confirmed the continuing importance of all the previous material issues and also raised conversations around emerging issues relevant to specific regions. As we move toward using the GRI G4 Guidelines, this exercise has laid a firm groundwork for future reporting on key issues that are better targeted to the sites and regions where they matter most. We also welcome the opportunity to receive further feedback on our materiality process and material issues. Please refer to the contact details provided at the bottom of this page to send us comments. Results Goldcorp operates in geographically, socially and technically diverse locations. Despite the differences in environment, language and cultures, the following high-level issues ranked among the most important throughout our assessment: environmental impacts, safety, stakeholder engagement, mine closure and human rights. While it is difficult to identify specific indicators that are equally applicable across the organization, there were a number of specific sub-issues that were consistent across multiple sites or regions. These issues are discussed in more depth in the Key Impacts, Risks and Opportunities section. Boundary and Limitations BOUNDARY This report covers all of Goldcorp’s current managed operations and projects. As at December 31, 2013, Goldcorp had nine operating mines in four countries under its management: Musselwhite, Porcupine and Red Lake (Canada); Marigold and Wharf (US); El Sauzal, Los Filos and Peñasquito (Mexico); and Marlin (Guatemala). Goldcorp is developing a number of projects and manages a number of sites undergoing closure. Our advanced projects (Cerro Negro and Éléonore) have been included in our data collection and specific reference is made to these properties in appropriate parts of this report. Cerro Blanco and El Morro continue to report select data that is appropriate for their respective development stages. The Cochenour project has been integrated into Red Lake as applicable. Projects in earlier stages of development, such as Camino Rojo, have not yet been integrated into our data collection process and are therefore generally excluded. Data collection on projects and closed operations is not as comprehensive as for our operating sites, and may be applied selectively depending on the status of the project and the relevance of the indicator. This report does not include data from our exploration projects unless they are closely associated with one of our reporting entities. However, head count and injury rate data cover 100% of the workforce, including those in exploration and early stage projects. Joint ventures that are managed by Goldcorp are reported in full (100%) in this report, and joint ventures that are not managed by Goldcorp are not included in this report. Goldcorp’s 40% equity investment in Tahoe Resources Inc. is excluded. Goldcorp has three joint venture operations and two joint venture projects: Operations: Marigold (US) – This is a joint venture between Goldcorp (66.7%) and Barrick Gold Corporation (33.3%). On February 3, 2014, Goldcorp and Barrick announced that they had entered into a definitive agreement to sell their respective interests in the Marigold mine. The transaction closed on April 4, 2014. As this operation was managed by Goldcorp for all of 2013, it is reported in full in this report. Alumbrera (Argentina) – This is a joint venture between Glencore (50%), Goldcorp (37.5%) and Yamana (12.5%). As this operation is managed by Glencore, it is not included in this report. Alumbrera prepares its own annual Sustainability Report. Pueblo Viejo (Dominican Republic) – This is a joint venture between Barrick (60%) and Goldcorp (40%). As this operation is managed by Barrick, it is not included in this report. Projects: El Morro (Chile) – This is a joint venture between Goldcorp (70%) and New Gold Inc. (30%). As this project is managed by Goldcorp, it is included in this report. Dee/South Arturo (US) – This is a joint venture between Barrick (60%) and Goldcorp (40%). As this project is managed by Barrick, it is not included in this report. LIMITATIONS There were no specific limitations on the scope or boundary of this report. SIGNIFICANT CHANGES IN REPORTING PARAMETERS There were no significant changes in reporting parameters in 2013. Contact Us Goldcorp is committed to transparency and promotes an open door policy at all times. We welcome feedback about our programs as well as specific comments for improvements in our sustainability reporting. Your inquiries may be directed to: Email: SustainabilityReporting@goldcorp.com Mail: Suite 3400, 666 Burrard Street, Vancouver, BC, Canada V6C 2X8 Telephone: (604) 696-3000 Facsimile: (604) 696-3001 1 Zadek, S., and Merme, M. (2003). Redefining Materiality: Practice and Public Policy for Effective Corporate Reporting. AccountAbility, London, UK. GRI CONTENT At Goldcorp, we have committed to using the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Reporting Framework as the basis for our sustainability reporting. The GRI Reporting Framework sets out the principles and indicators that organizations can use to measure and report their economic, environmental and social performance. Sustainability reporting is the practice of measuring, disclosing, and being accountable to internal and external stakeholders for organizational performance towards the goal of sustainable development. This process is enhanced when the reporting process is consistent with other significant company reports. GRI Content Index The GRI content index is accessible from the Indices link on the left. This report features a tool to allow our readers to easily identify data that corresponds to a GRI Performance Indicator. By clicking the “on” tab under the GRI Indicators section in the menu on the right, you will see content highlighted along with its GRI indicator code. GRI Reporting Framework The GRI G3 and G3.1 Reporting Framework and the Mining and Metals Sector Supplement have been used to develop the 2013 Sustainability Report. They can be found on the GRI website. The 2013 Sustainability Report: Reports on all of the 42 criteria in the G3.1 Profile Disclosures. Reports on or addresses G3.1 Management Approach Disclosures for each indicator category. Reports on or addresses all G3.1 Performance Indicators (including all of the core indicators). Reports on all 11 indicators in the Mining and Metals Sector Supplement. Click the link on the left under “Attachments” to learn more about GRI indicators that were only partially reported or not reported. APPLYING THE GRI This report meets application level A+ of the GRI G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, including the Mining and Metals Sector Supplement. ASSURANCE Internal Assurance Goldcorp uses a number of internal controls and monitoring systems as part of our process for managing and reporting information. These internal systems are important to the overall integrity and credibility of this report. Goldcorp used sustainability data collection software for the collection of 2013 sustainability data. This provides an audit trail to increase the rigour and transparency of data collection. The system is designed for one person to enter and submit the data, which is then verified by a different individual prior to being consolidated at the corporate level. The software also enables consistency checks to be set such that if the data being entered varies by a set amount from the previous year’s data, an explanation must be attached before the data can be submitted. External Assurance Ernst & Young was engaged to provide limited assurance on selected assertions and selected performance information included in Goldcorp’s Sustainability Report for the year ended December 31, 2013. For the full text of Ernst & Young’s assurance statement, see the Goldcorp 2013 Sustainability Assurance Statement. PERFORMANCE DATA Data Summary Click here to view the key data for Goldcorp for 2013 (data from 2009 to the present is provided for comparison). The 2013 operating year was the seventh year of comprehensive data collection for Goldcorp. We will continue to build on this data in coming years. Data Measurement Data is presented as both absolute data and intensity ratios. Wherever possible, absolute data is presented with the prior reporting period as a comparison. In an organization like Goldcorp, which is undergoing a period of rapid growth, comparing absolute data is of limited value due to the constant change in makeup of the reporting entity. Intensity ratios provide a better basis for comparison year-on-year. An intensity ratio, as used in this report, is the absolute data per unit of physical activity. The most common intensity metric used in this report is absolute data divided by tonnes of ore processed (milled plus leached) during the period. However, even ratios have their limitations and must be treated with caution when the rate of growth in the reporting entity is rapid. Goldcorp has grown from two mines producing 628,000 ounces of gold in 2004, to 11 mines producing nearly 2.7 million ounces of gold in 2013 (including non-managed joint ventures). Data Aggregation – As this is the corporate Sustainability Report, most data is aggregated company-wide. Any deviation from this is clearly identified in the appropriate section of the report. Care should be taken when comparing economic data reproduced from sources outside this report and economic data prepared specifically for this report. Key operational data is often reported “per consolidated audited financial statements” (i.e., making allowance for joint venture contributions, etc.) in accordance with our other public financial records. However, certain economic data is prepared only for this report and is consistent with other data in this report by excluding joint ventures not managed by Goldcorp. We have endeavoured to clarify in the text when appropriate. Completeness – Data presented in this report covers 100% of our managed operations unless otherwise specified. Data from non-managed joint ventures is not included in this report, except for our financial data, which does include joint ventures to be consistent with our consolidated audited financial statements. Data from projects may not be relevant or practical to collect given that there is no mineral mining or processing taking place. When they are included, it has been noted in the text. Currency – Throughout this report the standard monetary unit is the US dollar (US$). Metrics – Reported data has been presented using generally accepted international metrics and calculated using standard conversion factors. Units of measurement used in this report generally conform to the GRI Guidelines. Where the measurement of a particular parameter varies from the GRI Guidelines, it is identified in the relevant section. Rounding – Data in this report has been rounded so as not to imply a precision that is not warranted by the data collection process. Every reasonable effort has been made to ensure that data is accurate. However, there are still divergences within a certain margin of error. Restatements Below are restatements of historical data that were found to be in error or subject to change during the 2013 data collection process. These data have been corrected or adjusted in the body of this report. SAFETY AND HEALTH Our 2012 All-Injury Frequency Rate (AIFR) was revised following a 2013 review of our safety files. This review resulted in adjustments to the total number of employee hours and certain incident reclassifications. Our previously reported 2012 AIFR was 1.58 and we have revised it to 1.65. INDIGENOUS COMMUNITIES We had previously reported 48 Indigenous communities living in and around our sites. We have updated this figure to 47. The 2012 number had factored in an Indigenous archaeological site, but as it is not currently inhabited by Indigenous groups, we have not included it in this particular indicator. STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE We are committed to delivering responsible, sustainable growth to all stakeholders with integrity and by meeting or exceeding industry standards for corporate governance. STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE Achieving our goals requires commitment and dedication from our directors, officers, and employees, and the agents, consultants, contractors and sub-contractors who are hired to work on behalf of Goldcorp. The Board of Directors and the Corporate Governance and Nominating In His Own Words: Interview with John Bell, Committee monitor the evolution of applicable legislation and policies Chair of SEH&S Committee related to governance and practices. It is important that we ensure our internal processes reflect the latest national and industry standards. We take pride in the open dialogue that we maintain with our stakeholders, and feel that our policies on transparency and open communication reflect the industry’s best practices. For the third year in a row, the Board adopted a policy relating to shareholder engagement and an annual advisory vote on executive Improved Transparency Is in Everyone’s compensation, known as “Say on Pay”, in order to have constructive Best Interest engagement with our shareholders regarding the objectives and principles the Board uses in making executive compensation decisions. At our Annual and Special Meeting of Shareholders held in May 2013, 97% of shareholders voted in favour of the non-binding resolution on executive compensation, demonstrating strong shareholder support for our approach to executive compensation. In 2013, a group of investors formally met with Goldcorp’s executive management, including the President and Chief Executive Officer and the Board Chair of the Sustainability, Environment, Health and Safety Committee, to discuss our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) practices. BOARD OF DIRECTORS Goldcorp and its Board of Directors recognize the importance of strong corporate governance to effectively manage the company and to protect employees and shareholders. Our approach to issues of corporate governance is designed to ensure that the business and affairs of Goldcorp are conducted so as to enhance long-term shareholder value. Structure The duties and responsibilities of the Board are to oversee the management of Goldcorp’s business, and to act with a view towards the best interests of the company. The Board fulfills its mandate directly and through its committees at regularly scheduled meetings or as required. Board committees currently consist of the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee, the Governance and Nominating Committee, and the Sustainability, Environment, Health and Safety (SEH&S) Committee. All committees are independent of management and report directly to the Board. More details on the Goldcorp Board and its functions can be found in Goldcorp’s Management Information Circular. Independence Eight out of the ten members of the Board are independent as defined by Canadian securities governance guidelines1, and they meet separately following each scheduled Board meeting. Mr. Charles Jeannes and Mr. Ian Telfer are not independent, as Mr. Jeannes is the President and Chief Executive Officer of Goldcorp and Mr. Telfer is a former officer of Goldcorp. The independent directors meet as a group every time there is a scheduled Board meeting. During 2013, the independent directors met eight times. Qualifications The Governance and Nominating Committee, which is composed entirely of independent directors, is responsible for identifying and recruiting new candidates for nomination to the Board. The committee develops and recommends to the Board for approval a long-term plan for Board composition. It is updated on an annual basis. The committee is also responsible for providing new directors with an orientation and education program, and facilitating ongoing director education. Performance The Board is committed to regular assessments of the effectiveness of the Board, the Chairman of the Board, the committees and the individual directors. The Governance and Nominating Committee annually reviews and makes recommendations to the Board regarding these evaluations. Stakeholder and Employee Engagement with the Board Shareholders, employees and other interested parties may communicate directly with Goldcorp’s Board of Directors by telephone, email and mail, or at our Annual and Special Meeting of Shareholders. Oversight of Sustainability The SEH&S Committee, which is composed entirely of independent directors, is responsible for assisting the Board in its oversight of sustainability, environment and health and safety matters, including monitoring the implementation and management of Goldcorp’s policies, procedures and practices relating to sustainability, environment, health and safety, Corporate Social Responsibility and human rights matters. The SEH&S Committee also oversees our adherence to international standards and codes, such as the UN Global Compact, the World Gold Council’s Conflict-Free Gold Standard and the ICMM’s Sustainable Development Principles. In particular, the SEH&S Committee has the authority and responsibility for: Reviewing, monitoring and, as appropriate, revising the sustainability, environmental, health and safety policies of the company. Reviewing the corporate and operational sustainability, environment, health and safety performance of the company to ensure management is taking appropriate measures to achieve compliance with appropriate laws, legislation and the company’s sustainability, environment, health and safety policies. Working with management in the development of shortand long-term policies and standards to ensure the principles set out in the sustainability, environment, health and safety policies are being achieved. Reviewing community, environment, health and safety issues and incidents to determine that management is taking appropriate action in respect of these matters and that management has been duly diligent in carrying out its responsibilities and activities. Reviewing results of community, environment, health and safety audits and management’s activities with respect to such audits. Reviewing and monitoring management’s activities to ensure that the principal risks and opportunities for the company related to community, environment, health and safety are identified by management, and that sufficient resources are allocated by management to address risks and opportunities. Ensuring the company’s directors are knowledgeable about their duties and responsibilities related to the scope of the SEH&S Committee. Periodically visiting corporate locations to become familiar with the nature of operations, and to review relevant objectives, procedures and performance with respect to sustainability, environment, health and safety; and Investigating any extraordinary negative sustainability, environment, health and safety performance, where appropriate. The SEH&S Committee met five times in 2013 and visited two of Goldcorp’s operating mines and project sites. During 2013, the Board, including members of the SEH&S Committee, visited Cerro Negro and Red Lake. For further information about the committee, click the link on the left for its Terms of Reference. 1 Canadian Securities Administrators National Policy 58-201 (2005), Corporate Governance Guidelines. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The objectives of Goldcorp’s compensation program are to attract, retain and inspire in members of senior management a level of performance that will enhance Goldcorp’s sustainable profitability and growth. Board Oversight The Board recognizes that executive compensation practices and policies are evolving in Canada and globally, and undertakes an annual review to ensure Goldcorp’s practices and policies are effective in achieving its objectives. At Goldcorp, we provide transparent and ample disclosure on executive compensation to allow our shareholders to understand our compensation program and objectives. The Board also believes that Goldcorp’s current executive compensation program meets the objectives and requirements expected by our shareholders. The Board expects to continue to develop practices and policies to increase ongoing shareholder engagement and meaningful feedback with respect to executive compensation. Compensation Program Over the past several years, the worldwide mining boom has significantly increased the demand for executives with mining-related skills and experience. The talent supply in the mining business is very tight globally as fewer people have entered the mining industry over the past few decades. As a result of this highly competitive market, the attraction and retention of talented and experienced executives is one of the key objectives of Goldcorp’s executive compensation program. In April 2013, the Board approved the adoption of two new key objective metrics for short-term incentive compensation: (i) a capital management metric to reinforce the importance of disciplined and effective capital management; and (ii) a safety metric, which highlights the importance of our safety culture and our focus on “Fighting Fatalities”. Details on compensation for directors and senior management can be found in Goldcorp’s Management Information Circular. BUSINESS CONDUCT Goldcorp’s Board encourages and promotes a culture of ethical business conduct by: Requiring compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations. Providing guidance to directors, officers and employees to help them recognize and deal with ethical issues. Promoting a culture of open communication, honesty and accountability. Ensuring awareness of disciplinary action for violations of ethical business conduct. The Board takes steps to ensure that directors, officers and employees exercise independent judgment in considering transactions and agreements in which they have a material interest. This includes ensuring that directors, officers and employees are thoroughly familiar with the Code of Conduct and, in particular, disclosing conflicts of interest and obtaining direction from the company’s Ethics Committee regarding any potential conflicts of interest. As of the date of this report, the Ethics Committee is chaired by the Executive Vice President and General Counsel and comprises the Senior Vice President, People and Safety, the Vice President, Regulatory Affairs and Corporate Secretary, the Vice President, Internal Audit, the Director, Enterprise Risk Management and the Director, Ethics and Compliance. Code of Conduct Our Code of Conduct (the Code) documents the principles of conduct and ethics to be followed by Goldcorp’s employees, officers, directors and third parties who provide us with goods and services. Aligned with compliance best practices, Goldcorp reviews and updates the Code every three years in an effort to keep it current and relevant to the changing business and regulatory environments in which we operate. In 2013, Goldcorp undertook a detailed review and an updated Code was approved by the Board of Directors in April 2014. Goldcorp is committed to ensuring that all directors, officers and employees are aware of and understand their responsibilities under the Code. As directors, officers and employees at Goldcorp, we are expected to read and comply fully with the Code, to provide assistance with investigations and compliance audits, and to always report violations of the Code. We are also responsible for helping to identify and raise potential issues before they lead to Code violations. The Code is available on our website in English, Spanish and French. Conflict of Interest Goldcorp understands that conflicts of interest may arise in the ordinary course of business. Therefore, it is important to ensure that there is transparency and that all conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest are fully disclosed. Conflicts of interest occur when someone is asked to make a decision or perform a task on behalf of Goldcorp, but has a personal interest in the outcome of the decision or even just appears to have an interest in the outcome of the decision. Personal interests in the outcome of a decision can be direct (e.g., a financial benefit) or indirect (e.g., a financial benefit to someone close to a person, such as a spouse, parent, child or other close relative). Goldcorp’s Code of Conduct sets out the steps to take in the event of a potential or actual conflict of interest. Fraud and Corruption Goldcorp’s commitment to acting with integrity includes not engaging in or tolerating fraud or corruption. We invest time and resources to create awareness on Goldcorp’s commitment to acting with integrity. This means clearly defining the expectations we have for employees and third parties with regards to ethical leadership and the negative implications that these unethical practices could bring to the company and to those parties involved in this type of activity. Goldcorp defines fraud as an intentional act or omission designed to deceive another person or to obtain a benefit that one is not entitled to. For example, fraudulent activities could include instances of theft of assets, misuse of company resources, intentional misreporting of financial and/or operational data, among others. Corruption, by definition, is an instance of fraud triggered by giving or offering monetary or other benefit to another person in order to secure a benefit, retain business or obtain any other improper advantage in conducting business. Corruption can occur at two different instances: private sector corruption (between private companies and/or individuals) and public sector corruption (between private entities and government officials). The Code of Conduct sets clear standards and expectations for employees, officers, directors and third parties providing goods and services to Goldcorp relating to compliance with the anti-fraud and anti-corruption provisions. Violations of these provisions are grounds for disciplinary action up to and including immediate termination of employment and possible legal prosecution. In an effort to provide more clarity and further guidance around Goldcorp’s stance on bribery and corruption, the company released a stand-alone Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy in 2013, together with a structured rollout program to ensure awareness and adherence to this new policy throughout the organization. Goldcorp also has risk-based programs in place to prevent and detect potential instances of fraud and corruption proactively in order to ensure compliance with our internal policies and with local and international laws and regulations related to these topics. Goldcorp has a well-established ethics reporting process through which employees and third parties have the ability to escalate allegations of fraud or corruption. All reports received of alleged fraud or corruption are carefully assessed and investigated under the oversight of Goldcorp’s Ethics Committee. All reports of alleged fraudulent activity received during 2013 have been resolved or are currently under active investigation. The activity of our ethics reporting process is a key input in order to determine the effectiveness of our awareness, training and detective efforts for all of the matters covered under our Code of Conduct; including, but not limited to, matters of fraud and corruption1. In the event that we were to confirm an allegation of fraud or corruption, the individual(s) and/or entities involved would face disciplinary measures that could include termination of employment or contract and criminal and/or civil charges as applicable. During 2013, we continued to implement an enhanced Ethics from the Ground Up program in order to assist our employees and other stakeholders to better understand the ethics principles contained in the Code of Conduct, such as principles related to fraud and corruption. This program includes training and awareness initiatives that are delivered through online and live sessions throughout the company. In 2013, in-depth anti-corruption workshops were conducted with employees who, based on an internal assessment, may experience a higher exposure to corruption risks in the course of their duties. Anti-corruption and ethical business topics were also included in the annual Code of Conduct training courses in 2013. In 2013, more than 99% of our “online” employees completed the Code of Conduct course. Training initiatives related to anti-corruption compliance were prioritized by location and function based on a risk assessment exercise conducted at the design stage of the awareness program. In total, 3,528 employees received either workshop or online training related to the Code of Conduct. We have also developed a publication (“Dealing with Suppliers”) that consolidates the main requirements of the Code of Conduct regarding business relationships with suppliers. It has been prepared in English, Spanish and French. People who want to do business with Goldcorp must understand that all purchases will be made exclusively on the basis of price, quality, service and suitability to the company’s needs. Purchases must not result in employees, officers or directors, or their families, personally receiving something of value in exchange. Employees, officers and directors, and their families, must not accept any form of “under-the-table” payment or benefit payment, regardless of cash value. Public Policy Goldcorp encourages everyone to participate in political activities on their own time and at their own expense. In addition, Goldcorp engages responsibly with governments with respect to policy matters that are relevant to our business. Guidance on public policy is set out in our Code of Conduct. Goldcorp believes that it can make a contribution to the development of sound public policy by providing accurate information on our mining activities. When invited, Goldcorp participates in Canadian government outreach related to the mining industry. A key issue for us has been supporting efforts to develop Canadian standards for public reporting of payments to local governments. Goldcorp supports increased mandatory transparency of such payments, which the company already discloses voluntarily. We remain committed to transparency initiatives consistent with the EITI. Goldcorp also participated in government consultations on Metal Mining Effluent Regulations. We support a robust regime which takes into account the need for a reasonable, timely and efficient regulatory process. Contributions to Political Parties In keeping with our commitment to engage responsibly with the communities in which we operate, in 2013, Goldcorp adopted a set of guidelines that sets clear parameters for when and how political contributions are to be made for, or on behalf of, Goldcorp or any of its subsidiaries, regardless of amount or jurisdiction. Political contributions must always be made in full compliance with all applicable laws and Goldcorp’s Code of Conduct. All political contributions must be approved by the Chief Executive Officer or the Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs, in consultation with the Executive Vice President & General Counsel. In 2013, Goldcorp made contributions to political parties and related groups in Canada totalling $210,000. No such donations were reported in other countries of operation. Compliance Goldcorp believes that upholding fair competition is a fundamental component of our commitment to integrity and we are committed to complying with laws which prohibit restraints of trade, unfair practices or abuses of economic power. Our Code of Conduct requires that directors, officers and employees will: Never discuss commercially sensitive information (for example, pricing, quantities, suppliers, delivery dates, production quotas, profit margins, cost structure, etc.) with Goldcorp's business partners or competitors or enter into any agreements (formal, informal or otherwise) regarding commercially sensitive information for the purpose of restraining free trade or competition. Always leave any industry association or other event where our business partners or competitors are discussing topics that may be considered to be anti-competitive practices. There were no fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with these laws and regulations in 2013. 1 As a publicly traded company, Goldcorp complies with applicable public disclosure laws and regulations. Information that is required to be publicly disclosed under such laws and regulations and related to instances of fraud or corruption involving Goldcorp will be disclosed in our financial reports. KEY IMPACTS, RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES Two of the international frameworks we use to guide our reporting – the Global Reporting Initiative and the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) Sustainable Development Framework – require us to develop an understanding of our material sustainability issues, risks and opportunities. For business purposes we also need to be aware of these issues. We have several operational and risk management processes to do so, but historically they have not been linked to our sustainability reporting process. In 2010, we undertook our first materiality assessment of the full range of issues that could be significant for us or our stakeholders from a social, environmental or economic perspective. We further refined this process in 2012 and undertook a full review of the materiality analysis during 2013. As a result, we updated our list of material issues and identified these five to be our most material: Environmental stewardship Embedding human rights Safe and healthy workers Stakeholder engagement Mine closure Environmental Stewardship Water Management: While 70% of the earth's surface is water, 97% of this water is contained in oceans and is too saline for most domestic and industrial purposes. Only 3% of the world’s water is fresh, of which 2% is frozen in glaciers and ice caps. The demands on the remaining 1% of the world's water supply are increasing every year. Regardless of where we operate, we are mindful of the fact that water has a range of potential users. As in previous years, water management continues to be a key topic in all regions, with some sites focused on minimizing consumption and others focused on ensuring that scheduled discharges do not create negative impacts. Since water availability is a critical element in our ability to operate, we once again sought third-party assurance for two key water indicators (total water withdrawal and water sources significantly affected by water withdrawal) to provide continuity with previous reports. To address concerns regarding discharges, we have continued to provide in-depth analysis on water discharge and recycling. We have also provided an update on our Water Strategy implementation in the Environmental Performance Case Study section, which addresses the issue from all sides. Learn more about our approach to water management. Energy Management: We acknowledge climate change as an international and community concern. Governments are moving to introduce climate change legislation and treaties at the international, national, state/provincial and local levels. Where legislation already exists, regulation relating to emission levels and energy efficiency is becoming more stringent. We support and endorse various initiatives for voluntary actions consistent with international initiatives on climate change. We are committed to reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions as we promote energy efficiency at all our operations. Goldcorp will continue to address the potential physical risks of climate change by including extreme weather conditions in emergency response plans as required. Energy management is becoming an increasingly important issue as we move to a carbon constrained future. Goldcorp uses significant amounts of energy from diesel in our fleets of heavy equipment and electricity in our process plants. As mines age they become deeper and require greater amounts of energy to maintain production levels. In the context of our commitment to continuous improvement, we recognize the need to better manage our energy needs and we have developed a Corporate Energy Strategy, which focuses on improving our energy efficiency. This corporate strategy will be complemented by energy management plans, which were developed at each of our operations in 2012. In the past we have focused specifically on climate change. Through our assessment, we found that while there was continued importance placed on this topic, the concerns of our stakeholders were wider than just greenhouse gas emissions. Energy costs comprise a large component of our operating expenses. We continued to seek assurance for greenhouse gas emissions, which requires us to examine our direct and indirect energy consumptions as the basis of the emissions calculations. In addition, we’ve reported information on the energy saving initiatives that resulted from our Operating for Excellence (O4E) program over the last year in our Energy section and in the Environmental Performance Case Study section. Learn more about our responses to energy efficiency and climate change concerns in the Environmental Performance section. Compliance: Environmental compliance is a key issue of concern to our sites, as this forms a large part of their performance management systems. We have reported fully on our compliance indicators in the Compliance section. We have not sought assurance on these indicators, as they are generally related to third-party assessments of our performance through local and national regulators. Embedding Human Rights Human rights are basic rights and freedoms to which everyone is morally or legally entitled. Goldcorp has developed a corporate Human Rights Policy consistent with international law, the ICMM Sustainable Development Framework, the UN Global Compact principles and the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. As stated in our policy, Goldcorp is committed to integrating human rights best practices into our business processes and to inform our decision-making and due diligence processes. As in past years, human rights continued to be an area of interest for stakeholders across the spectrum. We have focused on certain aspects that relate to the ways that human rights manifest themselves most often in our operations. Grievance Management: We want to treat all concerns and complaints that are raised through both our internal and external grievance mechanisms in a predictable and respectful manner that ensures a timely resolution, regardless of the subject matter. However, we acknowledge that any complaint that may relate to a human right should be treated with extra diligence. As a result of the challenges identified in the 2012 data assurance on the grievance mechanism indicator, we have significantly revised how we track and report all complaints, and particularly those that relate to human rights. We are undergoing an assurance readiness review of this indicator, to ensure we can accurately report on these grievances and can derive positive outcomes from our grievance mechanism. Indigenous Rights: In acknowledging the importance placed on our relationships with members of Indigenous communities, we also acknowledge that these communities carry specific rights related to their unique cultures. As a member of the ICMM, we subscribe to the Indigenous Peoples and Mining Position Statement and endeavour to be respectful of our local Indigenous communities’ rights. We address these relationships in the Relationships with Indigenous Communities section. Discrimination: This issue arose as an area of interest primarily for our internal stakeholder audience. As such, we want to provide information on our performance in recognizing and responding to cases of discrimination on our sites. As part of our reporting on human rights, we include discrimination as a core human right complaint issue and we report on those cases that were brought up through our Ethics from the Ground Up hotline. More information is presented in the Human Rights Grievances section. Learn more about our commitment to human rights. Safe and Healthy Workers Mining requires a diligent and rigorous approach to safety. Caring for our people is a core value, and improving safety performance is a key challenge. We are committed to providing the direction, leadership, tools and training necessary to make Goldcorp workplaces Safe Enough for Our Families. We are working to improve processes and implement effective management systems to achieve safe, incident-free work environments. The 2013 materiality survey included the following question: “If you were the Mine General Manager, what issue would you prioritize?” The resounding response was “safety”. While this has a less visible impact on external stakeholders, to the 18,000 men and women who work at our sites and offices, it is paramount. We believe that none of the tasks carried out on behalf of the company are worth doing if they cannot be done safely. Our goal above all is to eliminate fatalities, believing that it is unacceptable that fatalities are still a reality of the industry and in our company. As a result, we did a review on a new indicator introduced in 2013: number of potential fatal occurrences, and we are considering seeking assurance on it in the future. This indicator and the related programs and procedures that have been implemented alongside are detailed in the Safety Performance section. Learn more about our commitment to safety. Stakeholder Engagement We recognize the major impact that our operations have on the areas around our mine sites, bringing both opportunities and issues of concern for residents. We respect human rights, cultures, customs and values when dealing with those who are affected by our activities. We strive to partner with local stakeholders to understand and address their needs, and to help build strong, vibrant and sustainable communities. Our approach hinges on mutual respect, ongoing dialogue and a desire to work together to create sustainable value. Partnerships are one of our six strategy pillars, so at Goldcorp we aim to incorporate it into all we do. Similar to our question about local management priorities in our materiality survey, we also asked our staff what they would prioritize if they were in the Chief Executive’s office. It is no surprise to us that the response was firmly stakeholder engagement and community relations. For those who are in our executive group, the answer was no different, with many examples cited of where engagement is working and where it needs to be improved. We continued to seek assurance on the percentage of operations with local community engagement and programs, as this is the primary indicator of our engagement policy and outcomes. Our short-term goal is to improve integration of stakeholder concerns into our strategic business planning process and search for efficiencies in line with Operating for Excellence. Relationships with Indigenous Communities: Relations with our local Indigenous communities in particular came out as a priority, particularly in the Canada and US region though it is applicable in every region where we operate. We have included in-depth information on the agreements and partnerships we have built with these groups in our section on Indigenous Relationships. We have also included some of the highlight accomplishments that have been achieved through these partnerships in the Community Relations Case Studies section. We are very proud of the productive and respectful connections we’ve built with these partners. Learn more about our community development practices. Mine Closure Goldcorp recognizes that our mines have a finite life and is committed to ensuring what we leave behind after we close is socially, economically and environmentally sound. For the people employed at the mine and in the supporting local economy, this raises questions of what sort of economy will emerge after operations cease. For other local residents, residual environmental impacts are of highest priority. As noted in our environmental stewardship tagline “Our People, Our Planet, Our Choices”, our aim, in every community where we operate, is to make provisions for a sustainable landscape and local economy. Since this is a recent material area, we are undergoing an assurance readiness review on an indicator that assesses our financial provisions for closure. We've also provided an explanation of some of the ways we exceed regulatory requirements in our operations to ensure that what we leave behind is of sustainable value to our stakeholders. These are available in our section on Mine Closure. For in-depth information on the progress of reclamation at our closed sites, we also have a biannual Closed Sites Sustainability Report, which was published in 2013 and will be updated over the coming year. Learn more about our mine closure practices. COMMITMENT TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES As a responsible corporate citizen with responsibilities to our people, our communities, our industry and the environment we all share, Goldcorp has been steadily increasing our presence on national, international and industry-specific boards and organizations. Precautionary Principle The precautionary principle states that when an activity raises threats of harm to the environment or human health, precautionary measures should be taken, even if some cause-and-effect relationships are not fully established scientifically. Goldcorp adopts a risk-based approach to business development. New projects (and upgrades, modifications or expansions of existing operations) undergo an assessment of potential environmental and social impact prior to implementation. For new projects, this is usually in the form of a public impact assessment report, in which the existing (baseline) conditions are described, the proposed project is outlined, potential impacts (both positive and negative) are identified, and modifications and controls to minimize potentially adverse impacts are identified. In all cases, provision is made in the assessment process for public consultation and input. Goldcorp is committed to engaging in consultations with potentially affected host communities prior to making significant development decisions, regardless of any legal requirement to do so. For upgrades, modifications or expansions of existing operations, the level of assessment is commensurate with the potential impacts of the proposed change. External Codes and Initiatives In keeping with our commitment to social responsibility, we have adopted a number of voluntary codes and other external instruments that we consider particularly relevant to our business. We will continue to monitor the advancement of sustainable development initiatives in civil society. Our key commitments include: UN Global Compact Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative International Cyanide Management Code Carbon Disclosure Project Devonshire Initiative Business for Social Responsibility Global Reporting Initiative International Council on Mining and Metals World Gold Council’s Conflict-Free Gold Standard See External Commitments summary for more information on our key external commitments. Industry Associations An industry association is a non-profit mutual benefit organization formed to provide services for its members and to promote education and professional standards. Goldcorp is a member of the following industry associations: Association for Mineral Exploration BC International Council on Mining and Metals Minealliance – Québec, Canada Mining Industry Roundtable on Safety National Mining Association – US Nevada Mining Association – Nevada, US Northwest Mining Association – US Ontario Mining Association – Ontario, Canada Prospectors and Developers Association of Canada World Gold Council STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE CASE STUDY In His Own Words In March 2013, John Bell, Chair of the Sustainability, Environment, Health and Safety Committee of our Board of Directors, was interviewed by the Institute of Corporate Directors for their in-house magazine, ICD Director Journal1. We have republished a portion of that interview here, as John discusses what role the Board plays in overseeing our sustainability performance and strategy. HOW DOES THE BOARD ENSURE IT HAS THE INFORMATION TO DO ITS JOB? WHAT RESEARCH AVENUES DO YOU EXPLORE IN THIS REGARD? The Board relies on fulsome and detailed presentations by management at Board meetings and annual budget sessions. We also have direct contact with the CEO and senior management between meetings on issues of interest, and at various corporate events. The Sustainability, Environment, Health and Safety (SEH&S) Committee that I lead at Goldcorp benefits from regular visits to mine sites to get a real sense of the issues and accomplishments at that particular mine. We usually meet members of the local community and see for ourselves Goldcorp’s impact on the local inhabitants. In early 2012, the Board met with native elders at a major reclamation site in Timmins, Ontario, and in Quebec we spent a day with the Wemindji Cree Community on James Bay, with whom we have a collaboration agreement for our Éléonore project. I find it extremely useful and enjoyable, as part of keeping on top of key issues pertaining to the participation in the SEH&S Committee, to attend Goldcorp’s safety, environment and sustainability workshops held every two years, which bring together all mine general managers and environmental, safety and CSR managers to discuss these subjects in depth. For context, I also rely on country reports prepared quarterly by an outside source for background on the changing economic and geopolitical situations in the various jurisdictions where the company operates. The world is evolving rapidly; it’s important to keep abreast of what’s happening in the industry and beyond, and to keep learning. SHOULD DIRECTORS BECOME INVOLVED IN COMMUNITY INITIATIVES, OR ARE THEY MORE EFFECTIVE AROUND THE BOARDROOM TABLE? My opinion is that directors’ effectiveness in overviewing community relations depends on their contributions in the boardroom. However, their input is certainly better informed if they have visited local communities and heard and seen their reaction on the ground. Stakeholders benefit from having the Board take a close interest in their situation. 1 Originally published in Issue 166, March 2013, the Director Journal, a publication of the Institute of Corporate Directors (ICD). ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION We are committed to delivering long-term value and superior returns to shareholders while operating safely and responsibly. ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION We generate far-reaching economic opportunities in the often remote communities and regions in which we operate. We hire and source locally, provide training and support to help people start and develop careers, and contribute to local and regional infrastructure and services. We want to be a catalyst for development that outlives our activities, building community Sweet Success with the Lac Seul Small capacity and creating a better future for the people living in the area – in Business Equity Fund addition to delivering value to our shareholders. Some key economic contributions in 2013 included: Gold production of 2.7 million ounces. All-in sustaining cash costs of $1,031 an ounce. Entry-level wages at our operations were higher than those in the local community, up to 3.2 times the local wage. 90% of the employees at our operations were from the local community Awash in Opportunities or region. The total tax contribution in less developed countries (Argentina, Chile, Guatemala, Mexico and the Dominican Republic) was $737 million, which represents 288% of the contribution in developed countries (Canada, US). MANAGEMENT APPROACH Goldcorp is one of the world’s fastest-growing senior gold producers with operations and development projects located in safe jurisdictions throughout the Americas. A Canadian company headquartered in Vancouver, British Columbia, we employ more than 18,000 people worldwide. Goldcorp is committed to responsible mining practices and is well positioned to deliver sustained, industry-leading growth and performance. To achieve our goals, Goldcorp remains focused on five key attributes: disciplined growth, low all-in sustaining costs, maintaining a strong balance sheet, operating in regions with relatively low political risk, and conducting business responsibly to create sustainable value. Goals and Performance At Goldcorp, our goals are to deliver long-term value and superior returns to shareholders while operating safely and responsibly. There are four elements to our strategy: Steady Growth: In a few short years, we have grown to take our place among the world’s largest gold producers. Our growth profile is exceptional, with an expected 50% increase in gold production in the next two years. Low-Cost Production: In 2013, we produced nearly 2.7 million ounces of gold at all-in sustaining cash costs of $1,031 an ounce. In 2014, all-in sustaining cash costs are expected to drop to between $950 and $1,000 per ounce. Over the next two years, we forecast a further reduction in all-in sustaining costs of 15–20%. Political Stability: Our asset portfolio is located in politically stable, low-risk jurisdictions in the Americas. We conduct business in a socially and environmentally responsible manner, and we share the benefits of our operations with local communities and authorities to ensure that we are welcomed wherever we operate. Financial Strength: Our balance sheet is the strongest in the sector. We ended 2013 with $2.6 billion in liquidity made up of cash equivalents of approximately $625 million and an undrawn $2.0 billion credit facility providing us with significant financial flexibility for new opportunities. For further discussion on our liquidity, please refer to our 2013 Annual Report. Over time, Goldcorp investors have benefited from growth in key financial measures including cash flow and earnings per share. In addition, we continue to endeavour to contribute to local economies around our sites so that we can achieve our vision of creating sustainable value together with our local employees, suppliers and communities. Policy The company's consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), effective as of December 31, 2013. IFRS comprises IFRSs, International Accounting Standards (IASs), and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) and the former Standing Interpretations Committee (SIC). A complete list of the company’s significant accounting policies can be found in our Annual Financial Report. Boundary for Financial Indicators As already stated in the Boundary section, data presented in this report covers our nine operations in 2013 (including Marigold) and select projects based on their advancement (primarily Cerro Negro and Éléonore) and applicability of the indicator. However, data that is reported in the Economic Contribution section follows the reporting procedures utilized in our 2013 Annual Report. Some data, where noted, are non-GAAP measures on an attributable basis, which include discontinued operations and projects and the company’s share of Alumbrera and Pueblo Viejo. CORPORATE PERFORMANCE1 Goldcorp continues to be guided by the strategy and the values that have made us the fastest-growing senior gold company and position us to deliver a forecasted 50% growth in gold production over the next two years. VALUE DISTRIBUTED IN 2013 Economic Performance Gold production for the year increased by 11%, totalling approximately 2.7 million ounces compared to 2.4 million gold ounces in 2012. The increase was primarily due to our joint venture operation, Pueblo Viejo, achieving commercial production, as well as improved operational performance at Musselwhite and at Porcupine, which helped offset production challenges experienced at other sites. Goldcorp took swift action in response to the mid-year decline in commodity prices, implementing the Operating for Excellence (O4E) programs to achieve greater efficiencies and reduce costs. In 2013, Goldcorp adopted an “all-in sustaining cost” measurement, which includes sustaining capital expenditures in our cost breakdown and provides greater transparency about the true cost of producing every ounce of gold. In 2013, all-in sustaining costs were $1,031 per ounce1. In 2013, our adjusted revenues were $4.7 billion2, while operating cash flow before changes in working capital decreased to $1.6 billion, from $2.1 billion in 2012. Our ability to generate growing cash flow coupled with our sound balance sheet allowed us to return additional value to our shareholders in the form of a higher dividend. In 2013, Goldcorp paid dividends of $486 million, compared to $438 million in 2012, and we will continue to aim to provide industry-leading returns to our shareholders. Reserves declined 19% to 54 million ounces, from 67 million ounces in 2012. The decrease was driven by a focus on high-margin production, a lower assumed gold price and the suspension of exploration activities at Cerro Negro. For a full review of Goldcorp’s economic performance for 2013, please refer to our audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2013 and related notes available on our website. Value Added VALUE GENERATED Total adjusted revenues were $4.7 million in 2013 compared to $5.4 million in 20122. The decrease in revenues resulted from the decline in commodity prices during 2013 as compared to the prior year. VALUE DISTRIBUTED PwC carried out a value distributed calculation for Goldcorp for 2013. This assessment included dividends paid to external shareholders, wages and salaries net of employment taxes, payments to sub-contractors, total contribution to governments and direct contributions as community investment. The pie chart above shows the percentage of the total value distributed allocated to each group. Approximately 38% of the value distributed by Goldcorp was paid to governments in taxes borne and collected. 1 Financial and operational indicators in this section have been aligned with our financial reports, per our Boundary section. Non-GAAP measure on an attributable basis thereby includes the company’s mining operations, including discontinued operations and projects and the company’s share of Alumbrera and Pueblo Viejo. 2 Non-GAAP measure on an attributable basis thereby includes the company’s mining operations, including discontinued operations and projects and the company’s share of Alumbrera and Pueblo Viejo. CONTRIBUTIONS TO AND FROM GOVERNMENT Payments to Government As a member of the International Council on Mining and Metals, Goldcorp is committed to the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) – a global standard that promotes revenue transparency. The EITI has a robust yet flexible methodology for monitoring and reconciling company payments and government revenues at the country level. Learn more about the EITI. In 2010, PwC conducted its second industry-wide study that looked at the total taxes of 22 of the world’s largest mining companies, focusing on their most significant operations in 20 different jurisdictions using 2008 data: “The study results show that mining companies make a large economic contribution in the countries where they operate. The companies taking part reported total figures for turnover of US$62.9bn, wages and salaries paid to employees of US$6.0bn and a total contribution to government of US$10.1bn.” For the sixth year in a row, Goldcorp conducted a similar study using the PwC Total Tax Contribution (TTC) methodology across all of our main operating sites. The study breaks taxes and other contributions into two categories: Taxes borne: the amounts that are a cost to Goldcorp and affect its results. In 2013, the study found that, for every $1 of corporate income tax paid, another $1.04 was paid in other taxes and contributions borne. Taxes collected: the taxes for which Goldcorp is the unpaid tax collector on behalf of the government, which represent an administrative burden. In 2013, the study found that, for every $1 of corporate income tax paid by Goldcorp, another $1.48 of taxes was collected. A significant decline in the gold price and profitability has led to a decrease in Goldcorp’s Total Tax Contribution and other government payments, to $993 million. This represents a drop of 0.4%. For every $100 of revenue, Goldcorp pays $21.3 in taxes – which is an increase of 3% compared to 2012 – meaning that while the TTC has fallen, the burden of taxes compared to revenue has increased. The profile of total taxes collected is similar to previous years, which emphasizes the stability of these tax contributions to public finances. CONTRIBUTIONS TO GOVERNMENT Goldcorp makes a very sizable contribution to public finances in the countries in which it operates. For the main operating sites, the total in 2013 was $933 million. Goldcorp pays many more taxes than just corporate income tax and mining taxes. While corporate income tax and mining taxes vary with mineral prices and profitability, and can be volatile from year to year, many of the other taxes paid by Goldcorp are fixed in nature and will not fall when profits decrease. Employment taxes linked to number of employees, and wages and property taxes linked to property ownership, will show less volatility year-on-year regardless of the economic environment. The table below shows the total Goldcorp paid directly to governments in 2013. Taxes and contributions borne Taxes Total Tax Contributions (including other payments to Country ($ Millions) collected government) Argentina 131 152 283 Mexico 211 70 281 Canada 113 119 232 Dominican 105 9 114 Republic Guatemala 49 4 53 US 15 9 24 Chile 2 4 6 The Total Tax Contribution in less developed countries (Argentina, Chile, Guatemala, Mexico and the Dominican Republic) is $737 million, which represents 288% of the contribution in developed countries (Canada, US). We estimate that the Total Tax Contribution represents 0.8% of total government receipts in Guatemala, 0.1% in Mexico and 0.1% in Argentina. The Cost of Doing Business Goldcorp’s TTC forms the basis of several key indicators that show our total economic footprint. Total Tax Contribution per ounce of gold: Overall, Goldcorp’s TTC per ounce of gold is $366, which is calculated based on the gold production at each mine. This represents a drop of 11.8% from 2012 which is consistent with the reduction in the price of gold between 2012 and 2013. Total Tax Contribution as a percentage of revenue: TTC as a percentage of revenue is well adapted to the mining industry since it is linked to revenue and is therefore relevant for a longer period over the life cycle of a mining project than a measure linked to profit. In 2013, this yields an overall ratio of 21.3%, meaning that for every $100 of turnover, $21.3 is paid out in taxes. On a country basis, the ratios for Canada and Guatemala are similar (14.5% and 12%, respectively). Mexico increased to 16.5% and the United States is lowest with a ratio of 10.4%. Argentina's is the highest ratio at 70.3%, a result of production taxes paid in this country. Total Tax Rate: The Total Tax Rate is a measure of the cost of taxes in relation to profitability and calculates the total taxes borne as a percentage of profits before all those taxes borne. Only taxes borne are included in the Total Tax Rate calculation; taxes collected are not included. Taxes and contributions borne that are deductible in calculating the profit before corporate income tax are added back to arrive at a profit before total taxes and contributions borne figure. The table below shows the Total Tax Rate for Canada, Guatemala and Dominican Republic. In 2013, Mexico, United States and Argentina have reported a loss before tax. This gives rise to an overall loss before tax of $1,660 million for Goldcorp in 2013. As a result, it is not possible to calculate a Total Tax Rate for these countries or Goldcorp overall. The amounts calculated for profitable countries are summarized in the table below. Dominican Canada US Mexico Guatemala Chile Argentina Republic Total Tax Rate 18.3% – – 42.2 – – 38.0% Taxation and Transparency Initiatives All companies are coming under increased public scrutiny regarding the taxes they pay, and mining companies are at the forefront in this debate. The Publish What You Pay coalition of civil society organizations is campaigning for greater revenue transparency in the oil, gas and mining industries and is calling on companies to disclose payments to government and other information on a country-by-country basis. In 2013, there were no new tax reporting initiatives for the extractive industry, but there was progress on the initiatives already in existence. SECTION 1504 OF THE DODD-FRANK WALL STREET REFORM AND CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT By virtue of its listing on the New York Stock Exchange, Goldcorp is expected to report its payments to government under section 1504 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. In October 2012, the American Petroleum Institute launched a legal challenge against the SEC’s rules that implemented the country-by-country provisions in the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. On July 2, 2013, the District Court for the District of Columbia “vacated and remanded” the SEC’s rules. The countryby-country disclosures in the Act are therefore suspended until the SEC has introduced revised rules, which we understand is likely to be in March 2015. MANDATORY DISCLOSURE IN CANADA On January 16, 2014, the Resource Revenue Transparency Working Group consisting of Representatives from industry and from civil society organizations released its recommendations for mandatory disclosure of payments to governments for Canadian listed mining companies. The group recommended that all mining groups listed in Canada should report to the Canadian Securities administrators on their payments to governments in a similar way to the EU and Dodd-Frank regimes. As Goldcorp is listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange, the disclosure rules, once implemented, will apply to Goldcorp. The timetable for the implementation of the rules is not specified in the recommendations beyond a general comment that it should be “implemented in an expeditious manner, while providing reporting companies with the appropriate time to adjust their accounting and reporting systems”. From the recommendations it seems likely that a disclosure to the SEC under section 1504 of the Dodd-Frank Act is likely to be seen as equivalent to the disclosures envisaged in Canada. A group making a disclosure to the SEC could therefore make the same disclosure in Canada. EXTRACTIVE INDUSTRIES TRANSPARENCY INITIATIVE The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) framework that applies to all EITI countries was reviewed and a new standard issued in May 2013. The new standard seeks to make EITI reports more relevant and easier to read by ensuring that the data is put in context; all EITI reports will now have to contain information on the nature and size of the extractive industry in the relevant country. For companies that report under the EITI rules, the most significant change is likely to be the disclosure of payments by company and project as the EITI seeks to align its disclosure with that of the EU and Dodd-Frank. Goldcorp has mining operations in Canada, US, Mexico, Guatemala, Chile, Argentina and Dominican Republic. Of these countries, Guatemala has adopted the EITI and the US is a candidate country. The precise rules for each EITI country are set by the multi-stakeholder group in that country; however, the items to be disclosed are likely to be similar to those disclosed under the Dodd-Frank regimes outlined above. While we do not operate in any European Union countries, we recognize that legislation there will have impact on other economies where we do operate, as well as signal the broader trends for the industry. Amendments to the EU Directives on Accounting and Transparency will require country-by-country reporting of payments to governments by extractive companies in the EU. Groups will be required to report payments to governments under the directive if they have extractive activity and if they are: 1. Listed on a regulated stock exchange in any EU Member State, or 2. If they have a large company within the EU which either carries out extractive activity itself, or controls a company that carries out extractive activity Government Financial Assistance The direct financial assistance received from governments in 2013 was just over 1.6 million, compared with just $10 million in 2012. All assistance was received in Canada through rebates to our three operations in Ontario. Goldcorp does not have any direct joint venture relationship in which a government is in a position of shared ownership. However, we do on occasion have state-owned institutional investors (for example, public pension funds). PENSIONS Employee Pension Plans Goldcorp sponsors various defined contribution and defined benefit pension plans for its employees. Total cash payments for employee pension plans for the year ended December 31, 2013, consisting of cash contributed by Goldcorp to funded defined benefit pension plans, cash payments directly to beneficiaries of unfunded defined benefit pension plans, and cash contributed to defined contribution plans, were $26.4 million. DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PENSION PLANS Goldcorp sponsors several defined contribution pension plans covering approximately 90% of employees in Canada and 100% of employees in the US. Under these plans, Goldcorp contributes either a fixed percentage of its employees’ salaries or matches a percentage of its employees’ contributions. Goldcorp’s employees are able to direct the contributions into a variety of investment funds offered by the plans. Our expense related to these plans was $22.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, included in operating expenses and corporate administration in the consolidated statements of earnings. DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLANS Goldcorp sponsors defined benefit pension plans covering certain Canadian and Mexican employees. Approximately 13% of employee pensions are defined benefit (non-union employees in Mexico, approximately 28% of the employees in Mexico, and union employees in Canada, approximately 9% of the employees in our Canada and US region). The net accrued benefit liability at December 31, 2013 is $6.8 million. LOCAL ECONOMIC IMPACT Goldcorp contributes to the economic development and wealth of host communities and countries through royalties and taxes paid directly to governments, as well as through: Wages and salaries paid to employees and contractors Job creation through the expansion of existing projects and new growth projects Payments to suppliers for goods and services Indirect job creation and small-business development in surrounding communities and towns Upgrades to local infrastructure Financial support for community development Direct voluntary royalty payments to local communities. All of our operations have an impact on their local and regional economies. Therefore, we have not attempted to identify particular sites that may have a greater or lesser impact. We have defined our areas of influence as: Local: those communities immediately surrounding the mine Regional: the broader area surrounding the mine, often equating to a state or province, and usually including one or more large population centres National: the country in which the mine is located International: all countries other than the host country. Goldcorp recognizes that we have the ability to impact local economies around our sites in a positive way. Through local hiring and procurement, we actively seek to extend the economic and social benefits of our operations beyond the mine boundary. We are in the process of developing policies and procedures that will help implement this goal. We have a number of site-specific programs already in place, such as the support for trade schools in Mexico and Argentina, which will contribute to a strong local skilled labour force. Wages We routinely pay entry-level wages that are significantly higher than those in the local community. This is particularly true for our mines located in areas that have a largely rural economy, but is also true (although to a lesser extent) in many Canadian and US locations. The World Bank produces annual tables for gross national income per capita by country. Their most recent publication was per capita income for 2012. The table below compares the average wage per employee paid by Goldcorp in 2013 in our principal countries of interest, beside the respective World Bank national per capita income for 2012. National income per capita Country Goldcorp average wage (2013) Multiple (2013)1 Canada $118,290 $50,970 2.3 US $83,950 $50,120 1.7 Mexico $47,151 $9,740 4.8 Chile $158,000 $14,280 11.1 Guatemala $21,091 $3,120 6.8 Argentina $49,379 $9,740 5.1 DR $19,940 $5,470 3.6 We have also collected data on the ratio between the standard entry-level wages at our operations compared to local minimum wages. An entry-level wage is the full-time wage offered to an employee in the lowest employment category and minimum wage refers to the lowest level of compensation allowable under law. The lowest ratio by site at our operations in 2013 is approximately equal to the local wage, and the highest ratio by site is 3.2 times the local wage, with a mean of 2.4. Operating region 2013 wage ratio2 2012 wage ratio2 2011 wage ratio2 Canada and US 2.4 2.5 2.3 Mexico 2.4 2.4 2.8 Central and South America 1.9 1.6 1.1 Goldcorp Operations 2.4 2.5 2.3 Local Purchases We give preference to local businesses wherever possible, provided they meet minimum safety, quality and cost requirements. However, we are always conscious of the potential distortion that our purchasing policy can have on local economies and we take care to keep unwanted impacts to a minimum. In 2013, 42% of goods and services were purchased from local and regional sources3. This amount is a slight increase from what was reported in 2012. High-cost capital equipment (including trucks, shovels, mills and processing equipment) and most bulk reagents cannot be sourced locally. These major expenditures are reflected in the national and international percentages shown in the graph. The table below shows the percentage of goods and services purchased at the regional, national and international levels by operating region. Purchase of goods and services (%) Operating region Regional National International 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 Canada and US 61% 68% 70% 38% 30% 29% 1% 1% 2% Mexico 21% 18% 14% 70% 70% 78% 9% 11% 9% Central and South America 5% 4% 6% 77% 76% 69% 18% 19% 25% Goldcorp Operations 42% 41% 41% 53% 51% 52% 5% 7% 7% Local Employment Goldcorp has a policy of hiring locally. Where particular skills and experience are not available locally or regionally, we will target national and international labour markets. We routinely train unskilled local recruits in a range of mine-related work categories and we provide apprenticeships and technical training support for a range of other employment opportunities. In 2013, 90% of employees were drawn from local and regional sources (an approximately 9% increase since 2012), with only 1% recruited internationally. The table below shows these percentages broken down by operating region. Employees (%) Operating region Local Regional National International 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 Canada and US 76% 74% 71% 20% 21% 25% 4% 4% 4% 0% 0% 0% Mexico 41% 34% 37% 46% 28% 26% 12% 37% 36% 1% 1% 1% Central and South America 66% 65% 62% 10% 11% 12% 21% 20% 23% 3% 4% 4% Goldcorp Operations 63% 59% 59% 27% 23% 24% 9% 17% 17% 1% 1% 1% Goldcorp employs a total of 107 senior managers (department head or above) at our operating sites. Of these, 83 (78%) are resident nationals of the country in which the mine is located (94% in 2012 and 91% in 2011). For every employee Goldcorp pays employment taxes, which are an indication of the direct benefit brought to public finances for each job created or maintained by Goldcorp in the country where we operate. Indirect Economic Impacts As one of our Corporate Social Responsibility goals, we want to strengthen the breadth and depth of the local economy. Our programs vary, based on local resources, skills, traditions and many other factors, and we have achieved real successes. Our funding and support have helped establish a variety of locally owned small and medium-sized businesses. We share our equipment, administrative assistance and expertise to develop the capacity of local entrepreneurs. We facilitate workshops and programs in many communities to preserve and generate income from local traditions and skills. We have not attempted to estimate the indirect economic benefits that flow to local and regional communities from our operations and development activities. The impact on regional economic activity will vary depending on local circumstances, but the potential economic stimulus is large. We routinely contribute to the construction and maintenance of local infrastructure and services. The main areas of investment are education, health, local services (e.g., water supply, power, etc.) and roads. 1 World Bank (2013). Gross National Income per Capita 2011. The World Bank did not provide any data specific to Argentina, instead estimated it to be upper middle income of $4,036 to $12,475. 2 Based on an entry-level wage for an unskilled male worker. 3 In some cases, where a clear distinction cannot be made between local and regional, these areas of influence have been combined as regional. ECONOMIC CASE STUDIES Sweet Success with the Lac Seul Small Business Equity Fund At Goldcorp, our vision is Together, Creating Sustainable Value – and this means creating value in our local communities and for our partners. A landmark moment for us in 2013 was signing the Obishikokaang Collaboration Agreement with the Lac Seul First Nation (LSFN), establishing a mutually beneficial partnership. This presents unique opportunities for local entrepreneurs from the Lac Seul community through the Lac Seul Small Business Equity (SBE) Fund. The Lac Seul SBE Fund was created and funded with a $1 million contribution by Red Lake Gold Mines to assist with capital funding of new First Nation businesses and to expand existing businesses. Funding is available through either grants or loans and must be used as business equity. The fund is available to the LSFN band as well as LSFN members who bring forward a sustainable and solid business plan that will contribute to the economic development of the local area. The first fund application was made by the LSFN band, with an idea that seems central to Canadian culture from coast to coast: a Tim Hortons cafe. The band opened the Tim Hortons in Sioux Lookout, Ontario, which is a few hours south of Red Lake. As the main hub for fly-in/fly-out northern communities, and one of the largest towns within the LSFN traditional territory, the Sioux Lookout location made good business sense, and would offer employment to local band members living in the area. While the story has a sweet ending, there were plenty of challenges involved in the start-up. Managers from the LSFN went on a seven-week training course that involved hands-on experience at the busy Oakville, Ontario, Tim Hortons location. Back in Sioux Lookout, they then had to transfer that training to their local recruits – many of whom came from the LSFN. The local team had to learn the ropes of bakery production and customer service. Now, the LSFN and the Tim Hortons management and staff have good reason to celebrate: they reached $1 million in sales during their first year, receiving a milestone award in 2013. There seems to be no sign of slowing down: during the early part of their second year, they also exceeded their next million dollars in sales. Now with each doughnut or double-double sold, the Lac Seul Small Business Equity Fund is contributing to the sweet success of local business development. Awash in Opportunities Production is yet to commence at the Éléonore mine in northern Québec, but new economic and social benefits are unfolding each and every day. The mine already employs about 1,200 people (including contractors), many from surrounding communities, and several enterprising businesses have popped up, including locally owned housekeeping services, ecotourism ventures and administrative services. The Cree Nation of Wemindji and Goldcorp signed the Opinagow Collaboration Agreement on February 21, 2011. One of the main objectives of the Opinagow Collaboration Agreement is to share in the success of Éléonore’s development and operation through employment and training opportunities, scholarships and business development opportunities. Wemindji’s laundromat is a great example of successful small business development in Éléonore’s area of impact. In 2011, a community member from Wemindji recognized the need for laundry services due to mine development as well as hydroelectric development. This idea led to a partnership between the Tawich Development Corporation, which is the economic arm of the local Cree Nation, and Goldcorp to create Wemindji Laundry. The laundromat officially opened its doors on October 28, 2013, a brand new purpose-built facility that is equipped with four industrial sized washing and drying machines. Subsequently, a new transportation company was created in Wemindji by a local person to transport loads of laundry to and from site. The laundry facility is located in the town of Wemindji and is also equipped with coin-operated machines to serve the 1,300 community members who live in Wemindji. Wemindji Laundry currently has eight employees who all identify as members of the Cree Nation. They are doing four times the business volume anticipated and are therefore poised for additional growth and prosperity. An additional resource is to be hired to provide sewing services for clothing repairs. Not only has Wemindji Laundry created local employment opportunities, it has also helped Goldcorp lower maintenance costs and reduce Éléonore’s environmental footprint. Jean-Philippe Clement, who is the Transport and Accommodation Coordinator at Éléonore, said: “Having the laundry done away from the project site means less pressure placed on the local water system. It’s important for us to remember the impact on the communities and the environment around us when we are building large infrastructure. Opportunities such as Wemindji Laundry will continue to develop as Éléonore moves from the construction to production phase later this year. Going forward, Goldcorp looks forward to working with local stakeholders to support more of these types of opportunities thereby advancing Goldcorp’s vision of Creating Sustainable Value. PEOPLE AT GOLDCORP We embrace an active, entrepreneurial workforce that values safety and operating for excellence. PEOPLE AT GOLDCORP At Goldcorp, we embrace an active, innovative workforce that values safety and operating for excellence. For many workers at our operations, entry-level jobs, apprenticeships and scholarships at Goldcorp are the start of new careers, opportunities to participate in the global or local economy, and a chance to improve the lives of their families. We take our role Lifelong Learning for Employees seriously and strive to encourage and empower all employees to achieve their full potential. Our workforce of approximately 18,000 employees and contractors represents an increase of 13% from December 31, 2012, driven primarily by the increase in activity at our development projects. 90% of employees at operational sites come from the local or regional area. Throughout 2013, Goldcorp continued to actively empower personnel to advance careers and business skills through numerous programs including technical skills training, safety and leadership training, and executive development. Goldcorp’s value proposition continues to be implemented across the organization: Safe production: we believe in looking out for our fellow employees. Thinking, Caring, and Acting to be Safe Enough for our Families means never walking past an unsafe act and that no one should die to produce an ounce of gold. We believe in creating a workplace that is safe enough for our families. Acting ethically: we believe in having integrity and treating people with respect; that bribery and corruption are always wrong. We believe in doing the right thing. Respecting all stakeholders: we believe in building partnerships, treating people fairly, listening to our stakeholders and being a good neighbour. Open communication: we believe in speaking up, admitting when we have made a mistake, being honest and talking straight from the heart. Empowering others: we believe in leading by example, mentoring, life-long learning, sharing ideas, recognizing good work and taking responsibility. We believe in setting our teams up for success. Operating for Excellence: we believe in treating the business and its resources like they’re our own, questioning for possibilities and looking for new and better ways of doing things. We believe in creating sustainable value. MANAGEMENT APPROACH Goldcorp’s employment philosophy is to hire qualified and experienced individuals who will contribute to the success of the organization. We reach out to our communities, colleges, schools and universities to attract the talent we need and balance that with selective key hires at management levels throughout the company. We are committed to supporting and encouraging the development of our people by providing training and opportunities for continuous learning and career growth. Goldcorp is committed to delivering an outstanding employee experience. With a workforce of approximately 18,000 in diverse regions throughout the Americas, we provide a variety of career opportunities and new challenges, and offer exciting travel, cultural exposure and international work experience. In 2013, we identified the need to improve our onboarding experience; a program is being developed and will be implemented in 2014. Goals and Performance Corporate objectives are established each year and then cascaded throughout the organization so that they can be incorporated into individual employee performance objectives. Goldcorp's performance management system, called the Golden Performance System or GPS, continues to be implemented across the organization. We expect all regions to have full access to the GPS by the end of 2015. Employees work with their supervisor to set up annual objectives at the beginning of the year, and then participate in discussions on performance and achievements throughout the year, with formal reviews at the mid-year and year end. In this way, Goldcorp ensures that corporate and individual goals complement one another and that the company is aligned to both the key performance goals and our strategy. In the goal-setting process, individuals are also asked to set their own personal development goals in addition to performance objectives. Follow-through on personal (and performance) objectives is the shared responsibility of the employee and their supervisor. For additional information on the corporate objectives, please consult the Annual Information Form. Policy Our human resources policies are developed and implemented within the various jurisdictions in which we operate. This ensures that these policies take local regulations into account. A comprehensive package is made available to new employees outlining policies, benefits, and process and procedures. This material is maintained on our intranet and updated on an ongoing basis. These policies include: Code of Conduct Human Rights Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Safety and Health Environmental and Sustainability Corporate Social Responsibility Confidentiality, Disclosure and Insider Trading Organizational Responsibility Goldcorp operates under a stewardship organization model that maintains overall corporate direction and some standardization through key business policies, guidelines and practices, while allowing for regional oversight of operations and employees. This model is consistent with our Operating for Excellence (O4E) approach and maintains our entrepreneurial spirit. The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors assists the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities relating to human resources and compensation issues, and in establishing a succession plan for executive officers and other members of senior management. In 2013, the committee had four members, all of whom were independent directors. Goldcorp’s human resources function is headed by a Senior Vice President for People and Safety who reports directly to the President and Chief Executive Officer. The Senior Vice President for People and Safety is supported by a Vice President, People, and two directors covering the areas of recruitment and talent management, compensation, organizational development, and pensions and benefits. Training and Awareness In 2013, we continued to focus on training and development across all regions and operations. Our efforts in the areas of succession planning, performance management and the identification of high-potential candidates underline our continuing commitment to our employees at Goldcorp and address the increased demand for skilled employees in our worldwide markets. We also continue to empower our personnel through numerous programs designed to advance careers and business skills, including safety and leadership and executive development. In particular, we had the following programs running through 2013: Dare to Grow: targeted at employees to help them understand their potential for growth at Goldcorp. Supervisory Leadership Development Program: for supervisors to develop their leadership skills as they continue to grow their career at Goldcorp; this program is being redesigned. Art and Science: targeted at manager and executive levels, this course provides a balance of leadership and management skill development. Creating Choices: a program specifically to develop leadership and communication skills for women in our workforce. Safety Leadership Training: targeted at supervisory levels to develop leadership skills with a primary focus on safety. In addition, Goldcorp encourages people to participate in advanced education, training or other professional development activities, and may offer financial assistance to do so. Requests for financial assistance are evaluated on a case-by-case basis. Monitoring and Follow-up Feedback is solicited from all employees who attend training and development programs to ensure that value is being added. Discussions are also held with the employee’s supervisor, who is asked whether they see on-the-job performance improvements. Goldcorp conducts periodic employee surveys to determine employee engagement and identify areas for improvement. In 2013, we communicated the results of our 2012 Global Engagement Survey. Over 80% participation in the survey demonstrates active employee interest and engagement in the company. Plans to address the key observations were developed at the appropriate organizational level and progress on action plans is tracked quarterly by the senior leadership team. As a result of the feedback received, the two most significant organizational changes are the redesign of the leadership programs and the deployment of a variety of internal communications strategies. Additional Contextual Information Goldcorp is committed to fostering an open and inclusive workplace environment and strongly supports the principle that all individuals should have an equal opportunity to participate in our company and achieve their full potential. A Diversity Policy was drafted in 2013 and was approved by the Board in early 2014. OUR WORKFORCE Goldcorp’s innovative spirit plays a major role in our success, and attracts and retains an exceptional group of talented and skilled people. Our people drive our business and set us apart from our competition, which is why we consistently recruit, cultivate and retain the industry’s top talent. Over the past decade, the worldwide mining boom has significantly increased the demand for mining-related skills and experience. Universities and schools are only just beginning to see an uptake in mining and related disciplines. The talent supply in the mining business therefore remains tight globally, as fewer people have entered the mining industry over the past few decades. Goldcorp is working with schools and universities to promote mining as a career as well as supporting co-op, intern and graduate programs. Goldcorp also operates in a highly competitive market for senior management and executives and the attraction and retention of talented and experienced executives is a key objective of Goldcorp’s executive compensation program. Composition In this report, we use the term “employees” to refer to full-time employees of Goldcorp. The term “contractors” refers to outside labour who are hired in to do a specific task (in some jurisdictions a contractor is defined as a “supervised worker”: an individual who performs regular work on-site for, or on behalf of, the reporting organization but is not recognized as an employee under national law or practice). The term “workforce” is used to cover both employees and contractors. At December 31, 2013, Goldcorp’s workforce was just over 18,000. This is a 13% increase from our workforce numbers at December 31, 2012. This is due largely to the increased activity at our advanced projects, Cerro Negro and Éléonore. Operating region Employees Contractors Total workforce Canada and US 2,893 804 3,697 Mexico 3,361 2,856 6,217 Central and South America 1,628 1,736 3,364 Projects 1,156 3,638 4,794 Corporate 252 14 266 Total 9,290 9,048 18,338 Full-time salaried Hourly (non-union) Hourly (union) Total Canada and US 916 1,717 260 2,893 Mexico 946 0 2,415 3,361 Central and South America 1,565 63 0 1,628 Projects 601 224 331 1,156 Corporate 252 0 0 252 Total 4,280 2,004 3,006 9,290 We track certain diversity indicators for both employees and contractors. Due to the temporary and rotational nature of some of our contracted services, a contractor completing a task may change frequently depending on the type of work and the contractor availability at any given time, so the gender breakdown for contractors was not available at all sites. We have focused our reporting on direct employees. Male Female Total Canada and US 2,566 327 2,893 Mexico 2,949 412 3,361 Central and South America 1,445 183 1,628 Projects 1,039 117 1,156 Corporate 173 79 252 Total 8,172 1,118 9,290 Outsourcing We partner extensively with contractors during the construction of new projects and when significant investments are made to our existing operations. Contractors provide a source of short-term labour, as well as specific construction expertise which is not readily available within our own workforce. We also make use of contractors to supplement our own expertise in key areas of our operations. We have a number of long-term partnerships with contractors who undertake critical components of our operation. Contractors are required to comply with our policies and procedures, such as the Code of Conduct and safety procedures, when undertaking work on our sites. Our use of long-term contractors falls into three broad areas: Mining and processing: These are our core functions and we tend to use contractors only as a supplement to our own employee workforce. We sometimes are looking for a key technical resource that we currently do not have in-house. Maintenance: Contractors are used at most of our sites due, at least in part, to the specialized nature of some maintenance functions. These activities are often cyclical and we do not always staff up internally for these roles. Drilling, blasting, security, employee transport and catering: While these functions are important to the operation of our sites, they are frequently contracted out to firms that specialize in these activities. The total cost of sub-contractors in 2013 was $519 million, compared with $383 million in 2012. Employee Turnover Goldcorp strives to maintain a positive and dynamic working environment at all sites in order to attract and retain the right staff. Increased demand for skilled labour in the resource industry has created a global shortage of and increased competition for highly skilled workers (in addition to increased labour costs). This increased competition is partly a result of lower numbers of new workers entering the mining industry during the downturn in the late 1990s and early 2000s. The development of new mines in geographic areas without an established mining industry also requires training of inexperienced workers to staff new mines. These global factors influence our ability to attract and retain staff; however, we strive to provide competitive compensation and actively engage our workforce to make Goldcorp an employer of choice in the industry. Employee turnover across Goldcorp for site-based employees was 9% in 2013. This rate has held steady since 2012. Turnover – Male Turnover – Female Turnover by gender and region Total turnover employees employees Canada and US 8% 13% 8% Mexico 9% 10% 9% Central and South America 8% 9% 9% Total operations 9% 12% 9% Turnover rates are calculated only at operating sites in Canada, Mexico and Central and South America and do not include projects. Generally, because of the short-term nature of many of the jobs on-site during the construction phase, turnover rates at projects will not be comparable with our overall performance. Turnover for our corporate offices (not including regional office employees) was 7.6%. Information was not available for turnover by age group. Benefits We conduct market reviews in the regions in which we operate to ensure that our benefits are aligned with our overall benefits philosophy and are competitive in the region when compared to our peers in the mining industry and other industries with which we compete for talent. CANADA AND THE UNITED STATES In Canada and the US, we provide benefits including life insurance, accidental death and dismemberment insurance, longand short-term disability coverage, extended health, dental and vision benefits, and employee and family assistance programs to our full-time and part-time employees. In Canada, we have a defined contribution pension plan or similar retirement arrangement for our full-time and part-time salaried and non-union hourly employees (this refers to 90% of employees) and a defined benefit pension plan for our full-time and part-time union hourly employees (10%). In the US, we have a defined contribution (401(k)) plan for our full-time and part-time employees (100%). Temporary employees are not covered. Stock ownership is awarded under a long-term incentive plan for certain employees depending on employee level. A voluntary share purchase plan is also available for all full-time and part-time employees. MEXICO In Mexico, in addition to mandated minimum benefits, we provide life insurance, accidental death and dismemberment insurance, and an employee and family assistance program for all employees. We also provide extended health, dental and vision benefits for all salaried employees. We provide a defined benefit pension plan for all salaried employees (28%). We offer a savings fund plan for all salaried employees and certain union hourly employees. Health care and medical benefits are also available to all employees through the social security programs of the Government of Mexico. Stock ownership is awarded under a long-term incentive plan for certain employees depending on employee level. CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICA Guatemala: In Guatemala, in addition to mandated minimum benefits, we provide benefits including life insurance, accidental death and dismemberment insurance, and health and medical benefits to all employees. We also provide dental benefits to certain employee groups. We offer a savings plan for salaried employees. Stock ownership is awarded under a long-term incentive plan at Marlin for certain employees depending on employee level. Chile: In Chile, we provide life insurance, accidental death and dismemberment insurance, disability coverage and extended health, dental and vision benefits to all employees. In accordance with Chilean law, we facilitate mandatory employee contributions to employees’ individual pension accounts (100%). Stock ownership is awarded under a long-term incentive plan for certain employees depending on employee level. Argentina: In Argentina, in addition to mandated contributions to government social security programs, we provide life insurance, accidental death and dismemberment insurance, medical and dental benefits to all employees. Disability benefits and retirement benefits are offered through the government social security programs. Stock ownership is awarded under a long-term incentive plan for certain employees depending on employee level. TRAINING AND EDUCATION Goldcorp is focused on training and development across all regions and operations and will continue to be so in the coming years. Succession planning, performance management and the identification of high-potential candidates will continue to support our corporate commitment to our workforce development and answer the increased demand for skilled employees. Training Programs Throughout 2013, Goldcorp continued to focus on ensuring financial discipline throughout the organization and actively empowering our employees to advance careers and business skills through numerous programs, including safety and leadership training and executive development. Key programs (all available in English and Spanish) are identified below. Creating Choices™: A learning, development and mentoring program for female employees in all regions. This six-module program is delivered by Goldcorp women aimed at Goldcorp women. The program provides powerful learning in the areas of building self-esteem, daring to dream, choosing to take the stage, unlocking the power of your voice, creating a leader's script and achieving the presence of a leader. Through Creating Choices, Goldcorp became the first international gold mining company to offer this kind of enterprise-wide program for women. Supervisor Leadership Development Program (SLDP): To become a leading mining organization we need to ensure that front-line supervisors and managers are prepared and confident to lead their crews, teams and departments in a progressive, inspiring and healthy way. The SLDP aims to develop leadership and management skills at the supervisor level and build a common organizational framework among these leaders. Art of Leadership, Science of Management (“Art and Science”): This program arose as a complement to the SLDP. It aims at providing a unique experience for managers and executives. The program is split into two fundamental and complementary aspects of management and leadership: the “soft” skills required to lead and the “hard” skills required to manage. Dare to Grow: At Goldcorp we want all front-line employees to have the right knowledge, skills, abilities and awareness not only to do a good job but to be a strong company “citizen” or team player. Dare to Grow helps foster strong corporate values, culture and team identity as well as develop interpersonal skills among all employees at Goldcorp. Financial Agility, Beyond Mining: Partnering with Queen’s University School of Business, Goldcorp created this course to give leaders across Goldcorp the tools and training they need to handle the financial aspects of their roles. The program improves financial literacy of leaders who come from non-financial backgrounds, part of our commitment to Grow People, and it develops better decision-making and common financial perspectives across Goldcorp, helping to Grow Margins. Introduction to Project Management: Whatever role a person is in, it is important that they are familiar with best practices in project management so that they can effectively participate in the project work and contribute to project success. The program teaches participants a flexible project management model, best practices and an international project management standard that focuses on five key areas: project initiation, planning, execution, monitoring and control, and close-out. Safety Leadership Training (SLT): Partnering with SAFEmap International, we have embedded Goldcorp’s commitment to making the workplace Safe Enough for Our Families throughout this program. The powerful content aligns the principles of safety with five key leadership practices so that all employees in a supervisory position can drive a safe working environment. We successfully rolled out our Graduate Development Program in the Canada and US region in 2013. This three-year program is focused on the growth of new graduates entering Goldcorp. In 2013, Goldcorp had over 40 participants in the program (including some grandfathered graduates). In 2014 and 2015, we expect to implement this program in our other regions. Also in 2013, we identified the need to improve key leadership behaviours across the company. The program is currently under development and expected to launch in 2015. Through a variety of programs, Goldcorp offers support for employees in all stages of their careers, as they consider new career development paths or career endings (such as retirement). Our training programs listed above are designed specifically for employees as they move up or around the organization. For employees nearing retirement in Canada, the US and Mexico, we offer counselling on the financial and social issues, including retirement and moving out of the workforce. LABOUR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS At Goldcorp, we strive for positive employee-management relationships with both unionized and non-unionized employees. We support our employees' rights of freedom of association and collective bargaining. These include the right of individual employees to join a union or other work-related cooperative. We also support the right of our employees to not join a union or other work-related cooperative and to be free from coercion to join. EMPLOYEE COMMUNICATION To inform employees of what is happening within the company, each year Goldcorp regularly conducts Town Hall Meetings in which the President and Chief Executive Officer and other senior executives communicate directly with employees. Employees across the company are linked via webcast and phone to the meeting. The meetings commence with short presentations and then provide an open forum for employees to ask questions of senior executives. These Town Hall Meetings are provided in English, Spanish and French. Town Hall Meetings provide constructive feedback to senior management in all operating regions. This feedback is further discussed in management and leadership meetings and, where a direct response is appropriate, senior management ensures that it is followed through. In 2013 there were three Town Hall Meetings. Subjects of discussion were key operating milestones, results, and new initiatives implemented since the previous meeting. Goldcorp has an employee intranet called Conveyor, which is accessible to employees at each of our sites and remotely. This is used to update employees on happenings across Goldcorp by written word and video. Conveyor has become an established part of the communication strategy within Goldcorp. For employees not able to connect to the intranet, mine operations and offices maintain notice-boards and host regular information sessions for key issues and events. Goldcorp does not have an established minimum period for giving notice regarding operational changes. Where proposed operational changes have potentially significant implications for individuals or groups of individuals, Goldcorp will provide information regarding notice as expediently as possible. DISCLOSURE At all times, we at Goldcorp must be conscious of our obligations, under the provisions of securities laws and stock exchange rules, relating to the disclosure of material information. Goldcorp has developed a Disclosure, Confidentiality and Insider Trading Policy to ensure that Goldcorp and all persons to whom this policy applies meet their obligations regarding the timely disclosure of all material information. Collective Bargaining Agreements Of Goldcorp’s employees, 3,836 (41% of total employees) were represented by a collective bargaining agreement in 2013. The percentage of our contractor workforce covered by similar agreements is unknown. Notice of Operational Changes Goldcorp is committed to providing timely, factual, accurate and complete disclosure of material information to employees, shareholders and investors, and to the communities in which we conduct business. Strikes and Lockouts Strikes and lockouts are indicative of a serious breakdown in labour/management relations and a suspension of consultative processes. A “strike” is a work stoppage caused by the mass refusal of employees to perform work, usually in response to employee grievances. A “lockout” is a form of work stoppage in which an employer refuses to allow employees to work, often as a counter to a strike. In 2013, there were no strikes or lockouts that exceeded one week in duration. Performance Reviews We have performance review processes in place at all of our operations. However, these processes were historically not aligned and, in many instances, reflected the systems inherited from companies that merged with Goldcorp. The Golden Performance System (GPS) is a key component of Goldcorp’s Growing People strategy. GPS allows employees to set targets and objectives that will promote personal and professional growth, aligned with key business objectives. It also houses a succession planning and talent management tool that identifies high-potential individuals within Goldcorp and their career aspirations. It is currently operating in our Canadian, US and Mexican operations. In 2013, 92% of employees at operating sites that are implementing GPS received formal performance reviews. Gender Completed reviews by employees with access to GPS Men 92% Women 91% Total 92% We plan to fully introduce GPS to Central and South America in 2015 as we update our databases and servers to provide a consistent IT platform across the company. Currently, only senior management in this region are on the GPS system. In the interim, the performance objectives and personal development goals of all other employees are managed locally, and consistently with the process used on GPS. DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Goldcorp strives to foster an open and inclusive workplace environment and strongly supports the principle that all individuals should have an equal opportunity to participate in our company and achieve their full potential. In compliance with our Code of Conduct, directors, officers and employees will: 1. Always treat each other and all members of the outside community with respect and courtesy. 2. Always keep our workplace free from all forms of harassment, meaning unwelcome behaviour that a reasonable person would consider to be degrading, humiliating, discriminatory or intimidating. 3. Never permit factors like race, religion, colour, sex, sexual orientation, age, nationality or ethnicity to determine decisions about hiring, employment promotions, pay rates, transfers, layoffs or terminations (or condone decisions by others determined by such factors). 4. Never permit physical disabilities to determine work-related decisions, unless the disability prevents a person from safely doing a job and the disability cannot be reasonably accommodated. In our employment policies, we abide by human rights legislation in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Diversity DIVERSITY WITHIN GOVERNANCE BODIES The key governance bodies within Goldcorp are the Board of Directors and the Board committees. The composition and gender breakdown of the Board and its committees are shown in the table below. The table also shows the gender breakdown of senior management (officers of the company as identified in the 2013 Annual Information Form). An updated Diversity Policy was developed in 2013 and will be implemented in 2014. Board and senior management Male Female Board of Directors1 8 2 Audit Committee 2 2 Compensation Committee 4 0 Governance and Nominating Committee 4 1 Sustainability, Environment, Health and Safety Committee 3 1 Senior management2 26 8 DIVERSITY WITHIN THE EMPLOYEE WORKFORCE Goldcorp does not collect statistics on the ethnic composition of its employee workforce. However, in areas where there are significant Indigenous populations (e.g., First Nations communities in Canada, or Mam and Sipacapensespeaking communities in Guatemala), we have implemented programs to encourage the employment of members of these groups. EMPLOYEES BY GENDER The percentage of female employees remained the same as 2012. The gender breakdown takes into consideration all employees, including those at projects and corporate or off-site offices. Gender 2012 2013 Female 12% 12% Male 88% 88% EMPLOYEES BY AGE GROUP The employee breakdown by age group maintained levels similar to 2012. Data does not include project, corporate or off-site office employees, as the disaggregated data was not available. Age group 2012 2013 Under 30 years 31% 29% 30 to 50 years 51% 52% Over 50 years 18% 19% Gender-Based Salary Ratios We believe in the concept of equal pay for equal work. We do not discriminate in our wages on the basis of gender. However, as we compete for labour in a range of different markets, there may be gender biases in different labour categories. We have collected gender-based salary data from operating sites on two categories of employees – unskilled workers and graduates. There is commonly a gender bias in worker categories. Outdoor manual labour may have a higher hourly rate of pay than kitchen work, and there may be a tendency towards more males in the former category and a tendency for more females in the latter category. Where this is so, there may be a perceived gender bias in pay. However, this reflects a gender bias in the work categories rather than in the rates of pay. Our operations range from a ratio of 1.0 (equal pay for unskilled males and females) to a ratio of 1.3 (male to female rates). The overall average ratio is 1.1 male to female starting salary for unskilled workers. For graduate categories of employment, there is also often a gender bias in the professions that are commonly related to mining. There are typically more male than female graduates in engineering and geology, but the ratio may be more equal in accounting, and there is an increasing female bias in environmental science. We are committed to equal pay on the basis of gender, and we choose our graduates on the basis of merit. However, the market will dictate the salary levels for graduates, and they may be higher for engineers than for industrial hygienists. If a higher percentage of female industrial hygienist graduates are hired, the pay ratio may be affected. Our operations range from a ratio of 1.0 (equal pay for male and female graduates) to a ratio of 1.2 (higher pay for male graduates). The average ratio was 1.06. Region Unskilled labour Skilled labour Canada and US 1.12 1.08 Mexico 1.0 1.0 Central and South America 1.0 1.0 Total 1.12 1.06 Creating Choices™ A successful program at Goldcorp that demonstrates how we focus on inclusivity is Creating Choices. This experiential training and development program (now entering its third year) is aimed at our female workforce at all stages of their careers. Nearly 900 women have now participated in the course, which is receiving both national and international recognition. In 2015, the next module, called Growing Choices, will be available for graduates of the Creating Choices program. Non-Discrimination Goldcorp strongly supports the principle of non-discrimination. All Goldcorp employees are responsible for ensuring that the workplace is free from all forms of discrimination, harassment and retaliation prohibited by Goldcorp’s Code of Conduct. Violations of the Code are subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment. 1 Note: Numbers are reflective of the standing of the Board of Directors at the close of the reporting period. Larry Bell retired from the Board in May 2013 and there was some subsequent movement of committee members during the year in order to redistribute his former memberships. 2 Refers to officers of the company, per the 2013 Annual Information Form. PEOPLE AT GOLDCORP CASE STUDY Lifelong Learning for Employees At Goldcorp, we recognize the value of empowering our employees through continuous education. One special program developed with this in mind is the literacy program at Marlin in Guatemala. The training was the result of a project for the Supervisory Leadership Development Program (SLDP). In 2010, Oziel Orozco, an SLDP student, saw the opportunity to create a program that would fulfill a need in a country where the literacy rate for adults is 76%. This kicked off Marlin’s literacy program, which now provides training in reading and writing to employees from the local communities. In 2013, we graduated 24 students from the ten-month program, who received a certificate from Guatemala’s Ministry of Education. Silvana Lossi, the Human Resources Manager at Marlin who oversees the development of employees at site, commented on the effects of this training. “Literacy represents an opportunity to strengthen one’s personal development. Being able to read and write allows these employees to dive into new things. The students had pushed themselves and put their hearts into reaching their goal.” During a graduation ceremony held at site, Christian Roldan, Mine General Manager for Marlin, addressed the students completing the training. “What you have learned here, no one can take away from you.” As Roldan pointed out, Growing People is one of our strategic pillars at Goldcorp, so offering our employees such opportunities is fundamental to how we operate. Being able to read and write contributes to the personal and professional success of the employee, who is now able to understand signage and procedures. “By taking advantage of the confidence [the mine management] placed in us, we have developed with learning,” said one of the graduating students, as he expressed thanks for the support offered to students throughout the process. As Patricia Gomez, Training Manager for Marlin, stated: “It’s so satisfying to see how this opens a door for them, and it will definitely help them to be better in their areas of work. Literacy is a special treasure that needs to be preserved.” SAFETY AND HEALTH We are committed to creating and maintaining a culture of safety and health in the workplace that is “Safe Enough for Our Families”. SAFETY AND HEALTH While we recognize that individuals are ultimately responsible for their safety, we strive to equip our employees with the tools, training and mindset that result in continual safety awareness. From our operations to our offices, we seek an incident-free workplace. The First Annual Mine Rescue Summit: In 2013, we conducted a thorough review and analysis of our safety and Sharing Knowledge and Advancing Safety incident data from the previous five years, which resulted in a number of adjustments and additions to our safety programs. We increased the number of Golden Rules, added new Life Saving Rules and published a new Golden Guide to support each of the Golden Rules. We also created a training plan for safety coaches that will help to deliver the leadership and behavioural changes to each employee at every operation and office. We also held our first Day of Remembrance, when every site took time out of production and construction activities to remember those who have lost Day of Remembrance their lives in workplace incidents including the two fatalities that occurred in 2013; and to reflect on how to improve safety. We recognize that our commitment to safety extends beyond the workplace and into the nearby communities where our employees and neighbours live. As a company, we are dedicated to promoting safety and health “in all aspects of our work, family and local community” as stated in our Occupational Health and Safety Policy. In support of this mandate, we make significant investments in sustainable community development projects that improve access to and the quality of health services. Safety and health is one of Goldcorp's five material areas. MANAGEMENT APPROACH Goldcorp’s management sets the company-wide direction for safety and health, through a series of policies, standards, guidelines and frameworks. Each operation develops its own approach, within the company’s overall vision and framework, for coaching, training, workshops and program development, to ensure a successful, sustainable implementation with the necessary cultural and site-specific nuances. In 2013, the new Golden Rules and Golden Guide were used to communicate our expectations for sustained improvement in our safety and health performance. Goals and Performance We believe that we can only reach our vision of Safe Enough for Our Families when every Goldcorp employee is actively engaged in a strong safety culture. It is our collective commitment to bring this vision into reality. Our vision is reflected in three basic principles, Care, Think and Act. Care – Goldcorp provides an environment and conditions that demonstrate that safety is a core value, that we care about our people, and that the company is prepared to listen, learn and act. Think – All tasks contain an element of risk. Goldcorp expects all employees to think about their actions – not just about the impact that they may have on themselves, but also on their co-workers. We work with our employees to help them identify and understand the risks associated with their actions. Act – Goldcorp provides procedures, programs, systems and training to ensure that tasks can be completed safely. We encourage employees to share best practices and improve the way we carry out our work activities. We expect to see our incident rates decrease, every year, as a result of our targeted initiatives and training, and our many preventative programs and actions. We support these initiatives with active monitoring of our safety results. Every year, in our annual objective-setting process, each operation develops its own set of objectives for safety and health with specific accountabilities and responsibilities. These objectives are reviewed and approved early in the year, monitored throughout the year and assessed at the end of the year. In addition, mediumand long-term health and safety initiatives are core aspects of our strategic business planning and budgeting. Site-level initiatives are integrated with overall strategic business planning to ensure that sufficient resources are in place to fulfill our responsibilities. Analyzing Potential Fatal Occurrences (PFOs) Over the past 18 months, the company has emphasized prevention of the types of incidents that could cause a fatality. Along with other industry leaders, we have devoted considerable effort to the research and analysis of fatalities and PFOs. A PFO at Goldcorp is defined as: An actual incident with injury/illness or property damage of i. Sufficient energy or toxicity (chronic or acute) to be fatal; and with ii. High probability of affecting a critical body part (such as a head injury) OR A violation of a Golden Rule or other critical control, either a miss or an observation, where there was sufficient energy or toxicity to be fatal. We consider a PFO to be just as significant as a fatality. Any PFO is followed up by a PFO Review – a thorough investigation that is reviewed and approved by senior management, and then communicated across the company. The purpose of a PFO Review is: To prevent any potential for a similar incident to re-occur, and therefore lead to elimination of fatalities. To use the incident as a learning opportunity that can be shared across Goldcorp, so that the lesson can be applied at other sites and offices. To raise the awareness of preventive safety among all employees and contractors. Fighting Fatalities and the Day of Remembrance To emphasize our renewed focus on preventing fatalities, we launched a company-wide program, Fighting Fatalities, which refocuses our existing safety programs in support of the primary concern of fatality prevention. We are targeting the causes of fatalities and focusing on the most critical hazards. Through our revised Ten Golden Rules we have standardized and improved the safety controls related to the most critical, fatality-related hazards. The Fighting Fatalities program was launched on our company-wide Day of Remembrance: October 30, 2013. The entire company – every office and every mine site – stopped work for the day and paid respect to those who lost their lives in a workplace incident. Everyone took part in special safety training and awareness activities. This was a milestone event for Goldcorp and has been recognized by employees as the most impactful event of the year. We believe that the awareness generated by the Day of Remembrance was a critical factor in a company-wide increase in safety leadership and accountability, and a marked decrease in incidents in the fourth quarter of 2013. Up to the Day of Remembrance, the All Injury Frequency Rate (AIFR) had increased, from the first quarter to the third quarter. After the Day of Remembrance, the AIFR dropped significantly – from an AIFR of 1.93 to 1.34. We believe this improvement is directly correlated to the increased awareness and was a direct result of the awareness and the safety programs that were initiated on the Day of Remembrance. The Ten Golden Rules At the Day of Remembrance, we announced a new set of Ten Golden Rules for safety. These rules identify the most high-risk situations for workers, as identified by analyzing past PFOs at Goldcorp and in the industry. They are intended to help workers to understand the potential hazards and risks they face and to begin a task only when they have thoroughly understood the Ten Golden Rules and how they apply to the work in hand: Fit for work Driving Ground stability Lifting, rigging and hoisting Energy isolation Working at heights Hazardous substances Permit to work Protective devices Personal protective equipment (PPE) In essence, these Golden Rules, and the supporting Golden Guide, are our critical controls for the high-risk hazards that we face every day in the workplace. Policy Goldcorp’s established Occupational Health and Safety Policy and accompanying procedures apply to anyone who works on our sites, including contractors. Our objective is a safe and healthy workplace, free of injury and illness. We are committed to the health, safety and well-being of our workforce, and strive to achieve an incident-free workplace in a holistic and inclusive manner. While individuals, through their behaviour and actions, are ultimately responsible for their safety, we, as a company, encourage and support all employees to achieve our shared safety goals by incorporating into their planning and work the actions necessary to ensure the safety of the employee and others in the workplace. As members of the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), we support the ICMM Sustainable Development Framework, which was created with due consideration to ILO Convention 176 (Safety and Health in Mines Convention). To achieve our safety and health objectives we will: Promote safe and healthy behaviour as a core value in the organization’s culture. Develop and implement effective management systems to identify, minimize and manage health and safety risks in the workplace. Provide training and information to enable all our people to work safely and competently. Recognize and reward good safety performance and achievements throughout the organization. Promote health and safety in all aspects of our work, family and local community. Organizational Responsibility Goldcorp’s President and Chief Executive Officer is ultimately responsible for the company’s safety performance. At the Board level, the Sustainability, Environment, Health and Safety (SEH&S) Committee of the Board has overview of safety and health functions (see Board Oversight of Sustainability for more information on the role of this committee). Goldcorp’s safety and health function is headed by a Senior Vice President for People and Safety, reporting directly to the Chief Executive Officer. All of our operations have Safety and Health Officers who are responsible for supporting the implementation of our safety and health strategy on a day-to-day basis. We also began to recruit dedicated Safety Directors at the regional level. We made an appointment in the Canada and US region in 2013 and will add in Mexico and Central and South America in 2014. Training and Awareness Goldcorp provides training on technical, behavioural and cultural aspects of safety. To keep our people up to date with the latest in safety advancements, inside and outside the industry, we encourage employees to participate in external training, conferences and workshops. To support the Fighting Fatalities program, the new set of Golden Rules, plus the new Life Saving Rules and the Golden Guide, we are deploying a new training and coaching program called Fighting Fatalities. Through this customized coaching program, a core group of coaches will be trained, who will in turn train others at each site. This will ensure the sustainability of the safety gains that have been realized since the Day of Remembrance. Technical safety training is primarily provided at the operational level. Our technical safety training programs include mine rescue training, the Stope School (at Ontario mines), equipment operation, first aid, simulator training, and occupational health awareness training. The updated Golden Rules and Golden Guide now provide additional focus for critical technical training. We also provide comprehensive behavioural and cultural safety training courses, which have been developed specifically for Goldcorp at the corporate level and tailored for each individual operation. Our three-day Safety Leadership Training (SLT) course is the touchstone of our safety culture training. More than 200 supervisors and management took the SLT course in 2013. It offers an interactive approach for developing core skills, leadership competencies and decision-making abilities. Closely related to SLT is our DELTA training, a one-day course delivered by supervisors directly to their crews, which promotes key safety values in the workforce. In 2013, more than 1,000 people attended this course. We also make DELTA training available to our contractors and partners. Goldcorp also offers a number of site-specific training programs, such as the Safety Training Observation Program (STOP) at our Mexican mines, which teaches employees about risk observation, assessment and management. At the corporate level, Goldcorp is an active member of the Mining Industry Roundtable on Safety, an industry group dedicated to bringing safety leaders from different mining companies together on safety issues. Through this group, we share best practices among our peer companies. This helps with the proactive awareness of potential issues and provides prompt access to practical solutions. We are also an active member of the ICMM Health and Safety Task Force, which provides a strategic outlook on health and safety, with a particular focus on eliminating fatalities. Monitoring and Follow-up To ensure consistent application of health and safety standards across our various operations, we run a unique peer-review program, the Golden Eye Review. Through this program, every operation is visited by a team of 10 to 15 peers who inspect and assess the operation’s performance in various technical and best practice aspects of health and safety. The Golden Eye Review team is augmented by an independent consultant who adds an outside eye to the safety and health review. The results are reviewed by site management and shared across the company, and a summary of the review’s findings is presented quarterly to the Sustainability, Environment, Health and Safety Committee of the Goldcorp Board. In 2013, Golden Eye Reviews were conducted at five sites. In addition to the Golden Eye program, each operation operates its individual programs of monitoring, inspection and analysis. The frequency and level of these monitoring activities is determined by Goldcorp’s overall safety management system. We assess the safety management system with an external consultant as part of the Golden Eye Review process. Periodically, operations also receive audits and reviews from regulatory agencies. The outcome of these audits and reviews is shared with management and documentation of any corrective actions is monitored. JOINT SAFETY AND HEALTH COMMITTEES Management-Employee Joint Safety and Health Committees (JSHCs) are valuable tools for including employees in the safety decision-making process. Every Goldcorp operating site and project has a JSHC. Following our Day of Remembrance, and the associated launch of a new safety focus, our corporate and regional offices now have JHSCs as well, meaning that 100% of our workforce is now represented. In most cases, JHSC-made decisions and policies apply to all on-site personnel. At each of our operations that have a trade union on-site, health and safety topics are covered in the formal agreement with that union. Goldcorp takes a holistic approach to safety, with no distinction made in our policy, procedures or expectations applied to union employees, non-union employees and contractors. SAFETY The Day of Remembrance marked a turning point in our safety culture. Although our annual All Injury Frequency Rate (AIFR) for 2013 was unchanged from 2012, that does not tell the story for the year. Over the first three quarters of 2013, the AIFR rose steadily to 1.95. Then, after the Day of Remembrance, and the implementation of several key safety initiatives, the AIFR dropped steeply, to 1.36 for the fourth quarter. We strongly believe that the awareness and new initiatives were critical factors. At every operation, we work hard to ensure that every worker goes home safely at the end of their shift. However, despite our improvement in overall safety, there were two fatalities at Goldcorp operations in 2013. The first occurred at the El Sauzal mine. A worker was crushed by a loader. The second fatality occurred at Peñasquito when a worker was struck by a steel plate. Both incidents were investigated and the results reviewed by senior management and the SEH&S Board Committee. Corrective actions were implemented and the reports were shared with all operations, to help prevent a similar incident. Ultimately, we want all our sites to fulfill the vision of creating a work environment that is Safe Enough for Our Families. Executive and senior management, all Goldcorp employees, contractors and our business partners continue to work together to make this a reality. It starts with eliminating fatalities from the workplace. PROGRAMS To achieve excellence in safety, Goldcorp continues to focus on corporate culture, leading performance indicators, behaviour, and developing and sharing best practices across all operations. In 2013, we introduced, and continued, many strategies and initiatives aimed at improving safety, including: The company-wide Day of Remembrance, which commemorated those who lost their lives, and served as a launching event for numerous safety programs. The Fighting Fatalities program, which was launched on the Day of Remembrance, and focuses specifically on preventing the types of incidents that can result in death. Safe Enough for Our Families, our safety vision, continued to receive senior management support. Videos describing the vision’s three key themes – Care, Think, Act – continue to be distributed to employees and contractors. Safety Leadership Training continued the development of safety leadership competencies throughout the company and its operations. Golden Eye safety reviews (conducted in a peer review format), to assess safety practices, share best practices and assist with risk-mitigation strategies. In 2013, five reviews were completed at sites in Canada, the United States and Mexico. The Mining Industry Roundtable on Safety and the ICMM Health and Safety Task Force, two groups we participate in for benchmarking and sharing industry best practices in safety and injury prevention. PERFORMANCE Our overall Lost Time Incident (LTI) Frequency Rate (including contractors) remained relatively steady at 0.33. The All Injury Frequency Rate (AIFR) also plateaued at 1.65. Unfortunately, two fatalities were recorded in 2013; both took place in Mexico. 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Canada and US 0 0 1 0 0 0 Central and South America 0 0 1 (1) 0 0 0 Mexico 2 2 (2) 2 (1) 1 1 3 (1) Total Goldcorp fatalities 2 2 (2) 4 (2) 1 (0) 1 (0) 3 (1) Note: Contractor fatalities are in parentheses (e.g., in 2011, two of the four fatalities involved contractors). 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 AIFR (200,000 hours) 1.65 1.65 1.94 2.63 2.89 3.39 LTIFR (200,000 hours) 0.33 0.33 0.31 0.36 0.34 0.61 Minor injuries, such as first aids, are not included in AIFR or Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR). Goldcorp has guidelines and standards in place for reporting all incidents. They provide guidelines for when and to whom an incident needs to be reported, and provide guidance on determining the severity of the injury. These guidelines and standards are available on the Goldcorp intranet system and are consistent with our industry peers. Recognition Every year, Goldcorp recognizes the Best Safety Performance and the Most Improved Safety Performance across our operations. Best Safety Performance award for 2013: Los Filos mine (Mexico) Most Improved Safety Performance award for 2013: Cerro Negro project (Argentina) Incident Investigation Throughout 2013, we continued to improve our incident investigation processes in all regions. While tremendous effort goes into incident prevention, mining has inherent risk and incidents do occur. When an accident happens it is important to investigate root causes, and share conclusions across the company, so that we can take steps to prevent future incidents. This year we put a renewed focus on Potential Fatal Occurrences (PFOs), and the follow-up PFO Review – a thorough investigation that is reviewed by senior management and communicated across the company. A mine’s senior management is always engaged in the incident investigation process, as is the company’s senior operations leadership led by the Chief Operating Officer. Each significant incident, each high-potential incident and each PFO is assigned an investigation team, which includes a member of the Operations Leadership Team in a key role. An outside consultant periodically reviews the incident reports to assess their quality. Over the last year, the quality of investigations has improved significantly. HEALTH Occupational Health We recognize that there is more to ensuring worker health and well-being than simply working to prevent injuries. We also strive to create and maintain a safe, healthy working environment through the prevention and treatment of occupational diseases. We want our workers to be able to avoid being burdened with exposure-related occupational illnesses that are both preventable and detectable. Through prevention, including biological monitoring, environmental monitoring and various medical examinations, we seek to prevent occupational diseases from arising in the first place. We follow a hierarchy of hazard controls to reduce and eliminate environmental exposure to occupational disease. Nine occupational diseases were reported by sites in 2013, which amounts to an occupational disease rate (ODR) of 0.03. In 2013, our industrial hygiene program was rolled out, to help sites use best practices to identify and mitigate risks associated with exposures. Through an assessment which included a gap analysis, sites were given a score card and an action plan was formed to close any gaps found. In general, each mine carries out its specific occupational health program, depending on its individual demographics and risks of exposure. Programs include health sampling and surveys for hazards such as chemical, dust and noise exposures, as well as provide such services as ergonomic surveys, pulmonary function tests, and physical exams. Although no specific corporate-wide programs exist, several Goldcorp mines have proactive programs in place to address serious diseases and health problems, including drug and alcohol abuse, HIV/AIDS, smoking cessation and diabetes. Community Programs For the benefit of our local communities, Goldcorp coordinates health programs that provide basic medical services through local community and government organizations. Several mines also offer wellness programs for employees, family members and local communities. Los Filos and Peñasquito again hosted their popular health and safety fairs which welcomed local communities on-site for educational and fun activities to raise awareness about health and safety in the community and on-site. Goldcorp funded two community health clinics near our Marlin and Red Lake sites to ensure employees, their families and neighbours have access to medical care. Our El Morro project in Chile sponsored a mobile breast cancer screening clinic in local communities. Goldcorp provided a $1 million donation to St. Paul’s Hospital in Vancouver, British Columbia, to create the Addiction Medicine Fellowship. EMERGENCY RESPONSE Because each mine is unique, they each develop and manage their own emergency response activities, with the focus on surface or underground rescue and response. All sites maintain highly trained, fully equipped mine rescue teams which are prepared to respond to emergencies quickly and effectively. Our rescue teams coordinate activities in their regions to encourage mutual aid, share best practices and generally improve performance. We encourage them to participate in competitions and to coordinate their training and services with community emergency service personnel whenever possible. Our mine rescue teams often go beyond the call of duty and provide aid outside the mine’s boundaries. They often serve as the first responders for local communities in the event of an emergency. In 2013, our safety teams organized a Goldcorp Mine Rescue Summit, to build awareness of mine safety and bring attention to our mine rescue programs. The vision was to create a collaborative and educational environment where responders from every Goldcorp operation could develop their technical and interpersonal skills. We were able to create an interactive and positive learning environment for all levels of our Incident Command structure, from the front-line responders, through the Control groups to the corporate executives who were directly involved. This summit was an effective showcase for the strengths of our rescue programs, from both personnel and technical aspects. Participants shared knowledge and skills, and contributed a company-wide sense of commitment to building and maintaining a highly skilled, efficient team of emergency responders at every site. An additional benefit of the summit was the beginning of a standardization of emergency responders’ level of service across our operations. SAFETY AND HEALTH CASE STUDIES The First Annual Mine Rescue Summit: Sharing Knowledge and Advancing Safety Mining is a high-risk business – and every Goldcorp mine is prepared for this reality, with highly trained, well-equipped rescue teams at the ready. Fortunately, disasters are rare, and these teams’ skills are seldom, if ever, put to use. For the rescue teams, this creates a challenge: how can you remain on top of your game when a mine rescue situation may never occur? To keep the rescue teams sharp, and to promote safety awareness throughout the company, Goldcorp held a Mine Rescue Summit in July 2013. The week-long summit took place in Reno, Nevada, where a dozen rescue teams gathered from Goldcorp mine sites across Canada, Mexico, the United States, Guatemala and Argentina. “It was about the opportunity to learn from each other,” said Bernie Haley from the Musselwhite mine, a Summit organizer, “a chance to promote shared learning, communication and collaboration across operations.” Mario Romero came to the summit from the El Sauzal mine in Mexico, where the rescue team members competed to attend. Starting in March, he said, team members put in months of preparation in the hopes of becoming one of the team of seven representatives. Goldcorp employees spent a week at a Reno convention centre and an emergency training centre in the Nevada desert. Participants honed their skills and improved their knowledge in seminars, workshops and group meetings, and rehearsed fire response, first aid, confined space and vehicle rescue techniques. Rescue teams spoke Spanish, French or English, but language barriers were quickly overcome. “The spoken language was unnecessary,” said Ron Everett of the Wharf mine. “When you looked across the room and watched someone doing first aid or a fire drill or extraction it was all the same language.” Romero agreed, “It was intense and fun. By the second day we were all talking ... the language of mine rescue.” Mine managers and senior executives were also in attendance, including CEO Chuck Jeannes and COO George Burns. The managers and executives were given rescue challenges to perform. “It was an opportunity to show some of our corporate staff what mine rescue is all about,” said event organizer Markus Uchtenhagen, and gave the rescue teams a chance to see their senior leaders in a different light. Uchtenhagen is the company’s Mine Rescue Project Manager and was one of the guiding forces behind the summit. While the spirit of the summit was educational and team building, rather than competitive, at the end of the week, judges singled out the El Sauzal team for special commendation. Said Romero, “I felt like a real winner on the last day, when the entire El Sauzal team went up to receive our medals. During the closing event, the stand was mobbed by all the other brigade members from the other units, exchanging souvenirs, taking pictures and giving congratulations. For me, the whole experience was very emotional.” “We wanted to use the wealth of talent that we have from within the company to its maximum. I feel that we demonstrated that we have the skills and desire within our company to become a leading force in the rescue field,” said Uchtenhagen. Plans are in place to make the Goldcorp Mine Rescue Summit a biennial event. Day of Remembrance There are few true turning points in the history of a company. The Goldcorp Day of Remembrance observed on October 30th will be remembered as one of those landmark events. Across our entire business, from northern Canada to southern Argentina, we stopped production and construction to remember those who lost their lives at our operations and collectively confirmed our commitment to safety. This day was an opportunity to stop and think about safety; to identify risks and make our operations safer; and to pay respect to grieving family and friends who have lost their loved ones in industrial accidents over the years. The families of those who lost their lives attended all sessions and were invited to address the attendees. As they shared their powerful and emotional stories, all of us were deeply touched by how the families were impacted by the loss of their loved ones. Their messages – to care, think, stay alert and stay safe so that our families don’t have to suffer as they have – left a profound impact on everyone who participated. The purpose of the Day of Remembrance was to not only educate but also encourage employees to speak up and intervene when they see something that they feel is unsafe. If we are going to create sites that are Safe Enough for Our Families, we need to work together, to look out for each other and be accountable for ourselves, our co-workers and our families. We need to go beyond thinking, “What are chances something could go wrong?” and also consider, “What are the consequences if something does go wrong?” We can’t get comfortable or complacent around the equipment and environments we are working with every day. Based on the overwhelming positive feedback from this event, we plan to reflect on safety in a similar manner annually. Now our primary objective is to maintain the great momentum coming out of the Day of Remembrance through additional activities to support our focus on safe production. We saw a marked reduction in the All Injury Frequency Rate and we are committed to keeping that improvement going. We are only interested in safe production, not production that sacrifices anyone’s well-being. We will only get there if we all work together and do our part. HUMAN RIGHTS We are committed to integrating respect for human rights into our business management processes at all locations and levels within the company. HUMAN RIGHTS At Goldcorp, we are committed to integrating respect for human rights into our business management processes throughout the company. Within Goldcorp’s five material issues, the following are significant priorities that pertain to human rights: Equipping Our People on Security and Human Rights Grievance management Indigenous rights Discrimination In 2013, we continued with key programs to apply best practices in our management approach and operations. Highlights from 2013 in the area of human rights included: Implementing a compliance program on the World Gold Council’s Conflict-Free Gold Standard at our sites in Mexico. Human Rights Grievances: Overview of 2013 Improving our grievance tracking system by drafting internal definitions Issues and reporting requirements that draw on the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization’s Convention 169 on Indigenous Rights. We continue to strengthen our human rights practices and involvement in human rights initiatives, and are always open to suggestions, comments and feedback. MANAGEMENT APPROACH At Goldcorp we are committed to integrating respect for human rights into our business management processes at all locations and levels within the company. From mine workers to senior management, all employees and contractors are expected to comply with and promote our Human Rights Policy. Goals and Performance As a member of the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), Goldcorp is committed to implementing and measuring our performance against the ICMM’s ten principles, which include upholding fundamental human rights and respecting cultures, customs and values when dealing with employees and others who are affected by Goldcorp’s activities. As a participant in the UN Global Compact, Goldcorp is also committed to that organization’s ten principles, which include respect for human rights and labour rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption. Principles 1 and 2 deal specifically with supporting and respecting the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and ensuring that businesses are not complicit in human rights abuses. Policy We have developed a corporate Human Rights Policy consistent with international law, the ICMM Sustainable Development Framework, the UN Global Compact principles, the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, the Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and Mining and Metals Sector Supplement, and industry best practices. At Goldcorp, we are committed to integrating human rights best practices into our business processes, informing our decision-making and due diligence processes. Our Human Rights Policy mandates that we operate in a way that respects the human rights of all employees and the communities in which we operate our business. This policy recognizes that while governments are primarily responsible for protecting human rights, our activities have the potential to impact the human rights of individuals affected by our business operations. Goldcorp is committed to ongoing improvement in the area of human rights, and to that end we seek constructive dialogues and partnerships with a variety of stakeholders on our human rights performance, particularly those impacted directly by our operations. The Goldcorp Human Rights Policy can be accessed on our website in English, French and Spanish. Organizational Risk and Impact Assessment Goldcorp has implemented an Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) function in order to monitor significant risks across the entire organization. Corruption is identified as a risk factor and monitoring occurs on a quarterly basis focusing on strategic, financial, external affairs and operational risks. We perform ongoing risk assessments for the local, regional and national geographical areas where we work. These are multi-faceted assessments that take into consideration the environmental, social, political and economic risks of the countries where we operate. Included in the social risk assessments are issues related to human rights and Indigenous rights. In 2013, we undertook quarterly Country Risks Assessments for Guatemala, Mexico, Argentina, Chile and the Dominican Republic, which included assessing the risks related to corruption in the country1. The Country Risks Assessments include identification of potential human rights issues where applicable. The process links to Goldcorp’s formal ERM System, allowing for integration of social risks. The results of both of these processes are reviewed by the executive management team and the Board every quarter. We will continue to evaluate the need to undertake more in-depth assessments on risks related to human rights at individual operations. For example, Goldcorp published the full content of a human rights assessment that was undertaken at our Marlin mine in 2010 and several follow-up reports. We recognize the value of these regular site-specific updates. Organizational Responsibility At Goldcorp, we believe that it is the responsibility of all our employees and contractors to respect human rights and to conduct our business in an ethical manner. Goldcorp’s management approach to human rights is led by our Senior Vice President of Corporate Affairs. Policy and procedures, such as the Code of Ethics, are developed at the corporate level. However, all of our people have a role to play in supporting these policies by respecting the human rights of others in the course of work duties. Training and Awareness We recognize that policy alone cannot change actions. In order to ensure that the Human Rights Policy is reflected in our day-to-day activities, we have a partnership agreement with an international human rights organization, Fund for Peace, to design and implement a human rights training program, and to measure and monitor the impact and effectiveness of that training and policy. Other training and awareness programs are specific to certain sites or regions where issues may be of heightened importance. Sites in our Mexico and Guatemala regions carry out training related to the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, as well as general human rights training related to the Conflict-Free Gold Standard in Mexico. For more information on these specific programs, see our section on Human Rights Training. 1 We do not undertake these assessments by business unit, due to our organizational structure, but rather by country. These assessments cover five out of a total of seven countries where we operate (71%). In 2013, assessments were not conducted for Canada or the US. HUMAN RIGHTS AND SECURITY Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights The Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (the Voluntary Principles) were established in 2000 as a result of multi-stakeholder dialogue among governments, companies in the extractive industries, and NGOs. The Voluntary Principles recognize the importance of promoting and protecting human rights throughout the world. They also recognize the constructive roles that business and civil society – including NGOs, labour unions and local communities – can play in advancing these goals. The issue of balancing human rights and security is of particular concern in areas associated with conflict and alleged abuses. In 2013, we implemented a new training program on the Voluntary Principles. In coordination with our partner Fund for Peace and Monkey Forest Consultants, in 2013, Goldcorp held a Training Workshop on the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights in Mexico City. The workshop was attended by Security and Community Relations personnel from our operations in Argentina, Chile, Guatemala and Mexico. In 2013, our Marlin mine in Guatemala and our three mines in Mexico (Peñasquito, El Sauzal and Los Filos) implemented practices aligned with the Voluntary Principles. Increased implementation will take place in coordination with the application of the World Gold Council’s (WGC) Conflict-Free Gold Standard in Mexico. Red Lake also undertook human rights training for security personnel in Canada. In 2013, 70% of security personnel (including security contractors) received some form of human rights training. In addition, Goldcorp security operations prepare threat analyses in order to ensure that only proportional security measures are implemented. When local conditions require us to deploy armed staff, careful consideration is given to this deployment and additional safety measures and training are implemented. At Marlin and Cerro Blanco, all security personnel are required to undergo annual training in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and to sign a form indicating that they have received the requisite training and will comply with our human rights requirements. The security contractors include human rights training in their new employee orientation. All security staff receive at least one pre-shift briefing per month on the use of force and firearms. These issues are also reinforced as part of the biannual firearms training. Company security supervisors provide ongoing training and refresher classes. Non-compliance with our human rights requirements is not tolerated. Goldcorp has been working with Guatemalan government ministers and senior personnel from the police force and military to implement a system in which requests for support from public security must be provided by Goldcorp in writing with an explanation of the intended use of the material aid requested. The goal of this system is to provide assurance that when Goldcorp requests public security presence in the communities around our sites, such support includes compliance with human rights provisions, monitoring, and adherence to the Voluntary Principles. The Marlin security department conducts community visits each month with local officials in order to keep them informed of our activities and maintain support for the presence of public security forces. Frequent turnover in public security personnel is an ongoing challenge, but Goldcorp sees this as an opportunity for training activities to reach a wider audience. For example, the military contingent that guards the explosives magazines at our Marlin mine undergoes a monthly rotation of personnel. All new personnel receive security staff induction training which includes information on our Human Rights Policy and the Voluntary Principles. In this manner, Goldcorp trains army personnel who are then in turn rotated to different posts across the country. While it is difficult to quantify the number of military personnel trained, we can estimate that over the past five years, the number is substantial. Life Cycle Analysis Life Cycle Analysis is a systematic technique for identifying and evaluating the potential economic, environmental, health and safety, and social impacts associated with a product or function throughout its entire life, from extraction of raw materials to its eventual disposal and assimilation into the environment. The supply chain for gold is highly complex, which is increasingly recognized by industry associations, regulators and other stakeholders. One of the key trends in the industry has focused on how the life cycle of precious minerals can interact with global conflicts and potentially impact human rights. For example, Section 1502 of the US Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act includes provisions with implications for supply chain responsibility and mandates requirements for disclosure on use of “conflict minerals” from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). Furthermore, the London Bullion Market Association (LBMA) has developed the Responsible Gold Guidance to avoid contributing to conflict, human rights abuses, terrorist financing practices, and money laundering. This framework is mandatory for all refiners wishing to sell into the London Bullion Market. The World Gold Council (WGC), the industry’s key marketing body, has recognized that in some circumstances, gold may represent a potential source of funding for armed groups involved in civil conflicts throughout the world. In October 2012, the WGC published the Conflict-Free Gold Standard, which establishes a common approach by which gold producers can assess and provide assurance that their gold has been extracted in a manner that does not cause, support or benefit unlawful armed conflict or contribute to serious human rights abuses or breaches of international humanitarian law. As a member company, Goldcorp supported the WGC’s efforts in developing the standard, which was designed to apply to WGC members and other companies involved in the extraction of gold. In 2013, Goldcorp implemented the Conflict-Free Gold Standard and confirmed that all gold and gold-bearing material produced at our mining operations has the appropriate systems and controls in place to conform to the World Gold Council’s Conflict-Free Gold Standard. Conformance with the Standard was subject to independent assurance. It is important to note that Mexico is the only country where Goldcorp operates that has areas considered to be “conflict-affected or high risk” (according to the Heidelberg Conflict Barometer), and therefore our Mexico sites – El Sauzal, Los Filos and Peñasquito – were the only sites required to implement all parts of the Conflict-Free Gold Standard. Highlights of Goldcorp’s implementation of the Conflict-Free Gold Standard in 2013 in Mexico include: Implementation of practices aligned with the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. Risk-based due diligence procedures for suppliers, doré bar transport providers and security providers. Enhancement of site risk assessments to identify key risk points for loss of product and mitigation controls. For a copy of Goldcorp’s 2013 Conflict-Free Gold Report and more information on the background and structure of the Standard, please visit www.goldcorp.com or click the link under Attachments on this page. HUMAN RIGHTS AND OPERATIONS Investment and Procurement Practices We take our commitment to act with integrity very seriously. Our Code of Conduct specifically addresses Goldcorp’s dealings with third parties, such as contractors, and requires these parties to act in compliance with our Code while conducting business for or on behalf of Goldcorp. The Code prohibits kickbacks, rebates or “under-the-table” payments for purchases. The Code also provides clear guidelines with regard to giving and receiving gifts and entertainment to or from business partners. We have been working hard to raise the visibility of this commitment across the entire organization and particularly those locations and functions that have greater exposure to corruption risks. Violations of the Code are subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment. In 2012, Goldcorp launched the Ethics from the Ground Up program to maintain and increase awareness of the company’s ethical principles and to assist our employees and other stakeholders to understand Goldcorp’s culture of compliance. This program promotes awareness of our third-party-managed channels for reporting concerns related to the Code. Each concern raised through the dedicated hotline, email or mailing address is reviewed and managed by our Director, Ethics and Compliance, along with the corporate Ethics Committee and site-based committees made up of local management. In 2013, Goldcorp created an Ethics Committee Charter, which gives the Ethics Committee a mandate from the Board of Directors to ensure that all sites are in compliance with our Code of Conduct and to investigate any reports to the contrary as reported through our Ethics hotline. More information on the types of issues that were raised in 2013 can be found under Human Rights Grievances. As part of our approach to risk management and impact assessment, we review significant investments against numerous criteria, including human rights risks. This issue is of particular interest in areas that have a history of alleged violations. Goldcorp defines “significant agreements” as those that either moved the organization into a position of ownership of another entity or initiated a capital investment project that was material to financial accounts. There were 221 such investments and contracts reported signed at our sites in 2013, and 43% had been screened or included human rights clauses in them when signed. In addition to investment screening, we recognize that we have a responsibility to be diligent regarding our supply chain. In December 2013, the Canada and US region incorporated human rights clauses into the Standard Terms and Conditions for supply contracts. Out of 318 contracts signed by our sites with suppliers and contractors, 71% were screened for human rights or included human rights clauses. No significant contractors or suppliers were declined or removed as a result of these screenings. However, we did work with 42 different suppliers to address concerns related to human rights. Human Rights Training We want to ensure that all employees, contractors and partners uphold Goldcorp’s commitments in our Human Rights Policy and our Code of Conduct. Every employee is responsible for reading and acknowledging the Code of Conduct upon hiring. A structured training and awareness program on the Code of Conduct is in place and executed on an annual basis. The majority of our sites undertook human rights related training above and beyond the Code of Conduct and other standard induction training. Over 2,000 operational and project site employees received training on human rights, equivalent to 34% of our employee base. More than 1,200 hours of employee time were spent in human rights training in 2013. Additional information on human rights training specific to security is available in the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights section. Child Labour The International Finance Corporation (IFC) defines child labour as “work by children that is economically exploitative or likely to be hazardous or to interfere with the child’s education, or to be harmful to the child’s health or physical, mental, spiritual, moral, or social development”. The legal age at which young people may work varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Goldcorp will not knowingly employ a person who is under the legal age of employment, or where that employment would contravene the IFC definition of child labour. No incidents of child labour were reported in 2013, nor were any operations considered to have significant risk for incidents of child labour. Forced or Compulsory Labour Goldcorp supports the principle that individuals must be accorded an equal opportunity to participate in the free enterprise system and to develop their ability to achieve their full potential within that system. This includes the concept of a fair day’s pay for a fair day’s work”. Goldcorp does not engage in, or condone, forced or compulsory labour. No incidents of forced or compulsory labour were reported in 2013, nor were any operations considered to have significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining In our Human Rights Policy, Goldcorp commits to respect workers’ rights, including freedom of association, the right to peaceful protest and assembly, and engagement in collective bargaining in association with the International Labour Organization (ILO). In 2013, at Cerro Negro, in Argentina, freedom of association and collective bargaining were identified as being potentially at risk. Our Cerro Negro site has noted that there is increased risk of trade union members exerting undue pressure on workers. To support these rights, Goldcorp supports and permits employees to form a union as laid out in Argentinian law. We also maintain a constant dialogue with suppliers and unions to ensure that all personnel are covered by an appropriate collective bargaining agreement. Human Rights Grievances Commitments listed in Goldcorp’s Corporate Social Responsibility Policy include the establishment of grievance mechanisms based on international best practices. Goldcorp acknowledges the corporate responsibility to respect human rights, which means that the company and its subsidiaries must act with due diligence to avoid infringing on the rights of others. In light of the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights, we also acknowledge that sound grievance procedures, particularly related to human rights, contribute to the “access to remedy” pillar included in the guiding principles. Grievances may come from both internal and external stakeholders. Examples of internal stakeholders include employees, former employees and contractors. External stakeholders are those such as local communities, civil society and government. At Goldcorp we have two formal channels for receiving complaints and grievances, and other informal channels, which are implemented on a site-by-site basis. The first of the two formal mechanisms is our Ethics from the Ground Up program, which includes a hotline and dedicated email address and mailing address to receive complaints, questions and concerns related to the implementation of our Code of Conduct. While any person can access this mechanism, it is most often accessed by our employees and contractors. We encourage employees to bring concerns and complaints to their supervisors and human resources staff on-site, but we recognize that often people want a degree of separation and neutrality. The initial complaint is received in confidence by an external third party, and the cases are investigated and resolved by the corporate Ethics Committee. Complaints raised through the system are not limited to human rights issues, and include a wide range of concerns such as fraud or theft. The most frequent potential human rights impacts raised through the system are from cases related to discrimination and harassment. The second system is the Community Response System, which is also accessible by anyone but specifically geared to local communities and other external stakeholders. While each Community Response System at our operating sites is tailored to the local context, they are all designed to comply with the Goldcorp Grievance Mechanism Framework. Goldcorp’s projects are at various stages of formalizing their Community Response Systems. Interim channels exist through their community relations teams. Éléonore and Cerro Negro finalized their systems in 2013 and will be implementing them in 2014. Some overlap may exist between these channels. Due to the confidential nature of grievance management, as well as the ability of a stakeholder to escalate their grievance through multiple channels, verifying at the corporate level the precise number by category has proven difficult. In 2013, one grievance was reported at Musselwhite via the Community Response System and was directly related to human rights, as well as to Indigenous rights. Twenty grievances were received at Peñasquito related to potential human rights issues. In addition, our Ethics from the Ground Up mechanism responded to 30 complaints and/or inquiries regarding discrimination, harassment and other issues that could relate to human rights. Since the grievance management system is site-based, and therefore contextually specific as well as confidential in nature, we have not attempted in this report to define or describe the specific issues raised. Received in previous Ethics from the Ground Up hotline Received Investigated Resolved period, resolved in current (human rights related complaints only) period Discrimination 7 7 6 0 Harassment (includes bullying, unwanted sexual 21 21 21 0 advances) Impacts to livelihood 0 0 0 1 Impacts on personal safety and security 1 1 1 0 Received in previous Community Response System1 Received Investigated Resolved period, resolved in current (all grievances received) period Discrimination 1 1 0 0 Harassment (includes bullying, unwanted sexual 0 0 0 1 advances) Impacts to personal property 16 17 16 1 Impacts to livelihood 9 9 8 0 Impacts on personal health and well-being 6 6 6 0 Impacts to shared natural resources (e.g., 1 1 1 0 water, air) Impacts on personal safety and security 2 2 2 0 Impediment to peaceful association/collective 0 0 0 0 bargaining Impediments to access to land and 4 4 4 0 infrastructure Impacts on cultural site/object and access to 0 0 0 0 site/object Lack of consultation or access to information 4 4 4 0 Other 83 83 79 0 Total 126 127 120 2 1 This table shows all grievances received through our Community Response mechanisms. It does not attempt to filter by those that had potential human rights impacts. HUMAN RIGHTS CASE STUDY Equipping Our People on Security and Human Rights In an effort to strengthen our commitment to respect human rights and in line with the implementation of the Conflict-Free Gold Standard in 2013, we recognized that it would be imperative to offer training and support across our sites. One key aspect of the training offered to personnel was on human rights – particularly on best practices in human rights and security. In July 2013, we gathered staff from Community Relations and Security from Mexico, Guatemala and Argentina for a three-day training session, diving into the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (VPSHR). Training consisted of a discussion of the Voluntary Principles background and intent, and then progressed through a detailed discussion of each of the three VPSHR components (Risk Assessment, Public Security Force Relations, and Private Security Force Relations). Throughout, the lessons discussed responsibilities and provided guidance on implementing the Voluntary Principles. The training module combined a mix of lecture, case study review and interactive practical exercises. Participants engaged with the material through lively case study debates and discussions. Holding the session with both Security and Community Relations personnel helped to build bridges between these two departments, both of which engage with visitors, contractors and community members in the course of their duties. It was also an opportunity for staff from different sites to learn from each other and exchange challenges and best practices. “The most valuable part for me was bringing into alignment the knowledge we have from individual sites,” said Werner Tanchez, Manager of Sustainable Development at Marlin. The opportunity for them to exchange experiences enriched the sessions for all, helping to ensure that respecting human rights is a foundational part of how we conduct ourselves in all interactions with our stakeholders. “The Mexican sites’ commitment was strengthened. There was an appreciably higher level of enthusiasm for implementing [these concepts] just as well or better as has been done at our Guatemalan operation,” added Julio Merida, Manager of Administration, IT and Systems Risk for Goldcorp Guatemala. The sessions had a lasting impact. Attendees from our El Sauzal mine went back to their site and there implemented a program training employees and raising awareness in the surrounding communities. COMMUNITY RELATIONS We are committed to generating prosperity that continues beyond the operating life of our mines. COMMUNITY RELATIONS At Goldcorp, we recognize that our operations will have impacts on the areas around our mine sites, bringing both opportunities and issues of concern for residents. We strive to partner with local stakeholders to understand their needs and address their questions, and to conduct our business in a way that supports strong, vibrant and sustainable Online Community Engagement in Timmins communities. Our approach hinges on mutual respect, ongoing dialogue and a desire to work together to create sustainable prosperity. In 2013, some of our major achievements in community relations included: The signing of the Obishikokaang Collaboration Agreement with the Lac Seul First Nation A $636,000 donation to rebuild schools in the area around Marlin that were damaged in an earthquake in late 2012 Answering the Call of the Moose Completion of a community needs survey around our El Sauzal mine which will inform the key priorities for the social and economic aspects of our closure plan for that mine, which is in its final stages of production Significant progress on educational initiatives through supporting scholarships, school infrastructure and academic development. At Goldcorp, we consider creating and maintaining partnerships to be of the utmost importance in contributing to sustainable development in the communities where we operate. Accordingly, we are active members of industry associations and collaborative working groups, and undertake direct partnerships with international development and community organizations. Within Goldcorp’s five material issues, the following are significant priorities that pertain to community relations: Stakeholder engagement Indigenous relationships MANAGEMENT APPROACH Goldcorp’s goal is to be responsible, respected and welcomed in our local communities. At the heart of our approach is one of our Six Pillars: Growing Partnerships. Our community relations programs and policies are oriented to working alongside local, regional and national partners to have mutually beneficial outcomes – maximizing benefits to local communities through jobs, training, and development programs, and mitigating negative impacts whenever possible. Goals and Performance Our commitment to conducting our business responsibly is outlined in our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy and Human Rights Policy. Our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy is guided by international standards and best practices, and driven by our aspiration for excellence in our overall business performance. The management approach to CSR and community relations is led by our Senior Vice President of Corporate Affairs. Our overarching goal is to generate prosperity that continues beyond the operating life of our mines. To do this, our policies lay out several commitments which govern how we will deal with our communities and stakeholders: Uphold and respect human rights set forth in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and international humanitarian law. Develop meaningful and effective strategies for engaging with all stakeholders. Consult with local communities to identify effective and culturally appropriate development goals. Establish grievance mechanisms, based on international best practices. Partner with credible organizations, including non-governmental and civil society organizations. Identify and develop socio-economic opportunities that lead to sustainable prosperity in the communities and countries in which we operate. Integrate socio-economic, environmental, occupational health and safety, human rights, and governance best practices into our business processes. Make meaningful and sustainable contributions to the host countries and communities in which we operate. Respect the rights and traditions of Indigenous peoples in association with the ILO Convention 169, and seek to protect cultural and spiritual heritage as well as the environment. Minimize involuntary resettlement wherever possible, and when relocation cannot be avoided, establish, in consultation with affected communities, a resettlement plan that adheres to the International Finance Corporation Performance Standards and ILO Convention 169. In practice, our implementation of our policies is guided by the CSR Framework. This framework provides guidance on many critical topics, including human rights, open and meaningful stakeholder engagement, sustainable community development investment, resettlement, closure planning, grievance mechanisms and procedures, emergency preparedness, anti-corruption, public policy, anti-competitive behaviour, and compliance. As part of the development of the Sustainability Excellence Management System (SEMS) in late 2013, we redrafted the CSR Framework into Community Relations Standards, which will provide measurable and auditable performance standards in areas of: Social baseline studies Stakeholder management Community Response System (grievance mechanisms) Community agreements Human rights Land acquisition and compensation Local employment and procurement Community investments Reclamation and closure planning Training and Awareness Most training related to community relations is done at the site or regional level, based on the issues and needs of the communities around the sites as well as our employee skill-set. There are a few key company-wide initiatives to support the local training programs. We regularly hold a biannual conference on Sustainability where community relations teams from each of our mines and offices meet and learn about topics such as stakeholder engagement, grievance mechanisms, social closure planning, local procurement and community investments. The sites are also supported with materials and best practices to ensure that our people are equipped to build lasting and prosperous partnerships with our local communities. Ultimately, we want our employees to be well equipped for the context in which they work. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Goldcorp is committed to building open and trusting relationships with stakeholders. Our goal is to carry out meaningful and effective engagement with our stakeholders. This means a respectful, good faith, equitable dialogue that shares information and concerns with individual stakeholders. Our engagement is manifested in various forms, as appropriate to the stakeholder: from information giving to consultation and shared decision-making. Whether our engagement involves site visits, briefings and updates, Town Hall or community meetings, workshops, or individual responses, Goldcorp takes every stakeholder relationship very seriously. Stakeholder Groups Local mine site management along with corporate and regional management are responsible for identifying, mapping, prioritizing and engaging with a variety of local, national and international stakeholders on topics related to our operations. This is a continuous process. We define a stakeholder as an individual, group or organization that is directly or indirectly affected by our operations, has a direct interest in our activities, and/or has the ability to influence outcomes and decision-making processes. Our stakeholders include: Civil society and non-governmental organizations CSR consultants and third-party mediators Educational institutions and academia Employees and contractors Host communities and Indigenous communities Media National, regional and local governments and regulators Religious groups Shareholders, including socially responsible investor groups Supply chain partners (including upstream suppliers and downstream refiners) Approaches to Stakeholder Engagement Goldcorp is committed to meeting or exceeding mandatory consultation requirements to ensure the development and sustainability of robust partnerships with all stakeholders who have an interest in Goldcorp’s operations. We actively seek out partnerships with local communities, government, civil society and non-governmental organizations. Since 2012, we have used a Stakeholder Engagement Tool developed in partnership with CARE Canada. With CARE’s extensive expertise in community development and their engagement approach, which reaches out to the most marginalized groups, Goldcorp sites have the opportunity to learn best practice in the field. The Stakeholder Engagement Tool outlines our guiding principles for successful stakeholder engagement. Stakeholder engagement accompanies every phase of the project life cycle and includes a range of customized activities and approaches based on the stakeholder involved, operating context and desired engagement outcome. It is not practical to provide details on the frequency of every type of engagement at each site due to the sheer number of interactions each site has with its stakeholders. For example: At Musselwhite, the three committees responsible for overseeing the implementation of the Musselwhite Agreement meet two to four times a year. These committees include representation from Musselwhite, the First Nations communities and civil society. Éléonore has a similar agreement with the Cree Nation of Wemindji, the Grand Council of the Crees (Eeyou Istchee) and the Cree Regional Authority; representative committees from these groups also meet regularly throughout the year. At Marlin, a community environmental monitoring association conducts quarterly independent community-based environmental monitoring around the mine. Membership includes representatives of the five communities around the mine and a representative of the Catholic Church, all from the municipality of San Miguel Ixtahuacán, and representatives from three adjoining communities in the municipality of Sipacapa. The Community Environmental Monitoring Association (Asociación de Monitoreo Ambiental Comunitario – AMAC) is supported by technical representatives, including a mining engineer from the Faculty of Engineering of the University of San Carlos (Guatemala), a social facilitator and a chemist. At Red Lake, the Community Stakeholder Exchange Committee is made up of community members and Red Lake representatives. The committee provides a way to exchange information on operations, community activities and sector development at Red Lake. Similarly, Porcupine actively engages local stakeholders in Timmins through the Porcupine Watchful Eye Committee and the Hollinger Project Advisory Committee, which are both community representative groups that work with the mine to help us understand and recognize the requirements, expectations and concerns of all stakeholders involved in Porcupine’s activities. At Wharf, Goldcorp is represented on the Sustainable Prosperity Community Fund board, supporting local community development initiatives. At the corporate level, we meet annually with socially responsible investors to communicate about the ways we manage our sustainability impacts. The form of stakeholder engagement is generally decided at each site and considers what is appropriate to the stakeholder. Key components of effective stakeholder engagement include: Relevant, accessible, culturally appropriate and timely information. Safe mechanisms for stakeholders to express their views. Methods for incorporating relevant feedback into Goldcorp’s decision-making processes. All of our sites have stakeholder engagement maps to help identify whom we should engage on specific issues. Eight sites had engagement plans in place in 2013. Whether through formal or informal channels, representatives from our mines meet regularly with local stakeholders. These sessions help us to understand and address local issues and to communicate important information about Goldcorp’s policies and programs. Sites also track complaints, inquiries and requests. Receiving this type of communication can often be an important way to understand our stakeholders’ concerns and priorities. ISSUES AND CONCERNS Stakeholder engagement is a continuous process. It is undertaken by individual employees, by site-based teams and by those representing Goldcorp as a whole from our corporate or regional offices. Local mine site management, along with support from corporate and regional management, is responsible for identifying, mapping and engaging with a variety of local, national and international stakeholders on topics related to our operations. Key issues discussed through our engagement included issues related to physical and environmental concerns (e.g., water quality, noise from operations), land use, local employment and economic development, and pressures on local services and infrastructure. Our stakeholders identify several indirect impacts as potentially significant, including loss of income and jobs to outside workers and contractors. Through these discussions, we also, with our stakeholders, identify mitigation and monitoring steps to respond to these concerns. Region Key issues and concerns raised through engagement1 Indigenous consultation and implementation of collaboration agreements Local economic development initiatives Canada and US Building local employment Responding to physical impact concerns (dust, noise, etc.) Physical impacts of operations (water usage, blasting and dust) Impacts on personal property Land usage Cyanide usage and handling Mexico Sustainable community development Educational initiatives Mine closure planning Community needs assessments Sustainable income generation during operations and after closure Job creation Environmental impacts Central and South America Sustainable investment and avoiding a resource dependency Impacts on water resources Land access and compensation Goldcorp provides specific guidance in our Stakeholder Engagement Tool to identify vulnerable populations and implement targeted and appropriate engagement. We recognize that groups considered as vulnerable populations are context specific and will vary from site to site. At the corporate level, our stakeholder engagement is focused on shareholders, capital market participants, governments (usually at the national level) and civil society (principally national and international NGOs). Goldcorp’s CEO meets annually with socially responsible investors to address issues of concern to this group. Regular communication is maintained with these groups throughout the year to respond to specific inquiries. Other more general public communication processes include regulatory filings, annual and quarterly reports, news releases, blog posts, fact sheets, presentations by senior management, as well as meetings, individual letters and telephone conversations, media interviews, and press conferences. At all times, Goldcorp and our employees are conscious of our obligations, under the provisions of securities laws, relating to the disclosure of material information. To learn more about our approach to timely disclosure and confidentiality, click the link in the sidebar. The Goldcorp website (www.goldcorp.com) is the primary source of public general information. The Vice President, Investor Relations, is responsible for creating and maintaining the website, as well as managing the company’s social media presence. The site includes an email link to an Investor Relations contact which facilitates communication with investors and other stakeholders. We also maintain separate websites for certain sites for historical reasons and frequency of engagement: Visit www.goldcorpguatemala.com for our operations in Guatemala. Visit www.porcupinegoldmines.ca for our Porcupine mine in Timmins. Goldcorp also engages corporately with industry groups, particularly those that encourage sustainable operations in the mining industry. We are an active member of the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) and a member of the World Gold Council (WGC). In 2013, we conducted readiness reviews with our Mexican sites related to our ability to meet or exceed the Conflict-Free Gold Standard. Another key collaborative group in which we participated in 2013 was the Devonshire Initiative, which is a unique Canadian platform that brings together mining companies and civil society to share experiences, understand concerns and build mutually beneficial partnerships and initiatives. To see a complete list of our memberships and the platforms in which we participate, see our section on Commitment to External Initiatives. 1 This list is not exhaustive, but is a summary of the key issues identified through our materiality assessment and regular annual reporting mechanism. COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Goldcorp undertakes community engagement at 100% of its mining operations, though the format may vary by site. Goldcorp’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Framework provides a series of tools, policies and guidelines that are to be used by the community relations teams at each site. The Framework details the programs that are in place to assess and manage the impacts of our operations on communities throughout the mining life cycle: from before we enter a community, through the operating period, and when we exit a community. Goldcorp has developed accompanying guidelines, which include how to implement such aspects of community relations as: Socio-economic baseline studies Stakeholder identification and mapping Human rights training Land acquisition and compensation Grievance mechanisms Sustainable community development Local inclusion (training, hiring, procurement and influx management) Socio-economic closure plans The diagram below shows the programs included in the CSR Framework. Although they are presented linearly, many of these activities run parallel to each other. Certain aspects also depend on the point in the mine life cycle. For example, every site goes through an environmental impact assessment during the feasibility stage, which generally includes an assessment of potential community impacts and ways to mitigate negative ones and support positive ones. Once sites are in the construction and operations stages, they will carry out a baseline study related to environmental and social impacts and periodically update the study to monitor our effect on local communities and the physical surroundings. Four sites completed and disclosed a Social and Environmental Impact Study (SEIA) or a socio-economic baseline study during 2013: Marigold: produced an updated SEIA for permitting requirements. El Sauzal: completed a community needs assessment with a third party, which will form the basis of our social closure plan. Cerro Negro: updated its baseline study for Perito Moreno in order to formulate a multi-year plan for social, economic and cultural activities in the local community. El Morro: Updated its Indigenous Social Baseline in 2013 in the Alto del Carmen commune. CSR AT GOLDCORP ACROSS THE LIFE OF A MINE: RESPONSIBLE, RESPECTED AND WELCOMED Each of these programs has a monitoring aspect, which requires measuring key performance indicators. All of our mines have dedicated personnel whose roles are to ensure that host communities benefit directly from our operations. Some of our operations also have formal consultation committees. For example: Porcupine consults with the Porcupine Watchful Eye Committee and the Hollinger Project Advisory Committee. Red Lake works with the Community Stakeholder Engagement Committee. Marigold sits on the Lander County Sustainable Development Committee and works with the Battle Mountain Advisory Board. Éléonore works with two community representative groups: the four Collaboration Agreement Implementation Committees (each focused on different areas, such as environment and employment) and COMAX, a committee made up of local administration members, social and economic development organizations and site management. Musselwhite implements its agreement with local First Nations through three committees that comprise First Nations community members and site staff. Community Contributions Goldcorp’s contributions to local communities through wages, donations, investments, royalties and other payments amounted to $1.33 billion in 20131. Direct and Indirect Contributions DIRECT CONTRIBUTIONS Goldcorp contributes directly to our communities through donations and community investments. We define a donation as a cash or physical gift made to the larger community where the target beneficiaries are external to the company and Goldcorp is not involved in the administration or delivery of that gift. An example is donating money to a school to purchase books or supplies. A community investment is an investment of employee time, resources and a monetary contribution, the target beneficiaries of which are external to the company. Goldcorp is involved in some capacity in the design, implementation or administration of the resources (e.g., a community relations person sits on the project steering committee). At the end of 2013, Goldcorp reassessed how we classify and track our community investments and donations, in order to strengthen our investment-making decisions as well as how we are measuring and communicating our impact. Direct contributions in 2013 amounted to more than $23 million. Direct contributions consisted of money or in-kind benefits provided directly to community organizations or community representatives for specified purposes, which generally fell into four core categories: Health Education Community Development Arts & Culture HEALTH Goldcorp continued to contribute to the health and well-being of the communities around us by supporting local sports and recreation programs, medical research and infrastructure, local hospital foundations, health and sanitation awareness campaigns and other such programs. Some notable health initiatives in 2013 included sponsoring a breast cancer screening clinic in Chile near our El Morro project and a donation of orthopedic supports at our Peñasquito mine in Mexico. We also donated $1 million to St. Paul’s Hospital in Vancouver, British Columbia, to create the Addiction Medicine Fellowship. EDUCATION Education is a key focus area for Goldcorp because it lays the foundation for a brighter future. We endeavour to support all levels of education. We contribute to community investment programs, such as literacy and education programs at our El Sauzal site, as well as donate to local schools and universities. In 2013, we continued supporting the Mining Matters camps, which introduce kids to geology and mining processes in northern Ontario, along with the very successful CONALEP scholarship program in Mazapil, Mexico, which provides college-level training in skilled trades to local youth. We also supported a number of tertiary institutions in North America. We were pleased to support the University of British Columbia’s Earth Sciences Building, to which we have made a five-year $5 million commitment. A separate gift of $125,000 to UBC will help establish a mining-focused executive MBA program. We also supported the Gustavson School of Business at the University of Victoria, funding their Corporate Social Responsibility program. COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Community development donations and investments allow us to contribute to a vibrant local economy and culture. We aim to promote and sustain increased social and economic benefits for a wide range of stakeholders. The majority of our support in this area comes in the form of annual contributions to communities over multiple years during operations, or initial seed funding for projects that address locally identified needs and priorities. The long-term vision is that these communities can build a strong economic foundation to be sustainable beyond the life of mine. In 2013, we gave $1.25 million to the Street to Home Foundation, which is dedicated to finding solutions to homelessness in Vancouver, BC, and $316,000 to the United Way Campaign. We also contributed $575,000 to conservation initiatives in our communities, through organizations such as the World Wildlife Fund, Nature Trust BC, the Pacific Salmon Foundation and the Vancouver Aquarium. ARTS & CULTURE Whether it is a local music festival or a theatre piece that explores the history of the community neighbouring our site or a world-renowned symphony, supporting the arts and culture around us is always a rewarding experience. In 2013, we supported the restoration of the historic Homestake Opera House in Lead, South Dakota, and were proud sponsors of the Vancouver Symphony Orchestra and the Vancouver Opera. INFRASTRUCTURE Goldcorp often supports local development through infrastructure projects, which either provide a shared benefit to the operation and the community or are entirely for the community benefit. The Wataynikanenap Power partnership is an example of an infrastructure investment that is a shared benefit, for local First Nations communities and our Musselwhite mine. Sustainable Funds Goldcorp has established sustainable funds in the United States, Guatemala and Honduras to provide long-term community assistance. In 2012, Goldcorp made an initial $1 million contribution to start the Wharf Sustainable Prosperity Fund, in order to support future generations in Lead, South Dakota, after the Wharf mine closes. It is administered by the South Dakota Community Foundation, a public non-profit organization. Local Goldcorp management participates in the Wharf Sustainable Prosperity Committee, which will ensure that Wharf leaves a positive legacy even after operations are complete. Fundación Sierra Madre (the Sierra Madre Foundation) in Guatemala was founded in 2003 by the Marlin mine. The mission of this fund is to implement sustainable, community-based development and capacity-building programs in the municipalities of San Miguel Ixtahuacán and Sipacapa. It is managed and staffed by Guatemalans, and has become an important part of the local community throughout the municipality of San Miguel and in villages in the municipality of Sipacapa. The foundation plays an integral role in building local capacity and promoting economic and community sustainability. Fundación San Martin (the San Martin Foundation) is a non-profit organization founded in 2000 by the San Martin mine to promote sustainable development in the Honduran region known as Valle de Siria. It is a key example of our closure plans at work after operations. The foundation’s purpose is to secure benefits for the community on a permanent basis by creating employment opportunities and economic development in the area during and after mine operations. Our corporate Donations Policy establishes a target for donations of 1% of pre-tax earnings from operations, in line with Imagine Canada’s guidelines. Our foundations disburse some, though not all of our community investments and donation funds. 20132 DIRECT CONTRIBUTIONS ($) Community investments Donations Total Health 211,000 1,914,000 2,125,000 Education 508,000 3,959,000 4,467,000 Community development 604,000 4,069,000 4,673,000 Arts and culture 602,000 705,000 1,307,000 Infrastructure 4,381,000 947,000 5,327,000 Community development or legacy funds 611,000 419,000 1,030,000 Other 1,788,000 2,544,000 4,332,000 Sub-total 8,705,000 14,556,000 23,261,000 Sponsorships 65,000 739,000 804,000 INDIRECT CONTRIBUTIONS Indirect contributions in 2013 amounted to $1.31 billion, compared to $970 million in 2012. Indirect contributions relate to money or in-kind benefits provided to community organizations, local governments or individuals for unspecified purposes, or relate to the purchase of goods and services from the local area, including: Local royalties and taxes: taxes of all kinds paid to local authorities Compensation agreements: monies paid as part of formal compensation agreements Local goods: goods purchased from the local area Local services: services supplied from the local area In 2013, we spent $973 million on local and regional suppliers and an additional $2 million on national suppliers. This meant that only 5.5% of our supply was sourced outside the country of site operations. 1 This data follows the reporting procedures utilized in our 2013 Annual Report. Some measures, where noted, are non-GAAP measures on an attributable basis, which include discontinued operations and projects and the company’s share of Alumbrera and Pueblo Viejo. 2 Data covers donations and investments from sites and the corporate office. It does not include donations and investments made at the regional level, as this information was not available at the time of writing. RELATIONSHIPS WITH INDIGENOUS COMMUNITIES At Goldcorp, our policy is to seek and encourage partnerships with all local communities, and particularly with the Aboriginal and Indigenous populations around our sites. We strive to make a positive impact in our local communities through economic contributions, community involvement and consultation, support to health and education initiatives, and sponsorship of special events. In particular, we strive to create employment and business opportunities for local Aboriginal and Indigenous communities, with sensitivity and support for their social and cultural practices. We also seek opportunities for cultural training for our non-Aboriginal employees and contractors to prepare them for working in the culturally diverse environment they may find on so many of our sites. We are also a member of the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) and as such we support and endeavour to implement the ICMM Position Statement on Mining and Indigenous Peoples, which was updated in 2013 and will come into effect in 2015. The Position Statement outlines the ICMM’s view of Free, Informed, Prior Consent (FPIC) and provides commitments that member companies make in order to put this into practice. Goldcorp respects the human rights, cultures, customs and values of those who are affected by our activities. We strive to ensure community engagement through consultation and special events, and by partnering with various organizations for a range of community development programs. In 2013, there was one grievance reported via our Community Response mechanism that related to the rights of Indigenous peoples, and 14 significant1 disputes related to land use or customary rights of local or Indigenous people: Region Number of disputes Channel of resolution Status at end of 2013 Ethics from the Ground Up Canada and US 4 program (1); Legal channels Closed (1); Ongoing (3) (3) Community Response Mexico 9 Closed (9) Mechanism (9) Central and South America 2 Legal channels (2) Ongoing Goldcorp total 15 Eight of our sites (Red Lake, Musselwhite, Porcupine, Equity Silver, El Sauzal, Marlin, Éléonore and El Morro) are operating in or adjacent to Indigenous people’s territories and these sites have identified 47 different Indigenous groups in the surrounding areas. Éléonore, Marlin, Red Lake and Musselwhite have formal agreements in place with their Indigenous communities. One of our highlight accomplishments for 2013 in the Canada and US region was the signing of the Obishikokaang Collaboration Agreement with the Lac Seul First Nation (LSFN). Collaboration with Indigenous Communities At several of our operations, Indigenous people are a key community group. We acknowledge their traditional cultures and knowledge. We also seek to consult and partner with Indigenous communities to improve economic, environmental and social opportunities in the areas where we operate. RED LAKE AND THE LAC SEUL FIRST NATION After five years of negotiations, Red Lake Gold Mines signed the Obishikokaang Collaboration Agreement with the LSFN in August 2013. This is a landmark agreement for Goldcorp, setting out a number of benefits and provisions for LSFN, including training and employment opportunities, business and contracting opportunities, a framework for consultation on various aspects of project development including environmental assessments, and financial contributions that Goldcorp will provide to LSFN in support of sustainable community development initiatives. The agreement also provides additional funding for the Lac Seul Training Centre of Excellence and the Lac Seul First Nation Small Business Equity Fund. The Centre, founded last year with support from Goldcorp, provides quality, certified training programs and workshops to members of the community and the region at large to maximize their employment potential. The Centre will also provide scholarship and bursary opportunities for LSFN youth interested in pursuing post-secondary education. The LSFN Equity Fund was created by LSFN and Goldcorp to support the growth of business capacity within the First Nation to further their participation in the regional economy. In May 2013, LSFN used proceeds from the LSFN Business Equity Fund to acquire and open a band owned and operated franchise of the popular Tim Hortons coffee and doughnut chain. MUSSELWHITE AND THE FIRST NATIONS COMMUNITIES In 2001, we established an innovative agreement (the Musselwhite Agreement) with local First Nations communities which provides them with a range of education, training, employment and business-related services. The signatories to the agreement are the First Nations of North Caribou Lake, Cat Lake, Kingfisher Lake and Wunnumin Lake, as well as the Shibogama First Nations Council and the Windigo First Nations Council. Affiliates to the agreement include three other First Nations communities that are affiliates to the Shibogama First Nations Council, and five other First Nations communities that are affiliates to the Windigo First Nations Council. The agreement sets targets for First Nations training and employment opportunities at the mine, as well as business development that will benefit the area over the long term and beyond the life of the mine. There are three public liaison committees, each composed of a cross-section of diverse interests from local communities. Through these committees, the mine is able to report its progress, receive feedback and hear concerns directly from local citizens on environmental, social and economic matters. ÉLÉONORE AND THE CREE NATION OF WEMINDJI In 2013, work continued on the advancement of the Éléonore project located in the James Bay region of Québec approximately 190 kilometres east of the Cree Nation of Wemindji and 320 kilometres north of the town of Matagami. Goldcorp, through Éléonore, has continued building on its relationship with the Cree and in particular the Cree Nation of Wemindji. In February 2011, the Cree Nation of Wemindji, the Grand Council of the Crees (Eeyou Istchee) and the Cree Regional Authority signed a Collaboration Agreement regarding the development and operation of Éléonore in northern Québec. With the support of the people of Wemindji, the community formally approved the agreement on January 26, 2011 with the unanimous consent of Wemindji's Chief and Council. It was subsequently approved unanimously by the Grand Council of the Crees (Eeyou Istchee) and the Cree Regional Authority on February 3, 2011, representing the support of the Cree Nation as a whole and ensuring a stable regional environment for the development and operation of Éléonore. Under the agreement, Goldcorp recognizes and respects Cree rights and interests in the area of Éléonore and the Crees recognize and support Goldcorp's rights and interests in the development and operation of the project. The agreement will be in effect for the life of the mine and it includes provisions regarding the participation of the Crees in the development of Éléonore throughout the life of the mine, including employment and business opportunities and training and education initiatives. The agreement also reflects Goldcorp's commitment to protecting the environment and supporting the Crees' social and cultural practices in a spirit of continued collaboration. Resettlement Resettlement is a complex and life-changing issue for the communities affected. It is never our first resort when other options are available. Our approach is to seek voluntary resettlement when it is absolutely necessary. The timing and location of resettlement is negotiated with the affected households and every reasonable effort is made to ensure that the integrity of the communities is maintained. For all resettlement processes, Goldcorp staff will prepare a Resettlement Action Plan. A Resettlement Action Plan is a comprehensive plan that addresses the impacts of physical and associated economic displacement. It documents the policies to which Goldcorp will adhere, the procedures that we will follow, and the actions that we will take to engage with stakeholders, mitigate adverse impacts, compensate losses and provide development benefits to displaced persons, households and communities. As a general rule, resettlement will be to a location that offers equal or higher value characteristics and advantages of location. Our guiding principle on land-related matters is to create and foster trust which results in mutual benefits. In 2013, one household (of ten people) was resettled at Peñasquito. Goldcorp consulted with the family at Peñasquito regarding compensation, the relocation housing and other issues related to the family’s economic and social well-being. 1 The significance of each dispute is determined at the site level based on the local and operational context. ARTISANAL MINING No artisanal or small-scale mining was reported on any of our sites. However, the access road to our El Morro site is adjacent to the property of a small-scale mining association. The site maintains a close relationship with that local association. COMPLIANCE At Goldcorp, we strive not only to operate in full compliance with the applicable laws and regulations of the jurisdictions where we work, but also to fulfill additional best practices and voluntary standards. We regularly engage in both internal and third-party monitoring on regulatory compliance issues such as labour conditions and environmental impacts. We also welcome the inspection undertaken by relevant authorities to ensure we are conforming to regulations and being advised of non-compliance so that we can take the necessary steps to rectify that. In 2013, there were a number of fines for non-compliance with regulations1. The total amount, excluding environmental fines, was approximately $3.36 million. The fines were levied at four sites and covered a range of issues: Cerro Negro: One fine was received that amounted to approximately $3.1 million. The fine was levied by the Secretary of Labor following inspections conducted on-site where alleged infringements related to numerous minor health and security rules were observed. The allegations of infringements were primarily related to on-site contractors. Goldcorp is currently appealing the fine. El Sauzal: One fine amounting to approximately $4,500 was levied for a safety infraction related to fire prevention regulations. Marigold: 12 fines and sanctions were received amounting to a total of $1,794. The fines were levied by the US Mine Safety and Health Administration. Wharf: Wharf received 25 fines for a total of $12,507. All fines were received from the US Mine Safety and Health Administration. 1 Does not include environmental compliance. For information on environmental fines and regulatory performance, see the Environmental Compliance section COMMUNITY RELATIONS CASE STUDIES Online Community Engagement in Timmins The closer a mining operation is to a residential area, the greater the impact felt by local residents – and the greater the need to build and maintain trust through transparency and dialogue. Consider the Hollinger project: one of the Porcupine mine operations, Hollinger is an open pit gold mine under development, in the centre of the city of Timmins, Ontario. This kind of proximity makes every one of the city’s 43,000 citizens a stakeholder. Understandably, people want to know about noise, dust, air quality, and how day-to-day operations may affect their routines and quality of life. The majority of Timmins’ population is informed, urban and technology-savvy, which made it possible to experiment with new channels of communication. Like any Goldcorp operation, Porcupine maintains dedicated telephone and fax numbers and an email address for community inquiries. It runs a series of public communication initiatives and a Community Information Centre staffed by a full-time Community Liaison Coordinator. What’s unique is that anyone with an Internet-connected computer can visit the mine’s website and view a full-colour map, the “Hollinger Live Monitoring” map, and view up-to-the-second dust and noise readings from a battery of sensors located around the mine. With a few more clicks, visitors access current and historical reports on blasting, noise and dust, and examine many of the mine’s engineering studies. This level of ongoing environmental transparency is unprecedented in Goldcorp’s history. Also on the home page are two large buttons asking for community feedback – one in French and one in English. Visitors are invited to ask a question, report a problem or register a complaint. People can choose to keep their identity secret if they wish. Porcupine’s standard procedures ensure that everyone who wishes to be contacted will receive a personal reply within 24 hours. For urgent issues, the appropriate department is required to respond and take action to address the problem. After the situation has been assessed and either resolved or mitigated, the complainant is contacted again and informed of the action that was taken. The objective of stakeholder communications is always to build and maintain trusted, two-way relationships with communities, government agencies, NGOs and other stakeholders. At Porcupine – with the Hollinger operation located in the midst of a bustling urban centre – the need was more pressing, and the experiment in communication has proven to be equally rewarding. Following robust community consultation and information exchange, permits were received and the first blast took place on February 11, 2014 with the support from community residents. Answering the Call of the Moose At Goldcorp, we have a lot of internal expertise on the technical aspects of mining and environmental management, but we know that knowledge comes in many forms. We want to be contributing members of partnerships that will build a body of knowledge that contributes to the social and environmental well-being of the communities in which we work. When a young moose climbed into the Dome pit at our Porcupine mine three years ago, Goldcorp reached out to local chiefs and elders for advice on how to better protect local wildlife and natural habitats. With that initial outreach, the seeds were planted for a unique partnership: the AMAK Institute. AMAK, which stands for Anishnaabe Maamwaye Aki Kiigayewin, means “All people coming together to heal the earth”. The AMAK Institute is an emerging entity initiated by Goldcorp’s Porcupine Gold Mines and elders from Aboriginal communities across Canada and with the collaboration of the University of Waterloo, Queen's University, Wilfred Laurier University, Social Innovation Generation (SiG), and Golder Associates. Elders participating in AMAK come from a variety of areas in Ontario, Québec and Saskatchewan, including Fort Francis, Moose Factory, Whapmagoostui, Kowacatoose, Mattagami, and Matachewan. A small group of Aboriginal elders from across Canada now guide the operation of the AMAK Institute. The overall goal that guides AMAK is to improve mine reclamation strategies and outcomes by including both scientific data and Indigenous traditional knowledge in the design, planning and monitoring stages of the mining and reclamation process. The AMAK Institute has three main objectives: to strengthen communication and relationship-building; to facilitate the transfer of knowledge; and to implement collaborative environmental monitoring. We believe that using a more holistic approach to mine reclamation will lead to more sustainable, transparent and inclusive mine closure practices. Because this project emerged organically, through strong communication, relationship-building and a shared vision of a healthy human-environment system for future generations, the strategy is often described as “Spirit Driven”. At the heart of the strategy is the holistic notion that current scientific processes can be improved by acknowledging the validity of Indigenous traditional knowledge as a distinct pillar of understanding our relationship to the Earth. Three years into the initiative, we are pleased with the results, but most importantly, with the partnership that has emerged with our Aboriginal communities, which sets the stage for achieving collaborative and responsible resource development for future generations. ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP At all stages of mining activity – from exploration and planning, to operations, and eventual closure – we strive to avoid, reduce and mitigate our environmental impacts. ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Goldcorp is committed to the protection of life, health and the environment for present and future generations. At all stages of mining activity – from exploration and planning, to operations, and eventual closure – we strive to avoid, reduce and mitigate our environmental impacts. Ventilation-on-Demand at Éléonore Within Goldcorp’s five material issues, the following are significant priorities that pertain to environmental stewardship: Energy and emissions Water Mine closure Compliance Goldcorp is committed to the efficient use of natural resources and to The Goldcorp Water Strategy conducting our business to the highest standards of environmental management and performance, striving to go beyond regulatory compliance and lead with industry best practices. Highlights from our performance in 2013 include: Establishing our Sustainability Excellence Management System (SEMS) Establishing our Water Stewardship Strategy Continuing execution of our Energy Strategy MANAGEMENT APPROACH Goldcorp is committed to responsible mining and sustainability excellence. Sustainability at Goldcorp includes the following functions: safety and health, environmental stewardship, Corporate Social Responsibility, and the security of Goldcorp employees, contractors and assets. Led by the Environmental group, these groups from across the company joined together during 2013 to develop the Sustainability Excellence Management System (SEMS). The SEMS provides the framework and standards for Goldcorp sustainability management and ensures a consistency of approach for implementing sustainability policies across the company. The SEMS is the organizational structure, responsibilities, practices, procedures, processes and resources for implementing and maintaining the desired level of sustainability performance. Policy Our Environmental and Sustainability Policy is a key element of the SEMS. This policy promotes the development and implementation of effective systems to minimize risks to health, safety and the environment and to design, operate and close our facilities in compliance with international guidelines and local regulations. The core values prescribed in our Environmental and Sustainability Policy can be summarized as: Commitment to the protection of life, health and the environment for present and future generations. Respect for the needs and cultures of local communities. Open communication with employees, stakeholders and governments regarding our plans, programs and performance. Cooperation with government agencies, local communities, educational institutions and suppliers to achieve safe handling and disposal of all our materials, resources and products. Application of the best technologies to continuously improve the safe, efficient use of resources, processes and materials. Organizational Responsibility The President and Chief Executive Officer of Goldcorp is ultimately responsible for Goldcorp’s environmental performance. At the Board level, the Sustainability, Environment, Health and Safety (SEH&S) Committee of the Board oversees our environmental impacts and activities (see the section on Board Oversight of Sustainability for more information on the role of this committee). Goldcorp’s technical and strategic environmental programs are headed by a Vice President of Environment who reports to the Chief Operating Officer and is supported by environmental professionals. Goals and Performance Goldcorp understands that by setting goals and monitoring and reporting performance against those goals, we are creating key drivers for improved performance across the organization. The most important corporate environmental goals over the last few years have involved the Cyanide Code, our Energy Strategy, the development and implementation of our Water Stewardship Strategy, and most recently the establishment of the SEMS. The Cyanide Code – In July 2007, Goldcorp became a signatory to the International Cyanide Management Code (Cyanide Code). Certification to the Cyanide Code requires verification against the principles of the Cyanide Code by an independent third-party auditor accredited by the International Cyanide Management Institute. All nine of our operating mines are certified compliant with the Cyanide Code. Energy Strategy – Goldcorp aims to reduce the intensity of our greenhouse gas emissions by the end of 2016 by improving energy efficiency and incorporating renewables to the extent feasible. All sites have developed an Energy Management Plan to establish initiatives towards achievement of these targets. This strategy complements our overall Operating for Excellence (O4E) program. Water Stewardship Strategy – Goldcorp aims to optimize the use of water at our operations by standardizing the way we analyze our water use within the context of the basins in which we operate and their characteristics. We plan to apply this analysis to determine our water footprint, and then each site will establish site-specific targets that are most meaningful to reduce our water footprint. SEMS – Goldcorp developed the SEMS in 2013, which provides the framework and standards for Goldcorp sustainability management and ensures a consistency of approach for implementing the sustainability policies across our company. This is a new approach to holistic management of all activities within the Sustainability functional areas at Goldcorp. Training and Awareness Environmental training and awareness is principally a site function. This begins with an introduction to the overall environmental culture of Goldcorp during the employee induction training and progresses to specific environmental requirements of each site. Training is conducted with the intention of ensuring that all employees understand their accountability for environmental protection in the workplace and their duty-of-care to the broader environment. Goldcorp also encourages and supports continuing professional development for its environmental staff. Every two years, Goldcorp holds a Sustainability Workshop, which brings together our employees from the sustainability areas to discuss strategy and to enhance skills in selected areas. These workshops are well attended by senior management, Board members and a cross-section of employees from various areas of the company. Goldcorp also promotes the attendance of its environmental professionals at relevant conferences, workshops and seminars outside the company to encourage interactions with their peers. This provides both benchmarking opportunities, as we compare our performance against our peers, and the opportunity to promote Goldcorp’s environmental performance through the presentation of technical papers. Monitoring and Follow-up Goldcorp has substantially enhanced its environmental audit program to focus on environmental compliance with both regulatory requirements and the new SEMS standards. The SEMS has significantly increased collaboration across the sustainability departments, which is expected to result in improved sustainability performance. MATERIALS Process Materials Materials are separated into two categories: raw materials (the ore from which we extract product) and consumables (materials that are used in our processing but are not part of the final product). All materials reported are for operational sites only, unless otherwise specified. Goldcorp mines ore from both open pit and underground operations. This ore is either processed through a mill or placed on a heap leach pad to extract the product. In total, this material is referred to as “tonnes of ore processed” (milled plus heap leached). The total tonnes of ore processed in 2013 was 106.1 million tonnes (Mt), compared with 97.4 Mt in 2012, an increase of 9%. 2013 2012 Trend Milled (Mt) 49.0 46.7 5% Heap leached (Mt) 57.1 50.7 13% Total ore processed (Mt) 106.1 97.4 9% Consumables The reagents we use in the most significant quantities are outlined below. 2013 2012 Trend Cyanide (t) 26,500 28,100 -6% Lime (including quicklime) (t)1 180,900 163,800 10% Sodium metabisulphite (t) 3,900 3,900 no change Grinding balls (t) 39,800 53,000 -25% Recycled Materials Using recycled input materials helps reduce the demand for virgin material and contributes to the conservation of the global resource base. Recycled input materials used at our mines include waste oil, fly ash, used liners, biosolids from the pulp and paper process, and glass. Recycled input materials as a percentage of our total input materials (principal process materials excluding fuels) was 19.9% in 2013, similar to 17.6% in 2012. All of these recycled materials are sourced internally with the exception of biosolids, which is wastewater sludge from the pulp and paper industry and used at our Porcupine mine as a soil amendment during reclamation activities. It is important to note that biosolids were 85% of the total recycled materials used. 1 Includes lime consumed for closure activities at the Equity Silver property. ENERGY Goldcorp implemented an Energy Strategy in 2012 that included a five-year plan focused on reducing our greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs) by 20% from the baseline year of 2011. Reduction of GHGs can be achieved through improvements in energy efficiency, inclusion of renewable sources of energy, and fuel switching, among others things. By 2012, each mine had completed an Energy Management Plan to identify energy efficiency improvement opportunities, which was an important milestone identified in the Energy Strategy. Energy used at our operations is primarily in the form of fuel and electricity. Diesel is consumed primarily for transport of ore and waste rock (tonnes moved), as well as for on-site power generation in certain cases. Electricity is purchased from the grid for both mining and milling operations. Goldcorp tracks energy consumption by direct and indirect energy sources. Direct energy is defined as the energy consumed by the organization within its boundaries, on-site diesel consumption being the primary source. Indirect energy is defined as the energy consumed by the organization but generated outside the reporting organization’s boundaries, purchased grid power being the primary source. Total energy consumption at our operating mines in absolute terms, in units of gigajoules (GJ), increased by 6% from 2012 to 2013. Of that total, direct energy use increased by 9% and indirect energy use increased by 2%. 2013 2012 Trend Direct energy use (GJ) 10,074,885 9,227,423 9% Indirect energy use (GJ) 7,410,679 7,251,270 2% Total energy use (GJ) 17,485,564 16,478,693 6% Renewable energy use (GJ) (included in direct energy use) 2,856 2,014 42% A small amount of the direct energy consumed came from renewables in 2013, specifically 2,856 GJ. Although this was a very small percentage of our total direct energy consumption, it represents a 42% increase in renewable energy from 2012 to 2013 for Goldcorp. This renewable energy is from a solar wall that was installed at the Musselwhite mine. Mines are dynamic entities and the rate of production, mine development, and waste rock stripping ratios change constantly. Energy intensity, defined as the total amount of energy needed per tonnes moved, is a much more meaningful metric than absolute energy consumption to track how efficiently we are managing our energy consumption. Maturing mines can see an increase in energy intensity due to longer and deeper haulage routes among other reasons; therefore, our sites are implementing energy efficiency initiatives to minimize this effect. Goldcorp began tracking energy efficiency more closely in an effort to advance the Energy Strategy. The energy intensity for the company is shown in the graph below on an annual basis from the baseline year (2011) through 2013. It can be seen that although the mines are maturing and haul distances increasing, the energy intensity has increased only slightly over a three-year period due to the implementation of some energy efficiency measures at our operations. Goldcorp is focused on continuously improving our energy intensity over the remaining three years of our current Energy Strategy. Goldcorp began tracking energy intensity on a quarterly basis in 2013 to better define our approach to improving our energy efficiency; our quarterly energy intensity is shown in the figure below. This metric is further broken down in the following two graphs, first by the mines with all, or the majority, of mining from underground activities followed by a graph of the mines with all, or the majority, of mining from open pits. It is clear from the graphs above that not only are there quarterly variations in energy intensity, but also underground mining is much more energy intensive than open pit mining. Analysis of energy intensity not only by mining type, but also by each mine within that type, allows Goldcorp to perform better benchmarking within our own operations to look for the most energy-efficient ways to conduct our business. GREENHOUSE GAS AND AIR EMISSIONS Greenhouse Gas Emissions GHGs are divided into three categories depending on the source: Scope 1 (direct) GHGs are derived from sources that are owned or controlled by the reporting organization. Our principal source of Scope 1 emissions is the consumption of diesel for power generation and for our material movement with heavy equipment. Scope 2 (indirect) GHGs are generated at sources owned or controlled by another organization. Our principal source of Scope 2 emissions is purchased electricity. Scope 3 (other indirect) GHGs include emissions from business materials, travel and commuting to work. Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHGs on an absolute value basis at our operations increased by 4% from 2012 to 2013 while Scope 3 GHGs decreased slightly, by 1%, as shown in the table below. 2013 20121 Trend Scope 1 GHGs (tonnes CO2e) 721,300 676,600 7% Scope 2 GHGs (tonnes CO2e) 751,300 732,900 3% Total Scope 1 & 2 GHGs (tonnes CO2e) 1,472,700 1,409,500 4% Scope 3 GHGs (tonnes CO2e) 436,300 439,500 -1% Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 GHGs (tonnes CO2e) 1,909,000 1,849,000 3% 1 2012 data has been recalculated using current emissions factors to provide comparability with 2013 data. The bar graph below shows the total Scope 1 and 2 GHGs from 2011 (the baseline year of the Energy Strategy) through 2013. The total GHGs from 2011 to 2013 have increased on an absolute basis by 7%. However, similar to the metric for energy intensity, GHG intensity can be defined as the total amount of GHGs per tonne moved and is a better metric for Goldcorp to track how effectively we are managing our GHGs across the company as we mine and process material. While our GHGs have increased on an absolute basis, our GHG intensity has decreased by 4% since 2011, the baseline year of Goldcorp’s Energy Strategy, and is demonstrated in the figure below. The following is a list of some activities that have contributed to a reduction in GHG intensity: Musselwhite: the installation of a solar wall to support heating requirements. Marlin: purchased electricity from hydroelectric sources represented approximately 80% of the total in 2012 and 70% in 2013. Hydroelectric generated power has a lower emission factor compared to the electricity purchased from the spot market in Guatemala. Electricity purchased from hydroelectric sources in 2011 represented 45% of the total. Red Lake: the Natural Gas project was initiated in 2011 whereby the natural gas pipeline from Ear Falls was extended to Red Lake. Switching from propane to natural gas for heating needs began in late 2012 and continues across the site. Natural gas has a slightly lower GHG emission factor than propane. Air Emissions Reporting on air emissions is mandatory in Canada and the United States under the following legislation: 1. The National Pollutant Release Inventory (NPRI) is Canada's legislated, publicly accessible inventory of pollutant releases (to the air, water and land), disposals and transfers for recycling. 2. The Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act 1986 (EPCRA) requires the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the states to annually collect data on releases and transfers of certain toxic chemicals from industrial facilities, and to make the data available to the public in the Toxics Release Inventory (TRI). Our three most significant air emissions by weight are carbon monoxide, nitrous oxide and particulate matter. Data is collected in Canada and the US and submitted to national databases, which collate data from significant emitters. The absence of similar legislation in other jurisdictions means that not all of our other mines routinely measured or calculated these emissions. We recorded releases of 0.0038 kilograms of ozone-depleting substances in 2013. A small amount of methyl chloroform was used in 2013 as a metal cutting fluid. New orders of the product were previously discontinued and the 2013 use was only of product remaining on-site. The data below compares emissions from one year to the next from our Canadian and US operations. The methodology is included in the online data associated with the NPRI and TRI for Canadian and US operations. However, it should be noted that the scope and methodology of emissions calculations differ between the two programs. 2013 2012 Trend Carbon monoxide (t) 1,689 1,910 -12% Oxides of nitrogen (t) 1,049 920 14% Sulphur dioxide (t) 8 11 -27% Particulate matter (t) 245 270 -9% Emissions data collection from our operations in Mexico and Central and South America began in 2013; however, the data was not collected for all parameters at all sites and methodologies are still under review. CLIMATE CHANGE Climate change is now firmly established on the long-term policy agenda and has become an integral part of the everyday context of doing business. Supplies of clean, reliable and affordable energy are fundamentally important for sustainable development, particularly for economic development and improving social welfare in developing countries. However, scientific evidence suggests that to protect the global climate system, sustained reductions in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are necessary. Goldcorp has established an Energy Strategy as previously detailed to ensure our contribution to the reduction of GHG emissions. Regulatory Initiatives In addition to voluntary actions, governments are moving to introduce climate change legislation and treaties at the international, national, state/provincial and local levels. Where legislation already exists, regulation relating to emissions levels and energy efficiency is becoming more stringent. Some of the costs associated with reducing emissions can be offset by increased energy efficiency and technological innovation. However, if the current regulatory trend continues, Goldcorp expects that it will result in increased costs at some of its operations. Goldcorp continues to monitor the requirements of the Western Climate Initiative (WCI), Québec’s new cap-and-trade regulation, the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Mandatory GHG Reporting Rule, the Ontario Climate Change Initiatives, and other such new regulations related to climate change in the countries in which we operate. Climate Change Risks Goldcorp will continue to address the potential physical risks of climate change, such as sea level rise and changing weather patterns. Sea Level Rise: Our operations are not directly threatened by current predictions of sea level rise. All of our operations are located well inland, at elevations of between 100 and 1,000 metres above sea level. Extreme Weather Events: Extreme events (such as increased frequency or intensity of hurricanes, increased snow pack, prolonged drought, etc.) have the potential to disrupt mining operations. Where appropriate, facilities have developed emergency plans for managing extreme weather conditions. However, extended disruptions to supply lines could result in an interruption in production. Resource Shortages: Mining and processing depend on the regular supply of consumables (such as diesel, tires, reagents, etc.) to operate efficiently. In the event that the effects of climate change cause prolonged disruption to the delivery of essential commodities, then Goldcorp’s production efficiency is likely to be reduced. Water Availability: Various climate change models show potential increases or decreases in precipitation at the macro level, but there is little agreement on potential future impacts at the regional or local level. Our approach is to focus on maximizing the recycling and reuse of water at all of our operations, and to continue to evaluate technologies and processes for increased water efficiencies. Financial Risks: Goldcorp has not attempted to quantify the financial implications of climate change beyond what was previously noted under the above Regulatory Initiatives. Climate Change Opportunities Goldcorp will continue to work on improving our energy efficiency and to monitor the development of more energyefficient products and services, and we will avail ourselves of these products and services as opportunity allows. In addition, we continue to assess options for the development of renewable resources or cleaner energy sources. Reporting Goldcorp made its first submission to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) in 2007 and has continued to report to this body annually. Goldcorp’s submissions can be accessed on the CDP website. EFFLUENTS AND WASTE In recent years, the mining industry has placed increasing emphasis on finding solutions to mine waste management issues. We recognize that long-term, environmentally acceptable approaches are needed to meet increasingly stringent regulatory requirements and public concerns, and to reduce the risk of environmental contamination. Waste quantities are currently tracked for reporting at operating sites. Projects are not generally included as they can distort intensity measurements with one-time large loads of construction items such as scrap steel. Mining Activity Wastes Wastes associated with mining activities include waste rock, tailings and sludge. Waste rock is a key environmental aspect at our operations, as are tailings at those sites with milling facilities. Our sites analyze the characteristics of these materials and, based on the results, develop waste rock and tailings management procedures as required by the relevant SEMS environmental performance standard. An important risk often addressed with respect to waste rock, tailings and sludge is impact to groundwater or surface water quality. The level of this risk is dependent upon the material properties, which vary widely between operations. Operations that have identified this as an important risk then develop procedures to ensure that any leaching of elements from these sources is eliminated, reduced or mitigated to avoid unacceptable impacts to groundwater or surface water quality. Most of the waste rock produced in our underground mines is returned underground to fill mining voids. In open pit mines, the waste rock and overburden (removed to gain access to ore) are transferred to waste rock dumps. In some limited cases we are able to sequence mining in different pits or pit sectors to allow for some use of waste rock as pit backfill. At the end of mine life, the waste rock dumps are recontoured and revegetated to provide stable, long-term containment of the material. Tailings are the by-product of minerals processing and are finely crushed and ground rock particles from which the valuable mineral portion has been extracted. Retention dams and raised embankments are used to store and manage tailings. Specific design and operational requirements regarding the location, water management, maintenance, control and monitoring of these dams and embankments are strictly enforced. These facilities are closed and reclaimed at the end of the mine life. Tailings can also be used in certain cases as part of underground and open pit backfill projects. Marlin is backfilling a portion of one of its two open pits with tailings that have been managed to meet the appropriate criteria, including filtering to reduce moisture content. Tailings can also be used to backfill certain areas of underground workings where appropriate. Goldcorp does not dispose of any tailings in riverine systems. Sludge produced at our operations is typically from water treatment plants. This material is typically disposed of in our tailings dams, although final disposal depends on the environmental characteristics of the sludge. 2013 2012 Associated risks Waste rock Impacts to groundwater and surface water quality, air quality via wind erosion and dust, 228.6 226.5 (Mt) biodiversity Impacts to groundwater and surface water quality, air quality via wind erosion and dust, Tailings (Mt) 48.5 47.8 biodiversity Sludge (Mt) 2.93 0.54 Impacts to groundwater and surface water quality Waste Management Responsible storage, handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste are central aspects of sound environmental management. Waste management practices must be based on the principles of minimizing the generation of all wastes and residues, the recycling and reuse of wastes or by-products, and the disposal in an acceptable manner of any materials that cannot be recycled. Our most significant non-hazardous waste streams include: scrap metal, used tires, used oil, used antifreeze, inert industrial garbage, and organic waste. All of our scrap metal and some tires are recycled. At some operations, and where it is permitted by regulation, large tires are disposed of in a controlled manner within our waste rock dumps. Waste hydrocarbons and glycol/antifreeze are removed from our sites by licensed waste disposal or recycling operators for reuse, recycling, or possibly incineration. Where permitted, waste hydrocarbons are reused on-site as a substitute for fuel oil in the ammonium nitrate and fuel oil (ANFO) blasting program. Many of our operations have implemented recycling programs for materials such as paper, pallets, glass and aluminum, and some of our sites have implemented composting programs for organic wastes. The table below includes the waste generation figures for these most significant, non-hazardous waste streams. It does not include a year-on-year comparison as the figures are dependent on site activities (for example, a demolition or construction initiative). 2013 Disposal method Scrap steel (t) 19,200 Recycled Tires (t) 3,650 Recycled or buried Waste hydrocarbons (L) 3,587,900 Recycled or reused Waste glycol/antifreeze (L) 132,900 Recycled, reused, or incinerated Inert industrial garbage (t) 3,990 Landfilled Organic waste (t) 3,110 Composted or landfilled Hazardous Wastes In general, our operations generate small amounts of a limited range of hazardous wastes. The types of hazardous wastes produced vary from site to site, and are recycled or disposed of in appropriately permitted processes or licensed facilities both on and off our mine sites. The volumes of two of our more important hazardous wastes are included in the table below. 2013 Disposal method Batteries (t) 112.7 Recycled Laboratory waste (t) 552.4 On-site disposal Mercury Mercury occurs naturally in some ore deposits and in those cases it is typically recovered along with the targeted metals. Mercury then requires specific management to avoid environmental impacts. Our operations generated 200.3 kg of elemental mercury in 2013 and all of it was stored on-site. Goldcorp’s Sustainability Excellence Management System has an environmental standard and guidelines for the effective management of mercury. These internal guidelines require specific management practices for elemental mercury management, to which sites are required to comply. Transporting Hazardous Wastes The Basel Convention on the Control of Trans-boundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their Disposal (the Basel Convention) is an international treaty designed to reduce the movements of hazardous wastes between nations, and to prevent the transfer of hazardous wastes from developed to less-developed countries. There were no shipments of materials covered by the Basel Convention from our operations in 2013. WATER Goldcorp operates in regions with a wide range of climatic conditions. Regardless of where we are working, we are mindful of the fact that water has a number of potential uses and a range of potential users. We developed a Water Stewardship Strategy in 2013 to further our efforts in managing our water footprint. Water Use and Consumption We use the Water Accounting Framework for the Minerals Industry (Version 1.2, April 2012) from the Minerals Council of Australia as a guideline for water accounting. ICMM has indicated that this is an acceptable method to use for water accounting. However, as part of the implementation of our Water Stewardship Strategy, Goldcorp will develop a Water Accounting Framework in 2014 to ensure the most precise accounting of water, specific to our operations, and this will be based on the document from the Australian Minerals Council. Water consumption is new water introduced into the system to make up for losses, which is why we use the term makeup water. Losses can occur through evaporation, entrainment within our tailings, discharge, etc. Makeup water introduced into the system is derived from three sources: Third-party water supply Surface water (includes precipitation captured) Groundwater Total water use consists of makeup water plus water that is reused or recycled. The predominant reused or recycled water is water from either the tailings storage facility or leach pads that is recirculated back to the process plant for use. The quantities of makeup water by source, reused and/or recycled water, and total water use are shown in the table below. 2013 2012 Trend Third-party water (m3) 151,200 274,200 -45% Surface water (m3) 13,156,500 8,354,600 57% Groundwater (m3) 39,967,900 37,251,300 7% Total makeup water consumption (m3) 53,275,600 45,880,100 16% Reused and/or recycled water (m3) 131,177,100 128,614,800 2% Total water used (m3) 184,452,700 174,494,800 6% Reused/recycled as percentage of total (%) 71 74 -4% All of our mines are moving toward accounting for all direct precipitation and runoff captured within the system, currently within the surface water category. Our Water Stewardship Strategy requires standardized accounting practices across the company, which will be established during 2014, and will allow for a more targeted approach to managing our water footprint in the coming years. To better understand our makeup water efficiency, we have established an intensity metric which is volume of makeup water per tonne of ore processed. The figure below shows the quarterly intensity for makeup water. Water Recycling and Reuse Goldcorp uses the following definitions for reused and recycled water from the Water Accounting Framework for the Minerals Industry (Version 1.2, April 2012), published by the Minerals Council of Australia. Reused water is worked water that is used again without being treated. Recycled water is worked water that is used again after being treated. We reused or recycled approximately 131 million m3 of water in our operations in 2013, amounting to 71% of our total water use. The total water recycled or reused in 2012 was approximately 129 million m3 or 74% of our total water use. Water Discharge Some of our mines do not discharge anything, using all of the water collected on-site in operations, while others operate in climates where there is an excess of water that must be released from the sites. The quantities discharged, their destination, and reused discharge are shown in the table below. Any treatment requirements for discharged water are established based on site-specific standards to ensure both regulatory compliance as well as avoidance of significant, negative environmental impacts. Treatment needs and methods are widely variable from one operation to the next and dependent upon the pre-treated water quality and the receiving body and its receptors. Discharge destination 2013 quantity Percent of total discharge To surface water (m3) 14,294,098 50% To groundwater (m3) 1,073,723 4% To a third party – reused (m3) 533,655 2% To evaporation (m3) 12,488,432 44% Total (m3) 28,389,908 NA The principal sources of the water released from our sites include: water encountered during mining, excess water from the tailings impoundments, storm water and treated water. Goldcorp’s overall approach to water discharge is to ensure compliance with all applicable standards and to manage it based on the receiving environment. Goldcorp’s standard practice is that all potentially contaminated water is retained on-site and is only discharged to the environment once it meets stringent water-quality standards. The water quality of 98% of the water discharged in 2013 met applicable water-quality standards, while 2% of the water discharged did not. In all exception cases, the regulatory authorities have been informed and involved in any follow-up actions that are required. Potential Impacts to Water Resources We recognize that our operations can impact waterbodies in and around our sites, so we monitor these impacts to make sure they do not have negative results. Peñasquito has a water withdrawal of more than 5% of the average annual volume of the waterbody. No designated protected areas impacted by water use from this aquifer have been identified at this time. Any impacts to other water users will be investigated to determine the cause. El Sauzal is not withdrawing a significant amount of water (less than 5% of total the average annual volume); however, we recognize that it is drawn from a water source that is recognized by the National Commission for Knowledge and Use of Biodiversity (CONABIO) to be sensitive. There are currently no plans to increase water withdrawal at El Sauzal and the mine is expected to enter the closure phase in 2015. Cerro Blanco is a project located in Guatemala currently on care and maintenance. The Environmental Impact Study, which was approved in 2007 and includes all stages of activity in its scope, has identified that without mitigation measures, water withdrawals could potentially impact waterbodies. Naturally occurring hot springs or water sources in the area were identified as waterbodies that could potentially be impacted due to dewatering. The mitigation measure currently in place is to supply replacement water in the event of any impacts to these active water sources. Cerro Blanco treated and discharged mine water in compliance with the appropriate regulatory conditions. This discharge takes place in a waterbody that is a tributary to the Ostua River and eventually to the Laguna de Guija, which is a lake shared by both Guatemala and El Salvador. This lake has not been identified as a Ramsar site in Guatemala. However, the Guija complex in El Salvador, which includes the lake and surrounding wetlands (all located in El Salvador), covering more than 10,000 ha,1 was declared a Ramsar site in 2010. Consistent with our best practices for environmental management, careful attention is paid to the discharge water quality by both the Cerro Blanco project staff and the regulatory authorities to ensure that the discharge water quality does not cause any negative impacts to the Laguna de Guija. Cerro Blanco has built a water treatment facility to ensure that any water taken from the underground exploration workings is treated properly prior to discharge. In addition, the water quality monitoring program at the site includes regular monitoring of water quality for surface and underground water as well as other important parameters such as aquatic fauna (including fish, macro and micro invertebrate surveys). The monitoring data is submitted regularly to the authorities, and periodic site inspections are conducted. 1 Source: http://www.ramsar.org/pdf/sitelist.pdf BIODIVERSITY Land Use Categories Goldcorp manages significant areas of land in and around our mines. Our operations span a range of ecosystems, from the Boreal Forest of northern Canada to the semi-arid shrubland of central Mexico. We recognize the value of services in these ecosystems. In all cases, we seek to design, construct, operate and close our operations in ways that minimize the risks to biodiversity. Land Management We define productive land as that covered by our mining leases and/or land under our ownership and management. Only a small percentage of this land is disturbed as a result of our mining activities (see graph). The total area of land owned, leased and/or managed at our mine operations, including the closed sites Equity Silver and San Martin, in 2013 was 352,151 hectares (ha), compared with 348,014 ha in 2012, a difference of 1%. After disturbance, we reclaim the disturbed areas as quickly as possible. However, the nature of hard rock mining means that large areas of disturbance, such as the pit, active waste rock dumps and tailings dams, remain throughout the life of the mine and are not available for reclamation until mine closure. Where possible, we execute reclamation concurrent with mine operations. Reclamation was conducted during 2013, although we did not conduct any habitat restoration or protection projects with third parties in 2013. Of the 352,151 ha of owned, leased and/or managed land, 337,850 ha remain undisturbed or have been reclaimed. 2013 2012 Total land area leased, owned, or managed (ha) 352,150 348,010 Disturbed and not yet reclaimed (ha) 14,300 10,520 Reclaimed or undisturbed land (ha) 337,850 337,490 Protected Areas Goldcorp does not own, lease or manage any land in, or adjacent to, protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas, other than the following: The United States – The Black Hills National Forest is located in western South Dakota and northeastern Wyoming, and it encompasses rugged rock formations, canyons and gulches, grassland parks, streams, deep blue lakes and unique caves. The area has a rich and diverse cultural heritage. Spearfish Canyon is an area of approximately 4,650 ha lying predominantly within the Black Hills National Forest and to the west of Goldcorp’s Wharf mine. Designated as a scenic byway, Spearfish Canyon is a 32-kilometre route of 300-metre limestone cliffs and recognized areas of biological and cultural interest. The Wharf mine does not directly impact the Black Hills National Forest or Spearfish Canyon. The total land area owned, managed or leased pertaining to Wharf is 607 ha. Of this total, 520 ha fall within the categories of “land in or containing protected areas, or areas of high biodiversity” and/or “adjacent to protected biodiversity areas”. Mexico – In Mexico, a Land Use Change Authorization is required to change an existing land use to a mining land use prior to construction activities. The authorization identifies the areas in which operational activities and infrastructure will be located. Under Mexican legislation, the permitted area must include a buffer zone around the area of impact, and the operation is required to maintain this area as one of conservation. No mining activity may be undertaken in the conservation area unless a Land Use Change Authorization is sought from, and granted by, the relevant environmental authority. Both our Los Filos and Peñasquito mines have established conservation buffer zones around their permitted areas of operation and these areas will remain in force throughout the lives of the projects. No specific conservation requirements or management activities are required within the conservation area. However, both operations have implemented management plans to minimize impacts in these areas. El Sauzal was not required to establish this buffer zone when it underwent the environmental impact assessment phase. The total land area owned, managed or leased by Goldcorp operations in Mexico is 25,380 ha, and of this total, 462 ha fall within the category of “land in or containing protected areas, or areas of high biodiversity” and/or “adjacent to protected or high biodiversity areas”. Argentina – In Argentina, our Cerro Negro project is near the Pinturas River Valley, which is an area that has been identified as sensitive with respect to biodiversity and archaeological resources. The Cerro Negro project is not being constructed within this sensitive area; however, Cerro Negro owns a nearby ranch (20,000 ha), and a section of the Pinturas River Valley (1,771 ha) passes through a corner of this ranch. Currently, the Pinturas River Valley does not have an official classification but it is locally recognized as a sensitive and valuable area. The total land area owned, managed or leased pertaining to Cerro Negro is 146,550 ha, and of this total, 1,771 ha fall within the category of “land in or containing protected areas, or areas of high biodiversity”. Managing Biodiversity Goldcorp’s previous position statement on biodiversity has been transferred to an environmental standard within the SEMS. The SEMS standard addresses land use, and biodiversity is included as a key aspect. Five of our nine operations are legally required to have some form of biodiversity management plan, all of which are currently in place (100%). Biodiversity considerations are also integrated into analytical tools, specifically the environmental impact assessments that are required at all of our operations prior to their construction. The methodology used for determining risk exposure to biodiversity is determined during the preparation of the environmental impact assessment and is typically driven by regulations or discussions with the applicable regulatory authority. IUCN Red List of Threatened Species The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List of Threatened Species is the world's most comprehensive inventory of the global conservation status of plant and animal species. Each site has identified the IUCN Red List species that are in the area as well as species listed on national conservation lists. In Ontario, a total of 204 flora and fauna species are listed under the IUCN as possibly being present in Ontario. This number is conservative since the IUCN list is for all of Ontario and does not necessarily reflect what species are present in and around our Ontario operations. In Canada, some of these same species have been identified as “species at risk” and are protected by federal legislation called the Species at Risk Act, 2003 (SARA). In 2014, our mines in Ontario will begin working with the local Ministry of Natural Resources to develop a species list specific to our mines. For now we are reporting the total number of species possibly present at our Ontario mines in the table below. This list also includes species present, or possibly present, at our other mining operations and all of our project and closed sites. IUCN Red List Special status species (e.g., national endangered species lists) Flora species 88 71 Fauna species 237 95 All of our sites pay particular attention to areas of the operation that could potentially harm wildlife. Precautions include: Minimizing disturbances to vegetation and waterbodies. Implementing programs to control pests and weeds. Maintaining cyanide levels in all open waters (including tailings dams) below levels that pose a threat to wildlife (consistent with the International Cyanide Management Code). Promoting employee and community awareness programs regarding wildlife. Reclaiming disturbed areas as quickly as possible and promoting habitat diversity within these reclaimed areas. TRANSPORTATION Transportation is a critical component of Goldcorp's business. We own and lease a significant fleet of heavy equipment and infrastructure used to mine and transport ore, waste rock and tailings. We use light vehicles to move people around our sites, and we transport large quantities of material along public roads to our operations. In addition, our employees and contractors use cars, buses and planes to get to and from work. The potential impacts from transport related to our activities are felt in three principal areas: GHG emissions, potential transport incidents, and traffic issues such noise, dust and road maintenance. We recognize these potential impacts and have strategies and/or management plans in place to reduce and mitigate impacts. Fuel usage specifically for transportation of our workforce to operations using small planes is used to calculate part of our Scope 3 GHG emissions, which are reported in the Greenhouse Gas Emissions section. Additionally, any spills or other environmental incidents that may occur during transportation are fully reported in the section on Environmental Incidents. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Goldcorp produces doré bars, which are unrefined gold and silver bullion bars, and lead and zinc concentrates.1 The doré bars are transferred by secure means to precious metals refineries to be further processed into almost-pure metal, and the concentrates are transported to smelting facilities for further refinement. Gold and silver doré bars pose no environmental or health risks and they can be managed in this form without environmental or social impacts. As a result, we have not developed detailed protocols or procedures relating to product responsibility (other than for product security), and there were no instances of non-compliance with regulations or voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of our products in 2013. While lead has been mined and used in industrial and household products for centuries and zinc is a trace element essential to human health, both can pose risks to human health and the environment when not managed correctly. Concentrates containing combinations of gold, silver, lead and zinc are loaded onto highway trucks with covered cargo areas for transport to in-country smelters or to sea ports for export to foreign smelters in Asia, Europe and North America. Transportation of such concentrate is subject to numerous risks including, but not limited to, road blocks, terrorism, weather conditions and environmental liabilities in the event of an accident or leak. Peñasquito is Goldcorp’s only facility producing concentrates at this time and has developed emergency response plans to cover the transportation of its concentrate. Materials Stewardship Gold has a wide range of uses. It is used as bullion and for jewellery, with the latter constituting approximately 60% of all gold produced, according to the World Gold Council (WGC). It also has a number of applications in industrial processes, electronics, medicine, aeronautics and nanotechnology. Silver is valued as a precious metal, and its halide salts (especially silver nitrate) are used in photography. The major outlets for silver are photography, the electrical and electronic industries, pharmaceuticals, and domestic use (as cutlery, jewellery and mirrors). Goldcorp supports industry-wide efforts to steward the responsible production of gold and silver as a member of the WGC and the Silver Institute. Both gold and silver are extensively recycled. Mining accounts for about two-thirds of the global supply of gold. The other third comes from existing supplies – mainly recycled scrap gold (e.g., from jewellery, dental materials, plating solutions and electronic equipment) and gold from central banks. Photographic wastes, spent catalysts and electronic scrap are the major sources of materials for silver recycling. Product Handling Goldcorp sells into the worldwide gold and silver market by selling our products to refineries or smelters for secondary treatment. We do not sell directly to the public. We have a commercial relationship with our customers, and any issues that may arise are addressed according to the terms of our mutual contractual obligations. There were no complaints, breaches of customer privacy, or losses of customer data in 2013. We are unaware of any outstanding customer issues. The doré bars produced at the mine site do not carry public labelling. They are transferred to a refinery for further processing to the London Bullion Market (LBM) standard. Once produced, all 99.99% gold bars are allocated a bar number and imprinted with an LBM registered refiner's mark. There were no instances of non-compliance with regulations or voluntary codes concerning product information and the labelling of our products in 2013. Our products are sold in bulk and do not require packaging. Indicators related to management of packaging, including recycling or reclamation of products and their packaging, are not applicable for Goldcorp. There are no codes or voluntary standards that relate to marketing communications regarding gold and/or silver doré bars. Goldcorp is a member of the WGC. As the gold industry's key marketing body, the WGC works closely with jewellery retailers, manufacturers, wholesalers, banks, investment companies and distribution specialists to promote the use of gold in jewellery and industrial applications, as well as by central banks and other official sector institutions. There were no fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of our products in 2013. 1 While not produced at any of our managed operations, copper is produced at two of our joint-venture operations. It is not considered material to the scope of this report. MINE CLOSURE Goldcorp is committed to developing, operating and closing its mining properties in a sustainable manner. For the closed sites, this means making them as environmentally productive as possible after operations have finished. It is not usually possible to restore a site to its exact state prior to mining, but it is possible to establish a healthy, thriving ecosystem and productive land use after reclamation is completed. This is the goal for all of our sites. Closure Planning All of our operations have closure plans in place. These plans are reviewed annually to ensure they are current and reflect any changes that may have occurred over the prior year. Goldcorp encourages stakeholder consultation to occur as early as possible in the closure process in order to demonstrate our commitment and transparency. This is particularly important where infrastructure is being retained for community use, the post-mining land use involves community input, and the post-mining land use is different from the pre-existing land use. Our closure plans focus on the social and environmental aspects of closure. We make provision for closure and consider the economic implications of it on local communities. Making Provision for Closure Goldcorp prepares consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). These standards apply to legal obligations associated with the retirement of a tangible long-lived asset that result from its acquisition, construction, development or normal operation. Goldcorp’s provision for closure amounted to $529 million at the end of 2013, compared with $500 million at the end of 2012. The undiscounted value of these obligations is $1,847 million at the end of 2013 as compared to $2,771 million at the end of 2012. This is calculated assuming an effective weighted inflation rate of 2%. Reclamation expenditures for the year ended December 31, 2013 were $15 million. Further information regarding these Goldcorp Asset Retirement Obligations is available in our Annual Report. COMPLIANCE Goldcorp complies with the environmental laws and regulations of the jurisdictions within which we operate. In many cases, higher performance standards are imposed through site-specific licences and permits or through internal standards mandated by the company. An important aspect of compliance is the reporting of incidents. The graph below indicates 32 reportable incidents in 2013. Significant Environmental Incidents All incidents are classified into five categories (in ascending order of severity from Category I to Category V). Incidents are assessed based on their actual or potential impact. Incidents in Category III and above are reported to the corporate level (“reportable incidents”). Category I and II incidents are collected by the local operation to assist in incident trend analysis. A total of 32 reportable incidents were recorded in 2013. Of the 32 reportable environmental incidents, there was one Category IV and one Category V, and the others were Category III. The Category IV and V incidents were both spills and occurred at Porcupine and Cerro Negro, respectively. At Porcupine, 13,700 litres of grinding slurry overtopped the mill containment, but was contained within the open pit operations and no off-site impact resulted from the incident. The Category V incident at Cerro Negro was due to an unauthorized discharge of dewatering water. The incident and corrective action plan were reported to the regulatory authority and all corrective and preventive actions have since been implemented. Of the 32 reportable incidents in 2013, 15 were spills. All sites were certified under the Cyanide Code, which provides direction for the appropriate management of cyanide-related spills. All spills were responded to immediately and did not result in any significant environmental impacts. Spill Category % of total Hydrocarbon spill 5 33.3% Cyanide-related spill 5 33.3% Other material spill 5 33.3% Total 15 100% Sanctions Four monetary sanctions for environmental issues were received in 2013, two at Camino Rojo, one at Peñasquito and one at Los Filos. The fine received at Peñasquito was a monetary sanction in the amount of approximately $1,800 which was a result of non-compliance with certain air emissions standards or requirements. Peñasquito has since completed a corrective action plan to improve issues related to air emissions, and the associated monitoring and analysis. Peñasquito staff are working with the regulatory authorities on an ongoing and transparent basis to ensure compliance with applicable environmental regulatory requirements and to address any environmental issues identified with appropriate corrective action plans. Los Filos received a sanction related to an event in September during emergency storm conditions in which 160,167 m3 of water was released. The regulatory authority initially proposed a fine, which Goldcorp proposed be annulled since the discharge was conducted due to the presence of extreme climatological conditions affecting the entire state of Guerrero and the storm was beyond the facility design capacity requirements. The details of the incident are under review by the regulatory authority, which will make a decision regarding the sanction and any associated fine during 2014. The two fines received at Camino Rojo totalled approximately $8,000 and were both for conducting exploration activities without the proper permits. New site management has changed the internal procedures for building exploration infrastructure to ensure no exploration activities are conducted in the future without the adequate permits. ENVIRONMENTAL EXPENDITURE Environmental expenditures are difficult to assess because they are often part of the regular operation of a mine. Many initiatives undertaken result in both operational and environmental benefits and thus are not easily disaggregated. The costs that we do separate are noted in the table below, including capital costs. Expenditure category Amount ($) Expenditure for waste disposal, emissions treatment, and remediation 10,984,920 Expenditure on prevention and environmental management 24,318,270 Expenditure on permitting 2,373,490 Expenditure on environmental capital items 72,672,160 ENVIRONMENTAL CASE STUDIES Ventilation-On-Demand at Éléonore One of the key components to operating an underground mine is ensuring there is a safe and reliable flow of fresh air for workers. That means that air from above ground is pumped, often up to a kilometre or more from the surface, using a propane-powered ventilation system that extends through the furthest reaches of the mine. The team at Éléonore recognized that there were parts of the mine that are not in use but still take up valuable resources to ventilate – creating an inefficiency of cost and emissions from the energy consumed. As a result, Éléonore installed “SmartEXEC”, a new ventilation system designed by SimSmart Technologies that saves energy and ensures safety. The purpose of the system, called Ventilation-On-Demand (VOD), is to improve air flow, lower energy use, ensure sustainable production, and reduce operating costs. As a result of the VOD system, the fans now turn on and off automatically – using energy to distribute clean air only when and where it is needed in the mine. The system monitors signals from 80 pieces of underground machinery. It tracks the location and status of underground personnel at all times, getting real-time locations. The quality of air is carefully measured in each part of the mine to ensure a safe working environment for all personnel. The VOD system has already proven its worth compared to the normal “steady-state” model that would run fans to ventilate the whole mine at once: for example, we were able to operate with one less 2,000-hp fan. We observed a great amount of energy savings from installing the new system. In the first three months of 2014, more than a million litres of propane were saved, which is a 30% reduction in propane consumption. Due to the success at Éléonore, we are now looking at implementing a similar ventilation system at our other underground mines such as Musselwhite and Porcupine. The Goldcorp Water Strategy Goldcorp recognizes water management as a significant concern shared by the company and our stakeholders. Optimizing water management can help to ensure water security and production, reduce costs, reduce impacts, improve operational excellence, and address stakeholder concerns. External stakeholders such as local communities, government and non-governmental organizations, shareholders, institutional investors, and financial institutions, combined with stricter regulatory standards, will continue to challenge the company to operate to higher and more effective water management standards. For these reasons, Goldcorp developed a Water Stewardship Strategy during the second half of 2013 to achieve the following objectives: Continuous improvement of potential impacts to water both within and outside the mine boundary. Improved security of water supply by mapping watershed risks in our operating environments to provide a competitive advantage. Minimized financial risk and costs by applying rigour to the management of water consumption, transport, treatment and discharge. Enhanced growth opportunities by managing water as a strategic asset to provide a competitive edge for access to new reserves. Increased accuracy of budgeting and execution and increased effectiveness working with regulatory and stakeholder challenges by inclusion of water risk assessments as part of Enterprise Risk Management. Increased accuracy in planning and performance by providing tools for long-term water management. Increased professional growth of staff by exposure to new and changing solutions, processes and technology. Enhanced appeal to the investment community by verifiably and transparently reporting progress against established milestones. Elevated reputation and improved stakeholder relationships and support by proactively leading engagement on water matters. Goldcorp recognizes the importance of establishing and implementing a Water Stewardship Strategy due to the increasing value of water as a shared resource. Goldcorp’s mines have established a schedule for implementing the required milestones to achieve the objectives and future reports will discuss the status of these milestones. GRI INDEX Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of 1.1 sustainability to the organization and its strategy 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Operational structure, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint 2.3 ventures See also Outsourcing 2.4 Location of Goldcorp’s headquarters 2.5 Number of countries where Goldcorp operates 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 2.7 Markets served 2.8 Organizational scale 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 3.3 Reporting cycle 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 3.5 Process for defining report content 3.6 Boundary of the report 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and 3.8 other entities 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations 3.10 Re-statements of information provided in earlier reports Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement 3.11 methods 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure 4.2 Indication of whether the chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer The number and gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or 4.3 non-executive members See also Diversity within Governance Bodies Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the 4.4 highest governance body Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers 4.5 and executives, and performance 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the 4.7 highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to 4.8 economic, environmental and social performance and the status of their implementation See also Code of Conduct Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the identification and management of 4.9 economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct and principles Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect 4.10 to economic, environmental and social performance 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles or other initiatives 4.12 which Goldcorp subscribes to or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations and/or national/international advocacy organizations 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by Goldcorp 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including the frequency of engagement by type and by 4.16 stakeholder group Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement and how 4.17 Goldcorp has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through reporting Disclosures on Management Approach Economic performance Management Approach Management Approach; see also Local Economic Market presence DMA EC Impact Management Approach; see also Indirect Economic Indirect economic impacts Impacts Materials Management Approach; see also Materials Energy Management Approach; see also Energy Water Management Approach; see also Water Biodiversity Management Approach; see also Biodiversity DMA EN Emissions, effluents and waste Management Approach; see also Effluents and Waste Products and services Management Approach; see also Product Responsibility Compliance Management Approach; see also Compliance Transport Management Approach; see also Transportation Overall Management Approach Employment Management Approach; see also Our Workforce Management Approach; see also Labour/Management Labour/management relations Relations Occupational health and safety Management Approach DMA LA Management Approach; see also Training and Training and education Education Management Approach; see also Diversity and Equal Diversity and equal opportunity Opportunity Management Approach; see also Diversity and Equal Equal remuneration for women and men Opportunity Management Approach; see also Investment and Investment and procurement practices Procurement Practices Management Approach; see also Diversity and Equal Non-discrimination DMA HR Opportunity Freedom of association and collective Management Approach bargaining Child labour Management Approach Prevention of forced and compulsory Management Approach labour Management Approach; see also Human Rights and Security practices Security Indigenous rights Relationships with Indigenous Communities Assessment Management Approach Management Approach; see also Human Rights Remediation Grievances Management Approach; see also Community Local communities Engagement Corruption Business Conduct DMA SO Public policy Business Conduct Anti-competitive behaviour Business Conduct Compliance Business Conduct Customer health and safety Product Responsibility Product and service labelling Product Responsibility DMA PR Marketing communications Product Responsibility Customer privacy Product Responsibility Compliance Product Responsibility Economic Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to EC1 capital providers and governments See also Wages See also Contributions to and from Government Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to EC2 climate change Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations EC3 See also Partially and Not Reported Indicators list EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government Range of ratios of standard entry-level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at EC5 significant locations of operations See also Partially and Not Reported Indicators list Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers at significant locations of EC6 operation See also Partially and Not Reported Indicators list Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community EC7 and locations of significant operation Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public EC8 benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement See also Partially and Not Reported Indicators list Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of EC9 impacts Environment EN1 Materials used by weight or volume EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials EN3 Direct energy consumed by primary energy source EN4 Indirect energy consumed by primary source EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and EN6 reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved EN8 Total water withdrawal by source EN9 Water sources significantly affected by the withdrawal of water EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in or adjacent to protected areas and areas of EN11 high biodiversity value outside protected areas Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected EN12 areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas EN15 affected by operations, by level of extinction risk See also Partially and Not Reported Indicators list EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions by type and weight EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills Weight of transported, imported, exported or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of EN24 the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III and VIII and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status and biodiversity value of waterbodies and related habitats EN25 significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact EN26 mitigation EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance EN28 with environmental laws and regulations Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for EN29 the organization’s operations and transporting members of the workforce EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Human Rights Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include clauses HR1 incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone HR2 human rights screening and actions taken Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights HR3 that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association HR5 and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour, HR6 and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labour Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or HR7 compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning HR8 aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of Indigenous peoples and actions taken Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or HR10 impact assessments Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal HR11 grievance mechanisms See also Partially and Not Reported Indicators list Labour Practices and Decent Work LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and LA2 region See also Partially and Not Reported Indicators list Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time LA3 employees, by significant locations of operation LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in LA5 collective agreements Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety LA6 committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and the number of LA7 work-related fatalities by region and by gender See also Partially and Not Reported Indicators list Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce LA8 members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions LA9 See also Partially and Not Reported Indicators list LA10 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of LA11 employees and assist them in managing career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by LA12 gender Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category LA13 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity See also Partially and Not Reported Indicators list Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant LA14 locations of operation LA15 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category Society Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, SO1 and development programs See also Community Engagement SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in the organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related SO6 institutions, by country Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practices, and SO7 their outcomes Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance SO8 with laws and regulations Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities SO9 See also Partially and Not Reported Indicators list SO10 See Partially and Not Reported Indicators list Product Responsibility Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information PR1 requirements See also Partially and Not Reported Indicators list Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning PR2 health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant PR3 products and services subject to such information requirements Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning PR4 product and service information and labelling, by type of outcome Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer PR5 satisfaction Programs for adherence to laws, standards and voluntary codes related to marketing PR6 communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning PR7 marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of PR8 customer data Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the PR9 provision and use of products and services Mining and Metals Sector Supplement Amount of land (owned, leased or managed for production activities or extractive use) disturbed or MM1 rehabilitated The number and percentage of total sites identified as requiring biodiversity management plans MM2 according to stated criteria, and the number (percentage) of those sites with plans in place MM3 Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings, and sludges and their associated risks MM4 Number of strikes and lockouts exceeding one week's duration, by country Total number of operations taking place in or adjacent to Indigenous peoples’ territories, and MM5 number and percentage of operations or sites where there are formal agreements with Indigenous peoples’ communities Number and description of significant disputes related to land use, customary rights of local MM6 communities and Indigenous peoples The extent to which grievance mechanisms were used to resolve disputes relating to land use, MM7 customary rights of local communities and Indigenous peoples, and the outcomes See also Partially and Not Reported Indicators list Number (and percentage) of company operating sites where artisanal and small-scale mining MM8 (ASM) takes place on or adjacent to the site; the associated risks and actions taken to manage these risks Sites where resettlement took place, the number of households resettled in each, and how their MM9 livelihoods were affected in the process MM10 Number and percentage of operations with closure plans MM11 Programs and progress relating to materials stewardship UN GLOBAL COMPACT Human Rights Principles Activities and Achievements Policies and Commitments (Please see GRI indicators below) Businesses should support and respect the GC1 HR3, HR8, HR9, HR10, HR11, SO1, protection of internationally proclaimed human SO9, SO10 rights. Human Rights Policy Businesses should make sure they are not GC2 HR1, HR2 complicit in human rights abuses. Human Rights Policy Labour Principles Activities and Achievements Policies and Commitments (Please see GRI indicators below) Businesses should uphold the freedom of GC3 HR5, LA4, LA5 association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Human Rights Policy Businesses should uphold the elimination of all GC4 HR7 forms of forced and compulsory labour. Human Rights Policy Businesses should uphold the effective abolition GC5 HR6 of child labour. Human Rights Policy Businesses should uphold the elimination of GC6 EC5, EC7, HR4, LA1, LA2, LA10, discrimination in respect of employment and LA12, LA13, LA14, LA15 occupation. Human Rights Policy Environment Principles Activities and Achievements Policies and Commitments (Please see GRI indicators below) Businesses should support a precautionary GC7 EC2, EN1, EN3, EN8, EN16, EN19, approach to environmental challenges. EN20 Businesses should undertake initiatives to GC8 EN1, EN2, EN3, EN4, EN5, EN6, EN7, promote greater environmental responsibility. EN8, EN9, EN10, EN11, EN12, EN13, Environmental and EN14, EN15, EN16, EN17, EN18, Sustainability Policy EN19, EN20, EN21, EN22, EN23, EN24, EN25, EN26, EN27, EN28, EN29, EN30 Businesses should encourage the development GC9 EN6, EN7, EN18, EN26, EN30 and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Environmental and Sustainability Policy Anti-Corruption Principles Activities and Achievements Policies and Commitments (Please see GRI indicators below) Businesses should work against corruption in all GC10 SO2, SO3, SO4, SO5 its forms, including extortion and bribery. Code of Conduct
