Schaffner Group I Nordstrasse 11 I 4542 Luterbach I Switzerland P +41 32 681 66 26 I F +41 32 681 66 30 I www.schaffner.com UN Global Compact Communication on Progress April 2014 1. Schaffner – Energy Efficiency and Reliability The Schaffner Group is a global leader in the development and production of solutions that ensure the efficient and reliable operation of power electronic systems. The company’s portfolio ranges from EMC filters, power quality filters and power magnetic components to the development and implementation of customized solutions. Schaffner components are deployed in energy-efficient drive systems and electronic motor controls, in wind power and photovoltaic systems, in rail technology applications, machine tools and robotics as well as in electrical infrastructure and in power supplies for a wide range of electronic devices used in sectors such as medical technology. For the automobile industry, Schaffner develops and manufactures components for convenience and safety features in cars and, in the electromobility market, solutions both for electric drive systems in vehicles and for their charging infrastructure. Schaffner provides on-site service to customers around the world through its global application centers and distribution organization, and invests heavily in research and development in order to expand its position as international market leader. 2. Statement of Continued Support “Schaffner is a global corporate citizen with a Swiss heritage. This heritage comes with strong principles to protect the rights of the individual, to preserve the environment, and to conduct business according to high ethical standards. Our whole organization strives to treat all of our employees with equal respect. We see it as our responsibility to provide career opportunities for individuals and contribute to the well-being of our communities. I am personally committed to the consistent application of these principles at every Schaffner location. For these reasons, I wholeheartedly support the principles of the UN Global Compact.” Alexander Hagemann Chief Executive Officer 3. Actions Introduction of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Schaffner is currently preparing sustainability reporting according to Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) with introduction planned for fiscal year 2014/15. The GRI reporting will be an integral part of the Schaffner annual report and will replace the currently used stand-alone document “Schaffner COP”. 3.1 Human Rights and Labor (Principles 1 to 6) The Schaffner Group strives for a non-discriminatory company culture based upon responsibility and respect, founded on the talents of its global workforce. It is the policy of the Schaffner Group to treat all current or potential employees fairly and without prejudice. Schaffner is committed to eliminating any unfair or discriminatory practices. All employees must be given the opportunity for development within the Schaffner Group regardless of gender, marital or parental status, ethnicity or nationality, sexual orientation, religious belief, political affiliation, age (subject to the contractual retirement age), or disability. 30.04.2014 UNGC COP Team Luterbach 1I3 Schaffner Group I Nordstrasse 11 I 4542 Luterbach I Switzerland P +41 32 681 66 26 I F +41 32 681 66 30 I www.schaffner.com Recently completed actions Target Action Results Reduction of Global reporting of absenteeism due to accidents Local improvement in absenteeism and illness and definition of measures and case units with high handling. absenteeism Reduction of Global reporting of accidents and resulting Ongoing accidents activities such as awareness training and measurements installation of sophisticated safety equipment. 3.2 Environmental Management 3.2.1 Energy Consumption Recently completed actions Target Action Results Reduce energy Replacement of 11 multifunction printers with only Total power saving of consumption at Group 8 new energy saving models. Standby power 78% during standby headquarters reduced from 216W to 64W (-70%) per device. mode. Reduce energy Old ERP server switched off. Data moved to 13 MWh saved per consumption at HQ archive virtual server. year. facility Planned actions Target Action Expected Results Reduce electricity Replacement of existing IT servers with efficient, 60% savings in consumption for state-of-the-art models (less air conditioning of electricity used for Schaffner's operation server room required) at Schaffner locations operation of IT servers of IT hardware Wokingham, Warstein, Lamphun and Cleveland. worldwide 3.2.2 CO 2 Reduction Recently completed actions Target Action Results Reduce CO 2 emission Old diesel and gasoline powered vehicles CO 2 emission reduced at Group headquarters replaced with new energy efficient diesel and electric vehicels. Consolidated As most suppliers are based in the BKK area, Reduction of transportation transport consolidation is planned for material transportation BKK-CNX supply to Chiang Mai. 30.04.2014 UNGC COP Team Luterbach 2I3 Schaffner Group I Nordstrasse 11 I 4542 Luterbach I Switzerland P +41 32 681 66 26 I F +41 32 681 66 30 I www.schaffner.com Planned actions Target Action Expected Results Continually reduce Continued to change transportation of goods from Measurement method CO 2 emission caused air freight to sea freight. not yet defined by transportation of goods 3.2.3 Product Content Restrictions Planned actions Target Action Expected Results Enforce Schaffner's Request suppliers to implement a conflict minerals >50% of key suppliers conflict minerals policy policy based on Schaffner's conflict minerals have implemented and policy and update internal guidelines accordingly. maintain an accordant policy 3.3 Anti-Corruption Neither the Schaffner Group nor any of its employees shall make illegal or improper payments or bribes and will refrain from participating in any corrupt business practices. Neither Schaffner nor any of its employees may accept payments, gifts or other kinds of remuneration from a third party that could affect or appear to affect their objectivity in business decisions. Recently completed actions Target Action Results Roll out Schaffner antiPosted Schaffner anti-corruption policy to Completed by the end corruption policy to all Schaffner's intranet and QM system. of November 2013 employees Introduced and implemented Schaffner anticorruption policy to all Schaffner employees. Introduced new e-mail address for employees to contact the Schaffner business ethic committee. Planned actions Target Action Expected Results No corruption cases Continuous training and auditing related to No corruption cases within the Schaffner complying with the rules and regulations of within the Schaffner Group Schaffner's anti-corruption policy. Group 30.04.2014 UNGC COP Team Luterbach 3I3
