STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Malmö, 19 August, 2014 Wihlborgs will in 2014 and 2015 continue to embrace, support and enact the ten principles in Global Compact, within our sphere of influence. This commitment also implies that we shall continuously evaluate the ten principles with regard to our related conduct and performance. Wihlborgs operates within two countriesSweden and Denmarkand we have decided to continue with the Global Compact. We believe it is important that we carry out all parts of our business activities in a sustainable and ethical manner. We also wish to contribute to a long-term approach vis-a-vis our employees, partners, suppliers, customers, and society in general. In April 2014 we could proudly present our third Sustainability Report, level B+. In page 42 in the report you can take part of the crosstable for Global Compact and GRI. The table illustrates the ten principles in Global Compact. The Sustainability Report includes a report on the ten principles. The principles are presented in the GRI index with reference to Global Compact. We have earlier published two independent Communication on Progress (year 2010 and 2011), our Sustainability Report includes our fifth Communication on Progress. At the end of 2009, we also decided to join the CSR-Skåne network, and during 2012/2013 we continued and ended our participation. Since 2014 we decided to join another network called Sustainable Biz. This is also a network within the region for companies, organizations and NGOs that wish to obtain knowledge, experience and tools to work with social and community responsibility. We recognize that a key requirement for participating in the Global Compact is the annual submissions of a Communication on Progress which describes our company´s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore annually continue to report on progress according to the Global Compact COP policy. Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB Anders Jarl, CEO Wihl borg s Su sta in ab ilit yR o rt ep 13 20 Contents and introduction Bright office interior in the Kranen 1 building, in Dockan, Malmö. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2013 3 04 06 08 11 CEO’s Statement Introducing About our Governance Wihlborgs sustainability report 17 20 22 34 Sustainability Financial Environmental Social targets with risks responsibility responsibility responsibility and opportunities 38 42 43 45 Global Reporting Global Compact Auditors' Report Glossary Initiative Index 49 50 Contact persons Sustainability Highlights 2012 Wihlborgs Fastigheter Wihlborgs is the leading property company in the Öresund region, owning property with a total market value of SEK 22.6 billion. The lettable area of the property totals 1.5 million square metres. The total rental value is SEK 2.0 billion. The property portfolio consists in the main of commercial properties. The Company’s shares are quoted on the Mid Cap List of the OMX Nordic Exchange. A word from the CEO We are working together for a sustainable society. There was a time when the phrase “alone is strong” summed up society. That’s not how it is today. The trend, instead, is towards cooperation between business, municipalities and the public sector, in order to create long-term sustainable achievements. In other words, collaboration across demarcation lines. In this, our third sustainability report, we summarize the events of the past year, which presented us with quite a few new areas of cooperation, challenges and opportunities. Past, present and future energy – and in most cases this involved contact with the endcustomer. In this, we were to consult in developing processes In the past five years, we have engaged in initiatives that have enabling clear communication to take place with our tenants. What helped take Wihlborgs to the forefront of the property sector. should we do to get them to reduce their energy consumption etc.? One was to sign up to the Global Compact back in July 2010. This became the starting-point for our in-house strategic programme. Various training activities were undertaken and resources set aside Agreed interaction for an internal CSR group. We have noticed that our sustainability We are continuing to work on green leases, in which we as landlord strategy has put us in a position where many others are looking to consult with our tenants in setting the frameworks for reducing us and taking their cue from us. To move the company another step environmental impact in our properties. Our green leases also offer forwards and to achieve more lasting impact on society, we aim to a channel for continued dialogue and developing partnerships with become even more active in our dialogue and cooperation with tenants with regard to how the premises are used once the tenant others. The dialogue and cooperation with municipalities, joint has taken up occupancy. The ability to drive these issues forward venture partners, entrepreneurs and tenants all create the condiproactively and offer knowledge, information and suggestions for tions for progress. I believe that this is the key to the future. improvements is not only relevant, it is essential. Work on defining sustainability requirements for procurement continued during the Collaboration across boundaries year and is described in more detail on page 36-37. Even if the requirements are specified in the lease purchase, it still requires As one step towards the business models of the future, a dialogue cooperation on these issues in many cases. For example, small was opened up in 2013 with one of our energy companies with a companies may need support and help with the process and their view to identifying common challenges and working together on input can also show us areas where our in-house systems can be them. In this case, the common denominator is exactly that – developed. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2013 5 Anders Jarl, Chief Executive Officer at Wihlborgs since 2004. Regular dialogue During recruitment processes, we have observed that value and sustainability issues are increasingly important factors when It is important to be transparent as a business and maintain active, people choose their employer. New colleagues pose a lot of close dialogue with our stakeholders. During 2013, we maintained searching questions on these issues. in-depth dialogue with seven of our key stakeholders. Read more on pages 11-15. It is made clear in this that we are expected to drive, and communicate on, sustainability issues in a proactive Regional cooperation way. Everyone who works at Wihlborgs is an ambassador. We are based in the Öresund region, and it is here that we And we can become better at being active ambassadors. acquire, manage and produce our properties. We have the ability Our employees expressly assert that Wihlborgs is shouldering a to contribute to the future social structure and we can play a part major responsibility for environmental, energy and ethical issues, through our dialogue in shaping physical planning. Sustainable among others.1 On the other hand, only half have talked at any growth in the region depends on many factors, not least the contime to another about our work on sustainability. So, we have work ditions for new companies to establish operations here. Our chalto do here. Especially as the world around us expects proactivity lenge lies in taking responsibility beyond the walls of our buildings in this area. It is important that everyone at Wihlborgs, whatand we will only be able to do this through cooperation. ever their role, should be able to discuss sustainability and quote examples from their viewpoint. The decision to report sustainability in Our dialogue on what is right and wrong from a business ethics accordance with GRI was approved by perspective has continued. In 2013, the Company held a business Wihlborgs’ Board of Directors in August ethics course for all employees. We also produced a practical 2010. The Board of Directors unanimously guide that not only included examples of how employees should approves Wihlborgs Sustainability Report act in different scenarios but also, not least importantly, discussed for 2013. ethical dilemmas that arise in our business. To be a successful enterprise, it is important for us to be able Malmö, April 2014 to offer a stimulating work environment that enables us to retain Malmö, April 2014 The Board of Directors, and develop our employees and to attract new skilled personnel. Anders Jarl, Chief Executive Officer Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB 1 Sustainability survey, December 2013 Introducing Wihlborgs Where job satisfaction is key Job satisfaction plays an important role in our organization and is one of the forces driving our development. We also aim to help our customers create stimulating work environments that promote employee well-being and enable the Company to grow. Whenever building new or converting existing properties, we work closely with the customer on planning, and employ skilled architects to create fit-for-purpose premises. To us, the job is to keep up with developments and be prepared for the new requirements and needs that emerge. Here, sustainability issues are an important factor. Business concept We operate in four regions, each with a regional director responsible for the region, who drives the business forward according Specializing in efficient sub-markets in the Öresund region, to the Wihlborgs philosophy. Each region operates from a local Wihlborgs will own, manage – in-house – and develop commeroffice: Malmö HQ (Dockan), Lund (Ideon), Helsingborg (Berga) cial properties. and Copenhagen (Herlev). Improvements to our property portfolio are handled by a Employees and structure project department, which is responsible for newbuild and conversion projects, procurement and follow-up. On 31 December 2013, Wihlborgs had 113 employees, including 11 in Denmark. 104 employees work full-time and nine part-time. Wihlborgs' Group Management consists of the CEO, CFO, Director Property portfolio of Corporate Communication, Director of HR/CSR and Projects/ Business Development Director. Group Management bears overas of 31 December 2013 all responsibility for coordinating the Company’s operations. Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB (publ) is the biggest commercial propThe organization also includes a number of group executive erty owner exclusively focused on the Öresund region. We have functions: Group Economy/Finance, Procurement, Environment, 264 properties with a combined market value of SEK 22.6 billion. HR, Communication, Customer Relations (sales and marketing), The total lettable area is 1.5 million square metres and the total Transactions and IT. These functions conduct Group-wide rental value is SEK 2 billion. development initiatives and provide functional expertise. All our property management is conducted by our own personnel who know our clientele and are on hand to quickly Geographical concentration meet our customers’ expectations and demands. of investment Every property management unit operates with clear profit Our strategy is to operate in locations where we identify the potencentre responsibility, in which property managers and property tial for long term growth. Accordingly, Wihlborgs is represented in directors work with Group Management in setting up the Malmö, Helsingborg, Lund and Copenhagen. Our head office is in guide-lines for the unit’s operations. Malmö. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2013 7 In each location, we are also geographically concentrated on a On 31 December 2013 the largest shareholder in Wihlborgs was number of sub-markets, which makes us uniquely able to ensure Brinova Fastigheter AB with 10.1 percent of the outstanding shares. cost efficient management. The ten largest Swedish shareholders held 29.6 per cent and foreign shareholders 38.6 per cent. Events in 2013 AA During the year, Wihlborgs acquired 14 properties and sold two. AA Arvid Liepe joined the Company as new CFO and Anna Helsingborg Nambord as Director of HR and CSR. AA Wihlborgs built its first solar power facility under its own management, at Berga, Helsingborg. Lund Copenhagen AA In August 2013 Wihlborgs presented its latest CommunicaMalmö tion on Progress in accordance with the UN Global Compact; wihlborgs.com/COP. There were no significant changes in the company during the accounting period up to today's date. Local involvement Awards and recognition It is important for us to be actively involved in various organizations during 2013 and networks. Several of our employees sit on external boards. We did not receive any official awards in the area of sustainability Today, we are represented on the boards of various organizations in 2013. But our focus on sustainability has helped focus attention such as Fastighetsägarna Syd, Fastighetsföreningen Lund City, on the issue in the stock market, where sustainable enterprise has Malmö Citysamverkan, Lund Citysamverkan, Medeon, Ideon, the become an increasingly important issue to powerful investors. Our Sweden Green Building Council, Näringslivets Miljöchefer (the Environmental Affairs Director Hanna Claesson is often invited to Swedish Association of Environmental Managers), Solar Region talk about our work in sustainability at various CSR seminars. Skåne and Øresundsinstituttet. Subsidiaries and joint ventures There are 150 companies in the group, including the Parent Company. However, not all are subsidiaries of the Parent Company. Within the Group, we have six joint ventures: • Dockan Exploatering conducts development activities in the Dockan area of Malmö. • Fastighets AB ML 4’s purpose is to develop, build, own and manage the MAX IV research centre in Lund. • Hälsostaden Ängelholm Holding AB was established to develop the site around Ängelholm Hospital into a health care city. • Medeon AB markets Medeon Science Park, a research park in Malmö focusing on life sciences. • Ideon AB was established to strengthen and develop Ideon as a creative and active research community. • Nyckel 0328 AB, which is engaged in financing activities via its subsidiary Svensk FastighetsFinansiering AB. For more information, see Note 17 in Wihlborgs’ 2013 Annual Report. Share information Wihlborgs is a Swedish public limited company that is listed on Nasdaq OMX Stockholm. Wihlborgs has been listed on the Nordic Mid Cap list since 2006. Hanna Claesson, Environmental Affairs Director, at Wihlborgs’ HQ. About our sustainability report Taking global responsibility at local level This is Wihlborgs' third sustainability report. In the past, we focused mainly on environment issues, but we gradually came to recognize an interest in our social responsibility. When we were asked if we had signed up to the Global Compact and observed its ten principles, we realized that this was something we naturally ought to do, and wondered why we had not signed up earlier. Perhaps because we viewed ourselves as confined within the Öresund region and saw the Global Compact mainly as a tool for multinational companies. Once we realized the importance of a coordinated sustainability programme, we established a CSR function at Wihlborgs. In addition, we soon realized that there were areas in the Global Compact where we could perform better. This was one of the reasons for deciding to produce a sustainability report in accordance with GRI. Today, we have an effective system in place to ensure Wihlborgs develops at all times in a socially, economically and environmentally acceptable way. About our sustainability report 1 January–31 December 2013. The next sustainability report will be published in April 2015. We believe that the sustainability reOur sustainability report covers all our business operations in port meets the requirements for application level B+. An external Sweden and Denmark, Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB and all our 149 audit of our sustainability report in accordance with GRI was carsubsidiaries. Joint ventures are not included. Wihlborgs Fasried out by Deloitte. The auditors' report appears on page 43. We tigheter AB does not own any properties. They are all owned by have also chosen to apply certain aspects of the recently issued our subsidiary companies. The Sustainability Report consists of guidelines for the construction and property sector, “Construction pages 1-41 of this document and the “Key Figures & Calculations” and Real Estate Sector Supplement” (CRE.1). We have used the section on the Sustainability Report page of our website. Where G3.1 version of GRI in this report. The GRI Index on page 38 shows we have control over, and can fully determine the outcome of, inhow G3.1 relates to CRE.1 and ISO 26 000. The document “Key formation generated within the Group for the sustainability report, Figures & Calculations” on our website explains how we go about we can take full responsibility for this information (see chart on compiling the key figures in the Environment section. page 12, section B). The report also describes sustainability work The sustainability report has been printed in a limited number in relation to external stakeholders, in this case mainly suppliers of copies in Swedish and English. It will be available mainly for and contractors (see chart, page 12, sections C and D). We set downloading from the Wihlborgs website as of 15 April 2014, from requirements for our suppliers but do not exercise the same dehttp://www.wihlborgs.com/Press--Media1/ under Publications. gree of control over them and their sub-contractors. The graphic If you have any questions or comments on the report, please on page 12 illustrates Wihlborgs' identified stakeholders. contact any member of the Wihlborgs CSR group; for contact details, see page 49. Wihlborgs’ first sustainability report was Reporting published on 23 April 2012. Our accounting year is the calendar year and the reporting cycle is for the whole year. The report (at B+ level) covers the period Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2013 9 Wihlborgs’ garage in Dockan is equipped with two charging posts capable of charging a total of four electric cars at the same time. A A+ Application level of the report C+, B+ and A+ require the report B B+ to be certified by an external party. Report for all points Same requirements at level C and as for level B 1.2 C 3.9–3.13 C+ 4.5–4.13, 4.16–4.17 Information on sustainability Report Information on sustainability management in 1.1 management in each each indicator category G3 Standard information 2.1–2.10 3.1–3.8, 3.10–3.12 indicator category 4.1–4.4, 4.14–4.15 Information on profile Report for at least 20 result Report for each core Not required indicators and at least one from indicator in G3 and each each of the following: sector-specific* indicator, Information on sustainability Economic impact, environmental applying the principle of management impact, human rights, materiality by either Report for at least 10 result employment and working, a) reporting indicator indicators and at least one role of organization information or from each of the following: in society, product liability b) explaining the reasons Result indicators and Social, economic och for not reporting sector-specific result indicators environmental impact * = Sector-specific supplement in final version Governance, undertakings and commitments Swedish Television is one of our many tenants. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2013 11 Listening makes us wiser Wihlborgs’ business is built on values that are not up for negotiation. Which is not to say that we believe we have done everything we need to do and have stopped developing – quite the reverse. In our day-to-day work, we maintain constant and open dialogue with our various stakeholders. We need to know and understand what our tenants, suppliers and the world at large expect of a company such as Wihlborgs. Wihlborgs is not driven only by its Board of Directors and management groups, but also by the new insights we gain by listening to others. Framework and proposals to the Board. The Board and Group Management are responsible for ensuring that work on the environment, work Wihlborgs is a listed company that is subject to rules and environment, review of ethical guidelines, social responsibility regulations on corporate governance. Alongside the legislation and sustainable development is performed in line with the rules, concerned, the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance and strategies and goals that have been established. This responsibilistock exchange rules also apply. The business is monitored and ty also includes presenting a sustainability report in accordance super-vised by external auditors and Nasdaq OMX Stockholm. with GRI. The report is drawn up at B+ level and incorporates Wihlborgs’ Communication on Progress according to the princiShareholder power ples of the Global Compact. For more information on the procedures for good corporate The Annual General Meeting (AGM) is the highest decisiongovernance with regard to the Board's qualifications, procedures making body. Every shareholder has the right to participate in and processes, see Wihlborgs’ Corporate Governance Report on the AGM and have various issues addressed. One of the many pages 126-133 of the 2013 Annual Report. The Board's work is asimportant tasks of the AGM is to elect members of the Company’s sessed annually, and every two years Board members are required Board of Directors. The AGM also sets guidelines for remunerto complete an in-depth questionnaire designed to determine ation to the CEO and leading decision makers. The Company's what changes need to be made in the work done by the Board. auditors check that these guidelines are adhered to. All details of the AGM are available on the Wihlborgs website. Group Management Board of Directors and CEO Wihlborgs' Group Management has overall responsibility for managing the Company. The CEO, who is a member of the Board, The Wihlborgs Board is charged with managing the company in reports directly to the Wihlborgs Board. With regard to sustainathe best interests of the shareholders for a satisfactory long-term bility issues, we have established an in-house CSR function that return on assets, in accordance with set rules of procedure. The deals with these issues and is also responsible for involving the Board is made up of eight members, of whom six are independent employees. Senior executives are not entitled to bonuses; for in relation to the company. Two members are considered to be more information, see Note 7 to the financial statements in non-independent: Erik Paulsson, Chair, on account of Brinova's Wihlborgs’ 2013 Annual Report. shareholding in Wihlborgs, and Anders Jarl, who also serves as CEO of Wihlborgs. In view of the Company’s size, Wihlborgs does not have separate audit and remuneration committees. To monitor Corporate Governance Report developments in the credit market, Wihlborgs has an interest rate The Corporate Governance Report in full can be downloaded from committee that meets every other month and presents reports the Wihlborgs website and is included in the 2013 Annual Report. Governance, undertakings and commitments, Communication with stakeholders Wihlborgs’ stakeholders AA Identifying Wihlborgs' key stakeholders In 2011, the CSR group listed potential stakeholders. After Every day, we meet tenants, joint venture partners, investors, analysis seven key stakeholder groups were identified: entrepreneurs and other stakeholders. Through these meetings, Shareholders, Tenants, Municipalities where we operate, we are reminded that we operate in a wider world and that our Credit providers, Suppliers/Contractors, Board of Directors success depends on us understanding and continuing to develop and Employees. These categories will remain as long as our role in association with others. Wihlborgs’ business does not change, see illustration below. In addition to our day-to-day contacts, we carry out targeted questionnaire-based surveys to gather more comprehensive AA Dialogues with stakeholders. material from certain stakeholder groups. The surveys include In 2011, we distributed a questionnaire to more than 200 the NKI (Customer Satisfaction Index) and the NMI (Employee individuals representing our key stakeholders (for details of Satisfaction Index). Input of this kind helps us to prioritize initiaquestions and findings, see pages 16–17 in Wihlborgs’ 2011 tives focused on a specific stakeholder group. Sustainability Report). In 2012, we decided to conduct a stakeA stakeholder analysis was also performed during work on holder dialogue in two stages. In the first stage, seven selected Wihlborgs’ first sustainability report. For detailed information, stakeholders at management level were asked to complete a see our 2011 Sustainability Report. A summary is presented below. short questionnaire. The results are presented on pages 16–17 of Wihlborgs’ 2012 Sustainability Report. Identifying Wihlborgs' key stakeholders * = Key stakeholders A. Society in general Municipalities* Neighbours Stakeholder organizations Networks Media Schools/Universities Legislators Public authorities Citizens Auditors B. Wihlborg Fastigheter AB Employees* Board of Directors* Contract personnel C. Supplier chain Suppliers* Contractors* Lenders* Sub-contractors D. Value chain Tenants* Sub-tenants Shareholders* Tenants’ employees Sponsorship recipients Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2013 13 In-depth stakeholder dialogue function proactively in every area. It is also clear that, from an internal perspective, we should not take a leading role in developing in 2013 all new technology in the sector if this would represent excessive Last year, we decided to resume and develop our contacts with risks. On the other hand, there is a strong desire to be involved in the seven key stakeholders who replied to the 2012 survey. We development, but at a reasonable level. Once again, the issue is followed up their responses with an in-depth interview and a responsiveness. From an internal perspective, the importance of dialogue on sustainability. the market is also highlighted; the fact that the market rules and The method we elected to use was a semi-structured intergives us signals as to the direction we should take: “In purely view. The interview was based on the written replies given in the commercial terms, the market will help us, it will become more previous year’s survey and the individual was then asked to reflect and more important” (Board member). and elaborate on his/her answer. The following is a summary of the replies and our observations on them. Proactivity via foresight, external stakeholders In the interviews with some external stakeholders, it is possible to see a similar line of argument as with the internal stakeholders, Proactive or reactive about not being at the very leading edge. “Some issues may need The introductory question focused on the stakeholder’s view of to settle down before they are taken to their conclusion” (Fund how we should address sustainability issues via a selection on a representative). rating scale. The scale ranged from 1-5, where 1 corresponded to Other stakeholders take the view that we must lead right from “satisfies legal requirements” and 5 “proactivity, at the forefront”. the front and also that we have done so up to now. “Wihlborgs All respondents inclined towards proactivity, although there was is very good at bringing about business deals that are multia difference of 1 degree between the respective ratings of internal dimensional, at generating added value for the deal.” (Municipal and external stakeholders. Director). They emphasize that it is important for this strength to be maintained. Proactivity scale 1-5 (5 = at the forefront) One example of proactivity lies in understanding new structures 4,8 in urban development. Another is to keep one step ahead and make 4,0 offerings in sustainability that exceed the tenant’s expectations. A stakeholder also mentions that if Wihlborgs wants to be at the forefront, sustainability must be integral to its core business. “I expect it to be part of your day-to-day work” (Lender). “ Internal External (Mean value) (Mean value) We have to be proactive and Proactivity, as expressed by responsiveness, responsive. It’s important how internal stakeholders our brand is perceived. (CEO) Being a listed company means that our financial status is presented on an ongoing basis via, for example, quarterly reporting. In contrast, many sustainable solutions are long-term and extend over generations. From the interviews with Wihlborgs’ internal stakeholders, it is clear that the challenge lies in finding the right balance, or as our CEO put it in the introduction to last year’s sustainability report: “The task for us is to strike the right balance between our commercial purposes and our ideological approach The art of communicating to the business.” Another theme of the dialogue was communication about what In the past five years, initiatives have been taken that have we are doing in sustainability. In our 2012 survey, we asked this helped move Wihlborgs to the forefront in certain sectors. For question: How important do you think it is for Wihlborgs to inform example, Wihlborgs signed up to the Global Compact; another about its work on sustainability on a scale of 1-5, where 1 is “not was the work started internally, ranging all the way from training at all important” and 5 is “very important”? During the dialogue initiatives to allocating resources to set up an in-house CSR group. we asked the stakeholders to give reasons for their replies. We Many actions focus on responsiveness and the importance of also enquired into whether, from their viewpoint, people wanted this point is underlined in the interview with Wihlborgs’ CEO. He someone from Wihlborgs to supply this information or whether points out that responsive employees enable the organization to they wanted to look for it themselves. Governance, undertakings and commitments, Communication with stakeholders Importance of communicating about to see more proactivity. For you as landlord to come up with good sustainability,on scale of 1-5 (5= Very important) suggestions for operations and communicate values other than 4,5 4,4 just SEK per square metre.” (Tenant) Other examples quoted were Green Leases and following-up their outcomes. Another stakeholder expressed a clear wish for sustainability to be included as a natural part of the ambassadorial role of all employees. He said: “Everyone who fronts Wihlborgs in business situations must of course talk sustainability!” (Municipal Director). “ Internal External (Mean value) (Mean value) Everyone who fronts Wihlborgs in business situations must of How the seven respondents wanted their information course talk sustainability! 4 (Municipal Director) 3 “ I would like to I would to receive get information information myself from Wihlborgs It’s not just a lease that is signed once; it’s an ‘ongoing’ partnership” Transparent communication, internal stakeholders (Tenant) As far as the internal stakeholders are concerned, there is a consensus that it is important to communicate about our work on sustainability. Both replied with similar arguments. It is important for us to be transparent and communicate about the “right” things in a way that builds trust. Communication through all, external stakeholders Materiality analysis External stakeholders are also unanimous that it is important for In the survey conducted in 2012 and used as the framework for us to communicate about our work in sustainability. According to the in-depth interviews in 2013, respondents were asked to pick one key stakeholder: “Your colleagues in the industry are on their 5 areas (out of 27) that they thought were the most important. toes in this, so if you don’t want to get overtaken, you need to For an overview of stakeholders’ responses last year, see the 2012 both act and communicate on an ongoing basis” (Sales manager sustainability report, page 17 1. at one of our biggest energy companies). This material will also serve for the materiality analysis in The interviews also produced ideas and desires about how connection with Wihlborgs’ scheduled report in accordance with the communication could be conducted and developed. Several GRI G4. In 2014, the analysis will be further expanded to provide were in favour of integrating it more into our regular reports, for comprehensive material for continued reporting. example by including sustainability in our quarterly reports and in external presentations. Internal stakeholders – Work environment, Business ethics, Another recurrent theme was that people appreciated the Customer service & Energy consumption stakeholder dialogue (the physical meeting and discussion) as The work environment is an obvious priority for both internal a mode of communication and wanted to continue building on respondents. “We must of course make sure that nothing happens it. “Cooperation is A to Z – all our in-house development work either to our own colleagues or our tenants (CEO). Another stakecomes out of network discussions. I would like to see even more holder also highlights our responsibility in terms of setting social of this type of collaboration with Wihlborgs.I would very much like and environmental requirements for our suppliers. “A safe work 1 Responses are slightly adjusted, as the Board member interviewed was different from the one interviewed at the time of the survey in 2012. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2013 15 environment is important. We can make demands on the supplier elaborate on their answers, we observed a strong link to energy here! As a major buyer of services and products we can exercise consumption. . “Energy consumption is very much about changinfluence in several areas” (Board member). es in the behaviour of the end-user. So, when this comes up, as Both internal stakeholders also raise business ethics as a landlord you can suggest good initiatives, actions by other tenants priority area. Respondents highlight training and development, – which we can learn from” (Tenant). together with daily dialogue/discussions. “Clear and transparent Finally, several stakeholders mention (sustainability) dialogue action is vital! For example, by including ethical guidelines as part and good relationships in the cities where we operate as important of introductory training courses” (Board member). fundamental conditions. They raise the point that it is important to It is unsurprising that customer service is a high priority to our have good relationships with all the various stakeholders. CEO – or, as he himself puts it: “It’s the customer, after all, who pays our wages.” He is clear that this is an area that must always Everything is inter-connected – our observation be at the top of the agenda. According to all stakeholders, Wihlborgs should focus on sustainEnergy consumption was also raised as an important area, not ability in a proactive way – but internal and external stakeholders only during the construction process but also in the operation of each see it slightly differently. Internal stakeholders say that we our properties, where we should be involved and show tenants should be responsive and dynamic vis-à-vis the market. External what they can do to reduce their consumption. stakeholders express an expectation that Wihlborgs should be one step ahead, “look round the corner”, and in that way deliver External stakeholders – Work environment, Quality, Environmenadded value. tal classification and Dialogue. There is also an expectation that the sustainability angle Like the internal stakeholders, several external stakeholders should be integrated into day-to-day operations and that ongoing prioritize a safe work environment: “Employees’ lives come first, communication is preferable to individual presentations. Everyone second and last, after all. Particularly in your type of industry, in at Wihlborgs, irrespective of role, should be able to discuss susprojects and so on. Sub-contractors that take responsibility are tainability and quote examples from their viewpoint. Against that essential!” (Representative of fund). “People are all we have. It’s background, communication is a focus area for the future. hugely important” (Sales manager for supplier). In the materiality analysis it emerged clearly that the various The quality of the premises is emphasized from the point view aspects (environmental, social and economic) of the concept of of how the end-user experiences them. The property owner must sustainability are closely interwoven. These different areas may be recognize a responsibility for dealing with this and whoever repregarded as “portals” into the same totality. resents the Wihlborgs organization must deal with and respond In addition, the ever-present factor of financial results is deto several issues. This is also linked to how the end-user perceives cisive in determining the conditions for us to drive forward other the customer service. Proactivity is singled out as important. sustainability issues. “If you don’t have the financial wherewithal, “Remedy faults quickly, keep your ear to the ground and find out you can’t achieve what you want in the other areas”, says one of whether more needs to be done – that’s proactivity” (Tenant). our biggest lenders, before continuing: “but what is done must In the responses to the 2012 survey, Environmental classificaalways be done with professionalism and an ethical approach”. tion was a high priority. When this year we asked stakeholders to “ Wihlborgs is good at listening and providing information in such a way that we feel that we have a meaningful stakeholder dialogue. (Lender) Sustainability targets with risks and opportunities Two of our caretakers, Petra Westman and Stefan Carlén. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2013 17 Viewing risks as a positive How did it go in 2013? A risk is always a risk, but it is also something you can embrace and make into a positive. To prepare for our first sustainability report in 2011, we worked out our ten foremost risks and recast them into specific shortand long-term sustainability goals (see table below). Wihlborgs’ potential risks were identified within the context of the main impact of the business. Since then, both we and the world around us have changed. On that basis, the CSR group and Group Management are planning in 2014 to carry out a revaluation of the risks formerly identified. Target (short or Short Long Status on No Potential risk Business opportunity Status 2011 long term) term term Area 31 December 2013 1-5 >5 years years 1. Contaminated site Can be prevented by Property and contaminaSurvey properties where Environment Completed. caused by tenant greater awareness of ted site details held on an business activities can business activities tenants’ business risks. internal database. Routine contaminate soil. Ensure surveys when acquiring MIFO inspections are property. performed and obtain minutes of such. 2. Wihlborgs has a Via the sustainability Random monitoring of To create a systematic Operational Started. We have appoinnegative image in report, we invite our what is written about way of monitoring social management ted a CR group to social media. stakeholders to engage in Wihlborgs in the social media communication take responsibility for a dialogue and we obtain media. and procedures for this market communication. an opportunity to hear in future. The area is not currently views and opinions that considered to represent can aid us to develop. any major risk. 3. Financial risks See Wihlborgs’ annual Finance Monitored on an ongoing report, pages 81-87. basis, see Wihlborgs’ annual report. 4. A crisis arises that Produce a more Procedures in place Produce a crisis Operational Not started is not covered by comprehensive crisis for internal health and management plan management the current crisis management plan. safety inspections and in writing in 2012. management plan. monitoring of physical risks. Contact paths to Company healthcare available. 5. Some form of Continue with our Business ethics are Zero tolerance. Both Company Maintained on an ongoing corruption emerges strategic work within continuously discussed shortand long-term management basis. A document on within Wihlborgs. business ethics. Adhere to within the company, for statistics are to be kept procedures was produced transparency even when example via the training on any known cases. and adopted in spring cases are publicized. programme “Wihlborgs 2013. All employees Talks Sustainability”. The attended training/workethics guidelines were shop sessions on the topic updated in August 2011, of bribery and corruption. focus bribes. Sustainability targets with risks and opportunities Target (short or Short Long Status on No Potential risk Business opportunity Status 2011 long term) term term Area 31 December 2013 1-5 >5 years years 6. The company is Our sustainability report Information on the Develop dialogue Operational Ongoing continuously via perceived as being offers an opportunity to business is provided in the with our stakeholders. management the stakeholder dialogue non-transparent. present a transparent sustainability report, anExternal feedback is and sustainability report. image of the company. nual report and quarterly important so we pick reports. out the areas that today we may have too little information on. 7. Wihlborgs losing Systematic visits to our We currently carry out In the surveys perSocial More meetings and concredibility in customer customers. Continuous customer satisfaction formed, the target is to tact events were arranged, index. training of employees, surveys every two years. achieve 100 per cent during which we met and including on our values. satisfaction. talked with many of our Identify additional tools customers, partners and for measuring customer prospects. satisfaction. We began a purchasing and implementation process for CRM systems. Individual visit schedules per employee with customer responsibilities were established with the aim of activating the process by autumn 2014. 8. Energy consumption Link energy consumption Data on energy consumpFrom 2012, energy Environment Started and is continuing in comparable more closely with financial tion data are included statistics are to be during 2014. In the property stock rises. management. in a statistical analysis reported to Wihlborgs' process, all Wihlborgs’ application. We carry out in-house quarterly property managers/ a number of energy saving meetings. Over the property management projects each year. Energy next three years, we executives report energy is integrated into newbuild will monitor kWh in status of the properties at projects. We have personcomparable properties. quarterly meetings. nel who are expert in this See Wihlborgs’ environarea. ment goals 2013–2014, page 33. 9. Wihlborgs lacks Improve current monitorWihlborgs signs 1-year Suppliers categorized Social Started and follow-up is appropriate methods ing system to show transcontracts. Supplier as high-risk must report continuing during 2014. to make social and parency and comparability answers questions on improvements within environment related between our suppliers. environment, quality, work the following two years. evaluations of our supenvironment and ethics. If, despite requests pliers and contractors. Purchasing manager to do so, no such performs a risk assessimprovement is shown, ment. When renegotiating new contracts will not contracts, supplier has be signed with the opportunity to improve if supplier from 2014. See requested by us to do so. also Wihlborgs’ environApproved suppliers are ment goals 2013–2014, listed in Wihlborgs orderpage 33. ing app (see page 39). 10. Wihlborgs is perSustainability report Information is mainly availIn the long term, to Company In progress in connecceived as unclear in its explains how we aim to be able today via our website expand the dialogue management tion with stakeholder external communicasustainably profitable in and in our annual report. with our stakeholders dialogues. Around half tion related to what our core business. Via the and develop the external of our employees have our company stands sustainability report, we feedback that enables us at some time externally for within all sustainainvite our stakeholders to to pick up on the areas communicated examples bility areas. engage in a dialogue and where we currently proof Wihlborgs’ sustainabilwe obtain an opportunity vide too little information. ity initiatives (result from to hear views that can help To identify long term 2013 survey). us develop. We can also quantifiable key measget better at commuures. That more of us in nicating this in coming the company feel secure, recruitment campaigns. in the short and long term, by communicating ”sustainability” related to our own working area. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2013 19 We have several centrally located properties in Malmö, Lund and Helsingborg. Financial responsibility Profitability & sustainability If we are to be able to carry through our strategies and achieve our goals, it is essential that Wihlborgs is profitable. This also applies to the sustainability work that we are integrating with the financial targets that the Board sets for our business – everything is connected. Financial responsibility is a precondition in enabling us to take responsibility for the part we play in the development of society. Under the Swedish Companies Act, other legislation and regubusiness partner to both suppliers and customers. This, combined lations, the listing agreement with the Nasdaq OMX Exchange, with our offering of functional, flexible premises to a number of the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance, the Company’s business sectors, can play a part in enabling business to continue Articles of Association and internal instruments of control, such to flourish in our region. Financial success is another key factor in as the Rules of Procedure for the Board and instructions to the being an attractive employer; it gives us the scope to develop our Chief Executive Officer, the management and responsibilities of employees, which in turn means we can attract the right people. the Wihlborgs Group are divided between the Board and Chief To be able to invest in a sustainable way of working, we must Executive Officer. achieve our financial targets; at the same time we must operate susWihlborgs' overarching objectives and strategies state that the tainably if in the long term we are to achieve our financial targets. Company shall operate according to a business model for growth Via our stakeholder dialogue, we have established that it is and shall be one of the leading and most profitable property important to adhere to Wihlborgs' financial targets. The value we companies on the Stockholm Stock Exchange. To achieve this create comes from rental income. Our stakeholder dialogue highgoal, Wihlborgs is to consolidate and further strengthen its marlights that one of the most important areas that Wihlborgs needs ket positions in the Öresund region by concentrating on various to take into account is the quality of our premises and the cussub-markets. We are to actively improve our property portfolio by tomer service we deliver. Without satisfied customers, our rental the acquisition, development and sale of properties. We are also income targets cannot be achieved. Rental income also affects to manage our property portfolio with the focus on good cost efthe size of the changes in value of our properties. The financial ficiency and high occupancy rates. Our customer relationships are value we create then benefits various stakeholder categories, to be enhanced by active commitment and a high level of service. employees, lenders, society and suppliers. By operating to our set targets and strategies, we affect the Our shareholders are to share in this value a dividend in forms communities where we operate. Our sustainability work must be approved by the Board through a dividend policy. The size of the integrated with the financial targets established by the Board for dividend is dependent on the property management performance our business, since each aspect affects the other. If we achieve the company delivers and the selling price that is achieved on integration, this will strengthen our brand, which will improve our completed property transactions. Once all stakeholders have chances of becoming our customers’ first choice when they need received their share, the remainder is retained in the Company to lease a property. to strengthen our business, create new projects and acquire new Achieving our financial targets also affects in other ways our properties to grow the company in a sustainable way. ability to contribute to sustainable development. A solid finanInformation on Wihlborgs’ financial position can be found on cial base is a prerequisite for being able to function as a stable pages 89–125 of the annual report. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2013 21 EC 1 At Wihlborgs, we do not measure our successes by money alone. Economic value created Economic value created and distributed, SEKm 2013 2012 Comments and distributed, SEKm 2013 2012 Comments Directly created value Distributed financial value Income 1,707 1,505 Rental income Employees 83 69 Salaries, social insurance costs Changes in values of properties 167 140 Loan providers 469 392 Interest costs Changes in value, derivatives 449 -136 Society 390 205 Carrying amounts, Other income 17 13 Interest income income taxes, and shares in property tax and VAT earnings Suppliers 335 295 Recalculation of tax liability 1 – 265 Shareholders 307 288 Dividend to Total directly 2,340 1,787 shareholders created value, SEKm Total 1 584 1 249 1 As a result of a reduction in the rate of corporation tax to 22 per cent, the deferred distributed value, SEKm tax liability has been recalculated in the 2012 accounts, leading to a non-recurring surplus of SEK 265 million. Retained in the business 756 538 Return on 16,3 14,0 equity, % Target, % 7,8 7,0 Environmental responsibility Our environmental responsibility As a major property owner, we have real opportunities for influencing and improving everything from energy consumption to the vehicles we use. Energy is where we most affect the environment, but it is also where we can make major contributions in improving energy efficiency. Via green buildings, green leases, requirements for green vehicles and clear environmental goals, we are continuing the work to reduce our environmental impact and our carbon dioxide emissions. EN 3 Wihlborgs’ environmental responsibilities are based on the consumption. In our sustainability reports, Wihlborgs details its Company's Ethical Guidelines, Environmental Policy and current energy consumption over the preceding three years, including the Environmental Goals. The policy and targets have been set by our year of reporting. employees and environment director, and ratified by Wihlborgs As far as the Group’s total energy consumption is concerned, management and board. we can see an increase between 2012 and 2013. However, this Wihlborgs' operations are subject to Swedish and Danish legshould be viewed in the context of the increase in our area under islation. To live up to the precautionary principle and environment management, of which the properties acquired are more energylegislation is a minimum requirement for our environment work. intensive than the rest of the portfolio. The increase reported is To ensure we comply with applicable legal requirements in the particularly substantial since the figures for 2012 do not include environment area, we subscribe to an external database that the properties acquired during the year. In 2013, these properties is continuously updated with new legislation in our area of were included with acquisitions for the year. The figures for 2013 operation. include the properties acquired in 2013. For a property to be inWe also perform regular environmental risk analyses that in cluded in the energy statistics reported, we must have a reference many cases reflect the areas of the environment that concern us year from which our energy statistics software can collect key from a legal compliance perspective. The most recent survey was data. That is, from the beginning of 2012 until the end of 2013. We carried out in 2009 and the next is scheduled for spring 2014. obtained all the relevant statistics for the year’s acquisitions and the data. The result is that, unlike for earlier years, no properties were excluded from the scope of reporting. Our energy consumption Since 2012, we have used a routine based on around 70 per cent A typical Swedish single-family house built in the 1950s or 1960s of Wihlborgs' property portfolio being included in an environmental uses 25,000 kWh of energy in a year. Our energy consumption is goal category where the areas will be comparable year on year. For not 25,000 kWh, it’s 184,812,730 kWh. This means that our propmore information, see the section on our environmental goals for erties together use as much energy as 7,393 single-family homes, 2013–2014 on page 32-33. or 184,813 mWh. There is no doubt that our biggest environmental Our biggest energy suppliers are in the order of magnitude of impact is our energy consumption. The diagram on the next page E.ON, Öresundskraft and Kraftringen. The proportion of energy illustrates our consumption of heating, electricity, cooling, oil and from renewable sources, and the main products in these categogas over the past three years. This also shows Wihlborgs' total ries, are presented on page 24. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2013 23 EN 4 It is important that our properties are just as good for the environment as they are for our tenants. Total energy consumption, kWh Electricity, heating, cooling, gas, oil Electricity Gas 2011 54,060,465 2012 53,157,982 2013 62,947,578 2011 9,971,782 2012 6,090,219 2013 4,930,184 2013 Total kWh 2013 184,812,730 District cooling Oil 2011 5,747,245 2011 0 2012 6,115,243 2012 0 2013 8,071,163 2013 0 District heating Total area 2012 2011 2011 83,125,376 2012 94,713,640 2013 108,863,806 m2 2011 1,365,170 2012 1,425,073 2013 1,523,125 Total kWh 2011 152,904,868 Total kWh 2012 160,077,084 All kWh figures quoted in this report can be converted into Megajoules (MJ); multiply the kWh figure by 3.6. Electricity District cooling District heating Gas Environmental responsibility Percentage renewable Energy supplier Percentage renewable electricity Energy sources District District Electricity 1 ElectriDistrict heating % District % heating cooling city cooling E.ON, 2013-2015 100 Water – – – Öresundskraft, 2013-2015 100 Water Kraftringen, 2013-2015 100 Water E.ON, 2013 64 100 – – Waste 60 Wind power 100 Malmö Natural gas 33 Ind. waste to energy 4 Oil 0,4 Flue-gas condensation 1,2 Auxilliary electricity, incl. electricity for heat pumps 1,4 Kraftringen, 2013 77 292 – – Biofuel 27 Fuel supplied: 100 Lund Heat pumps 23 Electricity Natural gas 14 Electricity for heat pumps 11 Waste to energy 9 Recycled wood 7.5 Pellets 2.5 Procured heating (strawand 4 chip-based) Biogas 0,49 Fossil oil 0,02 Chipped logging residues 0.87 Öresundskraft, 2013 03 100 4 – – Heating from industrial waste 54 Electricity 100 Helsingborg to energy Heating from waste fuelled 27 CHP Heating from wood pellet 19 fuelled CHP Miscellaneous5 1 In 2013, electricity was procured for the 2013-2015 period. Between these years, local energy suppliers are also supplying the electricity at the respective locations. All electricity has an environmental declaration as 100%-hydropower generated 2 Energy source for district cooling is electricity – 29% generated from renewable energy sources according to Nord Poolsmix 2012 (2013 values determined by EI in May 2014) 3 According to Öresundskraft; industrial waste to energy and waste-based fuel cannot be classified as either renewable or fossil. They are society’s waste products that to a greater or lesser degree have originated from fossil or renewable sources. Stated in accordance with the Heating Market Board agreement, that is, the percentage represented by fossil fuel – coal, oil and natural gas. 4 Renewable electricity 5 Auxilliary electricity for generation and distribution is included in district heating. The energy suppliers provide provisional data on their energy prodsented on the next page. In many cases, the relatively low total ucts in 2013, but definitive figures are not reported until after this consumption per square metre figure is because it is an average report is published. As a result, final figures may differ from those for all our properties and includes, for example, facilities with presented here. extensive cold storage areas. Our future environmental targets The above table does not include figures for Denmark, which will show a considerably higher kWh/m2 figure. This is because we hope to be able to incorporate long term. It is also important cold storage facilities etc. will have been excluded. See Wihlborgs’ for us to maintain a dialogue with our biggest energy suppliers environmental goals 2013–2014, page 35. to help persuade them to include more energy from renewable We take a holistic approach to energy efficiency. Here, our sources in their products. In 2013, we continued our dialogue with energy statistics software plays an important role. We use the all energy suppliers, discussing the table and Wihlborgs’ expecstatistics E4 SQL program, which enables us to monitor heating, tations for the future. We regard it as encouraging that, over the electricity, water and cooling. Wihlborgs uses the program to year, figures indicated a higher proportion of renewable energy. identify potential energy saving projects/cost savings and to Wihlborgs operates in the Öresund region with investments manage consumption in all our properties. in Malmö, Helsingborg, Lund and Copenhagen. Our total energy When it comes to deciding which properties to make more consumption in 2013, expressed in kWh/m2 per location, is preenergy efficient, our first step is to calculate the current energy Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2013 25 status of the property. Next we calculate how much energy The illustration to the right shows the savings: is used, relative to area. We then produce an action plan with Energy efficiency improvements S:t Jörgen (Baltzar City) efficiency measures including cost etc. The following case study is an example of the energy efficiency 1 322 959 improvements carried out in Wihlborgs’ existing portfolio in 2013. Before At the end of 2012, we acquired the S:t Jörgen 21 (Baltzar city in Saving 1 117 931 1 139 726 Malmö) property. Baltzar City is an office building with shops on After Before 959 585 the ground floor. It covers an area of 11,350 m2. Via a combination of our experienced operating personnel and Wihlborgs’ energy After statistics software, we established that better use could be made of the existing technology. The potential lay in the existing control and regulation system. The following measures were implemented: AA Reprogramming of functions to optimize the entire cooling kWh system AA Adjustment, set correct temperature for transmitters and Heating Electricity Single-family homes correct humidity for sensors AA Adjustment of pumps connected to heating system The investment cost for the project was just under SEK 10,000. The annual saving is 385 MWh. This represents an annual financial gain of SEK 335,000. In terms of energy consumption per family 1 Consumption by single-family homes is based on a figure of 25,000 kWh home, the total savings correspond to the annual energy used by (houses built in the 1950s and 1960s). 15 single family homes.1 EN 5, CRE 1 KWh per m2 per location The low consumption of electricity and 131,546 522,297 2 m2 m2 cooling in Denmark was also due to the Copenhagen Helsingborg fact thatover the summer they do not have access to cooling facilities in their properties. 1 2 Electricity kWh m2 65 Heating kWh m2 74 26 Electricity kWh m2 75 Heating kWh m2 103 0 Cooling kWh m2 9 Gas kWh m2 Total kWh m2 1 Cooling kWh m2 0,4 Gas kWh m2 Total kWh m2 204,693 m2 Lund 59 Electricity kWh m2 70 Heating kWh m2 153 21 Cooling kWh m2 3,7 Gas kWh m2 Total kWh m2 664,680 m2 Malmö 56 Electricity kWh m2 70 Heating kWh m2 135 5 Cooling kWh m2 4,2 Gas kWh m2 Total kWh m2 Wihlborgs operates in the Öresund region with investments in Malmö, Helsingborg, Lund and Copenhagen. Our total energy consumption in 2013 expressed in kWh/square metre per location is presented above. Environmental responsibility Seeing the whole picture To property owners, the most important task is more often than pace with the adjustment that many energy companies face, we not to keep a check on the energy performance of the properties, will become better able to acquire products with lower environas this has the greatest – and most direct – impact on the environmental impact. When combined with other initiatives, this means ment. But we know that we have to see environmental issues in a that we will be able to realize our vision by the target year. The broader context. Through our activities, we affect the communities biggest percentage difference between 2012 and 2013 is within where we operate and so must also accept an overall responsibility Scope 3. This is because of higher emissions resulting from emfor our environmental impact. This means identifying strategies ployees commuting to and from work using their own cars, while for all areas in which we affect the environment. The chart below the number of employees also increased, by 28 percent in 2013. illustrates the areas that account for Wihlborgs’ total carbon dioxide emissions, and therefore also the areas where we are trying to reduce our environmental impact. Wihlborgs’ total carbon dioxide emissions in tons over Wihlborgs’ environmental vision for 2020 is to continue to exthe past three years: pand but with reduced environmental impact. Relative to last year, In the year Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Totalt the Company’s environmental impact has increased. In all, our Tons Ton s Tons Tons emissions rose by 1,500 tons, 17 percent. The biggest increase was due to district heating, where emissions were 1,318 tons higher 2011 336 9,362 101 9,798 than in 2012. The main reason for the increase was an enlarged property portfolio. More properties in Denmark have been con2012 515 8,267 97 8,879 verted from natural gas to district heating. Use of district heating therefore also rose within the Danish portfolio. On the other hand, 2013 652 9,599 168 10,379 this reduced the volume of carbon dioxide emissions per kWh. In EN 16, EN 17, EN 29 Scope Service vans Company cars 1 Scope Energy 2 Scope Air travel, Rail travel, 3 Kilometres driven on official Refrigerants business (privately-owned cars), Private cars on business (commuting), Commuting (bicycle etc.), Waste Total carbon dioxide emissions in tons (Scope 1+2+3) 10,000 8,000 9,798 8,879 10,379 6,000 Tons Tons Tons 4,000 2,000 0 2011 2012 2013 Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2013 27 For further details of energy consumption by our company cars Waste in 2013, kg, SITA and service vans in 2013, expressed in litres and carbon dioxide, see below. More information on the different fuel uses and how 524,139 133,190 this affected our emissions may be found under the heading Recycled waste, kg3 Combustible waste, kg “Transport” in this section. Energy consumption in 2013, company cars and service vehicles 658,104 33,790 31,333 9,736 Waste in 2013, kg 5,064 775 Hazardous waste, kg4 Diesel (lit.) Petrol (lit.) Ethanol (lit.) Gas1 (m3) Waste in 2013, kg, Ragnsells 332,898 323,863 150 Recalculated as total number of tons of CO2 emissions Recycled waste, kg5 Combustible waste, kg Ozone-depleting substances One area affecting the environment that in many cases is linked 664,161Waste in 2013, kg EN 22 to the property sector is cooling equipment and heat pumps that use ozone-depleting substances. Cooling media such as HCFC and HFC only adversely affect the environment if leakage occurs, in which case they add to the greenhouse effect. HCFC also harms the ozone layer, while HFC does not. The use of HCFC will 7,400 Hazardous waste, kg6 be prohibited from use as of 31 December 2014 (although this applies only to systems containing 3 kg or more of HCFC). We have produced a plan to phase out the HCFC2-based systems in our portfolio. Since HFC is used to replenish cooling media (as well as in conversions and new installations), this will also play a part in Equivalent statistics are still lacking for waste disposal service phasing out HCFC. suppliers in Lund, Helsingborg and Copenhagen. We hope to be able to expand this section as we develop our capacity for Waste gathering statistics (not possible in 2013). We estimate that the chart above represents 80 per cent of total waste in Malmö. The Waste makes up one area of our carbon dioxide emissions. We statistics have been obtained from our waste disposal contractor. produce statistics on the volume of waste and number of waste It should also be pointed out that what is shown in the diagram collection journeys necessary for our properties. Our largest above does not include the waste produced during new building waste collection service provider is SITA. Our largest waste coland redevelopment. Today, Wihlborgs’ environment programme lection operators are SITA and Ragnsells – see graphic showing for new building incorporates routines for waste management on the volume of waste in 2013, what was hazardous waste, what was construction sites, but we do not yet have any procedure in place combustible and what was recycled during the year. for collecting the relevant statistics. 1 Mix of natural gas and biogas. Malmö and Lund 50% of each. Helsingborg 100% biogas from NSR. 2 HFC has replaced HCFC because it does not contain chlorine and does not liberate chlorine radicals that deplete the ozone layer. 3 Recycled waste in 2013 covers all items except combustible, electronic and hazardous waste. Includes: glass, glass packaging, hard plastic packaging, office paper, metal packaging, soft plastic, paper packaging, other plastic, recycled paper, sorted waste, newspapers and cardboard. 4 Hazardous waste in 2013 includes electronic scrap, strip lighting and batteries. 5 Recycled waste in 2013 covers all items except combustible, electronic and hazardous waste. Includes: glass, glass packaging, hard plastic packaging, office paper, metal packaging, soft plastic, paper packaging, other plastic, recycled paper, sorted waste, newspapers and cardboard. 6 Hazardous waste in 2013 includes electronic scrap, strip lighting, toner/ink cartridges and batteries. Environmental responsibility The Syret 3 property, Gateway, is GreenBuilding, Miljöbyggnad and LEED certified. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2013 29 Long-term environmental awareness Wihlborgs owns, manages and builds properties from a long-term perspective. To us, that means taking a long-term, holistic apGreenBuilding proach to environmental issues. Our yearly analysis of the CompaGreenBuilding is actually a programme for managing energy ny’s carbon dioxide footprint enables us to address the Company’s usage, rather than an environmental classification system as such. EN 6, EN 18, EN 26, CRE 8 environmental impact in general and energy issues in particular. A building can be certified as a newbuild or via renovation of an existing property. In the case of new production in South Sweden, Environment certification of a building’s energy consumption must not exceed 75 kWh/m². In the case of a redevelopment, energy consumption must be cut properties by at least 25 percent from the existing usage. On 31 December In addition to energy consumption, one of our major areas of en2013, five buildings in the Wihlborgs property portfolio had been vironmental impact is redevelopment and new building. It has beGreenBuilding certified. The buildings are the Region Skåne come increasingly common to environmentally certify properties, building in Dockan, Fören – where the ÅF (consultant firm) took up which involves an external survey and an objective assessment of occupancy in 2013 – Landsdomaren in Lund, Polisen 3 in Helsinghow environmentally sustainable a building is. When a property is borg and Ideon Gateway in Lund. approved, the property owner receives a certificate. Depending Of these, Polisen 3 in Helsingborg is the one that is certified on the certification system, the certificate may show various levels in the category of existing properties. The building also won an of classification. In the case of redevelopments and newbuilds, award for the energy efficiency gains delivered by the redevelopenvironmental certification is often about the building as a whole. ment (for more details, see Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2012). With newbuilds, this may include ensuring that the employee can GreenBuilding certification also means that we as property owner commute to the workplace by bicycle or public transport. It may must report back on the status of properties certified after at least also consider what type of land the property owner is developing, one year in operation. such as whether it is a brownfield or greenfield site. The property developer is awarded points if it is a brownfield site and indeed if it has been cleared of environmentally hazardous substances. A greenfield development receives fewer points, since the land will have a different value from a land resource perspective. There are around a hundred environment certification and labelling schemes, of which Swedish KRAV and Svanen are two of the best known. GreenBuilding, Miljöbyggnad (Swedish), BREEAM (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method) and LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) are the most common in the Swedish property sector. The last two are based on UK and USA building regulations, respectively. Although Swedish versions are in the pipeline, Wihlborgs mainly looks at GreenBuilding and Miljöbyggnad. Environmental responsibility Miljöbyggnad of buildings is easier and less expensive. The requirements are more or less the same in both Swedish and UK versions in order Miljöbyggnad is a Swedish system for certifying buildings in terms to ensure that international comparisons between buildings are of energy, indoor climate and materials. The building is subject to possible. BREEAM comprises the following areas: Energy, Indoor a 15-point check, including energy purchased, noise class, radon Environment, Materials and Chemicals, Water, Management, content, damp, natural light, integral materials, chemicals and Construction Waste, Infrastructure and Communication, Ecology building products. We have recently concluded our environment and Location, Pollution and Process/Innovation. target of eliminating PCBs. At the time when the properties where we are now eliminating PCBs were being built, the materials used were not documented in the way now required by Miljöbyggnad LEED (Leadership in Energy and and other environmental certification systems. This type of system Environmental Design) makes it easier for us to trace substances that are classed as hazThe version of LEED that is mostly used for certification of comardous to the environment and health. Wihlborgs hopes that by mercial properties assesses the environmental performance of a certifying properties we can identify materials used in their conbuilding on the basis of: near environment, water management, struction in a structured way and in that way save both time and energy consumption, materials and indoor climate. Bonus points money. In the Miljöbyggnad certification system, a building can are also awarded for innovation in the project and regional considbe classified as bronze, silver or gold. Miljöbyggnad covers both erations. Today, we have one property that was LEED-certified in newbuilds and existing buildings. On 31 December 2013, three 2013. The property was acquired in the same year, so this certifiWihlborgs properties had been classified under the Miljöbyggnad cation system is a new experience to us. system (Ideon Gateway, Fören and Landsdomaren). The Gängtappen project, for which a provisional application was submitted in 2012, was not started in 2013 and so has not been classified. Choosing certification system As it becomes more and more common in the construction and The BREEAM system, adapted property sector to environment-certify properties, the various certification systems have become the subject of debate. Why for Sweden choose one system rather than another? Against that background, The BRE Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM) is an it is worth pointing out that all environmental classification environmental classification system originating from the UK. systems have been developed for the same purpose; to promote One of the oldest environmental classification systems, BREEAM, buildings with less environmental impact. However, they address has been used to certify over 115,000 buildings, most of them in the similar issues in different ways. The classification system that a UK. The Sweden Green Building Council is working with the adaptacompany or contractor in the industry ought to use will depend tion of BREEAM to Swedish conditions and on taking over manageentirely on what kind of company it is. Wihlborgs’ position is that ment of certification systems in Sweden. The Swedish version of the all environment certification systems provide a function and BREEAM Commercial environmental certification system, BREEAMhelp the property sector develop in a more environment friendly SE, has now been approved by BRE Global in the UK. In 2012, direction. Wihlborgs is subject to Swedish legislation and so it five “pilot projects” were sought to test out the Swedish system. is natural for us to look at systems that are developed to reflect Wihlborgs submitted an application for MAX IV, Lund, and in autumn national conditions, such as Miljöbyggnad and the Swedish ver2012 we were notified that MAX IV had been selected as one of the sion of BREEAM. We have for some time been using an internal pilot projects. During 2013, work on certification continued and the environment programme for newbuilds that includes a number project was the first to seek certification under BREEAM-SE. It is of criteria from several environment classification systems. We anticipated that the certificate will be received in 2014. believe cooperation in the sector is the way to achieve sustainable In the Swedish version of BREEAM, environmental certification development. Location Property Green MiljöLevel LEED Level BREEAM-SE Level Certified Building byggnad or prov. appl. until 2013 Malmö Skåneland 1 x 2009 Malmö Gängtappen 2 (Fören) x x Silver 2012 Malmö Gängtappen 1 (Rondellhuset) x x Gold * Malmö Magasinet x Silver * Helsingborg Polisen 3 x 2011 Helsingborg Berga Tower x x Gold * Helsingborg Ruuth 23 x Classified * Lund Landsdomaren 6 x x Silver 2013 Lund (Gateway) Syret 3 x x Gold x Platinum 2013 Lund MAX IV x x Gold x Excellent * * Certification in progress Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2013 31 Green leases 2013, accords with the Swedish Transport Administration’s definition of green vehicles. In 2013, 13 green leases were signed. Wihlborgs’ judgement is that Our vehicle fleet uses the following fuels: petrol, diesel, ethagreen leases fulfil an important function, in that they create a platnol, LPG and electricity. form for cooperation between landlord and tenant with the comOur vehicle fleet today is such that carbon dioxide emissions mon goal of reducing the environmental impact of the premises. are lower than as produced by vehicles not subject to environThe leases include activities in areas such as information and mental requirements. To simplify processes, we decided to install cooperation, energy and indoor environment, choice of materials electronic journey logs in the vehicles. In early 2013, a complaint and waste management. Green leases have also been included was filed with the Swedish Data Inspection Board on the basis that in our environment targets from 2012. In 2013, it was decided that the electronic journey logs included GPS. We then decided to rethe current lease should be revised on the basis that it was felt move the electronic journey logs. Review of the case is continuing not to be operating to full effect in our different properties. We in 2014. also concluded that we need to provide further training for the property managers and produce better sales material linked to green leases. Tap water only Water is becoming an increasingly important issue from a global Transport perspective. Our properties use water, but compared with the buildings’ energy consumption, our water consumption has a Transportation is one of the areas where we make an inpact on the lesser impact on the environment. Our properties are commercial environmet. Transport is governed by our car policy. We have chopremises where the majority of space consists of offices and storsen not to operate a general travel policy on business travel. The age, which means that it is mostly cold water that is consumed. reason is that our operations are concentrated within the Öresund Property companies with mostly rented residential premises show region. Other business travel is made by air and rail. In total, there a completely different level of hot water consumption. That is not were 109 business trips in 2013, 94 by air and 15 by rail. We are to say that we can ignore the issue of water usage. We need to well aware that many services connected with our properties have start a joint discussion on water consumption in relation to the a transport element. We have, however, produced a breakdown of EN 8, CRE 2 entire property sector. Today, there are no general initiatives in our transport-related statistics. To do this, we collate data on the this area similar to energy-consumption programmes taking place trips made by our employees. in the property sector. Our energy statistics program enables us to calculate water consumption in our properties. The informaNo. of vehicles per type tion is obtained from water meters in the properties. The water 32 of fuel 2013 consumption figures show the consumption of hot and cold water combined. The properties in our portfolio are supplied by water Etanol 7 Ethanol LPG Cars from a communal supply. The diagram below shows Wihlborgs’ total water consumption in m3 and m3/m2 for the past three years: Consumption in 2013 totalled 396,423 m3 (figures refer to Sweden). In Sweden, the average person uses 180 litres of water 3 24 per day. This means that our properties consume the equivalent Petrol amount of water as the annual consumption of 6,034 people. In Diesel 4 Electricity earlier years, we erroneously included the area of Denmark in the total area. In the illustration below, this has now been adjusted. Total water consumption, m3 For our purposes that includes company service vans, company cars, air travel, rail travel, mileage on company business in private cars and commuting to and from the workplace. As energy consumption in our properties is our biggest environmental issue, we have no plans at present to start tracing the transport chains of our various suppliers and contractors. On the other hand, we have decided to restrict ourselves to monitoring and following up 269,871 304,382 396,423 m3 m3 m3 transport that takes place in connection with waste collection at our properties. This statistical summary will be produced each 2011 2012 2013 year. In 2008, Wihlborgs adopted its first car policy. The policy 0.22 m3 per m2 0.24 m3 per m2 0.28 m3 per m2 set requirements as to carbon dioxide emissions, in line with the Total area Total area Total area Swedish Road Administration’s definition. The current policy, from 1,251,297 m2 1,293,508 m2 1,391,579 m2 Environmental responsibility Environmental issues at the Over the next few years, we intend to exercise stricter control to ensure that all projects are conducted in a standard way. With more construction stage – today and and more projects being environment-certified, Wihlborgs’ project tomorrow managers are using the same processes. As the process continues, this will become one part of the materiality analysis that will take In the majority of our newbuild projects, we draw up a specific place in 2014 as part of the transition to GRI version G4. environmental programme representing a document of aims. This environmental programme is also used for major redevelopment projects. The programme is based on Wihlborgs Fastigheter Environmental remediation AB’s environmental policy, the Swedish Environmental Code, the in Limhamn Environment Manual, the Environmental Status Method and other In 2010, Wihlborgs acquired the Gjuteriet 18 property, in Limhamn, environmental requirements for buildings, such as municipal from Dresser Wayne. At the time, the property had been used for regulations. the manufacture of fuel pumps.. As part of the acquisition, we also The purpose of the environmental programme is to secure enundertook environmental remediation of the land and buildings vironmental goals established for the property, to create the confor future use. From the start, it was obvious that we needed to ditions for an environment-friendly building and prevent undesired engage a consultant (Demikon AB, now acquired by the ÅF Group), surprises during operation. The environment here includes not familiar with the task of managing and coordinating projects of this only the internal environment for future users, but also impact on type. Gjuteriet 18 extends over an area of 30,000 m2 in Limhamn the external environment and the construction site environment. and is well-known in the Malmö region not least for the type of Since we begun certifying/classifying our properties, the industrial activity that had been conducted at the property. process has been to start from the 15/16 points listed in the Until 1930, the area was used by a cement works and an oil mill Miljöbyggnad scheme (see above) and then cover the areas not (for the production of linseed oil). The oil mill was established in included in Miljöbyggnad. We do this via what we refer to as 1905 and burned down in 1912. The former oil mill buildings were “detailed environmental goals”. These are more specific to, and demolished in 1937. From 1938 onwards, petrol pumps and other governing principles of, the project, and are arranged under varisuch equipment were manufactured here. ous headings as follows: Wihlborgs’ attitude towards the project from the outset was to carry out the entire project and remediation measures for both 1. Design land and buildings on the basis of the stricter regulations and 2. Location guidelines applying to schools and day nurseries, although the 3. Materials, products and systems planning process engaged in is primarily for tenant-owner devel4. Functions opments. We also contacted the relevant public and supervisory 5. Production authorities in Malmö at an early stage. The aim was to set up a di6. Management and operation alogue as early as possible in order to be clear about the views of other stakeholders. We also believe that the earlier a dialogue can Progress is monitored via environmental meetings/environmental be established, the more time and money can be saved. The rereviews on the construction site. Minutes are kept at all meetings mediation work continued in 2013. Over the year, we also applied and can be distributed to the tenant on request. for permission to demolish and undertake remediation for another In minor projects, environmental issues are to a certain extent building. As a result, the project will continue into 2014. integrated, for example via Folksam’s Building Environment Guide. Our environEnvironmental vision mental goals 2020 Wihlborgs will continue to expand, but with reduced environmental impact. We set our environmental goals for three-year periods. The goals adopted for 2013 extend over the 2012-2014 period. The goals were established at a workshop in which all employees participated. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2013 33 1. MANAGEMENT & OPERATION 2013 Outcome 2013 2014 1.1 Energy efficiency, kWh/m2 Wihlborgs’ properties are to maintain an Goal achieved in full. On 31 December Wihlborgs’ properties are to maintain an average rate of energy consumption of 2013, the average consumption in our average rate of energy consumption of no more than 148 kWh/m2. This applies green properties was 142.8 kWh/m2. no more than 142 kWh/m2. This applies to properties within the environmental to properties within the environmental goals scheme.1 goals scheme.1 1.2 Green leases During re-negotiations in 2013, 100 Started. In the second half of 2013, During re-negotiations in 2014, 100 percent will include the option to sign a Wihlborgs signed 13 green leases. We percent will include the option to sign a green lease. found that there was a need for further green lease. in-house training, and the goal has not been achieved in full. 1.3 Environmental classification of propWihlborgs environmentally classifies This goal has been achieved in part. Wihlborgs environmentally classifies erties in existing portfolio (Green Building at least three properties in its existing Two properties classified in Wihlborgs’ at least five properties in its existing + environmental building) portfolio. existing portfolio. portfolio. 2. LETTING, INFORMATION 2013 Outcome 2013 2014 & COMMUNICATION2 2.1 Environmental prospectus at In 2013, an environmental prospectus Started. Relevant environmental facts In 2014, an environmental prospectus to viewing of premises is to be provided at viewing of premises linked to Vacant Premises will be be provided at viewing of premises in 50 in 20 percent of Wihlborgs' property available on the web. All preparations percent of Wihlborgs' property portfolio. portfolio. are complete and the information will be posted on the web following quality assurance in 2014. 3. BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT 2013 Outcome 2013 2014 & PROJECTS & COMMUNICATION2 3.1 Environmental classification for new 100 percent of Wihlborgs’ new construcNot measurable in 2013. No newbuilds 100 percent of Wihlborgs’ new construcconstruction starts tion starts measuring no less than 500 m2 started. tion starts measuring no less than 500 m2 are to be environmentally classified. are to be environmentally classified. 4. PURCHASING 2013 Outcome 2013 2014 4.1 Purchasing and procurement routines On the basis of the risk assessments of Goal achieved in full. 100 percent verified. New agreements are not entered into preceding years, Wihlborgs monitors with suppliers/contractors classified as suppliers classified at risk level 3. Further level 3 risks. agreements are conditional on positive changes being reported. 5. TRANSACTION & ANALYSIS 2013 Outcome 2013 2014 5.1 Environmental issues in procurement 100 percent of Wihlborgs' transactions Started. Not fully in operation until 2014. 0 100 percent of Wihlborgs' transactions of properties are documented via the environmental percent documented in 2013. are documented via the environmental indicator. indicator. 6. ADMINISTRATION & IT 2013 Outcome 2013 2014 6.1 Web-based energy statistics 10 percent of energy statistics for Goal not achieved. Will take more time 50 percent of energy statistics for our our properties are available via and resources than expected. properties are available via Wihlborgs Wihlborgs website. website. 6.2 EDI invoicing 35 percent of Wihlborgs’ invoices from its This goal has been achieved in part. 50 percent of invoices from Wihlborgs’ suppliers will be delivered via EDI. In 2013, the result was 25 percent; the suppliers will be delivered via EDI. number of e-invoices was 12,800. This is a rise of 3,000. 1 This applies to properties covered by environmental goals, which is approximately 70 percent of the entire Wihlborgs portfolio where there is any form of potential for energy savings in the 2012–2014 period. This indicates that if we had included all properties, we would have reported a considerably lower figure for kWh/m2. Our new routine means that everyone working in Wihlborgs’ administration from the beginning of 2012, is working on the basis of individual key performance ratios, in which the individual key performance ratio has a considerable impact on the overall goal. The goal has been revised from 140 to 142 (according to management goals reported). 2 Our Environmental prospectus will contain information on the environmental impact of the property, which letting managers at Wihlborgs can present to potential tenants when viewing premises. This may be information as to how the property is heated or cooled, whether it is environment-classified, phased-out materials have been removed etc. Social responsibility Sustainable growth In the past year, both our sales and our organization grew. We welcomed new colleagues through acquisitions and through recruitment following retirements, and we bolstered up our expertise in important areas. To be able to meet the expectations the outside world places on us to act professionally and sustainably, we need to steadfastly develop and renew, and to constantly “look around the corner”, be responsive and make sure we get maximum benefit from our organic growth. Our organization Our work environment Our ambition is to be where our tenants are, and our caretakers At Wihlborgs, our aim is that all employees should enjoy, and find maintain daily contact with our tenants. Geographically, our orsatisfaction in, their work. LA6, HR 4, HR 6 ganization is divided into four regions, in each of which a regional Of course, we must keep our workplace secure and safe, director is responsible for managing local operations according to without risk of near-accidents and accidents. We have a work the Wihlborgs philosophy. Improvements to our property portfolio environment committee that conducts and evaluates activities are handled by a project department, which is responsible for to improve our shared work environment. This group consists newbuild and conversion projects, procurement and follow-up. of both office staff and collective agreement employees of both The organization has the following group executive functions: genders, from different positions in the company and from difEconomy/Finance, Procurement, Environment, HR, Communicaferent regions. 91 percent of our employees are represented on tion, Customer Relations (Sales and Marketing), Transactions and the work environment committee that represents Wihlborgs the IT. These functions are also responsible for group-wide developcompany. We also perform regular preventive health and safety ment initiatives. work designed to reduce the risk of accidents and to reinforce the safety culture within the company. Work environment inspections take place continuously in our properties, and action plans for Our personnel each property can be accessed by all employees via our in-house Our employees are an important factor in Wihlborgs’ success. IT systems. We have also produced a brochure explaining possible Their know-how, qualifications and professional expertise are an work-related risks in our operations. The Wihlborgs Group had invaluable asset. At year-end, Wihlborgs had 113 (89) employees, no known instances of serious injuries or work-related illnesses in of whom 75 worked in administration and 38 were collective 2013. Simple procedures for reporting work-related accidents and agreement employees. 104 employees work full-time (38 women, near misses can be accessed on our intranet. 66 men) and nine part-time (six women, three men). There are 17 As far as discrimination is concerned, no known instances were managers in the Company, seven of whom are women. 39 (35) reported in 2013. We have a policy on the issue, and every managpercent of employees in the Group are women. The Wihlborgs er has a responsibility to take note of and act upon any cases at an board consists of eight directors, of whom three are women. early stage. Personnel turnover was 9.9 percent (91.) in 2013. Ten persons We are all responsible for a safe work environment, and the left their employment and 34 were appointed. These figures includrelevant resources are available in the organization. Every other ed personnel taken on in the course of acquisitions during the year. year, a personnel survey is conducted to test the climate at work There have been no known instances of child labour within and to systematically collect suggestions for improvements. The our own organisation, that is, Wihlborgs employees and Board latest survey was carried out in spring 2013. The findings indicate members (internal stakeholders), in 2013. We do not anticipate a slightly less satisfactory general result than in the 2010 survey. any significant risk of this either, as we are subject to Swedish and The employee satisfaction index for the year was 3.3 (3.4) out of Danish legislation. a possible 4 points. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2013 35 Employee per location 54 Malmö 22 Lund Number of full-time employees 26 Helsingborg 11 Copenhagen New employees, breakdown by age and gender 19 men 15 women – 30 30 – 49 50+ – 30 30 – 49 50+ Termination of employment, breakdown by age and gender 7 men 3 women LA 1, LA 2, LA3, LA7 -30 30 – 49 50+ 60+ 30 – 49 50+ New employee per location 2 Helsingborg New employee 104 full-time employees 7 Malmö 8 Copenhagen 17 Lund 2 Helsingborg 17 Board of Directors, breakdown by age and gender Lund Copenhagen 8 7 Malmö 71 69 57 57 32 71 45 44 The survey revealed that the employees feel great pride in the Continuous improvements for cooperation, feedback and ethics company, but also that in-house collaboration was felt to have are implemented in day-to-day work, with our managers as role declined 2.9 (3.5) since the previous survey. At the same time, models. One focus area for 2014-2016 is a programme to support more than 200 comments and suggestions were received, indicatour managers in leadership issues. ing strong commitment and a high sense of responsibility. Another employee survey will be carried out in September 2014. The results and comments from the employee survey were processed by a workgroup. The group produced an action plan that was presented at our kick-off meeting in August 2013. ExamOur health ples of joint initiatives in the action plan that have been carried Sickness absenteeism at Wihlborgs is low; in 2013, it was measout include training in business ethics, monthly meetings in the ured at 1.4 (2) percent. Long-term absence (60 days or more) respective regions, clarification of roles and organization, the represented 17.1 (29.9) percent of total sickness absence. All emWihlborgs Classic (health and community initiative), clarification ployees receive regular health checks by our company healthcare of template and process for employee appraisals and initiated service and all are covered by health insurance. leadership seminars on the topic of feedback. We also set up We are also working proactively to support an active lifestyle an electronic suggestions box – Wihlborgs Ideas – for ongoing by offering Wihlborgs employees a fitness allowance that they follow-up on suggestions and ideas for improvements. can use for any fitness activity allowed by the rules laid down by Social responsibility Sweden’s tax authority. In order to provide motivation for regular we produced a supplement to the guidelines to the effect that if exercise and promote a sense of community, we arrange commuan employee commissions a Wihlborgs supplier/contractor to do nal exercise and fitness activities. some private work or service for them, the employee must get the estimate approved by their immediate manager first. This is Our expertise to ensure that the employee is not being given a discount related to their employment with Wihlborgs. Wihlborgs employees must be able to develop and grow with the In 2012, a case of suspected corruption was revealed by our organization. Through development discussions, goals are agreed in-house daily invoice control system. An internal investigation took between manager and employee for the individual’s development. place, the matter was then reported to the police and an external Wihlborgs encourages initiative and desire from employees to investigator took over. After discussions with the trade union ordevelop their competence. Against that background, employees ganization involved, the employee was dismissed. The investigation took part during the year in several in-house and external training continued, and in January 2013 all documentation was handed over programmes. to the police authority, where the case awaits further action. In 2013, we organized a total of 1,338 training hours, an averIn our 2013 employee survey, wishes were expressed for age of 13.1 hours per employee* . During the past year, employees further clarification of our position on bribery and business ethics. participated in a number of training programmes, courses and As a result, we continued to focus on 2013 at a strategic level. We seminars. Examples include courses in business ethics, customer gathered real issues and dilemmas from the organization and held service & administration, Office 2013, new manager, lift training, a business ethics course for all employees. For the course, we systematic fire safety etc. produced a practical guide stating clearly our view of what is to be Every year, Wihlborgs provides a number of internships for regarded as a bribe and how people are expected to act in their students from the Universities of Malmö and/or Lund on various day-to-day work. On 31 December 2013, 77 percent of Wihlborgs’ work experience schemes. The students selected are generally personnel had taken part in the training. on a study programme related to the property sector. This is an Wihlborgs CSR group has analyzed the risk of corruption in excellent way of bringing new discoveries and influences into the organization and concluded that the project management EC 6, LA 10, SO2, SO3 the company, while at the same time helping students to gain a and administration units are, relatively, the most vulnerable, since practical perspective on their newly acquired knowledge. it is these units that purchase goods and services on behalf of Wihlborgs. Contractors & suppliers Wihlborgs’ procurement function is tasked with improving effi810 hours 528 hours 1,338 ciency in purchasing, and raising profitability. It is also responsihours ble for evaluating suppliers from the sustainability perspective. Wihlborgs’ position is already stated clearly in the procurement procedure, for example via information on the Code of Conduct. In our projects, we share responsibility with our contractors Men Women Total and suppliers for creating as safe a work environment as possible. Contractors and suppliers are responsible themselves for the Our relationships health and safety of their own employees under rules on coordinaOur way of working shall be simple and based on our four values tion of workplace safety in construction. To facilitate our oper– action, honesty, knowledge and community. The Wihlborgs ations, we aim as far as possible to engage local suppliers with philosophy (which is based on our four values) has been, and will representation in the cities where we are based and our propercontinue to be, critical to our success and sense of community. ties are located. Otherwise, we work with suppliers on a national Relationships, both internal and external, are also to be characlevel in Sweden and Denmark. One of the benefits from working terized by responsibility and always in accordance with our ethical with local/national suppliers is that transport and travelling can guidelines and the UN’s Global Compact. We are to combat disbe kept down, which has both environmental and cost advantagcrimination in every way. We do this by internal communication on es. Although we operate in a limited area, the Öresund region, our policies and the need to deal with any cases at an early stage. it is important to us that suppliers have a base in our respective No cases were reported in 2013. locations, in terms of knowledge of the area, the local authorities and local regulations, all of which make coordination with our employees easier when ordering. Our business ethics In the case of our larger suppliers, we are increasingly developThe ethical guidelines, which apply to Board members, employing our relationships via partnerships. ees, suppliers and contractors, are available in full on the WihlIn several cases, Wihlborgs’ tenants are in direct contact with borgs website under “Corporate Governance”. In summer 2011, Wihlborgs’ suppliers. Against that background, it is important 1 Based on the Sweden organization. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2013 37 for us to set requirements in terms of our suppliers’ competence and service standards to ensure the well-being of our tenants in Wihlborgs’ properties. Our procurement objectives for 2014 largely focus on strengthening contractual loyalty in existing contracts, new routines for supplier assessments and further work on progressing sustainability issues. Another goal is to create a more streamlined procurement process for the management organization. Wihlborgs has produced new contract templates to facilitate the contract process. Our intention, going forward, is that all contracts are to be signed on these contract templates. Most contracts are signed for a term of two years to assure quality of products and services. Our aim is to hold regular status meetings with our suppliers. Wihlborgs uses an ordering “app”. The app is called WAPPO, “Wihlborgs APP for Orders”. Suppliers/contractors with whom Wihlborgs signs a contract, are linked to the WAPPO ordering app. In purely practical terms, this means that our caretakers, who in many cases order minor jobs, can be sure that by using the app the suppliers/contractors that they engage have been approved. Even if the conditions applied by different suppliers can differ, it is important that we maintain a general code of conduct for companies that do business with Wihlborgs. Which works as follows: HR2, PR5, PR6, PR7 The Flundran property in Malmö is now fully let. 1% 1 1% 2 Risk category 3 Risk category 0 Customers Every two years, Wihlborgs organizes a questionnaire survey of Risk Riskour tenants. The most recent one was performed in 2012. A further survey is scheduled for spring 2014. The survey is designed to category klass identify Wihlborgs' strengths and weaknesses from the customer's perspective. Based on the findings of the survey, improvement actions and projects may be carried out to develop important 26% 72% success factors and increase customer satisfaction. Risk category 1 Risk category 2 1. A check list is attached to the agreement. This addresses Marketing a number of issues in the environment, work environment and To ensure that our marketing material is not misleading, we have ethics. a procedure whereby an expert within the company must approve 2. Our suppliers are then assessed on a scale of 1–3. the material. In 2013 there were no reported incidents related to 1 = low risk 2 = medium risk and 3 = high risk. Wihlborgs' marketing. For more information, see Wihlborgs' Environmental Goals Taking responsibility with regard to marketing our properties 2013, page 33. is based on our Ethical Guidelines and Information Policy. All governing documents are produced at executive management level. In 2014, two separate versions of the Code of Conduct will be produced. One is designed for small enterprises and the other for Sponsorship larger companies. Wihlborgs' strong regional roots mean local sponsorship in sport, culture and the environment is important to the Company. It should help increase awareness of our brand and our brand exposure in a correct way. Sponsorship should also be linked in some 1 CSR data is awaited from suppliers, i.e. not yet assessed. 2 Supplementary data is awaited for any extension of leases in 2014 to be categorized way with our core business and provide scope for activities/cusas Risk Class 2. tomer meetings for customers, business partners and employees. Index GRI Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2012 complies with Global Reporting Initiatives (G3.1). Wihlborgs have also chosen to include certain sector specific indicators regarding Construction and Real Estate Sector Supplement (CRE 3.1). Reporting is in line with GRI level B+. The report has been approved by Deloitte. The Sustainability Report also includes Wihlborgs’ Communication on Progress in relation to the ten principles in the UN Global Compact, described on page 46. As last year, we also worked to the ISO 26 000 standard. The way our reporting relates to this standard can be seen in the table below. 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS GRI (G3.1) CRE (3.1) A Fully ISO Page No. Page No. B Partiall 26000 1.1 Statement from CEO. 4 – A 6.2 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities. 4, 17 – A 6.2 2. THE ORGANISATION GRI (G3.1) CRE (3.1) A Fully ISO Page No. Page No. B Partiall 26000 2.1 Name of the organization. 6 – A – 2.2 Brand. 6 – A 2.3 Organizational structure. 7 – A 6.2 2.4 Location of headquarters. 6 – A – 2.5 Countries where the organization operates. 6 – A – 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 7 – A – 2.7 Markets served. 6 – A – 2.8 Scale of the Company. 6 – A – 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period. 7 – A – 2.10 Awards and recognition. 7 – A – Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2013 39 3. INFORMATION ON THE REPORT GRI (G3.1) CRE (3.1) A Fully ISO Page No. Page No. B Partiall 26000 Report profile A 3.1 Reporting period. 8 – A – 3.2 Date of publication of the most recent report. 8 – A – 3.3 Reporting cycle. 8 – A – 3.4 Contact persons for the report. 49 – A – Report scope and demarcation A 3.5 Process for defining report content. 12 – A – 3.6 Boundary of the report. 8 – A – 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope and boundary of the report. 8 – A – 3.8 Basis for reporting on subsidiaries. 8 – A – 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations. 12 – A – 3.10 Explanation of the effects of any re-statements of information No significant – A – re-statements provided in earlier reports . of information from previous years. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the A major change – A – occurred during scope, boundary or measurement methods applied 2013. This relates to the number of properties within the scope of energy statistics. Unlike in earlier years, no properties were excluded from the scope of reporting. See page 22. Auditing 38 – A – 3.12 GRI index. 3.13 Audit and assurance. 43 – A 7.5.3 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT GRI (G3.1) CRE (3.1) A Fully ISO Page No. Page No. B Partiall 26000 Styrning A 4.1 Structure of organisation. 11 – A 6.2 4.2 Role of the Chair. 11 – A 6.2 4.3 Independent or non-executive Board members. 11 – A 6.2 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations 11 – A 6.2 or direction to the management and Board . 4.5 Compensation to senior executives. 11 – A 6.2 4.6 Processes in place for the Board to ensure conflicts of interest 11 – A 6.2 are avoided. 4.7 CSR competence and qualifications of the Board and Management Group. 11 A 6.2 4.8 Values and policies. 20, 22, 34, 37 – A 6.2 4.9 Procedures of the Board for overseeing sustainability performance and 11 – A – connections to international organizations. 4.10 Evaluation of the Board's own CSR performance. 11 – A 6.2 Index GRI 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach is applied 22 – A – by the organization. 4.12 External declarations/principles that the organization endorses. 42 – A 6.2 External initiatives A 4.13 Memberships in organisations. 7 – A 6.2 Communication with stakeholders A 4.14 Stakeholder groups. 12 – A 6.2 4.15 Basis for selection of stakeholders. 12 – A 6.2 4.16 Stakeholder engagement. 12-15 – A 6.2 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement. 12-15 – A 6.2 5. FINANCIAL INDICATORS GRI (G3.1) CRE (3.1) A Fully ISO Page No. Page No. B Partiall 26000 Information on sustainability management for the category EC 20 – – Financial results A 6.8, 6.8.3 EC1. Created and delivered direct financial value. 21 – A 6.8.7, 6.8.9 EC6. Policy, practices and the proportion of spending to local suppliers 36 – B 6.6.6, 6.8 at significant locations of operation. 6.8.5, 6.8.7 6. ENVIRONMENT INDICATORS GRI (G3.1) CRE (3.1) A Fully ISO Page No. Page No. B Partiall 26000 Information on sustainability management for the category EN 22 – – Energy A EN 3. Direct energy usage per primary energy source. 22 – A 6.5, 6.5.4 EN 4. Indirect energy usage per primary energy source. 23 – A 6.5, 6.5.4 EN 5. Reduction in energy usage and efficiency improvements. 25 – B 6.5, 6.5.4 EN 6. Initiatives to provide products and services that are energy efficient or based on 29 – A 6.5, 6.5.4 renewable energy, and reductions in energy needs as a result of these initiatives. Water A EN 8. Total water usage per source. 31 – 6.5, 6.5.4 Emissions, effluents and waste A EN 16. Total direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse gases, by weight. 26-27 – A 6.5, 6.5.5 EN 17. Other relevant indirect emissions of greenhouse gases, by weight. 26 A 6.5, 6.5.5 EN 18. Initiatives to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, and reduction achieved. 24-26 – A 6.5, 6.5.5 EN 22. Total weight of waste, per type and handling method. 27 – B 6.5, 6.5.3 EN 26. Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, 29 – B 6.5, 6.5.4 and extent of impact mitigation. 6.6.6, 6.7.5 EN 29. Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods 26 – A 6.5, 6.5.4 and materials used for the organization’s operations, including transporting/business 6.6.6 travel of members of the workforce. CRE 1. Building energy intensity. – 25 A – CRE 2. Building water intensity. – 31 A – CRE 8. Sustainability certifications. – 29 B – Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2013 41 7. SOCIAL INDICATORS GRI (G3.1) CRE (3.1) A Fully ISO Page No. Page No. B Partiall 26000 Information on sustainability management for the category LA 34 – – Employment 35 – A 6.4, 6.4.3 LA1. Total workforce by gender, employment type, employment contract and region. LA2. Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover 35 – A 6.4, 6.4.3 by age group, gender, and region. LA3. Benefits provided to full time employees and that do not include temporary 35 A 6.4, 6.4.3, employees or part time employees. Information is to be provided for each larger business 6.4.4 operation and specifically for different geographic locations where the company operates. Health and safety at work 34 A 6.4, 6.4.6 LA6 The proportion of employees (by percentage) that are represented in formal and for management and employees joint committees for health and safety, that consist of monitoring and advice on health and safety programmes. LA7. Scale of injuries, work related illnesses, days lost, absences and the total 36 A 6.4, 6.4.6 number of work related fatalities per region and sex. LA10. Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and 36 A 6.4, 6.4.7 by employee category. Information on sustainability management for the category HR 34 – Investment and procurement procedures 37 A 6.3, 6.3.3, HR2. Percentage of significant suppliers, sub contractors and business partners 6.3.5 who have been checked with regard to human rights issues and actions taken. 6.4.3, 6.6.6 Non discrimination 34 A 6.3, 6.3.6, HR4. Number of cases of discrimination, and actions taken. 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4.3 Child labour 34 B 6.3, 6.3.3, HR6. Operations and significant suppliers identified as having 6.3.4 6.3.5, significant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to contribute 6.3.7, 6.3.10 to the effective abolition of child labour. Information on sustainability management for the category SO 34 – Corruption 36 A 6.6, 6.6.3 SO2. Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. SO3. Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption 36 A 6.6, 6.6.3 policies and procedures. Information on sustainability management for the category PR 37 – Labelling of products and services 37 A 6.7, 6.7.4, PR5. Procedures for customer satisfaction, including results of customer surveys. 6.7.5 6.7.6, 6.7.8, 6.7.9 Market communication 37 B 6.7, 6.7.3 PR 6. Programmes for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes 6.7.6, 6.7.9 related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship. PR 7. Total number of cases where regulations and voluntary codes related to market 37 A 6.7, 6.7.3, communications, including advertising, marketing and sponsorship were not complied with. 6.7.6, 6.7.9 This information is to be specified according to the effects of the failure to comply. Global Compact link to GRI Global Compact Report In July 2010, Wihlborgs signed up to the UN Global Compact. The Principles in the Global Compact GRI indicators Global Compact initiative was launched at the World Economic Forum (Davos 1999). Then UN Secretary General Kofi Annan chalHuman rights lenged the business world to commit to the initiative. The thinking behind the Global Compact is to make companies aware of and 1. The companies are requested to support HR2, HR4, HR6 and respect the safeguarding of international LA6 take active responsibility for ten internationally recognized prinhuman rights within the sphere in which they PR5, PR6, PR7 ciples in four areas; human rights, employment law, the environcan influence. ment and anti-corruption. Companies that subscribe to the Global Compact, undertake the following: 2. To seek assurance that their own company is HR2, HR4, HR6 not involved in infringements of human rights. AA The CEO of the company is to send a letter to the UN Employment Law Secretary General confirming that they support the Global Compact and its principles. 3. Companies are requested to maintain HR2 freedom of association and to acknowledge AA The company is then to incorporate the Global Compact a real right to collective bargaining. principles into its corporate strategy and take steps to make the principles part of its corporate culture on an everyday 4. The prevention of all forms of forced labour. HR2 basis. 5. The prevention of child labour. HR6 AA The company undertakes to publicly stand up for the Global Compact and its principles. 6. The elimination of discrimination against LA2 employment and the practice of a profession. HR2, HR4, AA The company explains in its annual report how it is supporting and promoting the Global Compact and the initiative's ten Environment principles. 7. Companies are requested to endorse the EN18, EN26, The Global Compact and precautionary approach when it comes to environmental risks. GRI cross table 8. Take initiatives to promote greater EN3, EN4, EN5, EN6, The table to right illustrates the ten principles in the Global Comenvironment related responsibility. EN8, EN16, EN17, EN18, pact. This sustainability report also includes a report on the ten EN22, EN26, EN29, principles. They are presented in the GRI index with reference to the Global Compact. We have previously published two indepen9. Encourage the development and spread of EN2, EN 5 – 7, EN 10, environment friendly technology. EN18, EN 26, dent Communication on Progress reports (in 2010 and 2011); this report includes our fifth. Anti corruption 10. Companies ought to combat all forms of SO2, SO3 corruption, including blackmail and bribery. Auditors' Report Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2013 43 Auditor’s Review Report Auditor’s Review Report on Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB’s substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance Sustainability Report with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and Quality Control and other To the readers of Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB’s Sustainability Report. generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Consequently, the procedures performed do not enable us to obtain assurance Introduction that we would become aware of all significant matters that might We have been engaged by the Executive Management of be identified in an audit. Accordingly, we do not express an audit Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB to review Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB’s opinion. Sustainability Report for the year 2013. For the Company’s definiThe criteria on which our review are based are the parts of the tion of the scope of the sustainability report, see page 8. Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G3.1, published by The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), that are applicable to the Sustainability Responsibilities of the Board Report, as well as the accounting and calculation policies separately developed and specified by the Company. These are shown of Directors and the Executive on page 8. We consider these criteria suitable for the preparation Management in relation to the of the Sustainability Report. We consider that the evidence that we have gathered during sustainability report our review is adequate and appropriate to serve as a basis for our The Board of Directors and the Executive Management are restatement below. sponsible for ongoing activities regarding the environment, health & safety, quality, social responsibility and sustainable development, and for the preparation and presentation of the Sustainability Statement Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that causReport in accordance with applicable criteria, which are described es us to believe that the information in the Sustainability Report on page 8 and which consist of the parts of the Sustainability has not, in all material respects, been prepared in accordance Reporting Guidelines G3.1 (published by The Global Reporting with the above stated criteria. Initiative (GRI) that are applicable to sustainability reporting and the Company’s own accounting and calculation policies. Malmö, 14 April 2014 Deloitte AB Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability Report based on our review. We have performed our review in accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability Reports, issued by FAR. A review consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons Torbjörn Svensson Andreas Drugge responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and Authorized Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR applying analytical and other review procedures. A review is Ordlista Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2013 45 Glossary BAS-P /BAS-U The developer is required to appoint an appropriately qualified Emissions into the air The airborne pollutants that are most harmful are construction work environment coordinator for planning and project design of particles that can be inhaled, ozone and certain organic hydrocarbons. the work (BAS-P) and for the performance of the work (BAS-U). BAS-P and Local emissions are mostly produced by road traffic and the burning of wood BAS-U have considerable responsibilities in terms of the work environment in for home heating. Machinery such as lawnmowers, chainsaws and excavators general on construction sites. These responsibilities are set out in Section 3, also make a big contribution to emissions. To combat these emissions, subs. 7 of the Swedish Work Environment Act 3 and AFS 1999:3, with amendenvironment quality target no 2 ”Fresh Air” has been formulated. ments up to and including 2008:16. Energy efficiency Energy efficiency and energy saving are achieved by trying Bra miljöval el The Swedish Society for Nature Conservation label for electricity to make existing energy conversion more efficient either by reducing energy is based on solar, wind, hydro and biofuel energy, but not nuclear, coal or natural consumption or by getting more out of existing energy usage. This will enable gas. society to obtain more energy without increasing energy production. In so doing, natural resources, capital and the environment can be used more BREEAM (the Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment economically. Method) BREEAM was developed and is managed by UK’s Building Research Establishment. This environmental certification assesses environmental aspects Energy usage Energy is used for a variety of purposes. When we drive a car we of management, energy, transport, water, materials, waste and pollution etc. use energy in the form of petrol, diesel or ethanol, for example. Heating for our BREEAM is divided into criteria for which points are awarded which, in turn, homes and workplaces is delivered either from a district heating network or lead to certification. The Sweden Green Building Council is actively working through the use of an electric water heater or a gas-, oilor biomass-fired boiler. on adapting BREEAM to Swedish conditions and a BREEAM committee will be Energy sources A common collective term for fuels, energy raw materials, appointed in early 2012. energy bearers and methods of extracting energy. Carbon dioxide Carbon dioxide, CO 2 , sometimes wrongly called carbonic Energy statistics program Practically every property owner assembles energy acid in general parlance, is a gas at room temperature with a faint odour and data via different kinds of property management software. Examples of property sour taste. software applications available today include Summarum, Momentum PM and CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) A form of corporate self-regulation Hogia’s property management program. More energy-focused applications that aims to embrace responsibility for a company's actions and how it impacts include Webbess, Ess200, E4, Energireda and Momentum RC. on society from a financial, environmental and social perspective. The concept is Energy supplier A company that sells energy to energy consumers. increasingly used both to explain what a company means and to emphasize that financial responsibility (which is part of sustainability but not CSR) is necessary Environmental aspects & Environmental impact Environmental aspects refers if a company's social responsibility is to be long term and integrated into its to the aspects of a business, products and services that can impact on the business model. environment. Environmental aspects include emissions and effluents, storage of chemicals, noise and consumption. Environmental aspects do not end at the facDerivatives Derivatives are a collective term for a type of financial instrument. tory gates but also impact on the environment in a broader perspective. To further The most common derivatives are options, forward contracts, futures, warrants explain the nature of an environmental aspect, we can say that it is the origin of an and swaps. Financial derivatives are characterized by being linked to events or environmental impact. Environmental impact can be either positive and negative. conditions at a specific point in time in the future, or to a certain period of time in the future. The value of a derivative instrument is linked to the value of an Environmental certification The process of certification consists of an external underlying asset, such as equities, share indices, currencies, interest rates or inspection and an objective assessment of how environmentally sustainable a commodities. building is. When a property is approved, the property owner receives a certificate. Depending on the certification system, certificates are issued at different EDI Electronic Data Interchange of information in structured messages levels. between different companies or organizations, for automatic processing in IT systems. Glossary Ethical funds Ethical funds are those where the choice of investments is in Hazardous waste Waste that has certain hazardous properties or is classified some ways influenced by certain social, environmental or other ethical criteria. as such by the Waste Directive. Hazardous waste requires special treatment. Some ethical funds avoid investments in sectors such as alcohol, gambling, ISO 26 000 ISO 26 000 is an international standard defining social responsibility. pornography, tobacco and arms. Others avoid investments in companies that It is based on seven fundamental principles that jointly define the concept of disregard international standards. Some investment companies also try to social responsibility. In simple terms, ISO 26 000 may be said to set out what actively select companies that are among the environment leaders in their companies and organizations can do to contribute to a sustainable future. sector, while others also try to influence companies in which they have a stake via shareholder engagement. kWh The unit kilowatt hour, kWh (thousand Watt hours), is often used when measuring the consumption of electrical energy. GHG Protocol The GHG (“Greenhouse Gas”) protocol is the reporting system most often used by governments and leading businesses to measure carbon Landfill A rubbish dump, also known in recent years as a landfill site, is a place dioxide and other emissions. The GHG protocol was developed by the World where waste is dumped (landfilled). Landfill waste consists of the waste left Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for Sustainable over once food waste, combustible waste and recyclable waste have been Development (WBCSD) in consultation with industry representatives and sorted out. After sorting, this residual waste cannot be combusted, composted governments. or recycled. Environmentally, it is considered important that as little waste as possible should go to landfill. Green Building Green Building is more a programme that specifically governs energy usage than an environmental classification system. A building may be LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) LEED was developed certified as a newbuild, or via redevelopment of an existing property. In the by the US Green Building Council. LEED certification assesses environmental case of newbuild in southern Sweden, the building’s energy consumption must aspects of, for example, site/land usage, water, materials, energy and indoor not exceed 75 kWh/m². In the case of a redevelopment, energy consumption environment. Here, too, versions have been modified for different types of must be cut by at least 30 percent from the existing usage. building and the environmental aspects are divided into criteria for which points Green cars The concept green car usually refers to cars that meet higher are awarded towards a combined rating for the entire building. requirements in terms of emissions of environmentally hazardous substances, MIFO survey The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has developed a compared with standard cars. However, there is not yet any uniform definition method for taking stock of and classifying risk on polluted land, known by the of the concept green car, and different criteria are applied by different municiSwedish abbreviation MIFO. The method uses various criteria to determine palities and authorities. The then Swedish Road Administration produced a environmental risk. Through the answers to various questions, the land is then proposal for a green car definition that was expected to provide guidance. placed into one of four risk categories: Class 1 – Very high risk, Class 2 – High A car classed as a green car receives favourable treatment in the form of lower risk, Class 3 – Medium risk, Class 4 – Low risk. taxation, exemption from congestion charges and parking concessions in certain Miljöbyggnad Miljöbyggnad (Environmental Building) is a Swedish system for cities. Green cars include hybrid cars, electric cars, LPG cars and ethanol cars certifying buildings in terms of energy, indoor climate and materials. In the if they meet the rules in place on emissions, but also conventional petrol and system, the building is subject to a 15-point check, including energy purchased, diesel cars (with particulate emissions under 5 mg per km) that emit no more noise class, radon content, damp, natural light, integral materials, chemicals and than 120 g carbon dioxide per km. building products. Buildings can be classed as bronze, silver or gold depending on how they score on the 15-point check. Miljöbyggnad covers both newbuilds Green leases In 2011, the Swedish Property Federation produced a standard and existing buildings. form for green leases. Miljömål (Environmental Objectives) The Swedish system of environmental Green transport Included in Environmental Quality Objective no. 15. Green objectives includes a generation target and sixteen environmental quality transport and transport facilities are located and structured to limit harmful objectives. Organizations and businesses generally formulate their own effects on urban or cultural environments and such that they do not represent environment goals that in one way or another can be linked to national health and safety risks or otherwise are disruptive to the environment; green environment quality objectives. public transport systems are accessible and of good quality and conditions for pedestrians and cyclists are good. mWh MegaWatt hour. 1 mWh = 1 000 kWh. GRI The organization behind GRI (the Global Reporting Initiative) has set out Non-toxic environment Environment Quality Objective No. 4. The presence a set of voluntary, general guidelines on how companies and other organizations of substances in the environment that have been created or extracted by should report what they are doing within sustainable development. These society should not threaten human health or biodiversity. The occurrence of guidelines, which are now available in versions G3 and G3.1, cover preferences man-made or extracted substances in the environment are near-zero and for reporting sustainability data within finance, environment and social responrepresent no more than a negligible threat to human health and the ecosystems. sibility. Such reporting is to present a balanced and credible picture of the The levels of naturally occurring substances are close to background levels. organization's activities in the area of sustainability, including both positive and negative aspects. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2013 47 Ozone-depleting substances Substances that deplete the ozone layer contain Sustainable development Sustainable development is a concept that was either chlorine (Cl) or bromine (Br). These substances vaporize readily Glossary pioneered by Lester Brown in 1981 and that gained international fame in Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2012 51 and are highly stable. As a result, they can association with the UN report Our Common Future (1987), also known as the reach the stratosphere where the ozone layer is. Substances that are classified as Brundtland Report. The UN report defines sustainable development as developozone-depleting are found in cooling media, fire protection systems etc. ment that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of PCBs PCBs – polychlorinated biphenyls – are a group of industrial chemicals future generations to meet their needs. hazardous to the environment and health that were developed in the 1920s. The precautionary principle In technical areas, the precautionary principle They are classified as “long-lived organic pollutants”. Chemically, PCB pollutants means if there is any uncertainty as to whether or not a substance is hazardous, comprise two aromatic rings that can have 1–10 chlorine atoms attached to it should be treated as hazardous. The Swedish Environmental Code (Section 2, them. Their toxicity depends on the position of the chlorine in the molecule, not the number of chlorine atoms. PCB pollutants are liposoluble which means they subs. 3) defines the precautionary principle as follows: “Everyone who operates are concentrated in body fat. or intends to operate a business or undertake an action, shall perform all safety precautions, observe any restrictions and otherwise adopt cautionary measures Purchase/spend analysis A way of structuring a company’s purchasing chart. that are required to prevent, avoid or counteract any harm or inconvenience The analysis may then be used as an aid in drawing up purchase strategies.The that the business or action may cause to human health or the environment. For objective is to gain an understanding of the historical pattern of purchasing and the same reasons, the best possible technology shall be applied in commercial to identify, for example, what the company’s major purchasing categories are, the degree of contract compliance, which parts of the organization buy from operations. These precautionary measures shall be adopted as soon as there are the various suppliers etc. This data may then be used as a launchpad for future grounds to believe that a business or measure may cause harm or inconvenience activities and for forecasts for future volumes, budgets, purchasing projects etc. to the health of people or the environment. Recycling The reuse of materials from waste. In general, recycling is a preferred The UN Global Compact The Global Compact initiative was launched at the method for dealing with waste. Narrowly speaking, recycling means recovering World Economic Forum (Davos 1999), when Kofi Annan challenged the business materials for reuse. As a result, virgin materials are replaced by used materials world to sign up to the initiative. The thinking behind the Global Compact is to collected. In addition, the term “energy recycling” is sometimes used; this may make companies aware of and take active responsibility for ten internationally include certain kinds of combustion. In Sweden, practically all waste is recycled recognized principles in four areas: human rights, employment law, the environor combusted and only a very small proportion is sent to landfill. ment and anti-corruption. Renewable Renewable energy sources are energy sources that are constantly Third party The body producing the report declares itself which level has renewed and therefore will not be exhausted within the foreseeable future. been used, having made its own assessment based on the criteria in the Risk analysis A means of systematically using available information to describe Application Levels of the GRI. In addition to declaring the level of selfassessment and calculate risks associated with a certain given system. A risk analysis is a itself, the reporting organization can choose one or both of the following volunway of assessing the probability of different undesired events occurring and tary actions; 1) obtain a statement from a third party on the assessment made, 2) the consequences of such. Decisions can be based on this and measures taken commission GRI to check the self assessment. to minimize these risks, which may can be either longor short-term. A risk Transparency This concept is used in enterprise as a measure of how open a analysis can be performed using various methods, which may be qualitative, company is towards various external stakeholders, and also as a measure of semi-quantitative or quantitative. whether it is possible to obtain a picture of the organization and understand SGBC The Sweden Green Building Council is a not-for-profit organization that its internal workings. One example of work being done to improve transparency is owned by its members and is open to all businesses and organizations in the in businesses lies in the development of financial accounting principles, such as Swedish construction and property sector. The Council promotes green building IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards) that define what information and the development of environment and sustainability work in the sector. should be included in financial reporting in order to increase transparency and comparability. Stakeholder dialogue When structuring their work on sustainability, many companies start by consulting their stakeholders. Conducting active dialogue Waste By waste, we mean all objects or substances that the holder wishes to with stakeholders can be crucial to the success of work in CSR. According to dispose of, or is required to dispose of. Waste is defined in accordance with an GRI, stakeholder dialogue forms part of sustainability reporting. EU-wide directive (EU Directive 2006/12/EU on waste), and is therefore to be interpreted in accordance with the case law of the European Court of Justice. Strategy is about seeing the whole picture – about understanding the way in The basic regulations on waste can be found in the Swedish Environmental Code which a company or brand can be competitive in the long term and where the (1998:808), Section 15 and the Waste Directive (2011:927). most profitable business deals will be found. Strategy serves as a compass directing the whole business – the framework for all activities – as a tool for making the right tactical decisions along the way. Wihlborgs’ CSR group: Arvid Liepe, Chief Financial Officer, Anna Nambord, Director of HR/CSR, Tobias Andersson, Property Director, Hanna Claesson, Environmental Affairs Director, Mats Wessman, Procurement Director and Iréne Johansson Director of Corporate Communication. Contact persons Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2013 49 Contact persons Thank you for reading our sustainability report. We appreciate any feedback. If you have any thoughts or ideas about our work on sustainability, please contact Wihlborgs’ CSR group. Arvid Liepe, Chief Financial Officer +46 (0) 40-690 57 31, arvid.liepe@wihlborgs.se Anna Nambord, Director of HR/CSR +46 (0) 40 690 57 54, anna.nambord@wihlborgs.se Tobias Andersson, Property Director +46 (0) 40 690 57 82, tobias.andersson@wihlborgs.se Hanna Claesson, Environmental Affairs Director +46 (0) 40-690 57 92, hanna.claesson@wihlborgs.se Mats Wessman, Procurement Director +46 (0) 40 690 57 26, mats.wessman@wihlborgs.se Iréne Johansson, Director of Corporate Communication +46 (0) 40 690 57 21, irene.johansson@wihlborgs.se Sustainability highlights 2013 Sustainability highlights 2013 AA In February, Wihlborgs receives the Miljöbyggnad Silver envicarbon dioxide footprint in grams per kilo is substantially reronmental award for the Landsdomaren, Lund, property. Silver duced. The initiative was taken by employees in Helsingborg. is the second-highest classification. The award indicates that the environmental performance of the building is judged as AA In August, Wihlborgs built its first solar power facility under very good overall. its own management. Measuring 380 m2 in area, the facility is located in Berga Centrum, Helsingborg. It will generate an AA In April, the annual Sustainability Day conference is opened by estimated 53,500 kWh of electricity annually. The initiative Wihlborgs’ Environmental Affairs Director and Deputy Chair of was taken by employees in Helsingborg. the Swedish Association of Environmental Managers. Sustainability Day is Sweden’s biggest conference on sustainability. AA Also in August, Anna Nambord takes over as Director of HR/ CSR. Anna is responsible for translating strategy and business AA In May, Wihlborgs gives a talk on “How to create a corporate plan into goals and development initiatives for the employees, culture based on CSR” at the CSR-Skåne network meeting. addressing leadership and organizational issues and coordinating our work in CSR. AA Also in May, cooperation was established with one of our energy companies in order to identify common challenges in AA In September, Wihlborgs takes part as one of the presenters sustainability. The dialogue will continue in the years ahead. at Öresund Day, on the theme of The Future and Sustainability. The 16th Öresund Day looked past last-minute stock market AA In June, Wihlborgs acquires Ikano Fastigheter’s portfolio in fluctuations and quarterly reports and focused on longer-term Ideon, Lund. The acquisition includes the Ideon Gateway developments at the companies. property, which is well-known for its high environmental profile. The property is triple-certified under the EU GreenBuildAA In October, Wihlborgs was invited by Vasakronan to contribute ing, Miljöbyggnad and LEED (Leadership Energy In Environas a speaker at a breakfast meeting entitled “Sustainable mental Design) schemes. property enterprise – are Swedish property companies measuring up?” In early summer, more than 500 property AA The “CSR-Driven Enterprise” project continued until the end companies took part in the worldwide sustainability survey of June. Wihlborgs’ participation was in the quality group. The “Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark” (GRESB). project aimed to encourage small businesses to boost their Vasakronan and Wihlborgs were two of the Swedish compabrand by adopting a CSR perspective.Wihlborgs’ involvement in nies to take part in the survey. Details of the survey in its the quality group consisted of continually assessing quality and entirety are available on the GRESB website. safety in the processes and support tools produced. AA In October, Wihlborgs receives Miljöbyggnad Silver certificaAA In July, Wihlborgs’ Environmental Affairs Director takes tion for the Fören, Malmö, property. part as a panellist in an E.ON seminar on “Bottlenecks and logjam-breakers in energy efficiency work?” The debate also AA In November and December, all Wihlborgs employees particincluded contributions from the main political parties, the ipate in a business ethics training course. The purpose of the Swedish Energy Agency and the companies Örebrobostäder course was to discuss the “Wihlborgs Business Ethics” guide AB and AarhusCarlshamn AB. (produced during 2013). Participants also had occasion during a workshop to discuss specific dilemmas in the property sector. AA In August, Wihlborgs signs a contract with Öresundskraft on supply of its District Heating GOLD product. The environmenAA In December, the Company’s Board of Directors decided that tal tag indicates that Wihlborgs is distributing district heating instead of giving Christmas presents to our customers, based on recycled and renewable energy sources. The more a substantial donation would be made to the Swedish Cancer consumers who take up this initiative, the greater the scope Society. energy suppliers will have for procuring more waste heat. The ÖMÄRK IL J Production Wihlborgs in association with Navigator. M T Photography Felix Gerlach (interiors and exteriors), Peter Westrup (portraits). Printing Exakta Printing. Printed on Swan marked paper, licence no. 341 140. 341 TR 140 YCK SAK Wihlborgs has been included in the OMX Sustainability Index since December 2012. Malmö – Head Office Helsingborg Lund Denmark Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB Wihlborgs A/S www.wihlborgs.se Box 97, SE-201 20 Malmö, Garnisonsgatan 25 A Ideon Science Park Hørkær 26, 1 sal info@wihlborgs.se Sweden SE-254 66 Helsingborg, Scheelevägen 17 DK-2730 Herlev, Denmark Registered address Malmö Visitors: Dockplatsen 16 Sweden SE-223 70 Lund, Sweden Tel: +45 396 161 57 Company reg. no.: Tel: +46 40 690 57 00 Tel: +46 42 490 46 00 Tel: +46 40 690 57 00 Fax: +45 396 161 58 556367-0230 Fax: +46 40 690 57 01 Fax: +46 42 490 46 01 Where job satisfaction is key With the commitment of our employees and the quality of our properties, we will create conditions for strong growth for business in the Öresund region. wihlborgs.se
