COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS for Amesto C U S T O M ER : Global Compact and stakeholders S U P P L I ER : Amesto Group 1 amesto.com | amesto.no | amesto.dk | amesto.se ST A T EMEN T OF C ON T IN U ED SU PPOR T Dear Stakeholders, It is with the greatest pleasure I am announcing Amesto Group’s continued support for Global Compact and therefore the renewal of the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. The world is increasingly facing challenges related to the deterioration of climate and increase in corruption, and in this respect Global Compact’s work has a lot to contribute. As a global organization UN Global Compact is ideally organized to address issues related to these challenges and, reflecting Amesto’s global reach, a tool for communicating Amesto’s zero tolerance to corruption and commitment to addressing the global climate challenges that affect us all. We are delighted to continue this work under the Global Compact umbrella also in 2014. Arild Spandow CEO Amesto Group March 2014 2 amesto.com | amesto.no | amesto.dk | amesto.se T AB L E O F C O NT E NT S 1. HUMA N RIGHTS FEIL! BOKMERKE ER IKKE DEFINERT. a. Description Feil! Bokmerke er ikke definert. b. Implementation Feil! Bokmerke er ikke definert. c. Measurements Feil! Bokmerke er ikke definert. 2. LABOUR FEIL! BOKMERKE ER IKKE DEFINERT. a. Description Feil! Bokmerke er ikke definert. b. Implementation 5 c. Measurements Feil! Bokmerke er ikke definert. 3. ENVIRONMENT FEIL! BOKMERKE ER IKKE DEFINERT. a. Description 7 b. Implementation 7 c. Measurements 7 4. ANTI-CORRUP TION 8 a. Description Feil! Bokmerke er ikke definert. b. Implementation Feil! Bokmerke er ikke definert. c. Measurements Feil! Bokmerke er ikke definert. 3 amesto.com | amesto.no | amesto.dk | amesto.se 1. HUM AN RI GHTS a. Description It is necessary for Amesto to win the confidence of the world around us and develop a good reputation among our customers, suppliers, partners, banking and insurance connections and the public authorities. Competitors as well as the firm's own employees must have confidence in the group's professionalism and integrity at all times. This demands that the group behave with caution, honesty and objectivity. In order for the group to enjoy great confidence, it is also important that each individual employee behave in a way that builds confidence in the company. Although each country's laws dictate external constraints for what is right and wrong , each company must also incorporate its internal rules of conduct adapted to the business that is conducted and the philosophy established by its owners, Board of Directors and management. Amesto's Code of Conduct include general principles for business practices and personal conduct and are meant to be a basis for the attitudes and the fundamental view that we want to pervade the Group's corporate culture. The objective is that the basic attitudes may create a basis for raising awareness and hopefully promoting discussion with regard to the grey areas that we all find ourselves in now and then. b. Implementation Amesto’s guidelines must necessarily be rather general in a multifarious group such as Ame sto. Nevertheless, we have tried to be as specific as possible without expecting the guidelines to give specific answers to every conceivable question. • The group's employees have acceptable HSE, pay and working conditions. • There is not any form of forced labor in our activities (incl. making sure that employment contracts are legal and that employees are not required to make any kind of financial deposit). • There is no discrimination against or discriminatory treatment of employees. • The group does not directly or indirectly contribute to the violation of human rights. • Norwegian authorities' general and specific advice and assessments about investments in and trade with various countries and regimes are taken into account. Amesto is affiliated with the UN's Global Compact, which is based on ten principles related to human rights, labor standards, environmental awareness and anti -corruption. Through this affiliation we have committed to doing our best to conduct our business in keeping in keeping with these ten principles. 4 amesto.com | amesto.no | amesto.dk | amesto.se Our CARE program: Amesto has been supporting CARE projects since 2009. To bring the projects closer to our employees, we decided, together with CARE, to start a school project whereby Amesto supports the building of a school and have followed the project from the very start. Education is at the heart of Amesto as we as a company rely on people as capital. We are however looking at our CSR strategy and will hopefully have a new strategy in place by end of 2014. c. Measurement We monitor and evaluate performance through our yearly employee survey. From this survey we measure the temperature of how the employees regard working in Amesto. We conduct yearly performance appraisals with every employee on a one to one basis to ensure that everyone is heard. C. LABOUR a. Description The overall objectives of the HSE work in Amesto Group AS is to work to prevent that our operations do not cause accidents, damage or loss of: • Employee or others' lives and health • The external environment • Construction and manufacturing • Knowledge and information We will achieve our objectives through: • Qualified staff who inhabit continuous training • Implementation of internal control • Management and employee involvement at all levels • Through good cooperation in AMU / SAMU (Working and Councils) and safety representatives • Monitoring of absence because of sickness and occupational injury statistics • Preventive measures b. Implementation The work environment will be of great importance in our efforts to achieve our goals. The employee's work must be designed and monitored so that all flourish at work, in the community, in their own work environment and in their own work situation. It is Amesto Group AS’s philosophy that a good, active and creative environment is essential for success and good results today and for the future, and is part of the managers' performance 5 amesto.com | amesto.no | amesto.dk | amesto.se targets. The above-mentioned factors shall be reviewed and documented systematically prior to entering into any commercial investment. In addition, Amesto will also follow up and attempt to ensure that equivalent standards are met by our suppliers and partners. These factors shall be regularly revised as long as the business relationship lasts, preferably at least once a year. Revision of these factors may be undertaken by Amesto employees or by other external centers of expertise. The management of the individual company is responsible for following this up. Amesto is committed to ensure that: • The group's employees are ensured full freedom of association without any form of sanctions. • Norwegian authorities' general and specific advice and assessments about investments in and trade with various countries and regimes are taken into account. • We choose available eco-products in the market (Swan, EU Flower, Der Blaue Engel, Debio, Good miljøval, TCO and EcoTex 100 etc) • We always seek to primarily select organic / fair trade food products (labeled E / FT) • We always choose the relevant suppliers' environmental/CSR profile and if they are certified (and we ask for documentation if in doubt) c. Measurements In 2013 we had a thorough review of and customized our HSE system. All managers and managing directors undertook a HSE training course in 2013 to keep track of new laws and legislations that have been implemented. All employees where asked to give feedback on their view of the workplace, the working condition and the management. The feedback that was given, was registered and each issue that was addressed by the employees was considered and handled as best could. These employee feedback rounds are conducted once a year. We promote Global Compact and our other corporate responsibilities through our sales channels and through our corporate purchasing. Amesto is continually thriving to address the issues of diversity when it comes to ethnicity, educational background, age and gender and believe that a good blend of all factors bring us closer to an innovating team. D. ENV I RO NM E N T a. Description Amesto was in 2013 certified a member of Eco lighthouse. This means that the organization's environmental standards and practices are found to be compliant with the foundations strict requirements. Amesto can document that demands in the issues of work environment, purchasing, energy, transport, waste, emissions and aesthetics are satisfied. 6 amesto.com | amesto.no | amesto.dk | amesto.se b. Implementation Working Environment: In 2013 the main office joint forces and moved to a shared premise, so that all our four business areas are based in open landscape in Kværnerbyen in Oslo. We are 186 people sitting on one floor, with an adapted middle zone for socializing with project tables, silent zones, TV, sofas, coffee machines and fruit. We decided on this area based on certain criteria, whereof good public transport options, was the most important issue. Moving together has given the employees a feeling of being part of something bigger. It has also opened up to the possibility of socializing cross corporations. Procurement: When we co-located our departments the natural next step was also to coordinated procurement in strategic areas such as printer solutions, with follow you solutions, office supplies, cleaning services, energy, magazines, coffee supplies, and other things that can be coordinated Waste: We availed ourselves of changing our waste policy when we moved in together. From having zero sorting and garbage cans at every workstation, we went onto recycling stations and zero garbage bins at each employee’s desks. We have during 2013 evaluated the needs and have added additional environmental stations only for food waste. These are placed close to our mini kitchens and by our coffee machines. The changes in our waste policies have meant that we have had to teach our employees to think about sorting when throwing. In the toilets, we have cotton wipe, leading to less use of paper. Energy: In Norway all buildings are now categorized by energy values through a grade system. A is the best, G is the worst. We moved into a building that is categorized in the energy class B bright green. This means that lights and temperature are steered by sensor. To get energy use further down, we created printer hubs, and have 5 printers all together, having reduced from 15. Transportation: The main office is located 5 minutes from Oslo S, which is a central hub for all the main roads to Oslo. This means that several employees use public transport to work. In addition, we have limited parking spaces and have created indoor bicycle parking with drying cupboard for wet clothes. There is a fitness center in the building where employees can pay for a shower subscription. In regard to reducing travelling by air we have video conferencing and the use of it is increasing constantly. 7 amesto.com | amesto.no | amesto.dk | amesto.se E. ANT I -CO R R UP T I O N a. Description Corruption includes bribery and improper influence peddling. Corruption undermines legal business activity, distorts competition, destroys the business's reputation and exposes companies and individuals to risk. Bribery occurs when an attempt i s made to influence someone in the execution of his/her duties by giving them an illegal personal benefit. Improper influence peddling occurs when an illegal benefit is given to someone in order to influence the execution of a third-party's duties. This kind of illegal benefit may take many forms; e.g. cash, objects, credit, discounts, travel, accommodations or services. b. Implementation Amesto is against all forms of corruption and will work actively to ensure that this does not occur in the group's business activities. The prohibition against bribery and improper influence peddling applies to both the party who gives or offers an illegal benefit and the party who solicits, receives or accepts this kind of benefit. It is sufficient that an inquiry or offer of an illegal benefit be submitted in order for the case to be illegal. It is not a necessary condition that the illegal benefit be received by the person on whom an attempt is made to exert influence. Facilitation payments are payments aimed at expediting or securing the provision of products or services to which the company is legally entitled. Amesto opposes the use of this type of payment, even in cases where it may be legal, and will actively work to prevent such payments. If a deviation from this general rule is under consideration, the matter must be documented in writing, and the management is responsible for informing the Board of Directors about this. c. Measurements Amesto is being audited and we changed from KPMG to Deloitte end of 2013. Del oitte has thereby had a sound run through all of Amesto’s corporate governance. 8 amesto.com | amesto.no | amesto.dk | amesto.se
