United Nation Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 RASTGAR ENGINEERING COMPANY (REC) ISLAMABAD, PAKISTAN Communication on Progress Rastgar Engineering Company [hereby referred to as Rastgar] takes pride in the fact that ever since its inception in 1967, its dealings with all its customers, employees, suppliers and other stakeholders have always been upright and based on universally accepted ethics and principles of human rights and green and corruption-free environment. With this background, Rastgar found it reasonably comfortable to be one of the first Pakistani companies to sign up for Global Compact in 2006. Since then, it continues to support those principles not only within Rastgar Engineering Company but also in the business community around it. Our most recent and distinguished achievement in this behalf is the 4th International Conference on UN Global Compact held in Islamabad on 31 Jan 2013, with active participation of Rastgar Group, headed by our Chairman Mr. Imtiaz Ali Rastgar, the Conference Convener. The group took leading active part in arranging the conference under the auspices of the Pakistan Network of Global Compact, Employers' Federation of Pakistan, and the Islamabad Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The conference was attended by the Federal Secretary for Human Rights, various Senators and delegates from 70 companies. Some pictures of the conference are also attached. Remarkable success of this conference is evident from the fact that no less than 26 business organizations signed up for the UNGC at the conference end. These companies are:1. Ovex Tech, Islamabad 9. Cyber Vision International 2. A Company of Maqbool Enterprise Pvt Ltd 10. Hypercomp Pvt Ltd 3. Karachi Steel Rerolling 11. Salman Mansoor & Associate 4. Pearl Pharmaceutical 12. Shezan International ltd 5. PowerTel 13. Daud General Trading 6. Petracon Engineering Pvt Ltd 14. ASTRO System. Inc 7. Tariq Mustafa Ramzan & Co. 15. Wah Nobel Group 8. Quantum Geoservices Pvt ltd 16. Taxila Cotton Mills Ltd 17. Sihala Four & General Mill Pvt Ltd 22. Dynamic Tooling Services 18. Elektro Control Industries 23. Global Group of Companies 19. International Polymer Industries Pvt Ltd 24. Channel 7 20. Al karam Textile Mills Pvt Ltd 25. Roots School System 21. Iqbal Group 26. Rastgar Engineering Company (Pvt) Ltd. We, at Rastgar, firmly believe that the business world can play a pivotal role in eradicating poverty, helping the cause of education, combating corruption and safeguarding our environment. We therefore continue to strongly support all the 10 Global Compact principles. Achievements of Rastgar during the recent years have regularly been communicated to all our stakeholders through various channels including:  Annual Report to share holders, creditors, bankers etc  Declaration on our website www.rastgar.com  Defined policies on Human Rights, manpower, environment and anti corruption  Annually updated Employees Handbook  Standard operating procedures  Emails to our suppliers, customers and employees  Prominent notices and posters in our premises  Occasional written communication to all stake holders Our policies on human rights, good labour practices, greener environments and corruption-free business, besides quality and occupational hazards & safety management, are communicated thoroughly within Rastgar right from Managers to the workers at all levels. These policies are displayed within our premises through notice boards, audio-visual announcement, banners, objective statements and occasional conferences and celebrations. Our adherence to the internationally accepted policies and principles has enabled us to achieve recognition and certification under International Standards, including:  ISO 14001: 2004 Environmental management  OHSAS 18001: 2007 Occupational Health and Safety management  ISO 9001: 2008 Quality Management  SA 8000: 2008 Social Accountability  ISO/TS 19649: 2009 Quality Management for Automotive Parts Manufacturers Our employees, supervisors and managers agree on periodic targets and goals to be achieved and measured periodically. We monitor our managers' performance against those targets. Production under ideal conditions conforming to all the 10 principles of UN Global compact is a major target. Specific targets and goals prominently displayed all over the work place include:  Reduce CO2 consumption by a certain percentage every year  Continue improvement in working environment free from all discriminations.  Encourage females employment to compete for suitable positions to improve their ratio to 40%  Plant trees exceeding a minimum number each season  Reduce consumption of natural and other resources.  Upgrade equipment and machinery to reduce harmful gases and wastes.  Training of unskilled & semi-skilled employees in skills improvement, and of all employees in grooming sense of civil and humanitarian responsibilities.  Recycle as much material as possible.  Encourage employees' participation in daily floor meetings, cleanliness drives, safety programmes, healthy activities, cafe management affairs, plantation drives,  Timely action on allegations, if any, of improper labour or corrupt practices, violation of safety precautions and any discriminations etc., We ensure that everyone in Rastgar Engineering Company takes active part toward achievement of prescribed goals. Non conformity, if any, of the policies and practices on human rights, labour, environment and anti corruption is discussed and reviewed in higher management meetings. In case of non conformity being established, strict action is taken and all necessary remedial and preventive measures are introduced. Performance of our managers is also judged by their success in conforming to the standards and achieving the goals / targets. Some notable measures and practices, taken in adherence of the 10 principles of UNGC, as well as under staff welfare policies and other goodwill designs are stated briefly below. Some pictures are also given in illustration of the activities. Convention at Hinopak Human Rights We are strong believers in the universally accepted human rights and we take special care to ensure that we do not, even in a small way, indulge into the abuse of any human rights. As mentioned in our Corporate Social Responsibility, we believe our workers to be our most valued and precious asset. We do not discriminate between them on the basis of gender, race, faith or political beliefs etc. There is absolutely no concept of any child or forced labour in Rastgar. All our employment is on mutual consent basis, and employees are at liberty to quit as per defined terms and conditions. In genuine cases, even the notice period may be waived to suit an individual. MR (Management Representative) meets regularly with WR (worker Representative) and workers to discuss worker’s current issues and other work related problems. MR Meeting with Workers Employment of Disabled People: We continue to give special consideration to disables persons who compete with others for employment / promotion. All walkways in the company have also been made friendly to facilitate movement of all disabled people. RASTGAR RASTGAR RASTGAR Equal Rights of Opportunity Rastgar Engineering Company is committed to providing a working environment that is free from all form of discrimination and conduct that can be considered harassing, coercive, or disruptive, including sexual harassment, action, words, jokes or comments based on individual’s sex, race, colour, national origin, age, religion, disability etc. We have an Inquiry Committee against Sexual Harassment with main objective of making the work environment harassment-free and as such more professional and dignified, to make the organization ultimately more efficient and productive. Names of Committee person with contact numbers are displayed on Notice Board for the knowledge of workers at all prominent places of company. Employees are free to express their views and suggestions. All employees with questions or concerns about any type of discrimination / harassment in the workplace are encouraged to bring these issues, with full confidence, to the attention of the Inquiry Committee. Employees can raise concerns and make reports without fear of reprisal. Inquiry Policy against Sexual Harassment Labour There is absolutely no concept of any child or forced labour in Rastgar. We do not hire below 18 and do not discriminate on basis of gender, race, faith or political beliefs etc. Employees are given full rights and opportunities to reach high position. The company fully abides to all local laws such as Minimum Wage Rate, Overtime payment, Social Security, and Government Pension etc. Moreover, our company is shouldering other wider responsibilities towards the society in general and employees in specific. We believe in providing good working environments, training opportunities to improve the skills and salaries of our employees. The company subsidises canteen meals, and rewards teams for achieving distinction in their output. Financial assistance is provided for performing of Hajj and special financial assistance is provided in case of extraordinary medical bills. Company grants are made available for the employee’s children education. Similar financial assistance is also made available on occasions like marriages and death in the family. We keep in mind the services of our deceased team members also, and ensure that the needy dependents receive some regular financial support. Rastgar has introduced following workers benefits for the betterment of our labour:  Educational Scholarship to workers children  Scholarship for brilliant students of different universities  Financial support/ pension to deceased worker’s dependants  Special financial grants on dependant’s marriage  Special paid leaves on employees marriage  Special paid leaves in case of family bereavement  Free meals to employees up to certain level and subsidized meal to others  Reimbursement of extraordinary medical cost  Distribution of special Ramadan gift packages  Mark up free loan to workers for purchase of motor cycle  Payment of Overtime Training to all employees RASTGAR RASTGAR RASTGAR RASTGAR RASTGAR Environment Reduction of CO2 Rastgar has taken technological advancement steps directly to reduce CO2 gas usage by certain percentage and reduction in disposal of wasted sand in same percentage. Now Green Sand is used in preparation of moulds. Another achievement is the introduction of routing hot air from furnace through shower tanks where smoke, soot and heat are absorbed in water, instead of escaping in full in atmosphere. Reduction in Paper Consumption Rastgar has taken significant step to reduce paper consumption in company. We always prefer to use recycled paper for stationary/ printing. We encourage our suppliers to use recycled paper to print the company record books. In office paper consumption has been reduced by over 20% from last year. We also use recycled paper in office. Separate recycle box is placed for the recycling the paper. Inter office memo is also sent to all team members as a refresher. These steps have not only reduced the consumption but also reduce our cost. In pursuance of the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System all out efforts are made in Rastgar for establishing and improve environmental friendly processes. All the machinery and equipments items are calibrated periodically to ensure their efficient performance and least possible waste. A high standard of hygiene is maintained in respect of all food and drink items, utensils and the canteen environment. Waste items are disposed of properly to ensure they do not cause any ill effects on people’s health and the greenery. Reducing consumption of resources Rastgar has also reduced the electricity consumption by using Energy saving bulbs. LED lights have been introduced on experimental basis at certain locations anticipating almost half reduction in electricity consumption. These lights will be installed all over the premises if the experiment turns out to be successful. RASTGAR We have reduced natural gas consumption by using Solar Geyser in Rastgar. Solar Geysers are being used in company and it has reduced our natural gas consumption by 25%. Solar Geyser in REC Solar Geysers at Rastgar New Assembly Line RASTGAR New Plant in Machine Shop RASTGAR New Sale Point for Local Market RASTGAR Exhibition in Dubai RASTGAR RASTGAR RASTGAR Plantation Activity RASTG RASTGAR A R Fire Drill RASTGAR RASTGAR Monthly Food Distribution Activity RASTGAR RASTGAR 5S Activity RASTGAR RASTGAR RASTGAR RASTGAR RASTGAR RASTGAR Before & After Result of 5S Activity RASTGAR RASTGAR RASTGAR RASTGAR RASTGAR RASTGAR Anti Corruption / Bribery Policy Reminding REC members to deposit gifts with Administration to minimize conflict of interest situation. Certifications Foreign Customers visit Rastgar RASTGAR RASTGAR RASTGAR RASTGAR RASTGAR Educational Institutes visit Rastgar RASTGAR RASTGAR Female Employees Get-together RASTGAR RASTGAR RASTGAR RASTGAR Rastgar Celebrations RASTGAR RASTGAR RASTGAR RASTGAR RASTGAR Rastgar Celebrates Team Members Birthday RASTGAR RASTGAR RASTGAR RASTGAR RASTGAR Rastgar Recreational RASTGAR RASTGAR RASTGAR RASTGAR RASTGAR Rastgar Celebrates Merry Christmas RASTGAR RASTGAR RASTGAR RASTGAR RASTGAR Rastgar Celebrates Pakistan Independence Day RASTGAR RASTGAR RASTGAR Iftaar Party RASTGAR RASTGAR RASTGAR Educational Policy 1. In further pursuance of HR welfare activities, we are pleased to expand the scope of various benefits under our liberalized Educational Policy to more of our members. We trust that the extended benefits will enable our members to afford good education for their children and other dependents. 2. The policy has been broadened mainly through enhancing the ceiling of monetary benefits, and by reducing the minimum employment period with Rastgar. Salient features of the policy: 3. Eligibility: All those members with monthly salary up to Rs.20,000 and with minimum one year service with REC, are now entitled to receive the educational benefits for their children. Members may also enrol for this policy in respect of their wholly dependent brothers and sisters if their father is unable for any reason to support them. 2. Tuition fees: is reimbursable to the extent of Rs.500 per student up to Class V, and Rs.800 per month per student of class VI to Matric. 3. Position holders: Students securing First, Second and Third positions in annual promotion examination will be eligible for reimbursement of 100% fees for the next class. 4. Books / bags: Two grants of Rs.500 each (i) for school books / bag, and (ii) for uniform items will be admissible in May each year for every student up to Matric class. 5. Post-matric studies: (a) Female students: if enrolled in a college / institution for Inter / CT / Bachelor or a technical course, will be granted Rs.1,000 per month. The amount will be enhanced to Rs.1,500 per month for those taking up Masters courses. (b) Male students: will be granted Rs.1,000 per month if they take up Inter or Bachelor of Science in a college, or a technical course in the fields of Computers, Draftsman, Refrigeration & Air-conditioning, Motor Winding, Welding, Auto Mechanic, Telecom Technician, Mobile Repairing, Civil Lab Technician, Surveyor. 7. Reports: Members would have to produce a report every 4 months from the concerned school or college or institute about attendance of the student for continuing the benefit uninterrupted. 8. Effective Date: This revision of policy is effective from 01 Dec 2013. 9. Disbursement: of admissible amounts will be made by the Finance department on 17th of every month; or the next following working day. Admin department will be responsible to notify Finance Department 3 days in advance of disbursement date. Rastgar Suggestion Box Online Suggestion Box is also available on our website www.rastgar.com Detail of CSR Activities is available on www.rastgarblogspot.com Thank You Rastgar Engineering Company (Pvt) Ltd. 307, Street 3, I-9/3, Industrial Area Islamabad44790 Pakistan. Tel: +92-51-4433544-7, Fax: +92-51-4433548 www.rastgar.com
