U n i t e d N at i o n s G l o b a l C o m p a c t C o m m u n i c at i o n o n P ro g re s s C O P 16‐July‐2014 ISO 9001 – 2008 certification 2 • ELARD is a multi‐disciplinary engineering, development and environmental consulting firm offering professional services in the fields of Environmental Sciences and Sustainability. • ELARD is dedicated to providing industries, private businesses, international organizations, and public agencies with cost‐effective solutions for challenging engineering and environmental issues. • With the ISO 9001:2008 Certification ELARD aims to exceed customer need and satisfaction, while constantly improving the quality of the work provided. 3 Founded in Beirut, in 1996, the firm quickly expanded to become one of the leading environment and water resources management firms in the region, offering its services in the Middle East, North Africa, and South Western Asia. With established offices in Lebanon, Syria, UAE, Libya, and Iraq, field offices are opened on an as‐needed basis, as was the case in Pakistan for an extensive groundwater resource assessment project. 4 5 • Our Expertise to meet our clients’ needs through a team of dedicated professionals with extensive experience and distinguished qualifications. • Our Commitment to give priority to our clients’ satisfaction, needs, organizational goals and resources. • Our Vision for a better tomorrow inspiring us to devote all our efforts to the success of a mission. 6 Commitment, Expertise, and Vision are what you will get from ELARD Consultants. We are staffed with professionals trained in environmental engineering, geology, hydrogeology, geophysics, petroleum sciences, environmental law, policy development and carbon financing, among many others. ELARD consultants have successfully carried out hundreds of assignments worldwide by working closely with customers to seek, identify, and implement practical and efficient solutions. 7 Our success is based on three key factors: • Successful Project Management 1. Listening to the client's needs to develop the project scope, technical approach and costs; 2. Selecting a team which can effectively respond to the client's needs; and 3. Closely monitoring project costs and schedule. 8 • Creative Application of Technology 1. Remaining constantly abreast of the latest technology and scientific breakthroughs; and 2. Choosing the cost effective solution that demonstrates the desired results. 9 • High‐Quality Products 1. Managing the quality of our services and products throughout the life‐cycle of the project; and 2. Implementing accurate QA/QC procedures, including systematic peer review of all deliverables. 10 • Environmental Quality Management • Policy, Legal and Institutional Development • Water Resources Management and Applied Earth Sciences • Training and Awareness • Solid Waste Management • Pollution Abatement • Transportation Management • Sustainable Design • Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) 11 d2w  Bags and Sheets are totally 400 Years! biodegradable and made  Plastics Can Take Up to 400 with d2w technology years to Break down  Get involved, Start today... For a green Tomorrow. ecoplast@elard‐group.com  Ask for d2w oxo‐biodegrable plastic bags and sheets. 12 13 Earth Link and Advanced Resources Development (ELARD) supports the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti‐corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day‐to‐day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Earth Link and Advanced Resources Development (ELARD‐Syria) will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within one year of joining the Global Compact, and annually thereafter according to the Global Compact COP policy. Yours faithfully, ELARD‐Syria Dr. Mwaffak Chikhali General Manager ISO 9001 – 2008 certification 14  Principle 1: Our businesses support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights;  ELARD always applies the labour law, any employee is registered within fifteen days from the date of recruiting an unemployed worker, and worker’s registration certificate to the issuing public employment agency, along with the date of work commencement, the wage, and the position or work assigned to the recruited worker.  ELARD is aware of safety and health care of the employees, so all the employees are subject to the full insurance of Health as well as the full insurance against accidents 24/7.  ELARD working system based on one shift which is eight hour daily, five working‐days weekly, excepting Fridays and Saturdays are weekends.  ELARD employees can have two weeks vacation yearly, besides all the official days are announced by the government. 15 continued  ELARD is seeking to provide all the employees with a comfortable and healthy environment, such as one hour daily break, rest room for having lunch and drinking hot or cold beverages, and library contents wide range of reading materials that is necessary references to help the experts in achieving their work  ELARD is adopted daily web time sheet to evaluate the employees efficiency; 16  Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.  ELARD have HR procedure under ISO 9001‐2008; and this procedure is strict against any physical or verbal abuse or mistreatment towards any employee.  ELARD human resources system preserves the rights of employees and prohibited any breach of HR rights; and any employee can apply a complaint verbally or written to HRM about any abuse taken against him/her.  ELARD as small firm, the HRM is in connect daily with the employees; who motivates a family environment, by sharing the employees the hour lunch break , and listen unofficially to their needs and complaining.  ELARD creates a warmly environment by breaking the ice between the administration and staff through arranging for a trip of two days, touring the ancient places and making dinner party gathering the staff in all ELARD branches. 17  Principle 3: ELARD Businesses uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;  ELARD holds meetings on monthly basis, gathering all labour to discuss the rights, the work conditions and circumstance and to give the free opinions about any process or procedure with top management. 18  Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;  Every employee works under the job description which signed first day of recruitment; and  Every employee is subject to a 3‐month training related to its job description, which begins at the first day s/he starts the job; an evaluation is made to assess performance and any further training needs.  ELARD working system based on one shift which is eight hour daily, five working‐days weekly, excepting Fridays and Saturdays are weekends.  Any employee is free to terminate her/his contract and leave any time under due notice sent two months prior to termination. 19  Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and  ELARD does not recruit any worker or employee under the minimum age required under the labour law. 20 • Principle 6:The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.  ELARD respects and provide safe workplace to the employees;  ELARD treats all the employees equally, without any discrimination to their age, gender, sex, race and religion.  ELARD pays the employees of the same qualifications and experience an equal pay for the same performance and work ;  ELARD rewards all the employees without any discrimination and provides profit sharing mechanisms;  ELARD is avoided any act or behavior against people employment. 21  Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;  ELARD as an environmental consulting firm, is devoted to protect the environment and save the natural resources, such as decreasing its consuming of papers through adopting digital archive and using the papers in limited. 22 • Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and  ELARD provides healthy working atmosphere and it has great commitment to the environment standards;  The management is encouraging the non smoking procedure; and the staff are adhering to; 23  Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.  ELARD provides the firm with modern and high standard of technology inside the firm and in the field. 24  Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.  ELARD obtains ISO 9001‐2008 certificate, by which ELARD has internal auditing system, for taking preventive procedures to report:  Any non‐conformities of achieving the works or services to the clients;  Any violations of procedures or process rules concerning the accounting, the contracts of projects, and any internal or external deals and controls.  ELARD defines the relationships among the departments to allows a strengthening of the interdepartmental relationships, and secures a better control over the procedures and quality standards belonging to each process. 25 ELARD Holding Lebanon ELARD Syria ELARD UAE Amaret Chalhoub 2614 1407 Arnous Square, Airport Road (2nd Street) Zalka Highway Building No. 2 (NBK Bldg) Al Malek Assaleh Ayyub Str., Fallas Building – 3rd Floor Abdul Rahman Bin Rabeea P.O. Box 54593 Lebanon Tel.: +961 1 896793 Lane, Abu Dhabi – UAE +961 1 871361 Building 2, 1st Floor, P.O. Box Tel: +971 2 6444087 Mobile: +961 3 91 00 32 33889, Fax: + 971 2 6444872 Damascus, Syria Mobile: +971 50 88 54587 ELARD USA Tel: +963 11 44 69 6760/1 8508 Park Road, Fax: +963 11 44 74 743 Suite 186 Charlotte, ELARD Iraq NC 28210 Kahraman Square, U.S.A. Karada, Alyasmine Bldg. 1st Floor Telefax: +1 (704) 973 0918 Baghdad Iraq ELARD Libya Tel: +964 ‐7901‐943858 Jafar Bin Abi Taleb Street Bin Achour Area Tripolis Libya E‐mail: info@elard‐group.com Tel: +218 21 3621705 Web‐site: www.elard‐group.com Fax: +218 21 3621706 26 Thank You! Presented by
