2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Commitment in Action 10 PRINCIPLES COMPLIANCE 4 1 PLEDGE AREAS The United Nations Global Compact brings together more than 12,000 corporate participants and other stakeholders who are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with universally accepted principles around the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. At Anixter, we are proud to be part of this initiative. With a global footprint that spans more than 50 countries and includes a presence in 280 cities, we are committed to responsible practices that help create opportunities for communities and economies around the globe. 2 | 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Statement of Support TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS: I am pleased to reaffirm Anixter International’s support of the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. In this annual Corporate Responsibility report, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Sincerely yours, Robert J. Eck President and Chief Executive Officer 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 3 HUMAN RIGHTS POLICIES AND PROGRAMS DIGNITY, INTEGRITY, EMPOWERMENT Throughout our organization, Anixter is committed to treating all employees fairly, courteously, respectfully and with dignity. We support a workplace that is free from demeaning, intimidating, offensive, abusive or harassing behavior. Company policies clearly state our commitment to human rights and are endorsed by our President and CEO Bob Eck and Chairman of the Board Sam Zell. Around the globe, we comply with applicable employment laws and regulations, and we will not tolerate unlawful discrimination of any kind. At Anixter, every new employee is introduced to our Global Ethics policy as part of the onboarding process. All employees are required to repeat the policy training annually. Anixter protects human rights and prevents human rights abuse via our: • Human Rights Policy • E mployee Personal Data Protection Policy •G  lobal Business Ethics and Notice and Conduct Policy • Global Health and Safety Policy • Conflict Minerals Policy Statement •N  ondiscrimination in employment • Anti-Harassment Policy and personnel practices • Anti-Retaliation Policy •C  omprehensive health and welfare benefit programs •W  orkplace Violence and Response Policy • Business Integrity Line and other communication mechanisms. • Reaffirmation of Policy on Confidentiality All human rights policies and programs are administered by our Executive Compliance Committee, Chief Compliance Officer, Regional Compliance Officers and the Human Resources, Legal and Internal Audit organizations. 4 | 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT HUMAN RIGHTS POLICIES AND PROGRAMS REINFORCING THE MESSAGE Anixter posted its Conflict Minerals Policy Statement to its Corporate Responsibility Web page. In his state of the company video to employees in January 2014, President and CEO Bob Eck emphasized Anixter’s commitment Procedures were established to maintain business records to corporate responsibility and announced the launch of the new relating to our conflict minerals due diligence, including Corporate Responsibility Web page on anixter.com and the release records of due diligence processes and findings on a of Anixter’s 2013 Corporate Responsibility report. computerized database. As noted in the Environmental Product Compliance section TOWARD CONFLICT-FREE SUPPLY CHAINS of this report (page 27), Anixter continued surveying suppliers for conflict minerals using a risk-based approach to support Anixter supports industrywide efforts to identify, reduce our upcoming SEC reporting obligations. and eliminate the use of conflict minerals that originate from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and surrounding As part of our electronic records maintenance, we enhanced countries, which are believed to be financing groups that the functionality of our conflict minerals module contained are responsible for human rights violations. within our Global Environmental Management System (GEMS) where supplier survey responses are loaded following our initial We are committed to fully complying with the conflict minerals due diligence review. requirements included in the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) Dodd-Frank Act, which requires publicly traded companies to perform due diligence as to the existence DIVERSITY OPPORTUNITIES and source of conflict minerals in their supply chains. We are committed to the participation of small, minority, women-owned and disabled veteran business enterprises. CONFLICT MINERALS RULE Anixter will use reasonable efforts to provide opportunities whenever practical for subcontracting, purchasing or reselling, In compliance with the Conflict Minerals Rule under the teaming arrangements and mentor-protégé programs. Dodd-Frank Act, Anixter successfully filed its Form SD and Conflict Minerals Report with the SEC. SUPPLIER DIVERSITY In the U.S., Anixter spent more than $79 million with over 550 diverse suppliers in 2014. 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 5 HUMAN RIGHTS POLICIES AND PROGRAMS ACCOMPLISHMENTS In 2014, our Workplace Violence and Response Policy was updated and distributed to all employees. Among the key highlights: • A nixter does not tolerate acts or threats of violence in the workplace. • E mployees are prohibited from bringing any firearms or weapons into the workplace. The Workplace Violence and Response Policy also reinforces to employees how they can report incidents of workplace violence. 6 | 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT HUMAN RIGHTS POLICIES AND PROGRAMS ACCOMPLISHMENTS (CONT.) DIVERSITY PARTNERSHIPS Anixter continues to successfully partner with and provide various business opportunities to small, minority, women-owned Anixter is continually advancing and disabled veteran business enterprises, a practice we began in 1999. human rights policies and practices by regularly engaging with peers 16.1% The percentage of U.S. purchases, on average, and experts in the field. made through certified small, minority, women-owned and disabled veteran business enterprises over the last four quarters. CUSTOMER RECOGNITION In 2014, Anixter was presented with AT&T’s Supplier Diversity Crystal Award for significantly exceeding our minority and woman-owned business utilization targets. Per AT&T’s recognition letter, Anixter was part of “a very select group of Prime Suppliers who attained and/or exceeded 21.5 percent diversity utilization in 2013.” In 2013, AT&T’s Prime Supplier program provided $2.6 billion of its $15 billion spend on diversity initiatives. 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 7 CHARITABLE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMS BEYOND THE WORK WE DO At Anixter we believe it is important to support the global communities where our employees live and where we conduct business. Through the Anixter Cares program, we support organizations such as the Red Cross, Red Crescent Societies, American Cancer Society, American Diabetes Association and Habitat for Humanity. We also provide company matching gifts to higher education within the U.S. and Canada and offer time off for employees to volunteer at nonprofit organizations. Around the world, employees are encouraged to take the lead and support causes and charities they care about. Donations collected from Anixter employees that support our core focus areas are matched by the company. 8 | 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CHARITABLE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMS ACCOMPLISHMENTS In 2014, donations raised by Anixter employees through Anixter Cares included: MORE THAN MORE THAN MORE THAN MORE THAN $101,000 $101,000 $115,000 $317,000 ANIXTER EMPLOYEE + ANIXTER CARES EMPLOYEE MATCHING + ANIXTER CORPORATE = TOTAL ANIXTER EMPLOYEE AND CONTRIBUTIONS CONTRIBUTIONS DONATION ANIXTER CARES IMPACT Contributions were made to institutions of higher learning and charities addressing the areas of poverty, education, medical and disaster relief. BUILDING DREAMS To bring awareness to the growing housing poverty crisis throughout the Chicagoland area, Anixter joined with other leading organizations in 2014 to support Raise Your Hand Chicagoland, a Chicagoland Habitat for Humanity house build event that took place alongside Michigan Avenue in downtown Chicago. We were a major corporate sponsor and 40 Anixter employees volunteered for the event. The four-day “blitz build” brought together 500 volunteers who built wall frames for 13 homes. In addition, more than $1.2 million was raised during the event to support Habitat’s work in the region. 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 9 CHARITABLE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMS ACCOMPLISHMENTS (CONT.) RED CROSS HEROES Anixter, along with other local companies, was recognized at the annual Red Cross Over 40 Anixter locations across Heroes Breakfast in Chicago for collectively donating $1,150,000 — making it the most the U.S. collect empty pens, markers successful Heroes Breakfast thus far. and highlighters for recycling. These According to the Red Cross, the donations help provide: •1  1,000 teenagers with life-saving infant CPR instruments generate cash for wells and babysitting classes •2  5,000 volunteers with training and deployment that provide clean drinking water for a disaster • 50,000 children with measles and rubella vaccinations to those in need in sub-Saharan •5  5,000 veterans in hospitals with basic necessities Africa and Southeast Asia. such as soap, shampoo and toothpaste. Since joining the program three A CULTURE OF GIVING BACK Our employees around the globe support various charitable years ago, employees have causes in countless ways — beyond their generous financial submitted over 4,500 used support. Here are a few examples: • A Chicagoland-area Step Out to Stop Diabetes walk was writing instruments. According to supported by 29 Anixter employees to help raise awareness and funds for diabetes. A St. Louis team also was formed our recycling partner’s calculation, and doubled the funds the Chicagoland team raised for the this translates into providing clean American Diabetes Association. • Registration fees from the 130 Anixter employees who participated drinking water to 32 people for in the annual JPMorgan Chase Corporate Challenge Chicago a year. went to support the nonprofit organization Get in Chicago that focuses on youth development and community safety. • In Alberta, Canada, a team of Anixter employees rappelled down a high-rise building in downtown Edmonton to raise funds for Easter Seals. They raised $5,000, which will go to help people with disabilities and special needs. • T he Greater Chicago Food Depository was provided with more than 1,458 pounds of nonperishable food items donated by local Anixter employees. These donations would, in turn, provide 1,214 meals to those in need. •O  ur team in Colombia launched a Mission 500 initiative through Anixter Cares to sponsor children in need in their region. Twenty-six employees joined the volunteer team and more than $7,500 in annual commitments were secured to sponsor 62 children in 2015. The initiative is also being launched in Mexico, Peru, Costa Rica and Argentina. 10 | 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 11 LABOR POLICIES AND PROGRAMS A SAFE, INCLUSIVE WORKPLACE Anixter strives to create a positive and safe work environment — free of discrimination, harassment and inappropriate conduct and one in which employees treat each other fairly and with dignity and respect. •W  e support and uphold the elimination of discriminatory practices with respect to employment and occupation. •W  e promote and embrace diversity in all aspects of our business operations. •W  e support the elimination of all forms of forced, bonded or compulsory labor. •W  e support the freedom of association and the right to choose a collective bargaining representative, if desired. •W  e provide a safe and healthy working environment for all employees. •W  e condemn all forms of child exploitation and support the elimination of exploitative child labor. 12 | 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT LABOR POLICIES AND PROGRAMS COMMITMENT IN ACTION ACCOMPLISHMENTS We outline our labor policies and practices in our: We participated in three U.S. veteran recruiting events • Anti-Harassment Policy that led to filling several open full-time positions. • Anti-Retaliation Policy • Global Business Ethics and Conduct Policy Anixter is a military-friendly • Workplace Violence and Response Policy organization and actively recruits • Global Health and Safety Policy U.S. military veterans as they • U.S. Data Privacy Policy • Competitive employee benefit programs transition out of careers in • Nondiscrimination in employment and personnel practices the Army, Air Force, Navy, • E mployee notices of right to join or form unions for Coast Guard and Marines. purposes of collective bargaining, if desired • Annual compensation benchmarking analysis All Anixter employees completed the mandatory annual online •B  usiness Integrity Line and other training and certification acknowledging compliance with the communication mechanisms. Global Business Ethics and Conduct Policy. A SAFE PLACE TO SPEAK UP In addition to reporting a suspected issue through local management, Human Resources, the Legal department or a compliance officer, employees around the globe can call a toll-free number or access the Business Integrity Line website to ask ethics or compliance-related questions or to report a suspected issue. The call center and website are managed by an independent, third-party provider and all submissions or conversations remain anonymous where permitted by local laws. 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 13 HEALTH AND SAFETY POLICIES AND PROGRAMS WORKPLACE FOCUS Anixter is committed to providing employees with a safe and healthy work environment. We do so through: • Our Global Health and Safety Policy • Our Global Safety and Environmental Management System • Our Quality Management System • Our continuous location management education and Global Health and Safety Policy compliance and equipment safety training • Electronic notification and mandatory staff training on policy modifications • Certification or compliance to ISO 9001:2000 Quality Management System; ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Management System; and OHSAS 18001 International Occupational Health and Safety Management System • Business Integrity Line and other communication mechanisms. Our health, safety and environmental program is designed to create, implement and maintain a healthy and safe working environment for all employees, visitors and contractors. Everyone at Anixter is part of this program. 14 | 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT HEALTH AND SAFETY POLICIES AND PROGRAMS HS&E TEAMS HELP LEAD THE WAY GLOBAL HS&E TEAMS Our global Health, Safety and Environmental (HS&E) teams This year our HS&E teams: work to make sure our compliance elements are met and that the guidelines of the Global Safety and Environmental • Provided HS&E oversight covering Management System are followed. five continents and nine languages These teams make resources available and define responsibilities to enable the company to operate in a manner that provides • Distributed 53 compliance a safe and healthy workplace for employees, visitors and reinforcement newsletters contractors while also protecting the environment. • Completed 1,074 compliance site audits ACCOMPLISHMENTS • Trained 37,029 employees in group settings, 7,533 online and 2,803 through written tests. ISO 14001:2004 AND OHSAS 18001 COMPLIANCE Both internal and external compliance audits were successfully INSPECTIONS completed at nine international locations for ISO 14001:2004 Utilizing an outside auditor, we voluntarily completed human Environmental Management System and four European locations element inspections at eight global facilities, which focused on for OHSAS 18001 International Occupational Health and Safety fire protection systems, sprinklers, sprinkler control valves and Management System. hot work areas. Additional facilities will be reviewed in 2015. As a result of our audits, all locations maintained their certifications. HEALTH AND WELLNESS FAIRS Annual Health and Wellness Fairs were held at our facilities in ONGOING VIGILANCE Glenview and Alsip, IL, in 2014, which included basic healthcare Our HS&E Senior Director continuously monitors our global screenings, educational information and free flu shots offered operations and reviews, on a quarterly basis, the global safety by 22 local health, wellness and healthcare providers. The fairs’ action item list with management. This allows us to address offerings were made available to more than 1,275 employees. any current concerns and prioritize future actions. AUTOMOTIVE PRODUCT SAFETY In addition to ISO 9001:2000 certification, our manufacturing facility in Wood Dale, IL, is ISO/TS 16949:2009 certified for automotive product quality. This best-of-breed facility produces standard and highly engineered fasteners and components for many leading OEM customers. 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 15 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY POLICY AND PROGRAMS COMMITTED TO SUSTAINABILITY Through our Corporate Sustainability program, we seek to continuously improve business processes to control and reduce the impact associated with our targeted environmental aspects of energy, waste, materials and natural resources and transportation. By targeting measurable results within each environmental aspect combined with using A Sustainability PathSM approach, which focuses on the economic, environmental and social impacts of the organization, Anixter balances corporate responsibility and return on investment. PROGRAM GOALS We seek to control and reduce: • Energy through the use of technology •W aste by capitalizing on opportunities to reduce, reuse and recycle • Materials and natural resources by increasing recycled content in consumables while simultaneously pursuing source reduction strategies • Transportation emissions by using outsourced third-party carriers and internal fleet vehicles that operate in the most environmentally efficient manner possible and enforcing our global no idling policy at all warehouse locations. 16 | 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY POLICY AND PROGRAMS ACCOMPLISHMENTS ENERGY ENERGY STAR certification indicates that the buildings consume, on LEED® CERTIFIED average, 35 percent less energy The 61,000-square-foot corporate annex building located next to our headquarters in Glenview, IL, attained U.S. Green Building and emit 35 percent fewer Council LEED® (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) certification in September. greenhouse gases than non-ENERGY In addition, a LEED Silver certification was awarded to the STAR facilities. 21,000-square-foot multitenant facility we inhabit in St. John’s, Newfoundland. These facilities join the 195,000-square-foot LEED Silver GREEN BUILDING RECOGNITION certified facility in Edmonton, Alberta, which was awarded An article titled “Inside Anixter’s Eco-conscious Annex” was in 2011, and the 457,000-square-foot Alsip, IL, facility featured in Green Building & Design magazine’s January/February that was LEED Silver certified in 2007. 2014 edition. The article highlighted the building’s cutting-edge Anixter continues to evaluate adding additional LEED-certified control systems and how building information modeling software green buildings to its existing global real estate portfolio. allowed the new building to be completed within eight months. ENERGY STAR CERTIFIED ENERGY-EFFICIENT LIGHTING Our corporate headquarters and annex buildings located in Depending upon the duration of lease terms and payback Glenview, IL, earned the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s calculations, lighting systems in our facilities can range from (EPA) ENERGY STAR certification. advanced systems that include automatic scheduling, dimmable These buildings’ heating and air conditioning systems are ballasts/drivers and motion control sensors to energy-efficient controlled by using a building automation system that allows systems that include fluorescent fixtures and LED lighting. for optimized equipment schedules and temperature set points. As prices continue to decrease, we are rapidly increasing the A variable air volume system is used to reduce fan use and use of this energy-efficient LED lighting technology within our mechanical cooling. buildings. Our LEED Certified 61,000-square-foot corporate Energy-efficient fluorescent and LED lights are also controlled headquarters annex located in Glenview, IL, became the first office with the building automation system. To monitor ongoing energy building in our portfolio to completely use LED lighting. efficiencies, Anixter uses an online dashboard that continuously tracks each building’s energy consumption and utility expenses. 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 17 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY POLICY AND PROGRAMS ACCOMPLISHMENTS (CONT.) The combined 2014 LED lighting installations are projected to save more than 344,450 kilowatt hours of energy annually. EMBRACING LED SOLAR ENERGY Our newly renovated South Windsor, CT, building became Our 142,000-square-foot Willebroek, Belgium, facility — our the first location to have the entire warehouse, which is largest in continental Europe — successfully started using solar 58,000-square-feet, exclusively illuminated by LED lighting. energy from rooftop solar panels in late 2011. This was followed by the complete LED lighting installations in By using solar energy to operate roughly 50 percent of the facility, our 59,000-square-foot Detroit, MI, warehouse and the parking the location has successfully attained a 20 percent annual lot lamps in the Glenview, IL, headquarters and annex buildings. reduction of nonrenewable electricity consumption, which is 5.5 percent higher than the original 2012 target of 14.5 percent. SERVER CONSOLIDATION AND VIRTUALIZATION Implemented over the last several years, we have reduced ENERGY STAR PRINTERS the number of physical servers in our data center by more Anixter’s Enterprise Content Management team continues than 70 percent. to successfully recycle and replace obsolete global mainframe The corresponding decrease in data center cooling requirements printers with energy-efficient ENERGY STAR replacements. enabled Anixter last year to install an air conditioning auto Over the last year, the team successfully replaced 64 mainframe changer that rotates the shutdown of one of three air conditioning printers that will save over 5,400 kilowatt hours of energy annually. units each month. Continual efforts to consolidate, virtualize and improve systems capabilities resulted in the elimination of six server cabinets, including 12 20-amp circuits. More than 50 buildings globally use advanced lighting control systems that typically reduce annual lighting electrical consumption between 40 to 60 percent. 18 | 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY POLICY AND PROGRAMS ACCOMPLISHMENTS (CONT.) WASTE 2014 NORTH AMERICAN RECYCLING Even though Anixter recycles globally, North America contains the largest square footage building footprint and total number of employees. The below graphic REDUCING LANDFILL WASTE provides a snapshot of our accomplishments. Anixter leases its global buildings in order to remain flexible and successfully meet customer and market demands. Leasing, combined with 1.7 million lb. of wood periodic acquisitions, causes the physical locations and sizes of our buildings to continuously change. 1.8 million lb. 303,260 lb. of Over the last six years, Anixter has outsourced various obsolete forklifts of single disposal services to specialized waste brokers — to stream/mixed and warehouse help us reduce landfill waste, lower operating costs recyclables equipment and increase recycling tonnage. 36,828 lb. Anixter has successfully outsourced a total of of obsolete 92 global locations to waste brokers. electronic equipment MATERIAL RECYCLING FACILITIES 851,748 lb. 1.6 million lb. of metals of cardboard Three U.S. locations use specialized material recycling facilities (MRFs) that use a combination of manual and automated equipment to extract recyclables 42,600 lb. from the trash. of plastics The average recyclable recovery rate from MRF facilities exceeds 87 percent, resulting in more than 76,340 pounds of recyclables being recovered annually. GLOBAL RECYCLING SNAPSHOT Our Singapore facility recycled more than 28,000 pounds of wood, cardboard and paper. Our Willebroek, Belgium facility recycled more than 97,000 pounds of wood, cardboard paper and plastics. In Saltley Birmingham, U.K., our largest facility in the EMEA region, more than 546,600 pounds of steel, cables, cardboard, wood, paper and plastics were recycled. The Suzhou, China, facility recycled more than 26,000 pounds of wood, cardboard and paper. 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 19 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY POLICY AND PROGRAMS ACCOMPLISHMENTS (CONT.) RECYCLING PROGRAMS REEL CONSOLIDATION Within North America, Anixter successfully implemented 15 new The Anixter-designed, reusable PARAPULLSM paralleling reels recycling programs that will divert more than 490,000 pounds can accommodate various cut-to-length cables of the same of wood, cardboard and single stream/mixed recyclables gauge onto a single multichambered wooden reel. from landfills annually. Because each PARAPULL reel is reused on average six times, their ongoing use helps preserve natural resources while RECYCLING SIGNAGE eliminating empty reel disposal costs and waste from job New recycling signs were added to further support 19 existing sites that frequently end up in landfills. single stream/mixed recycling programs within U.S. locations, Customers using a single PARAPULL reel can eliminate in addition to recycling reinforcement emails being sent to staff. between two to four individual wooden cable reels on a job site, which reduces shipping and handling costs while RECYCLING FLUORESCENT LAMPS increasing contractor productivity. Our outsourced fluorescent lamp maintenance and recycling program now incorporates 18 U.S. buildings and successfully recycled more than 1,100 4-foot lamps. The program is We successfully shipped more targeted to expand into Canada in 2015. than 1,890 reusable PARAPULL VALUE-ADDED SERVICES reels to customers over the last Internationally, our Supply Chain Solutions team provides customers with various value-added services, such as: 12 months. • K itting of multiple line items into a single finished good part number to ease ordering, reduce waste at the job site and AUDITING OUR RECYCLING EFFORTS improve job site receiving Last year, our internal ISO audit team added an office and • Preassembling racks, cabinets and cameras prior to shipping warehouse recycling checklist to its on-site review schedule. to improve job-site productivity and lower overall project costs They validated that 12 locations’ recycling programs were being • Using our READY!SM Deployment Services to obtain effectively supported by management and utilized by staff. documentation that will help them earn two possible This year, 21 locations across North America were reviewed and all LEED points for job site waste diversion. locations successfully passed the audit team’s screening criteria. CUT-TO-LENGTH CABLE PAPER SHREDDING While Anixter endeavors to operate as paperless as much as Anixter offers cut-to-length cable services from 137 global possible, paper is a necessity. warehouse locations. By providing cut cable to the exact length required by the customer, job site cable waste is basically As a result, our corporate headquarters and annex shredded over eliminated. Job site costs are also reduced, as the need to 52,000 pounds of paper. It was recycled into various consumer purchase, cut and control master cable reels and the resulting paper products that prevented roughly 410 trees from being short cable lengths or leftover cable no longer exists. harvested, according to our shredding partner. Over the last 12 months, we processed more than 1.6 million custom cable cuts for our global customers. 20 | 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY POLICY AND PROGRAMS ACCOMPLISHMENTS (CONT.) MATERIALS AND REUSABLE METAL REELS NATURAL RESOURCES In 2012, Anixter successfully began to offer electrical contractors the option of receiving cut-to-length cable on reusable metal PARASPIN reels that have five independent spinning chambers WAREHOUSE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM from which to pull. The North American rollout of the Anixter-developed and AnixterCustomers using a single PARASPIN reel can eliminate four supported WMX warehouse management system continued in individual wooden cable reels on a job site, which reduces shipping 2014, as five additional facilities were successfully transitioned and handling costs while increasing contractor productivity. onto our next-generation supply chain system. This brings the site As the PARASPIN reel completely eliminates the use of wood and total to 11 North American sites. is reusable, natural resources are preserved and cable reel waste WMX uses state-of-the-art technologies that significantly reduce and disposal costs are eliminated at the job site. paper and printing waste generated through the entire order Over the last 12 months, Anixter shipped and retrieved over processing cycle, while further improving global operational 1,250 reusable PARASPIN reels from customer job sites. efficiencies and consistencies. The system was designed to quickly incorporate operational DIGITIZING REPORTS changes to meet customer or market demands. There are over Our Enterprise Content Management team continues to nine sites currently targeted for implementation in 2015. successfully cancel or convert various system-generated paper reports into an electronic format. REDUCING REELS AT THE JOB SITE The team successfully eliminated more than 120 reports and the Last year, Anixter launched a new service called READY!SM Layer, consumption of more than 235,940 sheets of paper this year. which reduces the total number of cable reels needed at a job This reduction in paper prevented about 20 trees, six to eight site by adding multiple layers of cable to a single reel chamber. inches in diameter and 40 feet tall, from being harvested.* As more layers are added, the fewer reels are needed. Having fewer reels at a job site reduces transportation costs, transportation emissions and, when wood reels are used, E-TRAVEL AND EXPENSE REPORTING tree consumption. In 2014, our paperless travel and expense management system processed more than 28,460 employee transactions in READY! Layer is especially beneficial when combined with North America, resulting in the elimination of more than our PARAPULL or PARASPINSM services. Over the last 12 months, 85,390 sheets of paper. U.S. locations have shipped more than 300 READY! Layer shipments to customers’ job sites. This reduction in paper prevented about seven trees, six to eight inches in diameter and 40 feet tall, from being harvested.* Due to the ongoing success of the program within North America, the system will be implemented in 26 countries across Anixter’s EMEA region by the end of 2014. Our U.S. marketing organization uses soy-based inks for all printed materials. In 2014, 96 percent of our printed materials were on Forest Stewardship Council, Rainforest Alliance and Sustainable Forestry Initiative certified stock. 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 21 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY POLICY AND PROGRAMS ACCOMPLISHMENTS (CONT.) BUYING GREEN E-BUSINESS Anixter continues to focus on purchasing office supplies that Our e-Business offerings allow global customers and suppliers the contain green attributes. Green attributes can include, but are ability to seamlessly process a vast array of business transactions not limited to, products that contain recycled or plant-based with Anixter in a secure and paperless environment. materials or are remanufactured. e-Business highlights include: For example, through October, three U.K. business units • E lectronic data interface (EDI). Anixter successfully collectively spent 70 percent of their office supply expenditures processed more than 1.9 million global EDI transactions of on office supplies that contain green attributes. This is over which 921,551, or roughly 48 percent, directly resulted in the a 2 percent increase from the prior year. elimination of a paper transaction such as an invoice, purchase order or forecast. REMANUFACTURED TONER CARTRIDGES • T hird-party electronic invoicing. Anixter communicates Anixter requires all global locations to use remanufactured extensively with various online procurement platforms, toner cartridges for nonproduction printers where available. marketplaces and private exchanges and successfully By converting to remanufactured printer toner cartridges, processed more than 129,000 paperless invoice transactions Anixter reduces toner costs by 30 to 60 percent and through these networks. eliminates the energy and emissions required for new • e -Delivery. Anixter’s email invoice and statement notification OEM cartridge manufacturing. program successfully eliminated more than 978,000 For example, Anixter saved over $61,100 in toner costs paper invoices from more than 24,000 international over the past 12 months by working with its primary U.S. customer accounts. office supply partner to use remanufactured cartridges instead Collectively, the above e-Business transactions eliminated more of OEM cartridges. than 2 million sheets of paper from being consumed, which prevented about 172 trees, six to eight inches in diameter and Anixter recycles empty toner 40 feet tall, from being harvested.* cartridges for reuse, which RECYCLED PACKAGING MATERIALS prevents thousands of pounds Late last year, Anixter worked with its primary office supply partner to transition the packaging for small to midsized office supply of plastic and metal from entering orders, used by U.S. locations, from cardboard boxes to post-consumer recycled paper bags. These bags consume landfills annually. significantly less wood and produce a lower carbon footprint. In 2014, Anixter received more than 1,400 bag deliveries. RECYCLED PAPER Our U.S. warehouses, which collectively process the largest global outbound line volume in the network, shipped more Over the last three years, our U.S. and Canadian locations than 1.8 million pounds of corrugated boxes that contained successfully transitioned from using 100 percent virgin copier more than 40 percent recycled content and more than paper to a 30 percent recycled content paper where possible. 268,100 pounds of 100 percent recycled content packing paper. Based on the collective paper consumption of both countries over the last 12 months, this reduction in virgin paper prevented 1,112 trees six to eight inches in diameter and 40 feet tall, from * Environmental impact estimates were made using the Environmental Paper Network Paper being harvested.* Calculator Version 3.2. For more information, visit papercalculator.org. 22 | 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY POLICY AND PROGRAMS ACCOMPLISHMENTS (CONT.) TRANSPORTATION SMARTWAY CARRIERS More than 90 percent of Anixter’s preferred U.S. and international transportation spend is with U.S. Environmental Protection GPS NAVIGATION SYSTEMS Agency’s certified SmartWay carriers for products shipped into and out of the United States. SmartWay carriers focus on reducing Two years ago, Anixter began connecting fleet vehicles to real-time emissions and fuel consumption. GPS navigation systems. These systems provide drivers with real-time driver planning and with tracking various vehicle performance metrics to help increase fuel economy, lower SHIPMENT CONSOLIDATION carbon emissions and improve driver productivity. Our OEM Supply – Fasteners division successfully used a In 2014, Anixter targeted 17 GPS guidance systems third-party transportation partner to collect, consolidate and for installation in U.S. fleet vehicles, anticipating a ship more than 69.8 million pounds of fasteners from more 10 to 30 percent fuel savings. than 500 U.S. suppliers to Anixter’s U.S. warehouses. This program Upon completion of the targeted U.S. installations, Anixter processed more than 1 million pounds in 2014 than in 2013. will have a total of 115 global fleet vehicles connected to We also successfully used a third-party transportation partner GPS navigation systems. Additional installations are to collect, consolidate and ship more than 340 TEUs (twenty foot anticipated for 2015. equivalent units), or roughly 11.4 million pounds, of fasteners from more than 50 Taiwanese suppliers to Anixter’s U.S. warehouses. This program eliminated more than 1,500 SCREENING FOR GREEN INITIATIVES individual supplier shipments by using full containers. Our international transportation team continues to use “green initiatives” as an evaluation metric of third-party carriers’ bid submissions. Carriers’ green initiatives were evaluated in By consolidating supplier shipments, Anixter 19 Asia Pacific import bids and in the initial screening of reduces operating expenses, increases material 31 carriers for EMEA imports. visibility and lowers carbon emissions. COMMUTER BENEFITS PROGRAM Since 2009, in the U.S., we have offered our employees EQUIPMENT UPGRADES a Commuter Benefits Program that allows qualified public As warehouse forklifts and reach trucks need replacement, transportation and/or parking expenses to be automatically Anixter works closely with our global equipment partners to attain deducted, pre-tax, from paychecks. The program encourages not only the best equipment that meets our economic, operational the use of public transportation, which helps protect the and environmental requirements, but also to attain equipment environment and saves users money. that provides economic savings pertaining to energy and/or fuel efficiency. NO IDLING PROGRAM For example, this year our Toronto, Ontario, location replaced six battery-operated reach trucks that are projected to save Anixter continues to operate a global no idling over 35,270 lb. of carbon emissions and over $3,800 in energy program at our warehouses and headquarters. savings annually due to improved battery charging that results in Truck drivers are required to turn off their engines operating longer on a single charge. while waiting for materials to be loaded or unloaded from their vehicles. Our Saltley Birmingham, U.K., facility replaced its fleet of 26 forklifts with models that will lower fuel consumption and Anixter-designed no idling signs are placed on provide better overall performance. driver entrance doors as well as in select yard and loading dock locations. Our no idling program seeks to improve air quality, reduce carbon emissions and increase safety. 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 23 DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Anixter leverages its global leadership Videoconferencing eliminates travel position to advance environmentally and its associated carbon emissions, friendly technologies to further while lowering expenses and support our customers, strategic increasing employee productivity. partners and internal operations. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY WEB PAGE VIRTUAL ENGAGEMENT CENTER In recognition of Earth Day 2014, Anixter released its new We offer seminars using a highly interactive online tool to Corporate Responsibility Web page located on anixter.com. connect customers with manufacturer partners across the globe. The new Web page provides stakeholders with information about and navigational access to the: Seminars traditionally were held in different cities around the world, which required customers and manufacturers to be •  ew Conflict Minerals Policy Statement N at the same physical location at the same time. Moving to a • Ethics Policy virtual environment saves participants time and expenses while • Sustainability Web page eliminating the environmental impact associated with traveling. • Anixter Cares Web page • Annual Corporate Responsibility report. This year, more than 1,000 registrants are expected to enter Anixter’s Virtual Engagement Center to keep pace with leadingSince the launch, more than 5,100 internal and external visitors edge industry trends and products all from the convenience of have viewed the Web page. their homes or offices. IPASSUREDSM, DATA CENTER HEALTHCHECKSM EMPLOYEE EDUCATION Developed and tested at our Infrastructure Solutions LabSM, We use an electronic delivery model for much of our learning our ipAssuredSM program simplifies infrastructure choices for and development programs. Web-based virtual workshops, classes data center and security applications. and e-courses are delivered via a global learning management Through product categorization, a customer can recognize system (LMS). up to 55 percent energy savings by deploying The LMS helps reduce carbon emissions by eliminating employee state-of-the-art infrastructure. travel and also helps preserve natural resources, as printed A subcomponent of the ipAssured program is our Data Center training materials are eliminated. HealthCheckSM service. Experts from our global Technology During the last year, there were over 72,000 completions of Solutions GroupSM (TSG) evaluate the current data center the more than 850 courses offered to our employees. Additionally, operations of customers looking for energy savings, using industry more than 2,500 location training events were completed by best practices as well as documented standards of compliance our employees. such as IEEE and TIA. They then provide recommendations for improving operational VIDEOCONFERENCING efficiency, which oftentimes can bring a 4 to 12 percent reduction in energy consumption. Anixter added 19 new videoconferencing units around the world, bringing the total to 51 units. Plus, roughly 100 employees use desktop cameras and conferencing software to connect In 2014, Anixter completed more with co-workers, suppliers and customers around the world. Over the last 12 months, Anixter staff held over 3,550 video than 220 Data Center HealthChecks. conferences averaging 33 minutes each, which is a 22.4 percent increase in minutes from the previous year. 24 | 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES ACCOMPLISHMENTS (CONT.) ANIXTER UNIVERSITYSM We have invested $1 million in our Through Anixter University, we create and offer courses (in a university-like setting) for customers to evaluate data center Infrastructure Solutions Lab located energy consumption. Course examples include power distribution and thermal management. at our headquarters in Glenview, IL. Topics covered include, but are not limited to, energy-efficient Our lab is equipped to provide virtual design, metering and monitoring of power using the PUE metric established by The Green Grid and how best to separate hot tours around the globe. exhaust air from chilled supply air. Anixter delivered more than 300 Anixter University presentations worldwide. DIGITAL MARKETING We also made available some of our curriculum to customers Anixter began its digital marketing initiatives three years ago in the Virtual Engagement Center. by focusing on the promotion of Anixter, its brand and positioning, products and services over various digital channels such as GREEN GRID AND U.S. ENVIRONMENTAL Web, mobile, social and email. PROTECTION AGENCY ENERGY STAR DATA Part of our digital marketing strategy has been the migration CENTER PROGRAM of traditional print materials into digital formats for use by internal sales representatives and external users. Anixter is a contributor to industry-recognized leaders on data center efficiency. Through Anixter-created videos and These materials include print catalogs, case studies, seminars, Anixter helps institutions like the agencies above fact sheets, reference guides, product specification sheets further strengthen their commitment to increasing and various other literature. energy-efficient data centers. Anixter has more than 77,000 VIRTUAL LAB TOURS Our virtual lab tours provide an alternative to live customer product specification sheets in visits where cost, time and distance make it problematic to visit our demonstration facilities in Glenview, IL, Bracknell, U.K., digital format for easy and quick or Mexico City, Mexico. access on anixter.com. While a live lab visit provides for a better customer experience, subject matter experts who are available for live visits also host the virtual visits. Presentations detailing industry trends may also be covered during a virtual tour of our lab facilities. The video conferencing bridge offers HD-quality video and audio between the lab and the customer site. 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 25 ENVIRONMENTAL PRODUCT COMPLIANCE POLICIES AND PROGRAMS DEDICATED RESOURCES Our Environmental Product Compliance team is comprised of specialists who are committed to: • Making sure products comply with the applicable environmental product compliance laws and regulations in the countries where we conduct business • Fully complying with the conflict minerals rule under the Dodd-Frank Act • Monitoring and addressing new and evolving environmental product compliance international substance control and extended producer responsibility obligations • Working with the global sales teams and our partner suppliers to make sure customer environmental product compliance specifications are successfully met • Continuously improving the processes and the training of environmental product compliance staff • Advancing state-of-the-art technologies to help us fulfill the above. 26 | 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL PRODUCT COMPLIANCE POLICIES AND PROGRAMS ACCOMPLISHMENTS CENTRALIZED KNOWLEDGE The Project Tracker directly interfaces with GEMS and Anixter’s mainframe system, which allows users the ability to extract part Since taking our GEMS database live in the fourth quarter of numbers, product attributes, compliance statuses and supplier 2013, our Environmental Product Compliance team began the purchase order information. incremental migration of several global business units’ parts and suppliers’ compliance documentation into GEMS for centralized We are in the process of adding additional functionality to management and visibility. the Project Tracker that will allow global users the ability to This effort continued through 2014 and the GEMS database automatically generate email requests to suppliers to obtain now contains over 891,200 active global parts and their compliance documentation. This will be followed by users’ ability respective attributes. to automatically generate email responses, inclusive of the respective compliance status, to respond to each customerRoHS DIRECTIVE AND REACH REGULATION specific product inquiry. The GEMS database provides global users with the ability to view each part’s compliance status relative to the European Union (EU) KEEPING CURRENT ON EU REGULATIONS RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances) directive and the The EU REACH regulation currently lists 155 substances of very EU REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction high concern (SVHC) on its candidate list. As new substances are of Chemicals) regulation based upon supplier-provided added to the list every six months, Anixter’s Environmental Product Declarations of Conformity and statements of compliance. Compliance team continuously works to remain current with The system’s functionality was expanded this year to analyze the changes. and store supplier responses to Anixter’s conflict minerals surveys using the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Global e-Sustainability Initiative (EICC GeSI) template. Also included was In 2014, Anixter’s U.S. Environmental Product the revised Conflict Minerals Reporting Template (CMRT) created Compliance team helped over 700 customers by the newly named Conflict Free Smelter Initiative (CFSI), which address their various international product remains a collaborative effort between the EICC and GeSI. compliance obligations. CONFLICT MINERALS SUPPLIER SURVEYS We used the CMRT to collect conflict minerals information TRAINING AND VETTING from our top-tier suppliers, using a risk-based approach. In addition to weekly U.S and monthly international conference The CMRT was sent to our largest global customers. calls, four global training sessions were held to further educate Only supplier responses that successfully passed our conflict Environmental Product Compliance resources on using GEMS and minerals due diligence screening process were loaded into the Project Tracker. We also enhanced our vetting procedures for the GEMS database. supplier compliance documentation and improved our conflict The U.S. Environmental Product Compliance team provided minerals customer response template and process. content that helped create our: To further support global Environmental Product Compliance • CMRT Statement of Use resources, we created comprehensive GEMS and Project Tracker • SEC Form SD training manuals in addition to various quick tip guides. • Conflict Minerals Policy Statement • Conflict Minerals Report. OEM SUPPORT To further assist our North American wire and cable sales PROJECT TRACKER representatives who specialize in positioning products to OEMs, To further improve productivity and customer response times, we created and released an internal Environmental Product a Project Tracker database was created internally and released Compliance educational video that focuses on EU RoHS, this year to allow global Environmental Product Compliance staff EU REACH, conflict minerals and the International Material the ability to view all business units’ customer environmental Data System. product compliance inquires and track each request to closure. 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 27 ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICY AND PROGRAMS ETHICS AND INTEGRITY We are proud of our reputation as a fair, honest and ethical company. All Anixter directors, officers, employees, contractors and business partners are required to conduct business with the highest degree of honesty and integrity and in full compliance with applicable laws. These principles are set forth in our Global Ethics Policy, Global Anti-Bribery Policy and Business Partner AntiCorruption Policy. The policies clearly communicate our zero tolerance to bribery and other forms of corruption. Countering bribery and corruption is one of the primary focus areas of our global compliance program. 28 | 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICY AND PROGRAMS COMMITMENT AND POLICIES It is Anixter’s policy to conduct Company policies, such as our Global Business Ethics and Conduct Policy and Global Anti-Bribery Policy, clearly state all of our business in an honest our commitment to anti-corruption and are endorsed by our and ethical manner everywhere President and CEO Bob Eck and Chairman of the Board Sam Zell. we do business. We take a ZERO ZERO TOLERANCE tolerance approach to bribery No bribe of any kind may be authorized, offered, given, requested or accepted in the course of doing business for Anixter. and other forms of corruption. Learn Anixter also prohibits facilitation payments and the giving or receiving of gifts or hospitality, regardless of their value, to or more at anixter.com/bpcompliance from public officials anywhere in the world. Prohibition on bribery is not limited to government officials; it also extends to bribes involving commercial parties. Our anti-corruption policies are designed to comply with all anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws in countries where we operate or conduct business, including, but not limited to, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and Brazil Clean Company Act. GLOBAL ANTI-CORRUPTION PROGRAM HIGHLIGHTS Countering bribery and corruption is one of the primary focus areas of our global compliance program. Our anti-corruption program consists of: • P olicies and procedures • Third-party due diligence • Autonomous oversight • Incentives and discipline • Dedicated resources • Confidential reporting • Commitment from • Risk assessment and review. senior management The Global Government Contracts Policy and Travel and Entertainment Policy training modules were assigned in 2014. Training for our Global Fraud and Conflicts of Interest policies, adopted in 2014, are being conducted in live sessions. 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 29 ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICY AND PROGRAMS THE BLUE BOOK BUSINESS PARTNER COMPLIANCE All our employees are familiar with the Blue Book, which We make clear to our business partners that we take a zero drives our culture by outlining our company’s core beliefs tolerance approach to bribery — and we expect the same and guiding principles. Created over 45 years ago as the from them. In 2013, we rolled out our Global Anti-Corruption company went public, its influence continues to shape our Program for our Business Partners. culture. The Blue Book is frequently quoted in companywide All third parties or intermediaries who perform services for or training and internal communications and is available for public act on Anixter’s behalf (e.g., consultants, professional advisers, viewing at anixter.com/bluebook. joint venture partners, project partners, customs brokers, freight New employees receive a copy during their onboarding and are forwarders, sales agents and other agents or representatives) assigned the online training module “Blue Book – Living the are required to comply with our global Business Partner Anixter Culture.” Anti-Corruption Policy. This policy requires new or renewing business partners located “Integrity is doing the right thing, in “high-risk countries” to complete a compliance questionnaire, agree to our Business Partner Anti-Corruption Policy and even if nobody is watching. undergo due diligence screening. Business partners can access our Business Partner Anti-Corruption Policy online via We would rather lose money, a anixter.com/bpcompliance. customer, a supplier or an order than violate our Ethics Policy, our integrity, or the law.” – The Blue Book RELEVANT POLICIES Global Business Ethics and Conduct Policy Global Anti-Bribery Policy Government Contracts Policy • Reflects current industry best practices, • Provides guidance on what bribery and • Provides guidance for meeting our emphasizes our zero tolerance of corruption are and how to avoid them ethical and legal obligations as a bribery and restates our commitment • Adopted in 2012 supplier to U.S. federal, state and to anti-retaliation • Posted on our intranet sites local governments • Earliest version distributed in 1998; • Available in 10 languages • Adopted in 2011 last revised in 2013 • Distributed with training to all • Posted on our intranet sites • Posted on our intranet sites employees every two years • Available in English • Available in 10 languages • Distributed with training every two • Distributed with training annually years to employees involved with U.S. to all employees government contracting in the • Available at anixter.com/ethics U.S., United Arab Emirates, Japan and Germany 30 | 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICY AND PROGRAMS ON-GOING EFFORTS OVERSIGHT MONITORING The Executive Compliance Committee held four meetings The program is monitored by a combination of audits, reviews, in 2014. At each meeting, the committee discussed the risk assessments and internal investigations. The Internal Audit, company’s overall compliance program, including the Global Shared Services, Finance and Legal departments are components of the anti-corruption program. engaged in this process. In 2014, regional compliance committees were formed for Culture Survey our Asia Pacific, Central and Latin American and European To further monitor our compliance program, we engage the regions. The regional compliance committees are responsible services of an independent third party to distribute and for identifying risk and compliance matters within their respective analyze a culture survey. The results of these surveys are used regions. These committees are led by regional compliance officers to identify areas for improvement and are reported to the who are regional attorneys and who meet on a quarterly basis. Executive Compliance Committee and Audit Committee. In 2014, our Chief Compliance Officer presented four quarterly Ethics Questionnaire updates on the company’s anti-corruption compliance program The Annual Ethics Questionnaire was distributed in January and initiatives to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors 2014 to all directors, officers, senior management and members of Anixter International Inc. of select departments and functions and was available in seven languages. All recipients who received the questionnaire completed it in a timely manner. This questionnaire will be distributed again in January 2015. Anti-Retaliation Through an email campaign and prominent postings on our intranet sites, the company reinforced its anti-retaliation policy with the rollout of a “Safe to Speak” FAQs document that is available in 11 languages. RELEVANT POLICIES (CONT.) Global Travel and Entertainment Global Fraud Policy Global Conflict of Interest Policy • Emphasizes prohibition of • Provides guidance on preventing, • Identifies the most common types entertainment and gifts identifying and detecting fraud and of activities that may result in a to government personnel instructions regarding appropriate conflict of interest and the disclosure • Adopted in 1999; action in cases of suspected violations and approval process for each type last revised in 2014 • A dopted in 2014 of activity • Posted on our intranet sites • P osted on our intranet sites • Adopted in 2014 • Available in three languages • A vailable in English • Posted on our intranet sites • Distributed with training to •D  istributed with targeted live • Available in 11 languages all employees who travel and training to members of the • Distributed to all employees globally entertain on the company's behalf Finance organization with targeted live training 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 31 About Anixter: anixter.com/aboutus Anixter Inc. World Headquarters Legal Statement: anixter.com/legalstatement 2301 Patriot Boulevard Glenview, Illinois 60026 14W3960X00 © 2014 Anixter Inc. • 12/14 224.521.8000 1.800.ANIXTER | anixter.com Products. Technology. Services. Delivered Globally.
