Page 1 Contents Message from the Managing Directors ...............................................................................................................4 Highlights of 2013 ...............................................................................................................................................5 Applying Sustainability Reporting Frameworks...................................................................................................7 Communicating Progress: Ongoing Commitment to UNGC Principles .................................................................9 Sustainability at cKinetics: Creating Impact ...................................................................................................... 12 ESG Working Group at Sustainable Business Leadership Forum ........................................................................ 13 Sustainability Outlook ...................................................................................................................................... 14 Resource Management and Cleaner Production ............................................................................................... 15 Decentralized Renewable Energy (DRE) ............................................................................................................ 16 Leveraging Technology and Incubating Innovation ........................................................................................... 17 Annexure 1: Annual Business Responsibility Report ......................................................................................... 18 Page 2 Page 3 Image courtesy Shaire Productions Flick Photstream Accelerating Sustainability Message from the Managing Directors January 1, 2014 cKinetics remains true to its mission of Accelerating Sustainability in all the projects we take on. Four years into its operations, the firm continues to experience growth in our revenues, brand recognition, geographic scope and socio-environmental impact. Our approach is to highlight the business case for Sustainability. We seek to generate industry-leading examples in the market, where sustainable business practices create competitive advantage: reduce operating costs, enhance brand value, open access to new markets, etc. cKinetics continues to serve as a unique catalyst for innovation in the sustainability space through connecting cleantech solution providers and offerings with Indian industries interested in enhancing their resource efficiency. At a firm level, we constantly search for modes of engaging industry and financial institutions in order to deliver cost savings, financial returns and yield the highest possible environmental alpha. In 2013, cKinetics made tremendous progress in building out its flagship industrial engagement platform: the Sustainable Business Leadership Forum (SBLF). Through SBLF, the firm engaged partners from government think tanks (Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs), finance (Impact Investing Policy Collaborative), catalysts (GIZ), businesses and a variety of professional organizations and market makers. cKinetics has continued to blaze new trails in Distributed Renewable Energy (DRE); providing advisory services, structuring fund deployment and crafting innovative techno-commercial solutions in the rural electrification space. Through the firm’s active efforts under the SPEED program, 4 DRE mini-grids were launched during the year and an additional 11 projects are in the final phases of design/implementation. As global organizations continue to work with manufacturers in South Asia to enhance Sustainability, our firm has distinguished itself as a ‘go-to’ advisory firm. Our work has expanded beyond India to the broader South Asian sub-continent. Along with our California based subsidiary which is a Benefit Corporation under California law, we are proud to declare our continued support of, and adherence to, the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact across our operations. In our report this year, we have also included disclosure as per the as per the format of the ABRR (Annual Business Responsibility Report) that has been suggested by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (and adopted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India for the top 100 listed companies). Out disclosure is voluntary and perhaps amongst the first by an unlisted services firm. This is a start for us and has served as a useful reflection for us on areas we hope to build the firm in 2014 and beyond. Pawan Mehra Upendra Bhatt Managing Director Managing Director Page 4 cKinetics: a Mission Driven Organization Highlights of 2013 Sustainability Blueprint Market Access and Insight Sustainability Innovation and Finance  Introduced Renewable Energy (RE)  Hosted the third Annual Summit of  Structured project finance vehicle Power Plant Economic modeling tools the Sustainable Business for enabling investment in 1 to help businesses size RE projects. Leadership Forum (SBLF) . The Distributed Renewable Energy (DRE)  4 DRE mini-grid projects, servicing close 2013 Annual Summit held on  Co-convened the Environmental to 1000 Households, over 20+ microOctober 17, 2013 convened close Social Governance (ESG) Working enterprises and irrigation needs of over to 250 corporates, catalyst Group focused on enhancing non50 farmers, have been commissioned by organizations and other financial disclosure among Indian firm using cKinetics’ services and stakeholders corporates along with GIZ, Impact expertise during the year  Sustainability Outlook division of Investing Policy Collaborative (IIPC)  Contributed annual electricity savings cKinetics, successfully held the and Indian Institute of Corporate of over 2100 Mega Watt Hours for third edition of the Parivartan Affairs (IICA) SMEs (representing 4% of their Sustainability Leadership Awards:  Established a strategic collaboration consumption), annual pet coke savings from an initial pool of 600 with Center for Innovation, of 256 tonnes, annual water savings of initiatives, 200 finalists were Incubation and Entrepreneurship 156 million liters through our Industrial selected, from which 18 received (CIIE) for exploring new venture Resource Management and Cleaner awards. creation opportunities and Production practice.  Created a market map on EHS incubating innovative business  Expanded cKinetics’ geographic impact (Environment Health and Safety) models in the cleantech/ to Sri Lanka with other regional training academies in India sustainability startup space. countries on the anvil. including market assessment to  Initiated work on developing a tool Implementing Program SWAR project demand and opportunity kit to analyze and determine (Sustainable WAter and Resource areas. Economic Returns for rural utility Management) which is being led by scale infrastructure interventions to Stockholm International Water Institute help catalyze financing for the (SIWI), SIDA and 3 leading brands: segment Indiska, Lindex and KappAhl. Research and Thought Leadership Introduced in 2013 The following reports aimed at promoting Sustainability were released by cKinetics in 2013: 1. Financing Decentralized Renewable Energy Mini-grids In India: Working with investors, developers and technology providers to bring DRE into the mainstream. http://www.ckinetics.com/DRE-Financing/ 2. Emerging Landscape of ESG Action in Indian Businesses and Their Supply Chain: This first of its kind report presents the landscape of preparedness of Indian businesses and their supply chain to adopt ESG. http://sblf.sustainabilityoutlook.in/about-the-forum/sustainability-disclosure-and-reporting Philanthropy As part of its CSR activities, cKinetics’ team aims to engage with causes that impact the community. In 2013, the team chose to support projects on: (a) improving the health of women and also save energy by sponsoring ecofriendly boiling water chulas; and (b) on helping bring brightness in the life of poor destitute women by reimbursing cost of solar lanterns. 1 India’s only market development platform connecting stakeholders in the Corporate Sustainability space Page 5 cKinetics Vision cKinetics’ Operating Philosophy To accelerate the creation and The cKinetics team imbibes the following code in its maintenance of systems which shape a day-to-day operations: balance between current and future Do: Action counts louder than words. resource needs Be frugal: Natural resources are scarce and limited; Emerging market economies are currently we must explore more advanced conservation undergoing much needed, extensive, sociomeasures. economic growth. This process of expansion has introduced a unique opportunity to leapfrog older Set an example: Serving as an example through methods of production and instead adopt newer adopting a low-resource footprint is the best way to industrial and community infrastructure that is ‘be the change’ and understand conservation more efficient, sustainable and profitable. challenges first-hand. Through exploring new best practices, cKinetics will constantly seek to attain In this context, cKinetics was founded in 2009 by a carbon neutrality. team passionate about using market based solutions and industry dynamics to address Be alert to opportunities: Air, water and land are sustainable economic growth and development. considered 'free' (or close to 'free'). We seek to identify cases where resources are undervalued As a specialized Sustainability Advisory firm and develop strategies to address this unique providing end-to-end solutions to investors and market failure. businesses, cKinetics leverages a thought process for accelerating sustainable business and investing Be wise on technology: Technology is our biggest practices that include: (a) Closed loop systems, (b) ally in increasing efficiency and driving Decentralized production and consumption, and (c) conservation; however, it is also our biggest enemy Resource conservation. when enabling runaway consumption. The mission of cKinetics is to develop market driven Leverage market driven solutions: cKinetics will solutions to promote the rapid adoption of design and promote products and services that help sustainable growth strategies in emerging market align positive environmental impact with tangible industries and communities. financial incentives. cKinetics Inc. is a Registered Be factual: If it cannot be measured, it is not worth doing. Data forms a central pillar for cKinetics. All Benefit Corporation internal initiatives should be quantifiable and cKinetics Inc, based in Palo Alto, California is a decisions made based on data. 100% subsidiary registered as a Benefit 2 Corporation. Set imagination free: We are limited only by the possibilities we imagine. Dare to think beyond the The rationale for being among the first companies conventional and make it happen. to seek this status is to exhibit our firm’s ongoing commitment to balance traditional financial metrics with environmental and social impact. 2 in accordance with California Bill AB 361 Page 6 Applying Sustainability Reporting Frameworks Materiality Assessment, Commitment and Ongoing Engagement Principles of the UNGC As a part of its ongoing commitment to Disclosure as per annual Business mainstreaming sustainability, cKinetics is proud to Responsibility Report (BRR) support the UN Global Compact Principles. These In addition to disclosing activities as per the UNGC’s principles have been a strong component of the framework for the Communication of Progress, this firm’s core growth strategy and expansion process. document also carries a disclosure as per annual Business Responsibility Report (BRR). This is detailed in Annexure 1. Materiality of UNGC Principles Given its role as a specialized Sustainability The framework presents indicators developed from Advisory firm, cKinetics has limited exposure to the 9 core principles of the National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Economic & Environmental Sustainability Risks and ESG impact through its own Responsibilities of Business that were announced operations. Thus, materiality issues surrounding by the Indian Ministry of Corporate Affairs in 2011. the UNGC Principles, their implementation and subsequent outcomes have been evaluated Importance of the BRR Framework through the following lens: The BRR represents a significant step forward in 1. How, and to what extent, do the principles promoting the widespread adoption of nonapply to cKinetics in its operations? financial (ESG) disclosure among Indian firms. While 2. How, and to what extent, can these principles cKinetics does not face a mandate in disclosing on become central to the service offerings of the BRR framework, we are eager to engage with, and promote, this initiative both within our own cKinetics and, thus, attain the desired impact operations and those of our clients. created through its business operations? Engagement with the BRR and nonEngagement with UNGC initiatives financial disclosure conversation The cKinetics team was a participant in the Rio+20 cKinetics has played an active role in the Corporate Sustainability Forum convened by the conversation surrounding non-financial disclosure UNGC in Rio de Janeiro. The team engages in in the Indian market through our work in policy monthly meetings and conferences organized by advisory. Our organization has been the convening body for a Working Group on Disclosure and the Global Compact Network in India. cKinetics has Reporting (outlined further in this report) in met in consultation with UNGC staff regarding our partnership with the Indian Institute of Corporate work (undertaken in collaboration with the IICA and Affairs (Ministry of Corporate Affairs), GIZ, and GIZ) documenting the emerging landscape of nonImpact Investing Policy Collaborative. financial disclosure norms in India. Page 7 Page 8 Communicating Progress: Ongoing Commitment to UNGC Principles Actions and Tools for Implememtation In 2013, cKinetics has incorporated several UNGC Policies for dealing with incidents of Human Right strategies for integrating the Ten Principles, these Violations and Corruption include: We are committed to diligently managing our business operations, both internally as well as in Code of Conduct external stakeholders, in a manner which reflects The Code of Conduct outlines the expectations and our high ethical standards. aspirations of cKinetics management and staff in key areas of Human Rights, Corruption and Work cKinetics has a zero tolerance policy with respect to Force Environment, etc. incidents of corruption, both in the public and the corporate sphere. Operating Principles As explained in the previous section, the Ten Principles guide the strategic planning and day-today operations of the firm. Training and Development Opportunities The talented and passionate team at cKinetics are encouraged and accorded opportunities to engage intellectually and professionally in industry conferences, field building activities and training/certification programs both within India and abroad. Page 9 Areas Principles Outlook and Undertaking Tools for Implementation Outcomes Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and cKinetics is committed to upholding Human Rights, in its The Code of Conduct defines our commitment to human There have been reported incidents of Human rights violations in respect the protection of internationally capacity as a responsible business, in letter and in spirit, rights; it outlines our stance and strategy for preventing the company as it is material to the company. the abuse of human rights. All employees and extended proclaimed human rights; and stakeholders are expected to abide by it Principle 2: make sure that they are not Operating in India poses a number of unique human complicit in human rights abuses. rights challenges. cKinetics is committed to the reporting Any violation can be reported confidentially (through an of any human rights violations observed in the course of anonymous email ID) and the individual will be protected conducting its business operations. from repercussions Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the As a firm with a presence in both the US and India, The Company Labour Practices is an internal document There were no reported violations of Labour Principles freedom of association and the effective cKinetics is in compliance with all relevant local labor which defines our expectations and commitments recognition of the right to collective regulations in its respective operations regarding employment both in our own operations and Each employee met with the manager twice to discuss the bargaining in those of our partners performance, concerns and goals Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of The prevalence of the informal, unorganized, sector in forced and compulsory labour India poses a number of distinct challenges in adequately Any violation can be reported confidentially and the Training and Development Principle 5: the effective abolition of child assessing some of our small suppliers’ adherence to individual will be protected from repercussions Employees are allowed 1 day per month to attend conferences, labour Principles 3-5. However, we make a concerted effort to seminars and programs for knowledge advancement Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in maintain constant vigilance when working with local We conduct weekly, monthly and half yearly meetings respect of employment and occupation small businesses. with the staff wherein feedback from employees is All internally reported complaints and concerns were dealt with actively incorporated by management into the on a priority basis company’s policies and strategies 12 internal sessions conducted on different topics as a part of the We continually provide opportunities, through training Friday Learning Discussions and access to industry conferences, for our workforce to grow intellectually and professionally Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a As a small operational consulting firm, cKinetics has a Thought Leadership in the Sustainability Space details Smart use of resources is an Operating Principle of cKinetics and precautionary approach to environmental limited socio-ecological footprint. However, we are field-building research and action undertaken by focus is on reducing consumption challenges. actively engaged in managing our resource consumption cKinetics, leading corporates and solution providers Principle 8: Businesses should undertake and maintain constant efforts to engage with our Collected fines from employees for failing to leave the computer initiatives to promote greater environmental employees and the community in a responsible fashion. Creating Impact in Accelerating Sustainability focuses on monitor down/lights turned off responsibility our core business operations and the Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the Our commitment to sustainability is at the very core of environmental/social impact they generate Energy measurement system installed to actively track energy development and diffusion of environmentally our business mission, vision, and operations. cKinetics consumption friendly technologies has made strong contributions to sustainability in India Our offices are currently engaged in actively monitoring (see: Thought Leadership in the Sustainability Space). We and tracking our electricity consumption using a suite of Reuse of paper made mandatory and recycling is encouraged seek to create real impact through our various business metering and analytics software ventures (see: Creating Impact in Accelerating In the recent renovation of a new office, interior components Sustainability). (chairs, desks, glass walls, doors, sinks, etc.) were taken from our old offices and reused and repurposed within the new office space. This both reduced our material impact and highlighted our commitment to “Be Frugal.” Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against cKinetics supports all 71 articles of the UN Convention The Code of Conduct defines our expectations and There have been no reported incidents of Human rights violations corruption in all its forms, including extortion against Corruption (UNCAC). commitments regarding anti-bribery practices both in in the company or its vendors and bribery our own operations and in those of our partners. We take an active, zero-tolerance, stance against bribery and corrupt business practices through diligent Any violation can be reported confidentially (through an monitoring and enforcement. anonymous email ID) and the individual will be ensured protection from reprisal. Page 10 Page 11 Sustainability at cKinetics: Creating Impact Communicating Progress: Driving Sustainability in Emerging Markets cKinetics provides specialized operational consulting and strategic advisory services with a focus on emerging markets; the firms operations cover:  Industrial Resource Efficiency and Conservation Measures: Energy, Water, Carbon, Waste  Distributed Renewable Energy and Smart Infrastructure  Sustainability Finance  Market Insight and Analysis Our track record as specialists in leveraging cross-functional management resources in emerging market geographies uniquely positions us in the market. We are a ‘partner of choice’ to design and execute profitable business models which enhance and promote Sustainability. A deep understanding of sector dynamics across industries has allowed us to design and implement a wide variety of growth-oriented sustainable solutions. We work with:  Indian organizations targeting global markets  International businesses that have operations and supply chains in India  Development Financial Institutions and catalysts for sustainability actions  Investors  Cleantech and sustainability firms Thought Products and Services Offered Leadership cKinetics’ engagements are characterized by a commitment to drive and Insight Creation sustainability innovation through:  Thought Leadership and Insight Creation Leveraging  Leveraging technology and incubating innovation technology  Driving Impact through Market Driven Interventions and incubating innovation Driving Impact through Market Driven Interventions Page 12 ESG Working Group at Sustainable Business Leadership Forum Convening Action for Advancing Corporate Sustainability in India The Sustainable Business Leadership Forum (SBLF) is an invitation-only Indian industry focused market development platform which equips organizations, managers and industry stakeholders on the ‘how’ of sustainability through a unique programmatic approach comprising of round the year programs and ‘on-ground’ industry oriented work. Instituted by Sustainability Outlook, the leading information marketplace on sustainability action, SBLF enables a unique exchange of thought leadership, business know-how and catalytic tools for enabling corporate transition towards sustainable business practices. ESG Disclosure Working Group cKinetics has been working with investors, which are looking at impact in addition to financial returns, to understand their nature of interest in impact/ sustainability disclosure. These investors have expressed the need for advancing deployment of the disclosure-measurement systems by leveraging existing institutional frameworks such as the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Global Reporting Initiative, Carbon Disclosure Project, Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, amongst others. In this context, a Working Group was established to answer the following questions through applying an investor lens:  What steps are needed to coordinate actions between existing institutions to increase the prevalence of impact ESG Measurement, Management and disclosure from businesses in India? Disclosure Reports  The Emerging Landscape of ESG Action in Indian  When, where, and how should these steps be undertaken Businesses and Their Supply Chains: Perspectives of to promote deployment of investment capital looking Investors, Businesses and Institutions (2013) beyond a pure financial return?  Cracking the Conundrum: An investor and policy view to leverage standardization of environmental and The working group, convened under the Sustainable Businesses social disclosure and reporting (2013) Leadership Forum includes cKinetics, GIZ (German Development Authority) and Impact Investing Policy Collaborative (IIPC). The  Landscape Paper on Environmental and Social Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs, under the Ministry of Performance Disclosure and Reporting (2012) Corporate Affairs is the Policy Lead for the projects.  Preparedness of Indian Public Equities for Business Sustainability (ESG) Disclosure and Reporting (2011) Report: The Emerging Landscape of ESG Action in Indian Businesses and Their Supply Chains: Perspectives of Investors, Businesses and Institutions This landscape report is the first of its kind in India and was undertaken by the Sustainable Business Leadership Forum and profiles the preparedness of Indian businesses and their supply chains to adopt ESG measurement, management and disclosure systems. The study focused on three sectors: Pharmaceuticals/Chemicals, Food/Agro/Consumer Products and Auto/Auto Ancillary with the objective of analyzing business operations (including supply chain) to understand how prepared Indian firms were to adopt enhanced ESG disclosure frameworks. More at http://sblf.sustainabilityoutlook.in/about-the-forum/sustainabilitydisclosure-and-reporting Working Group Partners Page 13 Sustainability Outlook Shaping the Sustainability Dialogue in India Sustainability Outlook Sustainability Outlook (division of cKinetics) is a market access, insight and collaboration platform tracking actions related towards sustainability in the Indian economy. It proactively promotes dialogue and collates data to enable action by local, regional as well as global practitioners. Sustainability Outlook aims to be the bridge for shaping change in this thought process and spur innovation. The online and print editions of Sustainability Outlook attempt to provide comprehensive in-depth coverage on market participants and latest trends on sustainability initiatives as also expert perspectives on business and policy analyses as they pertain to measures impacting sustainability in the business operations. Its website currently attracts approximately 10,000 unique views per month. The following themes have been covered in some of latest issues: Shaping New Age Sustainability as a Key Corporate Brands Driver for Innovation (October 2013) (June 2013) SBLF: Annual Summit A gathering held every October, this year close to 250 participants representing industry, government, finance and professional services, media and academia actively engaged in the deliberations. The program is designed to identify sustainability challenges and potential solutions from within the Indian industry by enabling corporates to share their experiences and providing a connect to innovative solutions in the cleantech and industrial energy/resource efficiency space. Parivartan Awards The Parivartan Sustainability Leadership Awards (www.ParivartanAwards.in), instituted by Sustainability Outlook, are a platform to uncover and recognize progressive corporates, service providers, and individuals whose efforts serve as catalyst for advancing sustainability in India. The 2013 winners include: Sustainability Entrepreneur of Dr. B.C. Jain the Year Sustainability Youth Icon of the Preethy Iyer and Ashwin Year Subramanian Distinguished Finalists for  R G Dhalwani Sustainability Professional of the  Rohan Parikh Year  Dr Satish Kumar  M Selvarasu  Ivo Mulder  Caroline Jones Carrick Page 14 Resource Management and Cleaner Production Driving Sustainable Business Practices in Indian Industries Resource Management and Efficiency Practice: Energy, Water and Carbon Management: Our resource management practice has been built on engagement with manufacturing units through developing mechanisms for understanding and managing their energy and water consumption. A data-driven approach and standardized processes directed at impact creation have allowed cKinetics to lay the groundwork for greater savings and shorter pay-back periods. It helps firms achieve resource efficiency improvements for energy, carbon and water across the entire resource life cycle, to include: a) sourcing, b) process, c) recycling, and d) discharge and across their supply chain. Creating Identification Creating goals Developing a Handholding to indicative of focus areas and business plan to help baseline of and hotspots case for implement implement the resource for savings and resource suggested improvements consumption efficiency efficiency improvements and achieve (energy, carbon, improvements improvements targeted water and waste) with short and reduction medium term impact Collecting data Mapping most Assessing the Developing Identify regarding resource preparedness blue-print for enablers that resource intensive of the implementing will help consumption at processes with manufacturer solutions company meet factory level by scope of to report and its goals conducting walkchange to improve Developing throughs tracking and Bring in Creating an Developing measurement technology estimate of business case tools such as: providers, potential for comMITcapital reductions in implementing Resource providers etc energy/ carbon recommended Conservation emissions and solutions Monitoring and Customizing Benchmarking Management training to industry Tool programs and best practices curriculum cKinetics was selected as the strategic partner for Program SWAR: Sustainable WAter Resource (SWAR) Management for textile industries in Delhi and Jaipur. This has been driven by a consortium of Global Swedish Brands: Indiska, KappAhl, and Lindex; and led by Stockholm International Water Institute (SIWI). With co-financing from SIDA, this programme introduces cleaner production actions with a focus on water. The aim was to create an implementation model workable across different companies and their different suppliers. cKinetics has been engaged in: • Programmatic design: designing of a multi-brand, multi-supplier, multi-year program which outlines i) activities and roles, ii) cluster specific targets and iii) model of engagement • Operational execution and technical support: o Act as the program management unit o Process execution which include conducting baselining assessment, monitoring resource consumption of participating units, identifying recommendations for cleaner production and providing operational support to implement the same. o Providing linkage to capital • Planning for scale: driving capacity enhancement and behavioral change to ensure sustenance Page 15 Decentralized Renewable Energy (DRE) Accelerating Adoption of Sustainable Energy Solutions Smart Power for Environmentally and Economically-sound Development (SPEED) cKinetics has been supporting the SPEED Program to design and test the potential of business models, and implementation plans, that deliver electricity from renewable fuel sources in energy deficient regions of the developing world. The Programme aims to leverage the power of needs of cell-towers in electricity-starved regions as an anchor load to create a cleaner power infrastructure that would serve the larger needs of poor and vulnerable people in these regions, thus catalyzing economic and social development. So far, cKinetics efforts have resulted in detailed assessments of over 35 decentralized renewable energy based sites leading to the launch of projects at 4 sites with another 11 sites in the final phases of design/implementation. In addition, cKinetics has been collaborating with CIIE –IIM, Ahmedabad in the design and rollout of a Catalytic Facility designed to deploy innovative financial instruments in the DRE mini-grid space. 2 initial investments have been committed under this facility till date. This work is also geared at fostering a framework for enabling multiple bottom line assessment and financing for these projects. Financing Decentralized Renewable Energy Mini-Grids in India Decentralized Renewable Energy (DRE) based rural electrification is a rapidly emerging sector in India. Investors are just beginning to understand the business model, commercial viability, risks and opportunities that this sector presents. This report provides a perspective on opportunities, gaps and directions for financing in this emerging sector. It is not only meant to be a primer but also serve as a resource guide. cKinetics has been working in partnership with The Rockefeller Foundation to conduct feasibility analysis, create an empirical evidence base and demand modeling among villages in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. The commercial market for rural DRE is still very much in its phase; however, cKinetics is working alongside Indian financial institutions to design business models and structure funds for facilitating the commercialization of this rural electrification market. More on the report at: http://www.ckinetics.com/DRE-Financing/ Page 16 Leveraging Technology and Incubating Innovation Catalyzing an Cleantech Innovation Ecosystem Resource Conservation Tool comMIT is an analytics and information aggregation platform developed to enable clients to build insight into their operations. It helps build a view on the impact of sustainability related actions being taken. It is designed to interface with existing client reporting systems. Venture Accelerator at cKinetics cKinetics Accelerator seeks to invest-in and support new cutting-edge Sustainability focused ventures that are shaping the future of resource conservation. Engagement Models:  Investments: cKinetics Accelerator invests in early stage ideas and ventures providing strategic capital usually when the venture is young and the firm still addressing many aspects of risk  In-situ incubation support: Should an entrepreneur or a venture be located in Delhi, cKinetics Accelerator can provide space and facilities for operations  Entrepreneur-in-Residence (EIR): Should an entrepreneur be contemplating an idea in the Sustainability domain, we share our insights with EIRs and work collaboratively to refine the ideas and also can provide initial seed funding. EIRs necessarily need to operate out of our Delhi center for us to engage and support effectively The cKinetics Accelerator invests in ventures and ideas emerging from platforms such as the Unreasonable Institute, ISB iDiya, CIIE-INFUSE at IIM Ahmedabad and others. Page 17 Annexure 1: Annual Business Responsibility Report This section has been filled out as per the format of the ABRR (Annual Business Responsibility Report) that has been suggested by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (and adopted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 3 for the top 100 listed companies ). Its public disclosure is part of the National Voluntary Guidelines on Social 4 Environmental and Economic Responsibilities of Business. BR Information 1. Details of Director/Directors responsible for BR a. Details of the Director/Director responsible for implementation of the BR policy/policies  Name Upendra Bhatt  Designation Managing Director b. Details of the BR head S.No. Particulars Details 1 DIN Number (if applicable) 2 Name Shradha Kapur 3 Designation Engagement Manager 4 Telephone number +91.11.4105.1195 5 e-mail ID skpaur@cKinetics.com 2. Principle-wise (as per NVGs) BR Policy/policies (Reply in Y/N) (List of principles are outlined below) Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 Do you have a policy/policies for.... Y Y NA Y NA Y NA NA NA Has the policy being formulated in consultation with the relevant Y Y NA Y NA Y NA NA NA stakeholders? Does the policy conform to any national/international standards? If Y NA NA Y NA Y NA NA NA yes, specify? (50 words) Has the policy being approved by the Board? Is yes, has it been signed by Y Y NA Y NA Y NA NA NA MD/owner/CEO/appropriate Board Director? Does the company have a specified committee of the Y Y NA Y NA Y NA NA NA Board/Director/Official to oversee the implementation of the policy? Indicate the link for the policy to be NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA viewed online? Has the policy been formally communicated to all relevant Y Y NA Y NA Y NA NA NA internal and external stakeholders? Does the company have in-house structure to implement the Y Y NA Y NA Y NA NA NA policy/policies? Does the Company have a grievance re-dressal mechanism related to the policy/policies to address Y Y NA Y NA Y NA NA NA stakeholders’ grievances related to the policy/policies? Has the company carried out independent audit/evaluation of the N N N N N N N N N working of this policy by an internal or external agency? 3 http://www.sebi.gov.in/cms/sebi_data/attachdocs/1344915990072.pdf 4 http://www.mca.gov.in/Ministry/latestnews/National_Voluntary_Guidelines_2011_12jul2011.pdf Page 18 3. Governance related to BR  Indicate the frequency with which the Board of Directors, Committee of the Board or CEO assess the BR performance of the Company: Within 3 months, 3-6 months, Annually, More than 1 year  Annually  Does the Company publish a BR or a Sustainability Report? What is the hyperlink for viewing this report? How frequently it is published?  The company publishes a Sustainability Action Report which is available on www.cKinetics.com Section: Principle-wise performance Principle 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with Ethics, Transparency and Accountability 1. Does the policy relating to ethics, bribery and corruption cover only the company? Yes/ No. Does it extend to the Group/Joint Ventures/ Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs /Others?  cKinetics’ policy relating to ethics, bribery and corruption extend to subsidiary, contractors and all businesses it interacts with.  cKinetics is an active supporter of the UN Convention against Corruption; as such, we have adopted a zero-tolerance policy on bribery and corruption. We do not tolerate any of our employees engaging in any form of bribery or corruption. Employees, or persons acting on behalf of the firm, found to be seeking, accepting, or offering a bribe, gift, or other improper payment as a reward for improper performance of a relevant function or activity will be subject to punitive measures (e.g. suspension, termination and legal action). It is our expectation that all business partners and stakeholders we work with adhere to these same standards. 2. How many stakeholder complaints have been received in the past financial year and what percentage was satisfactorily resolved by the management? If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so.  No complaints were received Principle 2: Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe and contribute to sustainability throughout their life cycle 1. List up to 3 of your products or services whose design has incorporated social or environmental concerns, risks and/or opportunities. i. cKinetics’ practice areas around Decentralized Renewable Energy (DRE) and around Resource Management and Efficiency (RME) are designed to help customers reduce their resource footprint. ii. Sustainability Outlook is a market intelligence platform incubated by cKinetics to advance the mainstream conversation around resource conservation and risk mitigation issues iii. The Sustainable Business Leadership Forum (SBLF) is an Indian industry focused market development platform which equips organizations, managers and industry stakeholders on the ‘how’ of sustainability through a unique programmatic approach comprising of round the year programs and ‘on-ground industry oriented’ work. 2. For each such product, provide the following details in respect of resource use (energy, water, raw material etc.) per unit of product(optional): i. Reduction during sourcing/production/ distribution achieved since the previous year throughout the value chain?  Not applicable ii. Reduction during usage by consumers (energy, water) has been achieved since the previous year?  Not applicable. The results of cKinetics’ professional services are summarized in the section titled “2013 Overview and Highlights” 3. Does the company have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing (including transportation)? i. If yes, what percentage of your inputs was sourced sustainably? Also, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so. Page 19  Whenever possible, the firm sources tools and products which are resource efficient and have the lowest possible environmental impact. However, ecofriendly products are just becoming available in the Indian marketas such, we attempt to simply reduce consumption and reuse/ repurpose existing resources wherever possible. 4. Has the company taken any steps to procure goods and services from local & small producers, including communities surrounding their place of work?  Whenever possible, the firm sources services and products from local vendors / producers (in Delhi/NCR) i. If yes, what steps have been taken to improve their capacity and capability of local and small vendors?  As a small volume buyer, we have limited abilities to influence the production and sourcing method of our vendors 5. Does the company have a mechanism to recycle products and waste? If yes what is the percentage of recycling of products and waste (separately as <5%, 5-10%, >10%). Also, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so.  As a professional services firm, our waste streams are non-industrial in nature. At the work-place we have adopted practices on recycling and reuse of paper; e-waste segregation and tracking; printer material recycling; etc. Principle 3: Businesses should promote the well being of all employees 1. Please indicate the Total number of employees. 17 Full time employees 2. Please indicate the Total number of employees hired on temporary/contractual/casual basis. 5-10 (linked to projects) 3. Please indicate the Number of permanent women employees. 4 4. Please indicate the Number of permanent employees with disabilities 0 5. Do you have an employee association that is recognized by management? No 6. What percentage of your permanent employees is members of this recognized employee association? NA 7. Please indicate the Number of complaints relating to child labour, forced labour, involuntary labour, sexual harassment in the last financial year and pending, as on the end of the financial year. S.No. Category No. of complaints filed No. of complaints during the financial year pending as on end of the financial year 1 Child Labour 0 0 2 Forced Labour 0 0 3 Sexual Harrasment 0 0 Principle 4: Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive towards all stakeholders, especially those who are disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalised 1. Has the company mapped its internal and external stakeholders? Yes/No  Partially 2. Out of the above, has the company identified the disadvantaged, vulnerable & marginalized stakeholders?  In select work areas only Page 20 3. Are there any special initiatives taken by the company to engage with the disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized stakeholders. If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so.  cKinetics’ rural mini-grid work is focused on electrifying villages in economically backward areas. In partnership with Development Alternatives, cKinetics has conducted extensive fieldwork engaging with local village communities to assess their needs and collaborate on developing highly localized business models for power delivery.  As part of its CSR activities, cKinetics’ team picks up causes to work with that impact the community. In 2013, the team chose to support projects on: (a) improving the health of women and also save energy by sponsoring eco-friendly boiling water chulas; and (b) on helping bring brightness in the life of poor destitute women by reimbursing cost of solar lanterns. Principle 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights 1. Does the policy of the company on human rights cover only the company or extend to the Group/Joint Ventures/Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/Others?  It presently covers the company and its subsidiary. 2. How many stakeholder complaints have been received in the past financial year and what percent was satisfactorily resolved by the management?  No stakeholder complaints. Principle 6: Business should respect, protect, and make efforts to restore the environment 1. Does the policy related to Principle 6 cover only the company or extends to the Group/Joint Ventures/Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/others.  Presently the policy covers the company and its subsidiary. 2. Does the company have strategies/ initiatives to address global environmental issues such as climate change, global warming, etc? Y/N. If yes, please give hyperlink for webpage etc.  cKinetics’ own operations have a limited impact since it is an advisory firm. As Sustainability focused advisory firm, all its offerings are geared towards reducing the impact on the environment due to resource consumption. More is available at www.cKinetics.com 3. Does the company identify and assess potential environmental risks? Y/N  NA 4. Does the company have any project related to Clean Development Mechanism? If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so. Also, if Yes, whether any environmental compliance report is filed?  NA 5. Has the company undertaken any other initiatives on – clean technology, energy efficiency, renewable energy, etc. Y/N. If yes, please give hyperlink for web page etc.  Yes. The company has installed an Energy Management System in its own facilities that tracks the usage of energy. 6. Are the Emissions/Waste generated by the company within the permissible limits given by CPCB/SPCB for the financial year being reported?  NA 7. Number of show cause/ legal notices received from CPCB/SPCB which are pending (i.e. not resolved to satisfaction) as on end of Financial Year.  None Principle 7: Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a responsible manner 1. Is your company a member of any trade and chamber or association? If Yes, Name only those major ones that your business deals with: a. UN Global Compact b. Alliance for an Energy Efficient Economy c. Sustainable Business Leadership Forum (SBLF) Page 21 2. Have you advocated/lobbied through above associations for the advancement or improvement of public good? Yes/No; if yes specify the broad areas ( drop box: Governance and Administration, Economic Reforms, Inclusive Development Policies, Energy security, Water, Food Security, Sustainable Business Principles, Others)  cKinetics has been engaged in policy research and advocacy in the areas of: o Decentralized Renewable Energy and Energy Access o disclosure and reporting of Environmental and Social (E&S) metrics through the SBLF Principle 8: Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable development 1. Does the company have specified programmes/initiatives/projects in pursuit of the policy related to Principle 8? If yes details thereof.  Yes. As mentioned in Principle 4, as part of its CSR activities, cKinetics’ team picks up causes to work with that impact the community. In 2013, the team chose to support projects on: (a) improving the health of women and also save energy by sponsoring ecofriendly boiling water chulas; and (b) on helping bring brightness in the life of poor destitute women managing solar-lantern charging stations by reimbursing cost of lanterns. 2. Are the programmes/projects undertaken through in-house team/own foundation/external NGO/government structures/any other organization?  Through external NGOs 3. Have you done any impact assessment of your initiative?  cKinetics gets reports on the utilization of the CSR funds. 4. Have you taken steps to ensure that this community development initiative is successfully adopted by the community? Please explain in 50 words, or so.  NA Principle 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their customers and consumers in a responsible manner 1. What percentage of customer complaints/consumer cases are pending as on the end of financial year. None 2. Does the company display product information on the product label, over and above what is mandated as per local laws? Yes/No/N.A. /Remarks(additional information) NA 3. Is there any case filed by any stakeholder against the company regarding unfair trade practices, irresponsible advertising and/or anti-competitive behaviour during the last five years and pending as on end of financial year. If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so. No 4. Did your company carry out any consumer survey/ consumer satisfaction trends? No Page 22 INDIA 708 Hemkunt Chambers, 89 Nehru Place, New Delhi 110019 T | +91.11.4050.7277 USA 262 Ventura Avenue, Palo Alto, CA 94306 T | +1.650.331.1931 E | contact@cKinetics.com www.cKinetics.com Page 23
