United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Freudenberg Group 2013 | 2014 Content I. Statement of continued support from the Speaker of the Board of Management 5 II. The Freudenberg Group 7 i. Group profile 7 ii. We all take care 7 iii. Freudenberg Innovation Award 8 iv. Risk management 9 III. Human rights and labor 11 IV. Environmental protection 19 V. Anti-corruption 22 VI. Social responsibility 24 2 3 I. Statement of continued support from the Speaker of the Board of Management Dear Sir or Madam and we have achieved a very low level compared to our industry peers. This success reflects our achievements in The Freudenberg Group signed the UN Global Compact other areas, too, where we have also set our sights on in January 2014. Making a public commitment to the unicontinuous improvement. versal principles of the initiative is an important step for us. Our company’s 165-year history is founded on responsible Environmental protection is a vital element of our activities. conduct which thus forms an integral part of our business We have driven forward the introduction of environmental activities. Our Guiding Principles, and in particular those protection management systems across our Group. An addressing “Responsibility”, “Innovation” and “Long Term environmental management system pursuant to ISO 14001 Orientation”, bear witness to that. or EMAS is now in place at over 80 percent of our production locations. We are working hard to systematiAs a technology company, progress for Freudenberg has cally improve our environmental performance with regard always meant change driven by innovative products and to raw materials, production processes and our products processes. This has been illustrated very clearly this year themselves. Numerous new products from Freudenberg, for by both the winner and one of the finalists in the Freudenexample, help to conserve resources. berg Innovation Award. We present further examples demonstrating our commitment to the development and This is the Freudenberg Group’s first Communication on diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies in the Progress for the Global Compact and it provides an overchapter on “Environmental protection”. view of our activities in the last fiscal year with respect to human rights, anti-corruption, labor, environmental proOur skilled and motivated employees safeguard the longtection and social responsibility. The Freudenberg Group term success of the company. That is why Freudenberg expressly commits to supporting implementation of the ten implements a very broad range of programs and measprinciples of the UN Global Compact and to keep driving ures to support and encourage their development. One these efforts forward during the current year. example of such action is the talent management process we introduced throughout the Group this year. A key Dr. Mohsen Sohi element of this process is fostering employees from different Speaker of the Board of Management, cultural backgrounds and of different ages and genders. Freudenberg Group Every Business Group has therefore drawn up a diversity statement. Occupational health and safety is an important issue at Freudenberg that receives strong support and is brought vividly to life – both through initiatives across the Group and through individual commitment. Thanks to this approach there has been a steady decline in the number of accidents in the Freudenberg Group in recent years 4 5 II. The Freudenberg Group i. Group profile Freudenberg sees itself as an enterprise of entrepreneurs. Operational business is in the hands of independent Freudenberg is a global technology company supplying innocompanies whose management conducts business under vative products and services to customers in various markets their own responsibility. These individual companies in turn and sectors of industry. belong to Business Groups. The Group harnesses its outstanding technical expertise to Freudenberg has two parent companies: Freudenberg & Co. deliver tailor-made solutions to customers in the passenger car Kommanditgesellschaft is the Group’s strategic parent and commercial vehicle industry, mechanical and plant engicompany. Under its roof, Freudenberg SE is the parent neering, textile and apparel, construction, mining and heavy company of the various Business Groups and holds responindustry, energy, chemical, and the oil and gas sectors. sibility for managing business operations. Customer groupings also include companies in the medical technology, civil aviation, rail vehicles and semiconductor Freudenberg is a family company. It is owned by some sectors. 320 heirs to the founding father Carl Johann Freudenberg. Freudenberg develops and manufactures seals, vibration ii. We all take care control technology components, filters, nonwovens, surface treatment products, release agents and specialty lubricants, Back in 2002, Freudenberg launched the “We all take medical technology and mechatronic products. The company care” initiative based on the Freudenberg Group Guiddevelops software solutions and IT services primarily for smalling Principles. The initiative calls on every employee to and medium-sized enterprises. Consumers enjoy the benefits proactively engage in improving environmental protection, of Freudenberg’s state-of-the-art household products marketed occupational health and safety. Other important issues under the vileda®, O-Cedar®, Wettex®, Gala® and SWASH® embraced by the initiative are a commitment to social brands. responsibility and site risk management. In this way, every employee plays a personal role in putting the “ResponsibilCreativity, quality, diversity and innovative strength are the ity” Guiding Principle into practice in the working environcornerstones of the company. Freudenberg believes in diverse ment. All employees can access the details of successful teams and the excellence of its workforce of some 40,000. projects via the Freudenberg intranet, thus accelerating Around the world, employees from many different cultures improvement processes. The initiative is one of the items on work productively together. Despite their diversity, there is one the agenda of the Corporate Health, Safety, Security and thing that they all have in common – the values which have Environment (HSE) Meeting, and its evolution is therefore become a deeply embedded culture in the course of the supported at top management level and by Business company’s long history. They provide clarity for our employGroup HSE management. ees, reliability for our business partners and coherence for the entire Group. Customer value, financial solidity, entrepreneurEvery year, Freudenberg honors employees who have ship, trust, respect, responsibility and a long term orientation demonstrated particular success, progress and outstanding – that is what defines Freudenberg worldwide. performance by conferring the “We all take care” Award. 6 7 The following projects were among the winners projects in Award was presented for the first time in 2014 and will Ultra-thin nonwovens let the ions flow existence of the Freudenberg Group are identified in 2013: be awarded every two years from now onwards. The modern world relies totally on electricity: Hardly good time by the risk management system. anything works without it. Whether in cell phones, laptops Heart beating for life and health This new, internal prize emphasizes the importance of or electric cars, rechargeable batteries are vital. They need On the procurement market, Freudenberg faces risks In many countries, cardiovascular diseases are the most innovation for Freudenberg. On one level, it acknowlto be powerful, reliable and safe as well. A wafer-thin yet relating to the availability of raw materials and their common cause of death. Blood vessels “calcify,” whereby edges the outstanding achievements of employees. On a extremely durable nonwoven separator, equipped with a price trends, particularly steel, crude oil derivatives and the blood circulation is disrupted, often with fatal conbroader level, the Award will help to initiate fresh ideas functional ceramic material impregnation, keeps the plus rubber. Freudenberg companies respond to these risks sequences such as strokes and heart attacks. Arterial within the New Business Development Division. and minus poles permanently separated. This minimizes the with targeted purchasing activities and by reviewing sclerosis is the official term for the disease. The occuparisk of short circuits or even battery fires while allowing the the utilization of substitute raw materials and alternative tional medicine and preventive healthcare department at All types of innovation are given equal consideration for ions and thus the current to flow freely. production processes. Long-term contracts are concluded Freudenberg Service KG offered to examine the personal the Freudenberg Innovation Award: Product, material, where feasible and meaningful. risk of heart attack for Freudenberg associates at the locaprocess and service. In a two-stage evaluation process, iv. Risk management tions served by the department. Almost 600 associates the jury initially selects five finalists before deciding on the Various measures to safeguard liquidity are in place took up the offer during the course of 2012. overall winner. Among the most important selection criteria Freudenberg is exposed to numerous risks inseparably which allow Freudenberg to react swiftly to unexpected are the degree of innovation, customer benefits and associated with entrepreneurial action. A risk manageliquidity-related risks. Such risks are hedged by the Giving back to society commercial potential. Further significant criteria include the ment system for the timely identification and control Group’s solid banking and shareholders’ financing and With the hope of bringing a little joy to people living contribution made to environmental protection and occupaof risks and the prompt initiation of countermeasures its high liquid reserves. The company has an above-averunder challenging circumstances, associates at Freudentional health and safety. to safeguard the company is in place throughout the age equity ratio, a stable level of Partners’ reserves and berg Filtration Technologies in India visited various charities Freudenberg Group. This decentralized system is oriented comprehensive credit lines. in the Pune area during the Diwali holidays. Diwali is the The following projects that reached the final round of this to the organizational structure of the Group. The Group’s most important Indian holiday and marks the annual start year’s Freudenberg Innovation Award are of special signifiorganizational guideline on risk management forms the Internal guidelines for companies in the Freudenberg of the Hindu lunar calendar. The holiday has a significance with regard to energy saving and safety: framework for the risk management system and is specifGroup clearly specify that derivative financial instruments cance similar to Christmas in western cultures. Companies ically adjusted to the requirements of the business units. may not be used for speculative purposes, but only for organize traditional festive meals for associates and their Proven energy savings enabled by high-tech lubrication The organizational structure of the Freudenberg Group hedging risks in connection with underlying transactions families. Since 2010, Freudenberg Filtration Technologies (awardee) underwent a thorough review in 2013 and adjustments and associated financing operations. in Pune has done things differently. Employees spend a The power consumption of industrial plants is often were made in some areas. free day during Diwali at a social institution, selecting the enormous. “Energy efficiency solutions” help to increase charity in their region that they wish to help and deciding both efficiency and cost-effectiveness. To begin with, an The companies of the Freudenberg Group supply inforwhat activities they would like to organize. The company innovative measurement and evaluation process identifies mation on the current status of major risks under a regular provides support in planning and implementing these energy-saving potential within the system. Smooth-running reporting procedure by which the most important risk projects. specialty lubricants are subsequently used in place of conprevention or risk reduction measures are listed for each ventional oils to reduce friction between individual comporisk and any early warning indicators reviewed. New iii. Freudenberg Innovation Award nents, resulting in proven reduced energy consumption and findings are incorporated in the Freudenberg Group’s risk increased performance. management process via a regular exchange of experiThe Freudenberg Innovation Award is the Freudenberg ence with other companies and external experts, thereby Group’s highest award for innovation and recognizes parensuring the further development of the risk management ticularly successful innovations. The Freudenberg Innovation system. Developments that could threaten the continued 8 9 III. Human rights and labor Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the People protection of internationally proclaimed human rights As a family company, we are devoted to our Principle 2: Companies should make sure that they are employees’ well-being and personal development. We not complicit in human rights abuses. reject all forms of discrimination and harassment and Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of show understanding and respect in our dealings with association and the effective recognition of the right to each other. We promote a multi-cultural environment collective bargaining; where employees work together in worldwide teams Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and to enrich our culture and capability. We believe in the compulsory labor; value of enduring relationships with customers, supPrinciple 5: the effective abolition of child labor, and pliers and industrial partners. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Responsibility Our company and its family shareholders together are committed to protecting the environment and being responsible corporate citizens in all countries and comCORPORATE PRINCIPLES munities in which we do business. We take all possible AND OMBUDS OFFICE care to ensure the safety of the workplace and of our products. Corporate principles The Freudenberg Group’s Guiding Principles express the As a family company, we strive for the highest stanGroup’s long-standing position with respect to human dards of personal behavior. Fairness and integrity rights and labor. The Guiding Principles are Value for guide our conduct amongst ourselves, towards our Customers, Leadership, Responsibility, Innovation, business partners and the general public. People and Long Term Orientation. These principles serve as the basis and yardstick for all of the Group’s Management Principles actions. Their implementation in day-to-day business is The Freudenberg Group has social responsibilities monitored on a regular basis. to all its staff, both in Germany and abroad. No one single standard can be applied here: what is needed The People and Responsibility Guiding Principles are is a flexible response attuned to the laws, customs, of particular relevance in the context of human rights needs and possibilities obtaining in each individual and labor. These principles articulate the Freudenberg country. Discrimination and exploitation of the weak Group’s commitment with respect to human rights, and helpless have no place in our company. promoting and maintaining a diverse workforce, and ensuring that employees have equal opportunity and The Group‘s business policy requires adherence to are treated with fairness and integrity. Specifically, these behavioral principles with which both the partners and principles state: the staff feel able to identify: 10 11 We, too, have to hold our own against fierce competiInfringements are not accepted and are corrected or A total of 25 new complaints from America, Asia and • prohibiting forced labor according to the definitions tion. Success has to come from performance; we shall punished, proceeding from the Management Board / Europe were processed and brought to a close in 2013. included in ILO Conventions 29 and 105; not agree to any business where illegal or unethical Board of Management through the management bodies of Apart from processing cases of infringements against appli• prohibiting child labor according to the definitions means are utilized. the Business Groups down to the respective superiors. This cable labor law, the work of the Ombuds Office focused included in ILO Convention 138 and 182. applies in particular to cases of bribery and corruption, in particular on cases of discrimination. We will not manufacture any products intended for infringements of anti-trust provisions, breaches of relevant The right of the employees in the Freudenberg Group to harming people (e.g. weapons). regulations under environmental, safety and labor laws In 2013, interviews with members of the Ombuds Office freely join trade unions of their choice, to elect workers’ (e.g. infringement of the principle of equality) and violations team were published in the “Freudenberg Magazine” (a representatives and to represent their interests in negoA responsible attitude to the environment and the of the personal rights of employees (e.g. personal disparjournal for Freudenberg employees) and in the intranet. tiations concerning collective bargaining agreements is safety of our staff are important corporate objectives, agement, sexual harassment). The Ombuds Office gave a presentation during the acknowledged. The basis for this is the ban on discrimand must not be restricted to letter-of-the-law compliconference of the Group youth works council and also at ination against shop-floor or trade union representatives ance with the relevant statutory requirements. The Ombuds Office induction events for new employees. included in ILO Convention 135. Work which is produced by disregarding the Corporate Principles or conduct which contradicts them is undesirable. EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATION Freudenberg European Works Council (FEBR) To that end, an Ombuds Office was set up at Freudenberg A regular informal exchange takes place with the repreThe Management Principles are one element of the SE to provide every employee with a channel of communiFreudenberg signed a Global Agreement on Social sentatives of the Group Works Council, the Freudenberg Freudenberg Group’s Business Principles. For more inforcation for reporting and investigating such infringements. Dialog with the International Federation of Chemical, European Works Council and the plant works councils. mation on the Business Principles, please refer to Chapter Energy, Mine and General Workers’ Unions (ICEM) and V. Anti-corruption. The Ombuds Office began work in May 2010, initially Industriegewerkschaft Bergbau, Chemie, Energie (Mining, 1996 saw the establishment of the first employee repwith three members, and has in the meantime established Chemical and Energy Industrial Union IG BCE) recognizresentational body on the basis of a European directive Compliance with the relevant laws and other statutory itself in the Group as a point of contact. A fourth member ing the international standards and conventions of the Interand a voluntary agreement the Freudenberg Euro-Foprovisions and with the applicable versions of the Business located in Shanghai joined the ombuds team in 2013. The national Labor Organization (ILO). An annual exchange rum, where delegates from employer representations Principles and Guiding Principles of the Freudenberg Group Ombuds Office records the information communicated to on social dialog issues has been taking place between in countries throughout Europe were able to discuss as well as compliance with the non-contradictory suppleit, checks its contents for truth and the associated infringethe Board of Management and employee representatives international issues with the Group Management Board. mentary in-house customs (e.g. codes of conduct, employee ments of the Corporate Principles, and works together with since ICEM and other trade unions merged in 2012 to manuals) and external local customs (together referred to various offices in the Group to correct – insofar as still posform IndustriALL. As part of the parent company’s restructuring and the as “Corporate Principles”) are indispensable requirements sible – the imminent infringement or one that has actually founding of Freudenberg SE, an agreement to establish for the good cooperation of all Group employees and taken place, and prevent comparable infringements through The guidelines for the Freudenberg Group are the exista new body for employee representation, the Freudena binding basis for the relationship with third parties, in appropriate action; where necessary, the infringement ing international conventions of the ILO, in particular the berg European Works Council (FEBR), was concluded particular suppliers, customers and authorities. The Corpoidentified is punished. following conventions in March 2012 following the appropriate consultation rate Principles are binding on all employees and must be process involving employee representatives. Once conactively practiced and implemented at all levels, starting The members of the Ombuds Office report direct to the • ensuring equal opportunities and equal treatment on the stituted, the FEBR replaced the old Freudenberg Euro-Fowith the members of the Management Board of FreudenAudit Committee of the Supervisory Board of Freudenjob in accordance with ILO Conventions 100 and 111; rum. The FEBR has more extensive information and berg & Co. Kommanditgesellschaft and the members of the berg SE. The Ombuds Office draws up an annual report • safeguarding freedom of association and the respect for consultation powers than the older body, as compliance Board of Management of Freudenberg SE, the members of on its activities during the preceding year for submission basic trade union rights in accordance with ILO Convenis needed with both national and European legislation. the management of the respective Business Groups, and by to the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board of tions 87 and 98; all other line superiors. Freudenberg SE. 12 13 In order to maintain the standards achieved to date, the The Fair Company quality seal is an initiative of karriere. interns rated Freudenberg in 2013 and the company out the Group for identified talents from the respective efforts of the new body will focus in particular on joint de, a portal run by the German business publications ranked seventh out of the top ten best employers for regions took place in the fall in North America, South responsibility, support and monitoring of compliance “Handelsblatt” and “Wirtschaftswoche”. Fair Company interns. America, China and India. with the above-mentioned Global Agreement on Social represents a voluntary undertaking on the part of the particDialog as well as joint support and monitoring of occuipating companies to comply with certain rules as regards Work-life balance A Regional Talent Dialogue for Europe is planned for pational health and safety principles. fair working conditions for career entrants. These rules The benefit@work online service portal offers quality-as2014. include the following: sured services for the family and home, particularly when PERSONNEL DEVELOPMENT it comes to caring for children and seniors or looking after Regional activities • Fair Companies do not substitute interns, “volunteers”, the home and garden. All Freudenberg employees in the The Freudenberg Group organizes leadership training Top Employer student assistants, long-term temporary workers, etc. for Weinheim region can use the services provided by benefor management talent in all regions. The Freudenberg Freudenberg & Co. was named a Top Employer in Gerpermanent employees. fit@work. The organization is reviewing the expansion of Leadership Development Program for Level 1 managers many in 2013 and repeated this achievement in 2014. • Fair Companies offer internships mainly for professional these services to other locations. has already become a tradition in Germany. The first leadorientation during the training phase. ership training for management talent at Freudenberg’s To be certified as a Top Employer, companies must • Fair Companies pay interns adequate compensation. The objective is to improve Freudenberg’s performance as European companies took place in the year under review. meet the high standards set by a multi-stage certification • Fair Companies are transparent and communicate their a family-friendly employer. The service portal helps employprocess which determines whether a company displays participation in the initiative. ees achieve a better work-life balance. The Freudenberg Leadership Development Program brings an above-average performance in respect of employee together employees from all Business Groups. One aim is orientation. Based on a comprehensive survey, the Top “Praktikantenspiegel” Talent management process to create the framework for participants to establish a close Employers Institute assesses the performance of CorpoThe Freudenberg Group received the “Top Praktikum Freudenberg rolled out a new talent management and durable network. In order to further strengthen and rate HR in the fields of personnel strategy, personnel 2013” award. process throughout the Group in 2013. The objective expand this effect, the first “alumni day” for the Freudenpolicy and practice, monitoring and communication of is to establish a uniform standard for talent manageberg Leadership Development Program was held in the working conditions, and personnel development. The The “Praktikantenspiegel” is an employer study conducted ment across the entire Freudenberg Group to achieve year under review. entire evaluation process and all the information subby the HR consultant CLEVIS and focuses on strategic comparability in the assessment process and to facilimitted by the participants is audited by an independent HR management issues. The two dimensional structure tate personnel development beyond the boundaries of In 2013, Freudenberg continued the leadership program external auditor on the basis of international standards. of the study allows for a separation of brand image and individual Business Groups. launched in North America in 2012. The program aims, employer quality. Only current and alumni interns take part among other things, to promote diversity. 20 employees Companies fulfilling the requirements for certification are in the survey, thus providing a representative evaluation The concept covers standardized assessment systems and with different cultural backgrounds took part in three onegiven individual feedback including an HR benchmark of companies based on a scientifically profound questionis based on coordinating skills profiles and potentials week modules held at various Freudenberg locations in report. Once certified as a Top Employer, companies can naire with over 100 items. The findings are presented in definitions. Individual agreements on the next developNorth America and designed to teach leadership skills use the official certification seal for a one-year period and a four-field matrix (the four identified employer types are ment steps are drawn up on the basis of these appraisals and illustrate the value of diverse teams. also enjoy special benefits (e.g. their corporate profile classified as “Star”, “Hidden Champion”, “Pretender”, with a view to preparing employees for future tasks. is published on the Top Employer website and they are “Challenger”), thus distinguishing the study quite signifiFreudenberg organized the third leadership program for featured in a Financial Times special report). cantly from linear employer listings. The first Global Talent Management Conference with the middle management in South America. New elements participation of all Business Groups took place in Febsuch as the skills profiles of the Group’s talent management Fair Company The Freudenberg Group received the “Top Praktikum ruary 2013. The Business Groups presented their Level process were added to the program in the year under The Freudenberg Group was awarded the Fair Company 2013” award and was classified as a “Star” company 1 managers and their high potentials. Regional Talent review. The objective is to gain an insight into the managequality seal back in 2009. with regard to employer quality and brand image. 68 Dialogues to discuss development perspectives throughment performance of each participant and to define both 14 15 individual and collective development plans. The program In the year under review, a project team also began work nonwovens based in Massachusetts. This was followed safety is encouraged and practiced at all hierarchy levels also encourages networking among the participants. 20 on drafting a program to reduce the fluctuation rate among by many projects involving close and strong collaboraon the basis of internal guidelines. participants successfully completed the program in Februproduction operatives and strengthen their identification tion in various parts of the world. Their success is based ary 2014. with Freudenberg. on a kind of cooperation that also fosters diversity within Health protection, occupational safety and process safety a company. Mutual respect and trust make it possible are part of the day-to-day working routine. The strong The fluctuation rate on the Chinese labor market in 2013 In India, Freudenberg consolidated various training to honor different cultural identities, to live the spirit of commitment of all Freudenberg associates is lived within was again extremely high. While personnel turnover at initiatives introduced at all organizational levels in 2011 friendship and to share knowledge with friends. the whole Group and is the responsibility of everybody. Freudenberg in China is below the national average, and 2012. During the year under review, special learning there is nevertheless potential for improvement, particularly kits were distributed to all employees who had previously Apart from the advantages that put diversity on the This approach has made it possible to bring down the at production locations, because production operatives taken part in these programs with a view to underpinning agenda, many countries in the Western world have number of accidents in the Freudenberg Group to a low account for 80 percent of fluctuation. the effectiveness of the training with the help of follow-up another reason for increasing diversity in a business conlevel compared to industry peers. Existing measures are learning material. At the same time, 2013 saw the introtext. Demographic trends are changing labor markets. being intensified and promising new approaches introAs a result of the situation on the Chinese job market, the duction of coaching programs for line managers aimed Societies are aging and the numbers of well-trained duced to continuously improve this accident record. time and effort required to recruit, induct, train and retain at transferring responsibility for the development of team young specialists and managers are therefore falling. So employees is high. In personnel work, talent managemembers to them, with the HR department assuming a corporations are contacting experienced associates and Success in the field of occupational safety is representative ment with a view to supporting Freudenberg’s sustainable supporting role. immigrants from other parts of the world, even more than of other areas where Freudenberg is also seeking contingrowth in China has evolved into a key issue. The followin the past, as well as improving the work-life balance uous improvement. Apart from environmental protection ing projects were implemented or introduced in the year In addition, several training programs were carried out in for young mothers to help them combine a career with a this applies in particular to health protection, where the under review: various departments. family. company is stepping up its efforts with regard to preventive health management projects. The fourth Freudenberg China Talent Summit, a two-year DIVERSITY MANAGEMENT However, diversity cannot be taken as a given. It must program for management talent featuring intensive trainbe nurtured and supported, misunderstandings must be The global roll out of the revised 1996 HSE guideline is ing modules, challenging project work and the targeted At Freudenberg, diversity has been on the agenda for resolved. Consequently, Freudenberg launched the first scheduled for 2014. One focus of the updated version communication of perspectives throughout the Freudenberg a long time: The Group’s Guiding Principle on “People” diversity training for management potentials in the USA. will be the integration of health protection. Group, commenced in 2013. The program prepares high states: “We promote a multi-cultural environment…” The The aim is to systematically strengthen the participants’ potentials in China for their first management posts. Candibenefits of diversity in a corporation are not just obvious entrepreneurial skills and to make sure they encourage dates from earlier programs now hold senior management in top management. On many levels, different experidiversity in their future management positions. positions in China. The programs include contributions ences, perspectives and specialist skills generate ideas from international managers. that can boost creativity and innovations. A company One key element of the talent management process is a with a diverse workforce stands a better chance of diversity statement issued by each Business Group presentA pension plan for China was launched on January 1, understanding different customers. ing the composition of management with regard to gender 2014. This plan is designed to give Freudenberg employdiversity, cultural diversity and generation diversity. ees in China the opportunity to contribute to a company Cooperating with partners from different cultures and pension scheme. Freudenberg is thus rewarding the perforharnessing the strengths of this diversity have a long traOCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY mance and loyalty of its employees and strengthening their dition at Freudenberg. The Group’s first joint venture was identification with the company. set up in the USA back in 1950, when Freudenberg and Freudenberg is committed to the well-being and personal an American partner established a company producing development of its employees. Occupational health and 16 17 NUMBER OF ACCIDENTS ≥ 1 DAY 1000 5 IV. Environmental protection 4.2 4.0 EMPLOYEES 4 3.5 3.4 3.3 3 2 1 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Preventive health care their working lives. Working in a team, the trainees develPrinciple 7: Businesses should support a precautionary The Oeko-Tex criteria were adopted as an internal threshThe Group further expanded preventive health care oped proposals to deal with unsafe work situations, and approach to environmental challenges; old in 2012. The long-term objective is to ban formaldemanagement in the year under review. Various prothen implemented these ideas cost-effectively and with a Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater envihyde from Freudenberg products. grams implemented Freudenberg’s health care principles minimum of red tape. ronmental responsibility; and throughout the company. Internal surveys on health care Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of Under the implementation program for REACh (European infrastructure served to identify improvement potential and Based on the consolidation at-equity, the total number of environmentally friendly technologies. Regulation on Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and define corresponding measures. Health care performance accidents resulting in more than one day’s absence in the Restriction of Chemicals), REACh coordinators have been indicators, such as the sickness rate, have been recorded year under review amounted to 111 (previous year: 102). appointed at all of Freudenberg’s European Business since 2011. The transparency brought by this process has The corresponding LDI rate (LDI is the acronym for Lost Day Freudenberg is committed to protecting the environment Groups. The coordinators meet once or twice a year, the already led to a series of improvement projects. Incident, i.e. all accidents at work involving at least one and assumes responsibility for making the company’s agenda at these meetings includes a discussion of current day’s absence per 1,000 employees) was 3.4 (previous activities as environmentally compatible as possible. developments or the reaction of customers and suppliers to Particular attention was devoted to addressing the chalyear: 3.3). Referred to one million working hours, the the REACh regulation and regulations of a similar nature. lenges associated with demographic change. One key rate was 1.9 (previous year: 1.8). The number of serious That includes using the natural resources we need for issue for the Business Groups was designing workplaces accidents fell from seven to six. our processes, products and services as carefully and Internal and external audit processes monitor the impleto ergonomic standards. Freudenberg Sealing Technolosparingly as possible. The protection of the environment mentation of HSE programs by the Business Groups, for gies has drawn up a guideline on ergonomics setting out is strongly positioned in Freudenberg’s business pracexample in respect of fire protection. The objective is to criteria and recommendations for designing and equipping tices. It is our target to continuously reduce the consumpraise awareness for fire protection and prevent production the Business Group’s workplaces. In addition, employees tion of resources through optimized business processes. interruptions and delivery shortfalls. The findings of the attend training sessions on ergonomics. We also follow this principle in the redesign and modaudits are systematically evaluated and measures impleernization of buildings, the manufacture of products and mented throughout the relevant Business Groups. How to cope with psychological stress was another focus the use of our products by customers. of health care efforts. Freudenberg Home and Cleaning EXAMPLES OF PRODUCT DEVELOPMENTS Solutions in the UK, for example, implemented an antistVarious raw materials and processes used in production ress project. Employees were shown how to identify and have a differing impact on the environment and the One example is Purtex®, a textile impregnation that – appropriately manage stress both on a personal level and workplace. The aim is to continuously reduce negative unlike fluorocarbon-based textile finishes – does not among their colleagues. effects. In the selection and further development of raw contain any substances that are considered in any way materials, processes and methods, Freudenberg is comdangerous, either to humans or the environment. At Occupational safety mitted to protecting its employees and the environment. Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions, new products Occupational safety measures focus on changing the This applies both to storing and processing raw mateundergo an evaluation process during the development behavior of all employees. One example of these efforts rials and to the disposal of production residue. Many stage to assess sustainability performance. New products is the numerous projects implemented under the “We all product developments are subjected to a stage-gate promust perform better than their predecessors. take care” environmental protection and occupational cess which among other things ensures that new prodhealth and safety initiative. One of the winning projects in ucts have a better environmental performance than their The LESS (Low Emission Sealing Solutions) package devel2013 was a scheme at Freudenberg Nonwovens called predecessors. There has, for example, been a noticeaoped by Freudenberg Sealing Technologies stands for “Trainees take care of safety” which encourages trainees ble reduction in the use of formaldehyde in binders in environmentally-friendly, resource-conserving mobility. The to start mastering workplace safety at an early stage in recent years. The more stringent statutory requirements package features advanced sealing technology that helps introduced during this period have been met. save fuel and reduce emissions, thus harnessing the maxi18 19 ENERGY CONSUMPTION SALES 0.4 0.359 [KWH /€] 0.35 0.337 0.3 0.284 0.256 0.250 0.25 0.2 0.15 0,1 0.05 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 mum engine efficiency potential, and also includes mature of Lutraflor®, a particularly lightweight and ecologically A large share of these products are manufactured with • Outsourced energy supplies (power, steam and district series solutions for alternative fuels as well as alternative sustainable automotive carpet material. Going forward, recycled polyester obtained in-house from post-conheat generated outside Freudenberg; 0.94 million megdrivetrain concepts, such as electric cars. Lutraflor® is to help secure market share in the automosumer PET bottles. This integrated production cycle not awatt hours) tive carpeting segment in the face of anticipated market only recycles waste, but also significantly reduces CO2 • Natural gas (0.53 million megawatt hours) One specific product from the LESS package is the Levitex changes. emissions. • Fuel oil (0.03 million megawatt hours gas-lubricated mechanical seal. Lower frictional losses reduce CO2 emissions per kilometer by as much as one EXAMPLES OF PROCESSES AND METHODS Freudenberg Politex Nonwovens continued its efforts to This energy consumption of 1.5 million megawatt hours gram. optimize the supply chain; these efforts included reducing translates into costs totaling approximately €122 million. Freudenberg Nonwovens commissioned a regranulation raw material consumption and implementing programs Energy costs accounted for 2.0 percent of total sales Freudenberg Sealing Technologies innovates in numerous unit at its Kaiserslautern facility in 2013. This unit allows to optimize processes, improve energy efficiency and (previous year: 2.1 percent). areas, from design and materials production through to materials rejected from the production process to be enhance product quality. mature, finished products. One promising new product is reused down to the last fiber. Furthermore, Freudenberg The introduction of management systems relating to occua cell frame seal, a mounting structure for large pouch-type Politex Nonwovens has reduced CO2 emissions from The “Zero Landfill” project was rolled out at all of the pational health and safety (OHSAS 18001) and environcells in lithium-ion batteries which is currently at the design staple fiber nonwoven production in Novedrate, Italy, by Business Group’s sites. The objective is to recycle waste mental protection (ISO 14001 or EMAS) continued in the analysis stage. a further 4 percent. and reduce landfill. The project will run for several 2013 financial year. 86 percent of Freudenberg Group years. The first progress was reported in 2013. Landfill production facilities now operate an occupational health The Levitex gas-lubricated mechanical seal comes Under the MatRessource initiative, the Federal Ministry of at the facility in Colmar, France, was cut by 12 percent and safety management system pursuant to OHSAS extremely close to the vision of a friction-free seal. The slide Education and Research granted funding worth €2.2 milyear-on-year. 18001 and 86 percent of Freudenberg Group producring interacts with a counter-ring to form a cushion of air, lion in 2013 to EagleBurgmann and six further industrial tion sites operate an environmental protection manageresulting in 90 percent less frictional loss than a convenpartners and research institutes to develop new technoloEnergy management ment system pursuant to ISO 14001 or EMAS. tional crankshaft seal ring. This reduces CO2 emissions gies aimed at improving resource efficiency. The aim of Many site projects and Business Group initiatives oriented by 0.5 to 1 gram/km during driving. Furthermore, longer the EkoDiSc project is to develop a new diamond silicon to the Freudenberg “Responsible Conduct” guideline There was one event with a significant environmental operating times are possible due to decreased wear. carbide material system. In order to facilitate applications focus on sustainable energy use with a view to reducing impact in 2013 (previous year: one event): in series-production, EagleBurgmann plans to achieve the environmental impact of business activities. Energy The newly-developed Gamesa G11X nacelle seal is the a significant reduction in the cost of manufacturing the managers have begun their work at many Business A fire broke out in the production hall of the SurTec do first nacelle seal for wind turbines. It was installed for the new material compared with DiamondFace® technology Groups and initiated numerous improvements to existing Brasil Ltda. facility in São Bernardo do Campo, Brazil. first time on the Canary Islands in April 2013. The seal while preserving the same robustness and a comparable plant such as heating systems, compressors, ventilation No one was injured. The production building was damensures a constant pressure in the nacelle and can close reduction in friction losses. and steam generation units. Some Freudenberg sites have aged and production was interrupted. The supply chain extreme gaps caused by nacelle deformation. The seal has begun to introduce a certified energy management syswas not affected. No wastewater or any water used to a long service life of 20 years and can be replaced even Freudenberg Politex Nonwovens, headquartered in tem pursuant to DIN EN ISO 50001 in order to achieve extinguish the fire was released. The fire was caused by under extreme conditions. Novedrate, Italy, is the world leader in the production a sustainable reduction in energy consumption. an electrical fault. and marketing of polyester nonwovens, mainly used During the course of 2013, Freudenberg Nonwovens as reinforcements for bituminous roofing membranes. Key environmental data invested in several projects in the automotive sector with a A broad range of products is furthermore sold to the In 2013, Freudenberg consumed 1.5 million megawatt view to positioning new innovative products in the marketconstruction industry for different applications. Technical hours (previous year: 1.5 million megawatt hours). The place. Innovations of note included the development of a polymers used as bitumen modifiers round off the product break-down by sources of energy is as follows: separator for lithium-ion batteries and the market launch program. 20 21 V. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in of Conduct sets out the behavior expected from every they should behave in such situations. Employees are all its forms, including extortion and bribery. employee when conducting business, regardless of the asked to assess the case studies and are given immedifunction or position. It serves as a guideline for appropriate feedback on their evaluations. ate behavior when dealing with ethical and legal issues Back in 1887, the company’s founder Carl Johann and, for this purpose, not only contains details of anti-corAnti-corruption measures and the validation of their Freudenberg set out his principles for conducting busiruption guidelines but also includes practical examples, effectiveness are firmly anchored in the risk management ness when his sons entered the family enterprise. These e.g. correct behavior in response to invitations. system and in the work of the Methods and Processes principles formed the basis for the ten Business Principles organizational unit. The objective in both cases is to later drawn up by the Freudenberg Group; these prinFurthermore, values and principles was one of the main identify corrupt actions, to review the effectiveness of ciples are a guide for both the company’s Partners and topics at the DIALOG management event that took place the measures taken, and to improve these measures, if employees. One of them states that success has to come in Weinheim in 2011, during which more than 300 necessary. from performance; Freudenberg does not agree to any managers discussed the values and principles of the business where illegal or unethical means are utilized. Freudenberg Group. Corruption was identified as one One of the key tasks of Methods and Processes is to verof the biggest challenges for companies. The discussion ify company cash flows and to scrutinize “entertainment The Freudenberg Group’s Guiding Principles were at the DIALOG event culminated in a keener common expenses” items. The Board of Management is notified derived from these Business Principles in 1999, and understanding of values and of management principles, immediately in the event that the auditing process identidefine the values for our behavior towards our employboth of which were subsequently transmitted throughout fies an irregularity. ees, business partners, stakeholders, and third parties. the Group at numerous follow-up events. The Guiding Principles clearly state that Freudenberg, As part of the risk management procedure, all manas a family company, strives for the highest standards of This included face-to-face training in Germany and at agement bodies are required to assess risks and report personal behavior, and that fairness and integrity guide international locations; in 2013, for example, over 250 regularly on measures taken. No cases of corruption our conduct among ourselves, towards our business managers in China attended a total of nine such semihave been identified since these two procedures were partners and towards the general public. The Business nars – which among other things featured case studies – introduced. Principles and the Guiding Principles are made known to organized by German and Chinese attorneys. The topics all new employees worldwide, and are also published covered ranged from Freudenberg’s values and principles on our homepage. Please refer to Chapter III., Human to national and international laws and legal requirements, rights and labor, for further information on the Guiding particularly with reference to gifts and invitations. Principles. Finally, Freudenberg cooperated with a leading supplier Some business units have issued their own Codes of of e-learning tools to develop such a tool on anti-corConduct based on our Business Principles and Guiding ruption; the tool is available to all employees on the Principles, or included compliance elements in their Freudenberg intranet and includes a final test. It will be general terms and conditions of purchase. Freudenberg integrated into a learning management system in 2014 Chemical Specialities, for example, has issued a Code and serves to communicate the kind of behavior that is of Conduct that is binding on all managers and employcompliant with statutory and regulatory requirements. ees. Infringements can lead to disciplinary measures There are brief examples of typical situations, which illusand even result in termination of employment. The Code trate how employees can recognize corruption and how 22 23 VI. Social responsibility The Freudenberg Group sees its social responsibility as an Once they have completed their training, the young peo6,000 employees = 6,000 trees integral part of its corporate governance and practices this ple stand a good chance of earning their own living while To moderate the rapid course of global warming, attribresponsibility both inside the company and externally. helping to improve the region’s infrastructure. uted to the increasing emission of greenhouse gases, it is necessary to bind the accumulated CO2. This can In the 2013 financial year, many of the Group’s combe done, for example by planting trees. That is how the panies, sites and employees around the world again idea was born at EagleBurgmann to plant one tree for engaged in local projects and initiatives in the spirit of each employee all over the world. But how do you plant responsible corporate citizenship. In addition, numerous 6,000 trees worldwide? At EagleBurgmann, there are two internal assistance and support programs are available to possibilities: the Group’s own employees. Within the scope of a joint project, employees can plant The following examples illustrate the long-term nature of trees at one of the company’s location. It is irrelevant these local projects: In the year under review, many young whether the trees are planted at the site itself or in an area people again completed their training at Freudenberg’s restored to nature in collaboration with forestry offices, nonprofit training center opened in 2009 in NagapatAn elementary school was rebuilt with Freudenberg’s around in a foreign language. Today’s international world authorities, etc. The second possibility to participate in tinam in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu south of Chennai, help and opened in 2009 in Haijin, a town in Sichuan of work calls for all these skills. the campaign is by way of donation. This is particularly and successfully found employment. The Nagapattinam province, China, almost completely destroyed by an earthtrue for locations in the EagleBurgmann group where trees region, with a population chiefly comprising low-income quake in May 2008. The building provides some 300 Since the program was launched in 1999, 928 chilcannot be planted due to the situation and the climatic students with the right setting for a successful start to their dren of employees have spent time with host families at conditions. education. Freudenberg employees visit the school each Freudenberg locations all over the world and gained year and organize various activities such as the summer a first-hand insight into a different culture. As a result, school project, extra tuition and a Christmas party. Over the young participants, their parents and host families 70 Freudenberg employees volunteered for the 2013 have a greater sense of belonging to the worldwide one-week summer camp and taught the children English, Freudenberg community. Friendships are made and great Chinese culture and sport. personal efforts are undertaken to continue these contacts well beyond the end of the stay – across national TANNER borders, professional levels, corporate departments and Freudenberg’s international youth exchange program companies. A close-knit network of TANNER contacts “TANNER” was launched in 1999. The first participants, around the world provides professional support for this children of Freudenberg associates all over the world, special form of international cooperation within the agricultural workers and fishermen, was hardest hit by the have now already started out on their careers. Many of Freudenberg Group. tsunami in 2004. To give the young people in the area the young people who have taken part in this exciting a sustainable basis for a better future and to meet the youth exchange program are already benefiting from In 2013, 66 young people gathered valuable experiabove-average need for high-quality training, the training their TANNER experience in training posts or their first ence in a foreign country under Freudenberg’s TANNER center gives young people the opportunity to complete jobs. Aged between 14 and 20, participants travel youth exchange program. A collective exchange in Parets dual study courses that are unique in India to train as alone to a Freudenberg site, encounter new people and del Valles, Spain, involving seven young people, was a welders, plumbers, engine mechanics and machine fitters. lifestyles, make new friends and learn to find their way special highlight in the year under review. 24 25 Legal notice Freudenberg & Co. KG Höhnerweg 2–4 69469 Weinheim, Germany Published by Corporate Communications A service for Corporate Health, Safety, Security, Environment QUESTIONS CONCERNING CONTENT SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO: Ismet Kutay Phone: +49 6201 805853 ismet.kutay@freudenberg.de www.freudenberg.com 26 27
