LGT Logistics Communication on Progress Statement by the CEO LGT logistics distribute furniture to retailers. We offer a complete solution to furniture distribution and storage needs within Europe. I am pleased to confirm LGT logistics support of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor rights, environment protection and anti-corruption. Our sustainability program is based on the ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We have identified our prioritized sustainability issues and we follow our performance on these issues on a yearly basis. In this Communication on Progress we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact principles into our business strategy and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our customers, employees, suppliers and other stakeholders. February 27, 2014 John Riis LGT Logistics, CEO Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Commitment: LGT Logistics actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We respect Human Rights within our sphere of influence and operate our business in a transparent and trustworthy way. LGT Logistics sees no significant risks that the company or its suppliers violates the UN Global Compact Principles 1-2. Systems: Our Code of Conduct is a clear set of standards for our business conduct, including The Global Compact Principles 1-2, the protection of human rights, health and safety. It provides the ethical and behavioral framework on which we base our decisions every day. The Code is anchored in values and beliefs and underpins all that we do. Activities: We continuously work to anchor our Code of Conduct among our employees and suppliers, including Global Compact´s Principles 1-2. Performance: In the past year LGT Logistics has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights violations. Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Commitment: We respect the right of workers and operate our business with safe and attractive working conditions. We respect the freedom of association and collective bargaining and have zero tolerance for forced labour, child labour or discrimination. LGT Logistics sees no significant risks that the company or its suppliers violates the UN Global Compact Principles 3-6. Systems: Our Code of Conduct is a clear set of standards for our business conduct, including Global Compact Principles 3-6. Activities: We continuously work to anchor our Code of Conduct among our employees and suppliers, including Global Compact´s Principles 3-6. Performance: No incidents on violations on labour rights have been reported to the Company Management. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Commitment: We recognize that our production and transports have a negative impact on the environment. We constantly work to minimize these effects. Systems: Our Code of Conduct is a clear set of standards for our business conduct, including Global Compact Principles 7-9. We also have an environmental policy in order to lower our overall environmental impact. Activities: We continuously work to anchor our Code of Conduct among our employees and suppliers, including Global Compact´s Principles 7-9. Performance: No incidents on violations on the Global Compact’s Principles 7-9 have been reported to the Company Management. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Commitment: LGT Logistics does not participate in any corruption, bribery or extortion. Systems: Our Code of Conduct is a clear set of standards for our business conduct, including Global Compact Principle 10. Activities: We continuously work to anchor our Code of Conduct among our employees and suppliers, including Global Compact´s Principle 10. Performance: No incidents on corruption have been reported to the Company Management.
