1 DONG Energy in society Responsibility report 2013 DONG Energy at a glance DONG Energy is one of the leading energy groups in Northern Europe, headquartered in Denmark. Around 6,500 ambitious employees are engaged in exploring and producing oil and gas, developing, constructing and operating offshore wind farms, generating electricity and heat from our offshore wind farms and power stations, and providing energy to residential customers and business customers on a daily basis. NORWAY SWEDEN DENMARK GERMANY UNITED THE NETHERLANDS KINGDOM FRANCE Our performance 2013 REVENUE OPERATING PROFIT 73.1 DKK bn 15.0 DKK bn INVESTMENTS EMPLOYEES 21.2 DKK bn 6,496 KEY FIGURES BY BUSINESS UNIT EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION WIND POWER Exploration and production of oil and gas Development, construction and operation of offshore wind farms Revenue (DKK bn) 12.3 Revenue (DKK bn) 12.0 Operating profit (DKK bn) 7.3 Operating profit (DKK bn) 4.3 Investments (DKK bn) 9.6 Investments (DKK bn) 9.5 Employees 689 Employees 1,909 THERMAL POWER CUSTOMERS & MARKETS Electricity and heat generation Sales of electricity and gas in the wholesale from power stations and retail markets and optimisation and hedging of the Group’s overall energy portfolio Revenue (DKK bn) 9.7 Revenue (DKK bn) 49.7 Operating profit (DKK bn) 0.7 Operating profit (DKK bn) 2.3 Investments (DKK bn) 0.7 Investments (DKK bn) 1.4 Employees 967 Employees 1,639 Our CEO on corporate responsibility What does corporate responsibility mean Our oil and gas production is another good environment, human rights, labour and at DONG Energy? example. While we are transitioning to renewanti-corruption. We must ensure at all times able energy, we will still need oil and gas for that our activities contribute positively to It means that we have a responsibility many years to come to keep society going. the company’s financial results, while also towards our many different stakeholders. Oil is crucial in the transport sector and in contributing to promoting the UN Global It is of course crucial that we run our business the plastics and chemical industry. And gas Compact principles. in a way that enables us to secure a sound emits up to half as much CO2 as coal. DONG return for our owners on the capital we invest. Energy produces oil and gas to meet these We live in a world that is constantly changing, If we fail to do so, we cannot maintain our needs. and we therefore regularly come up against existence as a business in the long term. new issues that need to be handled, and that The development of new energy solutions require careful consideration and dialogue But we also have a responsibility in relation to and the supply of energy to our customers with our stakeholders. So we will never cross a number of other stakeholders. That means satisfy a range of fundamental societal needs the finish line. But fundamentally, I believe responsibility in respect of our employees, and also contribute to DONG Energy’s ability that DONG Energy makes a highly positive for one thing, as we want to ensure that our to develop and renew its business and thus contribution to society. employees can develop professionally and deliver a reasonable return to our shareholdpersonally and that they work in a safe and ers on the capital they have invested in the secure physical and mental working environcompany. ment. We also have a responsibility towards our customers, in that we must deliver products that live up to their reasonable Do you find there is a conflict between expectations. our objective of delivering a return to our investors and having to live up to And we also have a corporate responsibility the expectations which many of our in a wider sense in terms of supplying the stakeholders have for our business? energy that helps keep the wheels turning in modern society, and contributing to solving I do not see any conflict at all; quite the some of the huge environmental and climate contrary. Creating satisfaction among challenges facing the world. Overall, corpocustomers, creating satisfaction among rate responsibility can be seen as an inteemployees, developing productive relations grated part of the set of targets that we as with suppliers and generally being perceived a company have adopted. as a responsible company by society at large, are all factors that contribute to the success of a company – including its financial Wherein lies the value for DONG Energy success. And delivering results in accorin working with corporate responsibility? dance with our stakeholders’ expectations contributes to the success of our company. We use our competences to develop a range of long-term solutions to some of the fundamental challenges facing society. Do we live up to our responsibility? Our development of offshore wind is a good example. This is a solution that contributes to Being a responsible company is a constant Henrik Poulsen reducing CO2 emissions, and helps us use the challenge that you will never manage to CEO DONG Energy wind as an energy resource instead of having completely solve as a company. DONG to import energy. With offshore wind power, Energy’s work on corporate responsibility we are also creating a new business area is based on the UN Global Compact, which which generates a growing portion of DONG defines a number of principles for good Energy’s revenue and earnings. corporate behaviour within four focus areas: Contents 1 10 16 Introduction Energy for society Competitive energy 1 DONG Energy at a glance 11 Fresh wind ahead! 17 Cheaper offshore wind 2 Our performance 2013 12 Oil and gas keep the wheels turning 18 Lower energy costs 3 Our CEO on corporate responsibility We explore in the north Wind at sea is a free resource 5 Leading the energy transformation 13 The flexible teammate 19 A vitamin pill for the economy 6 DONG Energy’s 2020 strategy 14 A whole new bioworld New money creates shared value Driving on biomass Investments up North 7 Highlights in 2013 Waste is a resource 20 More local value Biomass can be harnessed better 21 European energy 15 So reliable that you can take it for granted The art of balance 22 28 32 Clean energy People matter Business integrity 23 85% less CO2 29 Safety first 33 Keeping the customers in focus The clean offshore wind Fewer accidents Straight talk 24 A greener life for power stations A joint effort Electricity bills that make sense We select wood pellets carefully 30 Investing in development 34 Responsibility reaches beyond 25 Waste recycling An attractive workplace our own walls Gas halves the problem More voluntary employee Collaboration on improvements From dull residue to energy resignations Better coal Residual products are valuable 31 Equal career opportunities 35 Good business conduct 26 Energy efficiency New policy for women Transparent tax contributions – an invisible partner in management Climate partnerships reduce Health and exercise pay off 37 DONG Energy’s award winnings CO2 emissions in 2013 27 More than CO2 Careful water treatment Both fish and fowl DONG Energy’s complete responsibility performance data for 2013 are available at Cleaner air dongenergy.com/responsibility2013-data 5 Leading the energy transformation Energy for society Competitive energy Clean energy People matter Business integrity Renewing energy for society, supplying The essential energy transformation We often take energy for granted in our daily lives. Individuals and energy at competitive prices and companies expect power in their outlets, gas for the gas furnace and petrol for the car when they need it – and rightly so. producing cleaner energy. These are three important challenges facing Europe’s energy companies play an important role in ensuring that there is always sufficient energy in society and that energy systems society and the energy industry; are continuously renewed, for example when power stations reach the end of their productive lives. challenges to which DONG Energy The long-term journey that we have embarked on involves a transition will contribute to developing solutions. to more renewable energy with less impact on the climate and the environment. This energy transformation requires continuous Our vision is to lead the energy investments, which must be financially viable and provide energy transformation towards more renewable at competitive prices. During the transition to renewable energy, oil and gas will still be required, as they will continue for many years energy, thereby contributing to creating to be commodities that are necessary to keep modern society going. We must use oil and gas and other forms of energy highly value for the society that we are a part of. efficiently to ensure the lowest possible CO2 emissions. Five challenges Renewing energy for society, supplying energy at competitive prices and producing cleaner energy. These are three important challenges facing society; challenges to which DONG Energy would like to contribute to developing solutions. In DONG Energy, we also strive to be a stimulating and safe workplace for our employees, and integrity should always be at the heart of how we conduct our business. This amounts to five key challenges which we call Energy for society, Competitive energy, Clean energy, People matter and Business integrity. DONG Energy’s 2020 strategy contributes to providing solutions to these five challenges. In this report, you can read about how we in DONG Energy use our competences to realise this strategy. Through the transformation to more renewable energy, DONG Energy renews energy for society, contributes to a cleaner and healthier society and generates economic value for society and for our owners. 6 DONG Energy’s 2020 strategy creates shared value Status 2013 2020 target Value for society Value for DONG Energy Development of 2.1 GW offshore wind 6.5 GW offshore wind In 2020, DONG Energy’s developMaintains DONG Energy’s offshore wind installed installed ment of offshore wind farms can global market leader position supply 15 million Europeans with within offshore wind. renewable electricity each year. Also, it reduces the need for importing energy to Europe. Increased oil and 87,000 barrels of oil 150,000 barrels of oil In 2020, DONG Energy’s oil and Develops DONG Energy’s gas production equivalents per day equivalents per day gas production can cover 3.8 million regional position of strength in Europeans’ annual consumption. North-western Europe within oil Also, it reduces the need for importand gas production. ing oil and gas to Europe. Increased use 18% biomass at 50% biomass at Converting DONG Energy’s Danish Anchors the role of power of biomass Danish power stations Danish power stations power stations to 50% sustainable stations as suppliers of flexible biomass towards 2020 ensures green generation capacity in the electricity and heat for our customers. future energy system, which In 2013, our power stations’ biomasswill increasingly be based on based generation corresponded to renewable energy. 380,000 households’ consumption. Competitive The cost of offshore Reducing the cost of offshore wind Is necessary if the offshore offshore wind wind electricity must electricity brings offshore wind wind market is to continue its be reduced by on a par with conventional energy growth and to ensure support 35-40% compared technologies, provided that fossil for the continued development to 2012 technologies are charged with a fair of offshore wind. CO2 cost. HIGHER energy 2.0 TWh saved at 5.9 TWh saved at In 2020, the accumulated energy Strengthens DONG Energy’s efficiency Danish customers Danish customers savings at DONG Energy’s Danish offers within intelligent customsince 2006 since 2006 customers will correspond to 556,000 er solutions and reinforces the Danes’ annual electricity and heat relation to our customers. consumption. The savings increase society’s energy efficiency and reduce CO2 emissions. Reduced CO2 30% reduced CO2 60% reduced CO2 Reduces CO2 emissions from our Strengthens DONG Energy’s emissions emissions from emissions from electricity and heat generation and market position within electricity and heat electricity and heat contributes to reducing the negative development of renewable generation compared generation compared impacts on the climate. The differenergy. to 2006 to 2006 ence between DONG Energy’s CO2 emissions in 2006 and 2013 equals the amount of CO2 emitted by more than 4 million cars in one year. Improved safety Lost time injury Lost time injury Creates a safe working environment Creates a safe workplace for frequency of 3.2 frequency of less for both employees and contractors our employees and suppliers. than 1.5 and reduces society’s costs for injury treatment and work absence. Increased Danish private customer Danish private and Each customer is put first and Strengthens our position on customer satisfaction at 64 and business customer experiences a high level of service. the markets for both private satisfaction Danish business satisfaction must and business customers. customer satisfaction both be 75 out of 100 at 75 out of 100 7 How we work with Highlights in 2013 corporate responsibility We have ongoing and systematic dialogues with our stakeholders. Through the dialogues, we identify the areas where DONG Energy can pay a particularly important contribution to solving key societal challenges, while at the same time creating value for our shareholders. This report focuses on these Competitive energy areas. How do we provide energy at competitive prices and The dialogue with our stakeholders is part of our responcontribute to the creation sibility policy, which has been of growth and jobs? adopted by DONG Energy’s Energy for society Board of Directors. The four principles of the policy – How do we continuously Page 16 stakeholder engagement, renew the energy supply? materiality, action and transparency – govern our Page 10 work on responsibility in practice. Also, our responsibility policy Development of offshore wind is based on the UN Global Today, 5 million Europeans may Compact, according to which annually be supplied with energy we are obliged to make from offshore wind farms installed continuous progress within by DONG Energy. the Global Compact’s four Page 11 focus areas: environment, human rights, labour and anti-corruption. Our priorities Increased oil and gas production Competitive offshore wind and progress within these DONG Energy’s annual oil and gas DONG Energy has set the target four areas are described in production now corresponds to of reducing the cost of electricity this report. more than 2.2 million Europeans’ from offshore wind farms by annual consumption. 35-40% from 2020 relative to 2012. Read more about our approach to responsibility Page 12 Page 17 and the dialogue with our stakeholders here. Increased use of biomass Higher energy efficiency In 2013, DONG Energy’s power DONG Energy’s accumulated energy stations generated biomass-based savings at Danish customers since electricity and heat corresponding 2006 now annually save the equivato the consumption of more than lent of more than 188,000 Danes’ 380,000 Danish households. electricity and heat consumption. Page 13 Page 18 8 Business integrity How do we ensure that we operate our business with high integrity? Clean energy How do we make the Page 32 transformation to cleaner energy? Page 22 Reduced CO2 emissions The difference between DONG Energy’s CO2 emissions from People matter electricity and heat generation in How do we promote safety, the 2006 and 2013 equals the amount right skills and a stimulating of CO2 emitted by more than 4 working environment? million cars in one year. Page 23 Page 28 Less coal consumption Improved safety Since 2006, DONG Energy’s coal The number of lost time injuries Increased customer satisfaction consumption has been halved. have been reduced from 7.5 per DONG Energy’s business customer Page 24 million working hours in 2008 satisfaction is continuously rising to 3.2 in 2013. and is now 75 on a scale of 1-100. Page 29 Page 33 Women in management Preventing fraud and corruption In 2013, DONG Energy adopted a 96% of our employees have policy setting targets for the share completed e-learning in good of women at all management levels. business conduct. Page 31 Page 35 Energy for society How do we continuously renew the energy supply? As consumers, we often take energy for granted. It’s just there. And this is how it should be. Therefore, we have to continuously renew the energy supply to ensure that there will always be energy enough for everyone. Many power stations in Europe are old, and in the course of the next couple of decades, a lot of them will be decommissioned. We have to find something sustainable to replace them with. In addition, the EU’s oil and gas production is declining. The EU currently imports three quarters of its oil and gas, and this figure increases year by year. How do we continuously renew the energy supply so that it moves in a still more sustainable direction, and so that companies and individuals will continue to have access to abundant and reliable energy supplies? 11 Energy for Competitive Clean People Business society energy energy matter integrity Fresh wind ahead! There is plenty of wind in Northern Europe – especially at sea. The potential is so great that, in theory, offshore wind could supply 80% of the EU with electricity in 2030. One of DONG Energy’s offshore wind turbines In the early 1990s, DONG Energy experiinstalled in a favourable location, such as mented with installing 11 small onshore wind Horns Rev 2, produces electricity more than turbines in the waters off Lolland. We were 90% of the time. the first in the world to install wind turbines offshore. Since then, we have gained solid More wind power will make Europe less deFacts experience, and we have built more offshore pendent on imports of large volumes of coal, wind farms than any other company in the oil and gas. And our 2020 target will make world. By 2013, we had installed enough offshore wind turbines to supply 5 million offshore wind one of DONG Energy’s largest business areas. It is an ambitious target 54% Europeans with electricity. requiring constant innovation and involving In 2011, the EU depended on importing 54% certain risks such as technical and project of the energy consumed. Our plan is to have installed three times management risks – just like other energy as much offshore wind capacity by 2020 – enough to cover the electricity consumed by projects. However, in DONG Energy, we have built knowledge on how to manage these 35% more than 15 million Europeans annually. risks. We are currently installing offshore Today, the EU is around 35% more dependent It is possible to supply that many people with wind farms such as Westermost Rough in the on energy imports than in the 1980s, and the electricity because there is plenty of space UK and Borkum Riffgrund 1 in Germany. increase is expected to continue. and wind at sea. Each of the wind farms we build today has the same capacity as a traditional power station, and a wind turbine Sources: IEA 2012; Eurostat 2013 Development of offshore wind In 2013, the offshore wind farms installed by DONG Energy had the capacity to supply electricity to 5 million Europeans. In 2020, it will be more than 15 million Europeans. “Offshore wind is core to DONG Energy’s strategy and builds on our long heritage in the pioneering of generation from wind. We’re a world leader in offshore wind and today, including projects like London Array, we have installed enough capacity in the UK to supply electricity to more than 2.7 million people.” Electricity for 5 million Electricity for 15 million Benjamin Sykes UK Country Manager, Wind Power, Europeans in 2013 Europeans in 2020 DONG Energy Energy for Competitive Clean People Business 12 society energy energy matter integrity Oil and gas keep the wheels turning While we are expanding renewable energy sources, society still needs oil and gas to keep us moving and to keep our homes warm. Also, oil is an important component of many of our everyday necessities – such as clothes, mobile phones and bottles. In 2035, oil and gas are expected to account for 53% of the EU’s energy consumption. In DONG Energy, we are working to find new or in fields that are very complicated to reach. oil and gas fields and increase production in Extracting the oil and gas requires constant Denmark, the UK and Norway. In 2013, we technological development. The oil field Siri in the Danish North Sea produced 87,000 barrels a day, corresponding to the oil and gas consumed by more than For many years, DONG Energy has been 2.2 million Europeans a year. Our target is to active in the exploration and production of oil produce 150,000 barrels a day in 2020. and gas in North-western Europe, and these competences will help us meet our 2020 We explore in the North The oil and gas reserves in Europe are detarget. Our production helps fulfil society’s creasing, but there is still more to find. Howdemand for oil and gas, and the oil and gas In DONG Energy, we are exploring for oil and ever, it is getting harder and harder to extract business will continue to generate an imporgas in the northern regions around Northern the oil and the gas, as they are often found in tant share of DONG Energy’s total earnings Norway, Greenland and the Faroe Islands. small fields where extraction is not profitable and return. The exploration in Greenland is at a very early stage where most of the work so far is limited to data processing on computers. We do not know when or if we will be able to produce from there, and if so, it will be many years into the future. But one thing is certain: We will only search for, drill for and produce the oil if it can be done safely for people, animals Increased oil and gas production and the environment. Read more about how we take care of the In 2013, DONG Energy produced enough environment on page 27. oil and gas to cover 2.2 million Europeans’ annual consumption. In 2020, it will be 3.8 million Europeans’ consumption. Oil and gas for 2.2 million Oil and gas for 3.8 million Europeans in 2013 Europeans in 2020 13 Energy for Competitive Clean People Business society energy energy matter integrity The flexible teammate Facts 80% By 2035, the EU must replace and build the equivalent of 80% of its current electrical capacity. Source: IEA 2013 Increased use of biomass The Avedøre power station has the world’s most efficient power station unit In 2013, DONG Energy generated biomass-based electricity and heat corresponding to the DONG Energy has 9 central power stations in Denmark. annual consumption in 380,000 households. They ensure that there is always heat in the radiator and power in the outlet – also on days when there is no wind. And by converting some of the power stations from coal and gas to biomass, such as wood pellets and woodchips, they are given a new and greener life. In 2013, our power stations produced an coal and gas to sustainable biomass. In this amount of electricity equal to the annual conway, the power stations get a new and greener sumption in more than 4 million homes. They life to ensure that they will continue to be the also supplied one-third of all Danish district flexible teammate supplementing electricity heating – or the equivalent of the annual heat generated from the sun and the wind. consumption in 600,000 Danish homes. Our target for 2020 is that 50% of the energy The power stations play an important role in generated by power stations will come from the energy system, and with still more wind biomass. In 2013, the share was 18%. This and solar energy in the energy system, we provided green electricity and heat corremust be able to ramp power station producsponding to the annual consumption in more tion up or down easily, depending on whether than 380,000 Danish households. For DONG the wind is blowing or the sun is shining. This Energy, the conversion to biomass means is an important task for DONG Energy’s power that we are able to anchor the role of power stations in the future. We must always provide stations in the energy system of the future, our customers with the electricity and heat which will increasingly be based on renewable that they need, and the efficiency and flexienergy. Green electricity and heat for bility of our power stations help us do this. Read more about how we ensure that the 380,000 Also, greener energy is in demand among our biomass is sustainable on page 24. Danish households in 2013 customers. In DONG Energy, we plan to convert some of our Danish power stations from Energy for Competitive Clean People Business 14 society energy energy matter integrity A whole new bioworld Biomass is filled with energy. DONG Energy has developed three biotechnologies that convert waste, “We are collaborating with DONG Energy on marketing the Inbicon straw and energy crops to biogas, bioethanol and technology on the Chinese market. advanced biomaterials. These technologies turn We only invest in projects that we consider to be commercially viable otherwise redundant biomass into energy sources and which spur real development in that can replace fossil fuels and for example be a country. This collaboration may pave the way for further investments a clean supplement to wind power. We call these in bio-based technologies.” technologies Inbicon, REnescience and Pyroneer. Anders Nellemose Senior Investment Manager, the Investment Fund for Developing Countries (IFU) Inbicon REnescience Pyroneer Driving on biomass Waste is a resource Biomass can be harnessed better Around 30% of the world’s total energy In the EU, 37% of our household waste goes consumption is used for transport. to landfill. In DONG Energy, we see waste as Biomass is a good alternative to coal, Second-generation bioethanol may be a a resource. and it can be harnessed even better than clean supplement to petrol and diesel. we do today. In collaboration with our partners, DONG In DONG Energy, we have developed the Energy has developed the REnescience techWe have developed the Pyroneer techInbicon biotechnology, which converts straw nology, where we mix household waste with nology, which converts straw and other and other agricultural waste products into enzymes. During this process, the elements waste products to valuable biogas. In this second-generation bioethanol. As opposed that may be reused or used as fuel at a power way, we achieve a better utilisation of bioto first-generation biofuels, this is not sostation are separated, and the organic part mass as an alternative to coal and other called ‘food petrol’, as the technology is of the waste is converted to an energy-rich fossil fuels at the power stations. not based on potential foods. bioliquid that can be used to produce biogas, electricity and heat, among other things. In 2011, we set up a 6MW demonstration Inbicon is met with interest around the world, plant at the Asnæs power station in Kalundand we have entered into partnerships on the REnescience may contribute to solving the borg, Denmark. The experience gained from development of plants in China and Brazil, global waste problem, and in DONG Energy this small plant will provide us with the knowamong other places. we believe that there is commercial potential how required to build larger plants around in selling this technology. We are currently the world. We plan to put a 50MW plant into working on the realisation of REnescience operation in 2017. projects in North-western Europe, such as in the Triangle Region in Jutland, Denmark. 15 Energy for Competitive Clean People Business society energy energy matter integrity So reliable that you can take it for granted As consumers, we take power for granted. And this is how it should be. DONG Energy’s customers must have power from the outlet when they need it. DONG Energy owns and operates the elecWhen two storms raged across Europe in Cable laying north of Copenhagen in Denmark tricity distribution network in the Greater October and December 2013, we reaped Copenhagen Area and on Northern Zealand, the benefits of this work. The strong October and we own and operate the gas distribution storm only caused around 7,000 power network in Southern Jutland and on Southern Zealand. outages for our distribution customers in the Greater Copenhagen Area and Northern 99.994% Zealand. And the vast majority of these were We want to guarantee our customers a stable only very short. By comparison, more than energy supply, and our ambition is that customers do not experience more than an avereight times as many customers lost power during the 1999 storm. In 2013, our approxiage of 35 minutes of power outages annually. mately 870,000 Danish In 2013, the average was 29.6 minutes. Following the 1999 storm, the Danish Energy Association estimated the socio-economic electricity customers It used to be a challenge that power lines loss at 53.2 million euro for the entire hung in the air and were exposed to storms country; among other things because some had a 99.994% reliable especially. For this reason, we have spent companies had to cease production. In 2013, recent years replacing the overhead lines with the loss only amounted to 2.1 million euro. supply. underground cables. We expect all overhead lines to be removed by the end of 2014 at the latest. The art of balance More power from the wind and sun means In 2013, we performed a number of live more fluctuating electricity generation. This demonstrations that showed how we are increases the need to be able to quickly adable to control pumps, heating and cooling “It’s ground-breaking that we’ve got just the supply and consumption of electricity systems in an industrial area by means of final proof that Power Hub will be able to ensure balance in the grid at all times. Power Hub. to play a vital part in the integration This is important to avoid power outages of the ever-increasing amount of for customers. The Faroe Islands, where people used to live with frequent and major failures, is the renewable energy in Europe.” In DONG Energy, we have developed Power first place in the world where Power Hub Hub, which is able to turn the customers’ has been put into use, as it is difficult to Evert den Boer production and consumption units up or integrate renewable energy in the islands’ Senior Vice President down to avoid sudden excessive or low isolated electricity grid. At the end of 2013, of International Sales, voltage in the electricity grid. A unit might we entered into a partnership to employ the DONG Energy be a cold store or a pump. technology on other islands. This means that the flexibility provided by Power Hub is of increasing financial value to DONG Energy. Competitive energy How do we provide energy at competitive prices and contribute to the creation of growth and jobs? Without energy, Europeans would not be as prosperous as many are today. Energy is necessary for companies to be able to operate and for all of us to have lighting and heating in our everyday lives. One of the most important tasks for the energy industry is to supply energy at competitive prices, which at the same time contributes to creating growth and jobs in society. This means that it is quite a challenge that Europe has to replace most of its power stations in the course of the next two decades. It will be costly and require major investments. And as the EU’s own production of oil and gas is declining, the import of fossil fuels at higher and fluctuating prices will increase. How do we renew the energy supply to provide energy at competitive prices and contribute to the creation of growth and jobs? 17 Energy for Competitive Clean People Business society energy energy matter integrity Cheaper offshore wind One of the main challenges facing the energy industry is that of renewing the energy system while at the same time ensuring that energy continues to be affordable. Because the fact is that electricity from new power stations and wind turbines costs more than electricity from old power stations and wind turbines that have been fully depreciated. Facts In DONG Energy, we are experts in offshore This objective represents a major challenge wind, and this technology represents a parwhich will require new and larger turbines, ticular challenge. Today, offshore wind is more new foundations and new ways of installing expensive to set up than coal, gas, nuclear and operating the turbines. With fewer and 6.6% power or onshore wind. This is no wonder as larger turbines, we can achieve the same In one year, from 2011 to 2012, electricity prices offshore wind did not gather speed at DONG electricity generation at a lower cost. in the EU rose by 6.6% on average. Energy and other companies until 10-15 years ago. By comparison, the onshore wind It is also about standardisation. Previously, technology has seen significant development offshore wind farms were purpose-built for 0% since back in the 1970s, which means that it specific locations. In future, we will increasThe Danish electricity prices remained stable and is currently able to compete with fossil fuels ingly select projects based on whether the did not increase during this period. in many places. locations will accommodate a standardised farm. We are focusing on streamlining the Over the next couple of years, offshore wind development of new wind farms to achieve Source: Eurostat 2013 has to go on the same journey as onshore even greater cost savings. wind has already travelled. In DONG Energy, we intend to reduce the cost of offshore wind It is necessary to reduce the cost of offshore by 35-40% for farms decided upon in 2020 wind to ensure popular and political support as compared to 2012. Along with a meaningful for the technology. And it is necessary to enprice for CO2 emissions, the cost of offshore sure that the offshore wind market continues wind will then be on a par with coal, gas and to grow, and that we in DONG Energy are able nuclear power. to fulfil our objective of having offshore wind generate a major part of our earnings in 2020. Competitive offshore wind DONG Energy’s offshore wind must be 35-40% cheaper from 2020 compared to 2012. 160 euro 100 euro per MWh in 2012 per MWh from 2020 Energy for Competitive Clean People Business 18 society energy energy matter integrity Facts Lower energy costs 113% For some companies, energy accounts for a large From 2005 to 2012, the European prices of coal, oil and gas increased by between 84% and 113%, part of their costs. The money saved on energy may and they are fluctuating more and more. be spent elsewhere. 89.6 euro The European price of coal increased by 130% In DONG Energy, our objective is to quadruenergy. With the help of DONG Energy’s enerfrom 2006 to 2008, peaking at 108.3 euro per ple energy savings at our Danish customers gy consultants, our customers have been able tonne. In 2009, the price then fell again by 50% from 2012 to 2020. to accelerate their work on energy savings, to 54.3 euro per tonne, only to rise again by 65% whether by identifying savings potential, We pursue the objective of helping our developing energy projects to invest in or from 2009 to 2011 to a price of 89.6 euro per customers save energy through our climate implementing energy savings in buildings or tonne. partnerships, through the sale of consultancy production plants. services and through initiatives promoting the various subsidies offered under the In 2013, especially Novozymes, Haldor Source: BP Statistics Database 2013 Danish Energy Agency’s energy-saving Topsøe, Chr. Hansen, the University of scheme. Since 2006, we have helped our Copenhagen and Aalborg Portland have concustomers realise increasing amounts of tributed to ensuring that we are now one step annual energy savings. In 2013, the accumucloser to our 2020 target for energy savings. lated energy savings corresponded to more than 188,000 Danes’ electricity and heat By reducing energy costs, companies are able Wind at sea is consumption. In 2020, it will correspond to more than 556,000 Danes’ consumption. to free up resources for other activities, and for DONG Energy, the value lies in building a free resource The companies that make use of our consulstronger relations with our customers. tancy services discover that they can save money quickly and with low risk by saving The prices of the fossil resources of coal, gas and oil are both unstable and have been on the rise since around the turn of the millennium. This makes the price of power fluctuate and makes it harder for companies to predict their future expenses. With offshore wind, the initial investment in the offshore wind turbine is relatively high, but once it has been set up, the price of the Higher energy efficiency electricity is largely known, because the wind is a free resource. This ensures predictability, In 2020, the accumulated energy savings which DONG Energy has because the price of electricity is decoupled helped its Danish customers to realise since 2006 will save as much from the fluctuating fuel prices. energy annually as 556,000 Danes consume in electricity and heat. 556,000 Danes’ electricity and heat consumption saved per year in 2020 19 Energy for Competitive Clean People Business society energy energy matter integrity A vitamin pill for the economy All economies need investments that create economic 13 billion euro activity – especially in times of economic crisis. This also applies to the European economy. DONG Since 2006, DONG Energy Energy’s investments contribute, for example, to the has invested 13 billion transformation to more renewable energy and to the euro in projects in Northproduction of oil and gas to keep society going. western Europe. DONG Energy has invested 13 billion euro in Our investments are also a vitamin pill for especially Denmark, the UK, Germany and the economy. Especially in the construction Norway since 2006. Many of our future investphase of projects, our investments generate ments will also be made on these markets. economic activity and jobs. The investments are vital to realising DONG In 2013, we invested 2.8 billion euro, primarily Energy’s growth strategy. And they contribute in offshore wind and oil and gas activities. to fulfilling some of the considerable investWe invested 1.3 billion euro in wind projects ment need in the European energy sector to and 1.3 billion in oil and gas activities. provide Europeans with cleaner and reliable energy. New money Investments There is a fundamental up North need for investing in the In DONG Energy, we have renewal of the energy invested in the developsystem, but obtaining ment of the Lagganthe required capital is Tormore gas fields, which a major challenge. are planning to start production during 2014. DONG Energy has developed a new financing model, where a total of seven pension funds and other investors have invested more than DONG Energy owns 20% of the project, while 2 billion euro in our offshore wind farms. Total owns 80%. More than 1,400 people These include PFA, Pension Danmark and have worked on the construction site on the Marubeni. With this model, large funds are Shetland Islands, and the project has also put to work in the energy industry and in generated many derived jobs off the site. We society, and for DONG Energy, it supports expect the field to produce for 15 years and our objective of developing a value-adding require around 80 employees for day-to-day offshore wind business. operations. In addition, local labour will be required for maintenance work. Activity at the Laggan-Tormore construction site Energy for Competitive Clean People Business 20 society energy energy matter integrity More local value Investing in an offshore wind farm is an important investment for any country. It provides new energy, clean energy and less dependence on fossil fuels. But society may also rightly expect that parts of the investment will be recovered in the form of new jobs “The cooperation with DONG Energy and the 60 million euro worth of orders and economic activity. This may represent a challenge placed with the companies in DJURS if the local business community is not used to working Wind Power have lifted the business environment in the Djursland region with offshore wind. And we must, of course, also comply and shown that together we are with the procurement rules set up to ensure a level stronger.” playing field. Jan Bo Allermann Carpenter and Chairman, DJURS Wind Power When DONG Energy built the Danish Anholt DONG Energy created a model for how the offshore wind farm in 2012 and 2013, a busilocal suppliers could supply the project’s ness network of local small and mediummain suppliers. The key words in this model sized enterprises won orders worth more than are communication and organisation. 60 million euro – primarily as subsuppliers to the project’s main suppliers. This created 330 The model is simple, but the example of jobs. It was made possible because carpenAnholt offshore wind farm shows that it is ters and bricklayers, transport and logistics effective. We intend to use this model for companies, crane suppliers and many others other construction projects. It creates local from the local business community set up an value, and for DONG Energy it strengthens organisation called DJURS Wind Power and our supply chain. The model may increase systematically prepared for the requirements the number of suppliers and strengthen and terms applicable in the offshore wind relations with suppliers in the community. industry. Also, it was possible because Clear communication Transparent process Availability Often, local suppliers who have not worked Local suppliers often do not know the proThe local suppliers will have important with offshore wind before do not think that cess involved in constructing an offshore questions as the process progresses. the wind developer and the main suppliers wind farm or the applicable training and The developer must be available for of, for example, offshore wind turbines safety standards. This keeps them from answering such questions to ensure and foundations are interested in working submitting a bid. At an early stage, the that the subsuppliers have the information with local companies. The developer must developer must draw a clear picture of the necessary to submit their bids in compliclearly express early on that it is interested project process, project scope and types of ance with the requirements and on time. in using local subsuppliers, if the quality is deliveries required for the project in order acceptable and the prices are competitive. for the local suppliers to be prepared when the deadlines are set and the main suppliers are selected. 21 Energy for Competitive Clean People Business society energy energy matter integrity European energy When we exploit the European energy sources, it reduces the need for buying energy outside of Europe. Instead, the vast amounts of money are put to work inside the EU. Facts There is nothing wrong with trading. It makes work in Europe. It will be possible to export, the economy more efficient, and sometimes to create jobs and to raise revenue for the there are no alternatives. However, it is a state. For example, the European wind 389 billion euro challenge that 75% of the EU’s energy comes industry currently employs a quarter million In 2011, the EU spent 389 billion euro on imports from coal, gas and oil, and that two thirds of people and contributed 32 billion euro to of fossil fuels. That is 42 billion euro more than the fossil fuels are imported. the EU economy in 2010. Between 2007 and 2010, the wind industry increased its contrithe EU’s total education budgets. In 2011, a total of 389 billion euro was sent bution to EU’s total GDP by 33%. out of the EU to pay for imported fossil fuels. >100% This corresponds to more than the member DONG Energy’s 2020 targets for the states’ total education budgets. This figure expansion of offshore wind and for the In 2012, the prices of coal, oil and gas had more will only increase as the EU’s own fossil production of oil and gas mean that Europe than doubled since 2000. resources of oil and gas diminish. European will need to import a little less energy and coal has also become a scarce commodity. instead will be able to send more money to work in Europe, thereby creating European Sources: Eurostat 2013; BP Statistics Database 2013 If, instead of importing more and more, jobs. The benefit for DONG Energy lies in the the European countries spend the money opportunity to utilise our strong competences on investing in offshore wind and new oil within offshore wind, oil and gas, and thus and gas fields, the money will be put to create value for our owners. A blade for a wind turbine is ready to be installed at Anholt offshore wind farm Clean energy How do we make the transformation to cleaner energy? We must create a cleaner and healthier society based on renewable energy with lower CO2 emissions. Today, renewable energy accounts for 11% of the EU’s energy consumption. The transformation has started, and must continue. When, over the next 20 years, Europe has to replace its numerous old coal-fired and nuclear power stations, it should do so with clean energy. However, during this period, Europe will have to use gas and oil to keep society going. We must produce and use this oil and gas as efficiently as possible in order to minimise CO2 emissions. And we need to care for the environment. How do we make the transformation to cleaner energy to create a cleaner and healthier society, limit climate change and care for the environment? 23 Energy for Competitive Clean People Business society energy energy matter integrity 85% less CO2 The EU has set a target of reducing greenReduced CO2 emissions house gases by 20% from 1990 to 2020. In DONG Energy, we are among those taking The difference between DONG Energy’s CO2 emissions from the lead in tackling this challenge. electricity and heat generation in 2006 and 2013 equals the amount of CO2 emitted by more than 4 million cars in one year. Our objective is that, by 2020, we have reduced CO2 emissions from our electricity and heat generation by 60% relative to emissions in 2006. By 2040, we will have cut CO2 emissions by 85%. Our ambitious targets give us a strong position on the market for green growth, which attracts capital and competences to our business. Offshore wind power and biomass are taking us in the right direction. In 2013, CO2 emissions from our electricity and heat generation were 30% less compared to 2006. The difference between our CO2 emissions in 2006 and 2013 is equivalent to the amount of CO2 that more than 4 million cars emit in a year. Facts 800,000 years Since 1850 The clean Today, the atmospheric concentration of CO2 is Each of the last three decades has been succesoffshore wind higher than it has been for at least 800,000 years sively warmer at the Earth’s surface than any and is expected to continue to increase because preceding decade since 1850. of our dependence on fossil fuels for energy. Wind is abundant and clean. And offshore, Source: IPCC 2013 it is possible to increase the size of both the turbines and the wind farms without disturbing any neighbours. Offshore wind is a prime example of how we can learn to supply society with the many energy resources that naturally surround us so that more people can enjoy clean energy in their daily lives. In 2013, DONG Energy celebrated the commissioning of the world’s biggest offshore wind farm, London Array in the UK, and Denmark’s biggest offshore wind farm off the Kattegat island of Anholt. Altogether, we have now installed sufficient offshore wind capacity to annually supply 5 million Europeans with CO2-free power. By 2020, our target is to have installed 6.5 GW offshore wind capacity, enough to supply more than 15 million Europeans with wind-generated electricity. Achieving this target will demand considerable efforts. However, it will result in more clean energy and also create value for DONG Energy, with offshore wind power being one of our most important business areas. In 2013, our wind power business accounted for 28% of our operating profit. Anholt offshore wind farm Energy for Competitive Clean People Business 24 society energy energy matter integrity A greener life for From where does DONG Energy source wood pellets? power stations 2% 4% 1% 21% 11% Coal-fired power stations emit large volumes of CO2, but using biomass enables them to 2013 produce green electricity and heat. 10% 921,552 tonnes Towards a future with more renewable energy, reduced our coal consumption by 50% since most European countries need biomass such 2006, thereby significantly reducing CO2 3% as wood pellets and woodchips to give power emissions. Instead, we will increase the use stations a new and greener life so that they of sustainable biomass from the current can continue to step in when the wind falters. level of 18% so that by 2020, 50% of all 48% the electricity and heat supplied to Danish In DONG Energy, we will convert our Danish consumers by our power stations will come power stations so they can be fuelled with from biomass. biomass instead of fossil fuels. We have Germany Latvia Portugal Canada Lithuania USA Estonia Russia We select wood 6.2 million 4.0 million 3.1 million pellets carefully tonnes in 2006 tonnes in 2009 tonnes in 2013 DONG Energy is reducing its coal consumption By replacing coal and gas with sustainable wood pellets and woodchips, CO2 emissions are reduced by around 90% – even when taking emissions from processing and transport into account. CO2 reductions from biomass Denmark is a small country with large areas of farmland and not a lot of forest, so most of the wood pellets DONG Energy uses are Compared with coal-firing, DONG Energy’s use of biomass sourced from the Baltic states and Portugal. at Danish power stations in 2013 spared the climate the same Operations must, of course, be sustainable in amount of CO2 as 255,000 Europeans emit in a year. order to reduce CO2 emissions and preserve the forests’ ecosystems. Sustainable forest operations require that the forests are carefully managed and that the amount of wood which is harvested does not exceed what is sown. The challenge is to establish an international standard defining precisely what is required for biomass to be termed sustainable. Here, DONG Energy has teamed up with five other energy companies and four certification companies to form the Sustainable Biomass Partnership. Sustainable biomass allows us to supply the green electricity and heat which our customers want. This increases the demand for energy from our power stations, thereby creating value for DONG Energy. 25 Energy for Competitive Clean People Business society energy energy matter integrity Waste recycling Gas halves In the EU alone, we dispose of 3 billion tonnes the problem of waste a year – or 6 tonnes of waste per capita. Gas emits up to half as much CO2 as coal. Gas therefore represents a stepping stone This is not environmentally sustainable, and towards a society based on renewable energy. waste can often be used to create new value. In Europe’s established energy system, it will take time to replace all fossil energy with renewable energy. In the meantime, gas proIn 2013, DONG Energy recycled 76% of its Moreover, we have become better at recycling vides heat and power for our homes, energy waste from facilities, with 4% ending in landwaste from our administration – in 2013 the for industry and keeps the wheels rolling on fill sites. Thereby, we met both our targets of figure was 61%, compared to 44% the year buses and cars. recycling 70% of the waste from our facilities before. This means that we also met our and sending a maximum of 8% to landfill. target of recycling 50% of the waste from In DONG Energy, we produce gas from Danish The future challenge is to recycle as much as our administration. and Norwegian fields, and soon also from the we do today despite changing activities. UK. We also store, distribute and trade gas, so gas is an important part of DONG Energy’s value-creating activities. It is increasingly hard to find gas because the large, easily accessible gas fields are exhausted. But we are working on it. Our gas production is still increasing, and in 2013 Inbicon From dull residue to energy we produced 3.6 billion cubic metres of gas corresponding to the annual gas consumption DONG Energy has developed three advanced biotechnologies in 2.4 million British homes. Moreover, we for refining and thereby better utilising residual products from sold 12.5 billion cubic metres of gas – enough biomass. The technologies convert useful residual products to cover the annual gas consumption in 8.3 such as straw or household waste into clean energy and valuamillion British homes. ble nutrients, which can be returned to the soil. Biomass is an REnescience energy source with low CO2 emissions, offering an alternative to fossil fuels. Find out more about the technologies on page 14. Pyroneer Residual products are valuable At DONG Energy, we Among other things, we recycle wastewater, gypsum and fly ash. For example, each year recycle as many residual DONG Energy’s power stations sell approx“It’s important for us that we can imately 250,000 tonnes of fly ash to the products as possible construction industry. We thus sell enough purchase gypsum from DONG Energy as we go to great lengths to be susfrom energy production fly ash each year to produce cement for three Great Belt bridges. tainable. Our strategy is to be part of at our power stations to a material symbiosis using residual Recycling the fly ash has three benefits. products from other industries.” minimise pollution and Firstly, the fly ash replaces natural resources which would otherwise have been used to create new value. produce the cement and concrete. Secondly, Ulrich Stochholm Internal logistics manager, Gyproc we do not have to pay to dispose of it. Thirdly, we make money selling the fly ash. Energy for Competitive Clean People Business 26 society energy energy matter integrity Energy efficiency – an invisible partner Facts Energy efficiency is the invisible partner of the renew68% able energy sources. It is not a resource, and can thereEnergy efficiency measures have the potential to reduce global CO2 emissions with 68% towards fore be tricky to grasp. But, in fact, the energy not used 2035. is the cleanest energy. New legislation The world has started to open its eyes to the Energy efficiency is a kind of package soluThereby, we both reduce CO2 emissions potential of energy efficiency. In 2012, all major tion. It can make a significant contribution to and save money. In 2013 we, for example, energy-consuming countries introduced new limiting climate change and pollution, while had reduced the energy consumption in our also minimising the impact of high energy administration facilities by 29% since 2010. legislation on energy efficiency. prices and securing energy for larger numbers To save energy, we have introduced tighter of people. Moreover, efficiency measures and more advanced control of air-conditionproduce quick results. ing systems and installed light sensors in 1.5% our biggest office building. Here, the lights In 2012, energy efficiency worldwide increased by At DONG Energy, we advise our customers switch off automatically when no movement is 1.5%. By comparison, energy efficiency improved on saving energy while also heeding our own detected in an area for more than ten minutes. by only 0.4% a year from 2000 to 2010. advice. We are therefore making efforts to In the underground garage, lighting levels are improve our energy efficiency within those reduced by 90% after only 30 seconds. areas where it is technically feasible. Source: IEA 2012; 2013 Climate partnerships reduce CO2 emissions Through DONG Energy’s more than 135 climate partnerships, we collaborate with our customers to reduce their energy consumption – and thus their CO2 emissions. “Our partnership with DONG Energy has helped us to realise considerable energy savings while at the same We advise businesses, local authorities and average of around 24,000 tonnes a year since time helping to develop the market public institutions on how to use energy more 2007. In establishing climate partnerships, for renewable energy in Denmark. efficiently. This is good for the environment. we forge stronger and closer ties with our Moreover, the climate partners reduce their business customers. The partnership’s business model individual carbon footprints by covering all or is sustainable, has a long-term part of their power consumption with certified The climate partnerships contribute to our perspective and creates value that climate-friendly power from DONG Energy’s goal of quadrupling energy savings at our goes beyond our businesses.” offshore wind farms. The rest of the savings Danish customers from 2012 to 2020. In may benefit their bottom line. 2013, our consultancy services helped our Susanne Stormer climate partners to save 84,817 MWh, correVice President, Corporate Sustainability, One example is Novo Nordisk which, through sponding to the annual electricity and heat Novo Nordisk its climate partnership with DONG Energy, consumption of around 8,000 Danes. has managed to cut its CO2 emissions by an 27 Energy for Competitive Clean People Business society energy energy matter integrity More Careful than CO2 water treatment All types of energy proWhen producing oil, water is inevitably also piped up duction risk impacting from the underground. Even though production water the environment. DONG is separated from the oil, it still contains very small Energy’s objective is to amounts of oil residue. minimise this impact. At DONG Energy, we clean the water and more difficult to separate oil and water. To We always conduct thorough assessments pump it back into the ground, although correct the problem, DONG Energy took steps of the potential environmental impacts of under special circumstances it is discharged to optimise the heat exchanger and the chemour activities from project planning and to the sea. ical treatment used in the cleaning process. construction to operations and decommisThe platform has been out of operation since sioning. It helps us to ensure that our enviIn 2013, there was a period when a small July 2013 because of cracks in the foundaronmental impact is as small as possible, and quantity of the water which was discharged tions. As soon as it returns to production, we that our activities comply with EU directives to the sea from the Siri offshore platform will continue the work on reducing the relative such as the Habitats and Birds Directives. had an oil concentration which exceeded the oil concentration in the production water. permitted relative concentration of 30 mg/l. In total, the Siri platform discharged 1 tonne One of the challenges is the very waxy oil of oil into the sea in 2013 – far below the in this particular area, which makes it much permitted 8 tonnes. See our corporate QHSE policy Both fish and fowl Cleaner air Offshore wind turbines can disturb the local The firing of coal and biomass at power stations environment during installation and subsequently during operations. results in gas emissions which can have a Offshore, we have to pay particular attention negative impact on air quality. to birds and their migratory patterns and feeding grounds. In 2013, DONG Energy launched an extensive monitoring programme of bird life around our wind farm Power station generation emits, for example, sulphur dioxides (SO2), which can result in Reduced emissions projects in the German part of the North Sea to ensure that offshore wind farms do not acid rain that damages forests and lakes, and nitric oxide (NOX), which can cause of NOx and SO2 have a noticeably negative effect on birds. harmful smog. Emissions Underwater, we have to pay particular attenBy 2020, DONG Energy aims to have reduced in 1990 tion to mammals such as seals and porpoisSO2 and NOX emissions from its power staes. We are using the latest technologies such tions by 95% and 90% respectively, relative as cofferdams with air and bubble curtains around the foundations because these have to 1990. The SO2 reduction achieved has been above target since 2011, when emisNOx 90 % proved very effective at reducing noise nuisions were reduced by 99%. reduction sance during installation. in 2013 In 2013, we therefore focused on reducing NOX emissions further. As we have continuously optimised operations and installed and Emissions maintained deNOX facilities, emissions have in 1990 already been significantly reduced. In 2013, SO2 NOX had been reduced by 90% whereby we also reached our 2020 target for reduction of NOX emissions. 99 % reduction in 2013 People matter How do we promote safety, the right skills and a stimulating working environment? The transformation to more renewable energy demands considerable expertise and highly competent people. And the world is in constant change. As an organisation, it is therefore necessary to constantly adapt and to invest in developing the skills of those driving the transformation. In a sector involving powerful natural forces and large machines, ensuring safe working conditions is also a constant challenge. How can we promote safety, the right skills and stimulating working conditions in a high-tech industry characterised by powerful natural forces and constant change? 29 Energy for Competitive Clean People Business society energy energy matter integrity Fewer accidents Safety first DONG Energy has taken a targeted approach to reducing the number of accidents. 2013 ended with a lost time injury frequency (LTIF) In DONG Energy, safety has to be an integrated part of 3.2, whereby we achieved our target for the of the everyday work of our employees and contractors. year. But we cannot feel satisfied without a further reduction in the number of accidents. Everyone is entitled to a safe working environment. We must achieve this in 2014. Our target is an LTIF of less than 1.5 in 2020. DONG As a company, it is therefore our duty to create the Energy must be a safe workplace. right framework for a safe workplace, while everyone In 2013, we had no fatal accidents, and through targeted efforts to improve standards, proceis responsible for helping to create a common safety dures and conduct, we will strive to prevent culture. such accidents in future. No one must be in any doubt that safety comes first in our work. Improved safety In 2020, the number of lost time injuries at DONG Energy and our contractors must be less than 1.5 per one million working hours. “As a company, we are borrowing our employees from their families during the time they are at work. It’s therefore important that we all work together and create a workplace where everyone returns home safely at the end of the working day.” LTIF of LTIF of LTIF of Søren Gath Hansen Executive Vice President, Exploration 10.3 3.2 <1.5 in 2007 in 2013 in 2020 & Production, DONG Energy LTIF stands for ’Lost Time Injury Frequency’, and is the number of accidents which result in absence of a day or more per one million working hours. The figure includes both DONG Energy employees and contractors’ employees working on sites which A joint effort are either owned or operated by DONG Energy. To reduce the number of acIn 2013, we therefore implemented the first In future, we will work even more closely of a string of measures designed to make with contractors to create the right working cidents, we need to reinforce employees more aware of their right and duty conditions to achieve DONG Energy’s ambithe safety culture in DONG to actively participate in the safety work. The tious targets. In addition, safety performance initiatives are driven by individual managers, will become an even more important criterion Energy. This requires the joint who together with the employees identify how when selecting contractors. efforts of all employees. Safety each employee and department can contribute to creating a common and better safety takes no heed of organisational culture. We call it ‘Safety through the Line’. hierarchies, so creating a safe Working to create a better safety culture working culture is just as much also involves our contractors’ employees. a management responsibility In addition to local safety routines, they must complete an e-learning course and a safety as that of the individual briefing if they are working in areas either employee. owned or operated by DONG Energy. Energy for Competitive Clean People Business 30 society energy energy matter integrity Investing in development To implement an efficient energy transformation and create value for the business, DONG Energy needs the best and most skilled employees. An organisation that is developing needs employees who develop. As an organisation, it is necessary to conTo attract and retain the highly skilled and stantly adapt and invest in developing the most competent employees, we run internal skills of those driving the energy transforprogrammes for talented employees at all “I find the talent programme for emmation. In DONG Energy, we take a systematlevels of the organisation, from new gradic approach to skill and talent development. uates to senior executives. Also, we have ployees at specialist level both exciting targeted courses for all managers, regardless and challenging, and it has given me Together with their managers, all employees of whether they manage employees or other a great opportunity to develop my must, once a year, set development and permanagers. strengths and expand my network.” formance targets which are aligned with the company’s strategy. The manager is in charge It is clear that our approach to skill and talent Ebba Phillips John of six-monthly follow-ups at which the development is paying off. For example, 83% Regulatory Affairs Advisor, manager and employee together assess the of all advertised management vacancies in DONG Energy employee’s performance. At the same time, 2013 were filled by an internal candidate. we conduct an annual evaluation of employees across the organisation, which ensures that we spot high performers and talents. An attractive workplace 2013 was a turbulent year where DONG Energy had to adapt and streamline the organisation after a difficult economic period. This understandably led to a sense of insecurity among our employees, which may have affected both job satisfaction and the number of resignations. But DONG Energy must continue to be an attractive workplace. This is crucial for being able to realise our ambitious strategy. In DONG Energy, we have an ambitious target For this reason, no figures are available for job of an employee satisfaction and motivation satisfaction and motivation in 2013. In 2012, More voluntary employee score of 77 out of 100 by 2020. Our climate the score was 74. resignations survey measures the employees’ motivation and satisfaction, both in respect of DONG Instead, the focus was on the dialogue between The fact that 2013 was a turbulent year Energy as a whole and in respect of their imthe management and employees on the is also reflected in the growing number mediate manager. It is against this background changes which DONG Energy has been through. of employees who left DONG Energy that managers and employees jointly identify The management, union representatives and voluntarily. The number of voluntary focus areas with a view to improving job satisspokespersons for all employee groups have employee resignations almost doubled faction and motivation. worked together to keep the number of redunfrom 2012 to 2013. However, at the end dancies to a minimum and to ensure opportuof 2013, the number was declining and However, in 2013 the timing of the climate nities for those made redundant, among other in 2014, we hope and expect that this survey coincided with the announcement of things through outplacement programmes and rate will continue to fall as we need redundancies and an extensive reorganisation. voluntary employee resignations. to retain our skilled employees. Our DONG Energy’s senior management wished ambition is that DONG Energy will to focus all efforts on making it through The management also asked all departments continue to be an attractive workplace. this difficult time and therefore decided to to discuss the changes, town hall meetings were postpone the climate survey until spring 2014. held, and the management met in various fora with the employees to discuss the changes. 31 Energy for Competitive Clean People Business society energy energy matter integrity Equal career opportunities Women in management DONG Energy seeks to promote diversity. We have Status 2013 2020 target therefore adopted a policy for women in management Strategic Forum Strategic Forum and set clear targets for the share of women at all management levels. 14 % 22 % Leadership Forum Leadership Forum Skills will always be the deciding factor when recruiting and promoting employees in DONG of women in DONG Energy which is 30%. In 2013, we therefore adopted a policy setting 17% 25 % Energy. And we want to nurture a corporate 2020 targets for the share of women at all Other managers Other managers culture where both male and female management levels. The targets reflect our employees experience that they have the same opportunities with respect to their desire to be both ambitious yet realistic, without forcing developments. 30 % 32 % careers and to management positions. In the top two layers of management in The overall share of female managers has DONG Energy, Strategic Forum and Leaderincreased in recent years. However, at senior ship Forum, the share of women increased management levels, the share of female in 2013 while the share of other female managers does not reflect the proportion managers in DONG Energy declined a little. Health and exercise pay off At DONG Energy, we strive to create a framework which New policy allows our employees to pursue a healthy life. We do this to respond to the fact that an increasing number for women in of people are suffering lifestyle diseases, stress-relatmanagement ed disorders and motoric challenges such as back and DONG Energy’s new policy for women in manneck problems. We believe that it pays to invest in the agement is in accordance with new Danish legislation. It is part of our diversity policy, health of our employees. which aims to promote a working culture characterised by mutual trust and respect and to create a workplace which can attract and In DONG Energy, we offer, among other In 2013, we initiated a new round of health retain the right skills irrespective of gender, things, health insurance and ergonomic checks, which are continuing into 2014. age, ethnic background, religion, etc. workspace assessments, and our canteens We expect these checks to show a general have adopted a policy which ensures a varied improvement in the health of employees. At DONG Energy, we believe that diversity and healthy diet. Moreover, our largest locacontributes to the broad range of skills we tions have fitness centres and a wide range of Research shows that taking regular exercise continuously need to be among those leading fitness activities. increases employees’ work capacity, producthe transformation of the energy system. tivity and stamina when under pressure. At In addition, in 2011 we offered all our employthe same time, it helps to reduce absence ees a health check combined with advice on due to illness. Consequently, we believe that food habits, exercise and muscular function, it pays to invest in employee health, not least an offer which 68% of our employees took in the long term when employees will generadvantage of. The results were used to impleally be older because of a higher retirement ment new and targeted health activities. age. In addition, it may bring down the costs for health services in society. Business integrity How do we ensure that we operate our business with high integrity? Integrity is all about conducting yourself properly. Companies must live up to international and European standards for good conduct. And customers and other stakeholders must feel that companies are taking a trustworthy and reliable approach to running their businesses. As an important part of society, this also applies to DONG Energy. In a complex world which is changing all the time, and where response times must be short, it is also a challenge for businesses to see all the consequences of the decisions they make. How do we ensure that we are running our business with a high level of integrity and in dialogue with our customers and other stakeholders so that, in a complex and competitive market, we are responsible, transparent and responsive in the way in which we operate? 33 Energy for Competitive Clean People Business society energy energy matter integrity Keeping the High customer satisfaction is a strategic target for us: In 2020, Danish private and business customer satisfaction must be customers in focus 75 on a scale of 1-100. In relation to our business customers, we have been heading in the right direction. Here, we need to keep up the current performance towards 2020 as No business can exist without satisfied customers. satisfaction has increased from 72 in 2012 to 75 in 2013. Customer satisfaction among our DONG Energy is no exception. For us, integrity is about private customers has, however, not changed from 64 out of 100 which was also the result customers perceiving the company as a simple, reliable in 2012. We are working to improve this. and climate-friendly energy supplier. For this to be posConsiderable efforts are therefore being sible, we must understand the specific needs of every made to meet our targets for customer satisfaction with our biggest customer single customer. satisfaction programme to date, Customer First. The goal is to ensure that all customers enjoy a high level of service every time they contact DONG Energy. For this to be the case, we must understand the needs of every single customer regardless of whether they Increased want to implement energy savings, a more climate-friendly profile or to simply find the customer cheapest product. satisfaction All employees working with sales and distribution must therefore attend the Customer First College where they are trained in In 2020, the customer listening to customers and finding the best satisfaction among both our Private customers Business customers solution for each customer. It is all about how Danish private and business our promise of being a simple, reliable and customers must be 75 out of 100. climate-friendly partner is best transformed 2013 2020 2013 2020 64 75 75 75 into positive customer experiences. The Customer First College started in 2012 and continued in 2013. Through effect measuring we follow up on the learnings. Electricity bills that Straight talk make sense In DONG Energy, we want By far the majority of customer contact with DONG Energy is via the electricity bill. to help customers who, for In 2013, we have therefore designed a bill whatever reason, are not which is easier to understand. able to pay their bill. If you purchase a product, and it is not clearly stated what you are actually paying for, you If a bill remains unpaid, we will inform the cushave every reason to be dissatisfied. This has tomer at an early stage when their electricity been a challenge for many of our approxiwill be disconnected. It is also possible for mately 753,000 Danish private customers. customers to arrange individual repayment schemes so that an outstanding bill can be Danish legislation determines what is included repaid over a longer period. in an electricity bill, and it is a lot of infor“Positive customer dialogue is crucial mation. Our customers thought that it should for customer satisfaction. We must After introducing these procedures in 2010, be easier to see how much they had been always make ourselves deserving of the number of cases where it has been necescharged, how much electricity they had used, sary to disconnect customers has fallen and how much they then had to pay or have their trust and loyalty. This is the aim by 28%. refunded. The information is now listed on an of Customer First.” extra cover page together with the due dates for future payments. Anna Pelvig, Head of Customer Centricity, We are well aware that an electricity bill is still DONG Energy hard to digest for many people. But we hope that our new cover page helps. Energy for Competitive Clean People Business 34 society energy energy matter integrity Responsibility reaches beyond our own walls Businesses are responsible for ensuring that proper conditions prevail in their supply chains. It is a difficult challenge to live up to, but it is imperative to do so. Here, DONG Energy takes a systematic and risk-based approach. DONG Energy purchases products and serThese tools will be rolled out in 2014. They vices from suppliers all over the world. With include, for example, improved risk screening more than 20,000 suppliers, ensuring that of suppliers and more audits of conditions individual suppliers live up to international at suppliers. On identifying criticisable standards governing, for example, the conditions, we start working with the environment, working conditions or the supplier to improve them. rights of local citizens can be difficult. For DONG Energy, this approach results in We address this challenge by taking appropria more responsible and thereby more stable ate measures where the risk of non-compliance and efficient supply chain. It reduces the with our code of conduct for suppliers is likelihood of unforeseen and costly delays, greatest. We aim to take a systematic approach for example in construction projects. which follows international guidelines for good business practice and the latest UN recommendations for the area. In 2013, we developed a number of new tools which will assist us in identifying non-compliSee our Code of Conduct ance with our ethical guidelines and help – DONG Energy’s ethical The purpose of Bettercoal is to improve suppliers to improve. guidelines for suppliers conditions in the coal industry Better coal Collaboration on Working in coal mines entails considerable improvements risks for both people and the environment. In DONG Energy, we only trade with coal suppliers after first conducting an analysis of the If conditions at a supplier give rise to critimines’ social and environmental standards. cism, there is nothing to be gained by simply dropping the supplier if the supplier has a However, in a global perspective we are a wide circle of customers. On the other hand, small coal customer. For example, in 2012, businesses have no legal right to force other we bought a mere 0.2% of South Africa’s total companies to make changes. DONG Energy production. This obviously limits the extent to therefore works with its suppliers to make “Our collaboration with suppliers can which we can encourage our suppliers to make improvements. help to improve conditions for many improvements. people. However, the collaboration For example, we work with our Russian coal Consequently, we have joined forces with always depends on the willingness of supplier SUEK. In 2011, our audits showed that other large energy companies in Bettercoal – conditions at the mine were criticisable on 23 the suppliers to implement an independent organisation set up to ensure counts, within areas such as safety, working improvements.” continuous improvements of the conditions in environment and inadequate payment for coal mining. In July 2013, Bettercoal adopted overtime work. When we visited the mine with Niels Bojer Jørgensen the Bettercoal Code for good coal mining our external auditors in 2013, SUEK had made Head of Operational Fuel Sourcing, operations after two global public consultation good progress – the majority of the identified DONG Energy rounds. Bettercoal expects to carry out the first issues had been satisfactorily resolved while audits of the conditions in coal mines in the they needed to begin addressing six issues. first six months of 2014. 35 Energy for Competitive Clean People Business society energy energy matter integrity Good business conduct Good business conduct is important for markets to work and, at the end of the day, for society to thrive. DONG Energy complies with applicable rules and legislation, and we disapprove of corruption, bribery and other improper business methods. Despite the best intentions, it can be difficult for individual employees to always make the Our whistleblower scheme was renewed in 2013 to accommodate DONG Energy’s 96% right decisions in situations where there are future international growth. It now includes many grey areas. We have a policy for good a distinct website, a 24-hour hotline and business conduct, which all DONG Energy online forms in several languages. 96% of employees in employees must learn about through our obligatory e-learning course. In 2013, 96% There were no reports to the whistleblower DONG Energy had in 2013 of employees had completed the course. hotline in 2013, nor were there any legal proceedings or reported cases of fraud completed e-learning in Since 2008, DONG Energy has had a whistleor corruption. blower scheme, which ensures that employees good business conduct. and other stakeholders, for example customers and suppliers, can anonymously draw attention to suspected irregularities. Such irregularities could be financial crimes, environmental pollution, serious safety See DONG Energy’s policy breaches or personal assault. for good business conduct Transparent tax Total tax contribution contributions 11% 1% For businesses operating in several markets, 8% paying tax often entails various choices. To 2013 DONG Energy it is important that there is clarity 2.7 on how we manage our tax payments. billion euro 55% 25% We use the deductions and incentives which In 2013, DONG Energy paid a total of 2.7 the authorities have adopted to promote billion euro in various types of tax and duties particular activities, for example investments in the markets in which we operate. This in renewable energy. We comply with and corresponds to more than the Danish state’s respect not just the wording of the tax legexpenses on youth education in the same Energy taxes etc. islation in the markets in which we operate, year. but also the spirit of the law. We would rather VAT etc. contact the tax authorities too much than PAYE tax etc. too little if we have questions relating to current practice or if we become aware of a Property taxes etc. tax error. We also make ourselves available if Income tax the authorities ask for our assessment of the Read more about DONG consequences of a tax measure. Energy’s tax contributions DONG Energy’s award winnings in 2013 European Business Awards World Finance Danish Red Cross Corporate Governance Award National Champion for Denmark First aid award due to a special effort to in Environmental and Corporate Award for the best corporate governance give our employees first aid training. Sustainability. in Denmark, evaluated on the basis of e.g. disclosure and transparency. Energy Globe Baltic Trendsetters Club The Crown Estate Danish winner of international environmental Certificate for Anholt offshore wind farm Energy and infrastructure business award award for the biotechnology REnescience. that has generated traffic and growth for the contribution of Gunfleet Sands in the Baltic Sea region. towards cost reduction and growth in the offshore wind industry. 39 Energy for Competitive Clean People Business society energy energy matter integrity DONG Energy A/S Kraftværksvej 53 7000 Fredericia Denmark Tel +45 99 55 11 11 www.dongenergy.com
