UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 INTRODUCTION This Communication of Progress is for the period between January 2013 and December 2013. Finesse Consults Ltd is registered in Nigeria to carryout consulting services in the following areas: Financial and Management Consulting Tax Administration Human Capital Development PRE – JOINING FINESSE CONSULTS has been committed to the Principles and implementation of Global best practice in all its activities. We dedicate ourselves to the promotion and protection of the interest of our stakeholders, by ensuring that our services are value based, sustainable and progressive. This is evidenced by the regular review and updating of our processes and structure. As part of our effort at ensuring good corporate governance at all levels in our organization, we have incorporated in our STAFF HANDBOOK, the meaning and import of the acronym of our name, FINESSE, which has become our core value. OUR CORE VALUE To provide value driven quality service with perfect finishing: F – Focus I – Integrity N – Noble E – Experience S – Service S – Success E – Excellence Finesse Consults became a participant to the United Nations Global Compact on February 23rd, 2012. POST JOINING The Global Compact requires that companies embrace, support and enact within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti corruption. As a good corporate organization, we have embraced and integrated the ten principles in our business processes as laid down by the Global Compact, in other to ensure sustainability and mutual benefits of our stakeholders. The highlight of the alignment of our business processes with the ten principles of the Global Compact and the measured outcome are summarized below. www.finesseconsults.com Page 1 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human Right; PRINCIPLE 2: Business should ensure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. ACTION: At Finesse Consults, we recognize that all humans are born free and equal in dignity and rights. Therefore, our employment policies have zero tolerance for any form of discrimination, gender, religious or ethnic. Staffs are regularly taught on respect for other people’s views or opinion, privacy and family. Acts that impinge on other’s rights are discouraged very seriously and sometimes penalized. Finesse is committed to a work environment that values diversity while promoting inclusiveness. Any act of harassment by or against any employee is viewed as a serious offence and is not tolerated. Therefore, Finesse Consults provide a work environment that is free from any form of harassment and intimidation. Finesse Consults encourages mutual cooperation and assistance among employees. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME There has been no reported case of intimidation, harassment or discrimination in Finesse Consults. Employees are given opportunities to report any issue that affects their safety and wellbeing. PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; ACTION: The Company recognizes the freedom of association for all people as entrenched in the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and therefore supports and encourages staff’s right to collective bargaining, even in the absence of an effective union representing the interest of the employees. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME Finesse Consults staff salaries are reviewed regularly to reflect industrial standard. There is no recorded incident of industrial action arising from staff dissatisfaction with pay or negotiation. PRINCIPLE 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; PRINCIPLE 5: The effective abolition of child labour; ACTION: The Company complies strictly with the labour laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. None of our employed staff is below the legal working age – 18yrs. All our staffs have passed the basic educational level and are freely allowed to combine studies and work for personal development MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME All employees working for or on behalf of Finesse Consults are required to meet the minimum age requirement. Holidays and staff leaves are utilized subject to meeting the conditional requirement. www.finesseconsults.com Page 2 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 PRINCIPLE 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ACTION: Finesse Consults is an equal opportunity employer. The company does not discriminate on the basis of race/ethnicity, gender, religion, age or family status. Existing and potential applicants are considered based only on their aptitude, abilities and potentials. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME The company is presently staffed by people of diverse background in terms of education, sex, ethnicity, religion and family status. PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; PRINCIPLE 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and PRINCIPLE 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ACTION: Finesse Consults promotes an eco friendly work environment and provide financial support regularly to the authorities’ green initiative within our community. Around our operational base, we ensure minimal use of eco degrading materials while promoting recycling of all recyclable materials. We also provide support for the development and use of environmentally friendly technologies. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME There is an increased awareness of employees towards decreasing the energy consumption of the company. This has also been helped by the improved preventive maintenance of all our equipment and facilities. In other to promote wellness among our employees, we are cutting down on extended working hours across board. We are also promoting a policy of cleanness within our organization and our community. PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ACTION: At Finesse Consults, we are committed to strict adherence to the principle of corporate governance and business ethics. A significant aspect of our business ethics is never to offer or accept bribe money in the performance of any assignment. We also promote and encourage our staff members and clients in the performance of their statutory obligations. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME The company’s stance on the giving and receiving of bribes has been well engrafted in the psychic of staff such that staff’s response is not induced by threat of sanction, but simple by the willingness to be compliant. No client or agent that Finesse Consults deals with will ever offer any bribe or inducement. www.finesseconsults.com Page 3
