LETT Law Firm Global Compact Communication on Progress March 2014 Social commitment deeply Managing Partner statement embedded in LETT LETT is a full-service law firm advising the corporate and public sectors on Danish and Responsibility, including social responsibility, represents one element in the way LETT EU law. Due to LETT’s position as one of the leading law firms in Denmark, we feel duruns its business. Therefore, we are proud to be part of Global Compact. By joining ty-bound to engage in social responsibility to a greater degree than dictated by law. the Global Compact, we wish to demonstrate our commitment to advancing the ten principles of the Global Compact in our policies and activities. In 2012 when LETT joined UN Global Compact, it was a natural progression in a social commitment that is deeply embedded in our firm. To join this compact means that, in a global frame, Last year, when we handed in our first reporting, we had just completed our CSR strategy that we are duty-bound to respect the 10 principles that include human rights, labour, environment deals with four areas legal assistance, research and knowledge sharing, employee investment and climate as well as anti-corruption. and environmental focus. This year, this strategy has been implemented with a particular focus on our staff, which, as in any knowledge firm, plays a pivotal role in our business. Protection of human rights and labour rights in the Nordic region is to a very large extent ensured by detailed national legislation and industry-specific codes of conduct or recommendaOur reporting on progress follows the structure of the 10 principles set out in the United Nations tions. Therefore, we work on the principles in the context that makes sense to our firm and Global Compact and documents our activities and performance within Human Rights, Labour, provides the largest value to the community of which we are a part. Environment and Anti-Corruption. For each of these areas, initiatives completed in 2013 will be described, and this description is followed by new targets for 2014. LETT is a modern and innovative law firm based on noble traditions and long experience. We are proud of our professionalism which is an integrated part of our client approach. In this way, we use our commitment to Global Compact to continue to set new responsibility goals in LETT. Our values provide the setting for what we do and make a promise to the outside world about the approach and conduct represented in LETT: Henrik Sjørslev Managing Partner Decent LETT We assume responsibility for our assignments and attach great importance to ethics and responsibility. Top standards Our business is based on first-rate professional expertise and quality. We are ambitious and dedicated on behalf of LETT and our clients to obtaining the best possible results. Dynamic We bring great commitment to any assignment and see solutions where others see problems. Unpretentious We meet our clients and colleagues at eye level in an informal working environment also characterised by a good sense of humour. Direct We aim at being approachable and attach great importance to being personal and open. 2 3 Human rights LETT wishes to be a place of work for committed and professional employees. We are Physical working environment Furthermore, LETT complies with the rules, guidelines and standards business people and are only capable of realising our business goals when we create for working environment and indoor climate of the Danish Working and protect an environment and company culture that supports, respects and apEnvironment Authority. To ensure that LETT employees enjoy high empreciates our differences as people irrespective of gender, race, nationality, religion, ployee satisfaction and a good health, we offer a number of supplefaith, sexual orientation, age or disability, and when, at the same time, we succeed in mental schemes which ia include safety insurance, a massage-therapy creating challenging and developing duties and responsibilities as well as continuing scheme, vitamins/food supplements and flu vaccines, sports activities professional development together with job satisfaction. as well as a breakfast and lunch scheme, etc. LETT Life style Staff investments In 2013 health and satisfaction were put on our agenda. We have enPeople represent the pivotal resource in LETT. Therefore, in LETT, it is a top priority that, all the tered into cooperation with a supplier offering massage therapy, zone time, partners and employees are in a professional and personal development that matches therapy and acupuncture. This cooperation has provided several adthe changing needs of our clients. Job satisfaction, challenging and developing assignments vantages for example a health-care check by which staff members and responsibilities and a continuous professional development are decisive to ensure positive are offered a voluntary and free health-care check followed by advisdevelopment. Therefore, LETT’s goal is to have the most committed and satisfied employees ing. This health-care check includes physical measurements of ia blood within the Danish legal-profession sector. pressure, fat ratio, weight, BMI and blood measurements (levels of total cholesterol and blood sugar). Professional working environment The greater part of the professional development is via cases and assignments which each This cooperation also includes access for staff members to a healthindividual employee solves in his/her daily work after having received instruction, sparring care portal where doctors, nurses, sports physiologists, dieticians, and feedback from the relevant case-responsible partner. This experience-based instruction is coaches, etc, answer questions about health. In addition, our massupported by a bit more formal instruction activities, including further education and research, seurs have the option of medical sparring should such a need arise for internal and external lecturing, secondments and stays abroad. Personal developments are a staff member. supported ia via annual performance reviews, formative trips with the firm and goal-directed career development. Canteen prize LETT is going for a nomination for the Danish canteen prize in 2015. Our focus areas in 2013: This prize is awarded by the Danish Agriculture and Food Council to Clearly defined career trails and a new performance-review concept canteens in Denmark that have a burning passion for professionalism In LETT, we believe that focus on employee development and performance creates higher moand innovation and for promoting craftsmanship quality. The objective tivation of employees. In 2013, we have been engaged in our career-trail project whose objecof the canteen is to offer healthy and tasty food and to go for being tive is to create clearly defined career trails in LETT and to describe the different development awarded the bronze medal in ecology by the Danish Vetenary and Food opportunities which our firm can offer as well as the resulting requirements relating to compeAdministration by 30% applied ecology in food and drinks. tence and performance. The project outcome is LETT's career-trail model which reflects different lawyer profiles. This model is incorporated in our revised performance-review concept as a A modern IT work place management and dialogue tool and ensures ia focus on targeted competence development and In 2013, our focus has been to create a more modern and professional specialisation. The performance-review concept has initially been introduced to our lawyers and IT workplace and we have identified a number of needs for more simjunior lawyers. ple IT solutions that may contribute to creating a more flexible work place. Our ambition is to work in a smarter way. Revised LETT Learning concept In 2013, we have been engaged in adjusting in-house courses so they match the needs of our A new telephone-exchange system has been introduced to provide betorganisation. The purpose has been to ensure a high-standard structured introduction and ter service to our clients and facilitate absence procedures internally in training our junior lawyers as well as structured supplementary training of our lawyers. our organisation. 4 5 Mental working environment LETT expects that everybody contributes to a sound working environment. Therefore, it is expected that nobody bullies or harasses any colleague or employee. Should anyone be exposed to problems of this kind or become aware that bullying or harassment is taking place, it is, therefore, expected that such person immediately takes action about the problem by, eg, contacting our Managing Partner, HR manager or a similar person in LETT, whom this person trusts. Activities to ensure satisfaction and continued professional development and enhance general satisfaction are based on LETT’s HR strategy. Employee satisfaction is monitored via internal climate analyses, of which the purpose is to identify the general climate and to see how we can become even better in our management and the cooperation in and across job functions and office locations. Our internal climate analyses from 2010 and most recently 2012 tell us that we are at the very top of these parameters. Our next climate analysis is being planned for 2015. Our goals and activities 2014 „ Through channels of law, our CSR Career-trail project • • Working with job descriptions in practice and implementing them in our organisation. Organising a seminar for all coming section heads on the basis of the career-trail model. contribution comes from the heart and the mind „ Rethinking LETT Learning • Further work on preparing young lawyers on the ethical aspects of being a lawyer. • Enhancing and targeting competence development within our new career trails. LETT Life Style • Ensure broad attention and application of general as well as current offers from our external supplier. • 80% of our staff members accepted the offer of a health-care check. • A minimum of 30% applied ecology in the food and drinks in the canteen. • For environmental reasons, we aim for sustainability by using as few suppliers and as little transportation as possible, and some of the food is served in portions to minimise food waste. • Our canteen staff is to be as visible as possible for an open dialogue with the canteen users in order to create better advising and satisfaction. • Our canteen creates value to its users by its daily menu variations in terms of pleasant smell, appearance, taste, texture, produce selection and health. • Our canteen undertakes our food security by complying with the requirements of the Danish food-safety smiley scheme. Setting up a new performance-review concept • Hold career-defining conversations and prepare individual career plans by our new performance concept. Setting up smart workplaces • Implementation of Microsoft Lync, which enables instant messaging/chat , Voice Over IP (telephony) and video conferences. • Implementation of WIFI so everybody has access to files and can stay on the network all the time independent of where in the office staff members meet bringing along their laptops. 6 7 Labour LETT respects and promotes diversity in terms of employment and our daily relations. Internal climate analyses LETT acknowledges that all employees have the right to individual freedom of expression and Diversity makes us strong and in LETT we too are to reflect the surrounding commuopinion and we encourage all our employees to express their opinions individually or in groups nity in a natural way. Therefore, we encourage everybody to apply for the advertised at performance reviews, meetings with the management and specified staff groups and at genjobs, irrespective of background, and we will clamp down on unsuitable conduct such eral section and office meetings and, in writing, at internal climate analyses. as bullying and harassment due the differences set out above. Diversity In LETT, employees are employed and are treated on the basis of their professional capabilities, Our goals and activities 2014 competences and conduct. As a result, no discrimination is made concerning eg ethnics, religion or sexual preference. Retaining women lawyers Goal of 20% women in LETT's Executive Committee within a five-year period and of 40% women in the CommitAt year-end 2013, 38% of our lawyers and junior lawyers were women and 53% of our junior tee within a ten-year period. lawyers were women. So, we employ a large number of women junior lawyers, however, not unlike the rest of the sector, we experience a decline later on in their careers. One of our goals Recruitment committee is to retain a higher number of women lawyers and have ia an increased flexibility focus within The appointed members of the Recruitment Committee continue their work together with our HR Department each employment relationship. and ensure a consistent professional approach to the assessment of new lawyers and junior lawyers as well as law students. Our focus areas in 2013: Clearly defined career trails and female talent The career-trail project, referred to previously, is to help ensure that more women lawyers stay with LETT to continue their careers and also hold management posts. Our career-trail model is expected over time to have a positive effect on the gender distribution at LETT. This positive effect will be crucial as to achieving our goal of an executive committee having more women members. Recruitment committee To ensure a uniform approach, all employments in LETT go via our HR department, which, by the right professional insight and tools, ensures that every single candidate is treated with professionalism and respect. Our recruitment committee consisting of a representative from our HR department and two partners is active in connection with all lawyer employments and at all levels. All other position recruitments are made in cooperation with the section head having a recruitment need. Our focus areas in 2013: Recruitment committee In 2013 LETT set up a new recruitment committee of which the major object is to act as HR's professional sparring partner for any employment of trainees and junior lawyers at our locations. Its task has been and is together with HR to ensure a consistent professional approach to the assessment of new lawyers and junior lawyers as well as law students. In addition, the recruitment committee also participates in the planning of employer-branding activities in order to create a link between recruitment and the outward-looking activities/employer branding to highlight LETT within university environments. In LETT we have a full set of policies regarding Human Resources policies. These include e.g policies regarding stress, pregnancy, illness, health, etc. 8 9 Environment LETT pays attention not to cause more environmental harm than absolutely necesI 2013 we installed night cooling during the summer and we have optimised and still improve our present air-conditioning system together with the owner of the premises and an engineersary. As a service business, our environmental harm is first and foremost connected ing firm. with our office buildings and office operations as well as transportation. Our approach is based on 3R reduce, re-use, recycle. We also analysed our light sources together with the engineering firm and, as a result, we now use new technology within lighting. Energy saving LETT observes relevant legislation and guidelines concerning the environment. We continue to In connection with the change to a non-paper organisation, we have limited our working procereduce our energy consumption and CO2 emissions and to focus on choosing more environmendures by receiving letters electronically as well as filling electronically, and we have experienced tally friendly and energy-wise products and solutions for instance in relation to light sources, a decrease in mail cost. In 2013 we have initiated an analysis of electronic letters in cooperation cleaning products or stationary. A part of LETT’s electricity consumption is windmill generated. with the postal company. We respect and support measures for recycling and reduction, including waste sorting, re-use Public environmental debate of cardboard and paper waste, environmental scrap, fat elimination, two-flush functions, temIn a professional way, we participate actively in public debates within the environmental area. perature reduction during the night and cleaning using environmentally friendly products using LETT’s team for environmental law is internationally recognised as being top of the line. water-saving methods. Our initiatives concerning reduction and recycling are in our operations and service function, which assesses new measures as regards the effect and derived expenses. Our goals and activities 2014 Our focus areas in 2013: Electricity-saving measures and ensuring the newest light sources Renewable energy Most recent LED technology is always installed with due respect of full use of the present technology. In 2013, we received the RECS certificate concerning environmentally friendly electricity because of our purchase of certificates of wind-power plants corresponding to our expected yearly Change to a non-paper organisation electricity consumption. The purchased certificates were issued from renewable energy plants Continuation with the analysis with the postal company and setting goals on the basis of the results of the analythat are less than two years old. RECS certificates are issued and controlled in accordance with sis. international rules on renewable-energy trade RECS (Renewable Energy Certificate System). 10 11 Anti-corruption LETT is subject to the Code of Conduct for the Danish Bar and Law Society, and, on a regular basis, supervision is made to ensure that the Code is being observed. Our firm is subject to Danish authority regulation concerning anti-money laundering including for the purpose of terrorism and an internal set of rules has been prepared and a procedure established to ensure that this anti-money-laundering regulation is being observed. LETT has set up an ethics committee dealing with cases on conflicts of interests as well as making statements about issues relating to the Code of Conduct including ensuring implementation and observance of the Code. In addition, the work of the committee also consists of ensuring that those being complained against to the collegiate authorities or having been threatened with a complaint will get a sparring partner/assessor during the proceedings. Our focus areas in 2013: Ethics and pre-conflict committee In 2013, new members of the Ethics and pre-conflict committee were appointed. The committee has prepared a new set of terms of reference to make sure that any LETT staff member ensures that a case is clarified on the basis of the Code of Conduct as well as commercial considerations and that LETT never represents more than one party in a transaction process. Ethics partner In 2013, Martin Lavesen was appointed LETT's ethics partner. During the year, our ethics partner adopted a visible profile in our firm and was involved in the event of doubtful issues in the Ethics and pre-conflict committee concerning basic ethical issues. He did not participate in the ongoing conflict management but acted as a good sparring partner to the committee as well as to the firm in general. Instruction in rules on anti-money laundering and conflicts of interests In 2013, our staff has received the yearly instruction in handling cases comprised by the Danish Act on anti-money laundering. When becoming employed, new employees agree by their signatures that they will comply with LETTs internal instructions and rules on anti-money laundering and conflicts of interests. Our goals and activities 2014 Setting up a pre-conflict committee Continuation, communication and implementation terms of reference Handling complaints Contribute to closing ongoing complaints faster Supplier choice Implement procedures to ensure that our major suppliers confirm that they meet the principles set out in Global Compact. 12 13 LETTs CSR-strategy LETT is proud to be part of Global Compact, however, our community engagement sports and curative such as massage and erextends further than that. We wish to contribute and enhance where we can make a gotherapist schemes as well as health-service Involvement in the university law insurance. programme difference. Each year nearly 300 universities particiResearch and knowledge sharing pate in the world's largest international LETT is proud to be part of Global Compact, however, our community engagement extends furKnowledge and education constitute the core moot, Vis Moot. The competition puts inther than that. We wish to contribute and enhance where we can make a difference. of our business. We attach great importance ternational law on the sale and purchase to sharing our legal knowledge because we of goods and arbitration on the agenda, It is our strategic ambition to contribute to creating a sustainable wish to ensure and put our fingerprints on and this is the second year when LETT future for our clients, our employees and our community in general the ongoing development within legal professponsors and supervises the team of the by active efforts embedded in our business and competences. sionalism. Our CSR activities within research University of Aarhus. LETT's involvement and knowledge sharing are directed towards in Vis Moot enables us to contribute to Our CSR strategy focuses on four specified focus areas employee investment, environmental all important stakeholder groups staff, law shaping promising law students having focus, legal assistance as well as research and knowledge sharing. students, clients, the business sector and the an interest in litigation. The sponsorship press as well as the general public. also provides an opportunity to make reStaff investments lations to some of the top-level law stuHealth and sport To run a business as ours requires a staff We take on positions of trust and are part of dents in Denmark. An important part of our preventive health-care efforts is to arthat is competent, healthy and functioning working committees in the fora within our range or support sporting activities for our staff primarily within well. Therefore, huge investments are made profession. running, football and fitness. In 2013, 15 LETT teams from our in building up and maintaining legal compelocations in Copenhagen and Aarhus participated in the yearly tences and in general satisfaction and healthy 5x5 km DHL Relay Race, and LETT employees also participated lifestyle that extend beyond an employment in the Copenhagen marathon race, Powerrade half marathon and relationship with LETT. Positions of trust within the Danish lawyer profession the traditional 13-km running event in the north-Copenhagen Deer A number of partners in LETT hold positions of trusts within the Danish legal profession: Park following an internal preparation process of talks and running Our efforts include a great number of initia• Søren Jenstrup is Chairman of the Danish Bar and Law Society and officer-at-large training as well as instructions. tives both preventive such as sporting acin the International Bar Association tivities and talks about health, nutrition and • George Lett is a member of the ICC • Jesper Lett chairs the Danish Arbitration Institute • Marlene Winther Plas is deputy chairperson of the Danish Lawyers' Association • Peter Rønnow is a member of the Disciplinary Board of the Danish Bar and Law Society • Karen Dyekjær Hansen is a member of the Standing Committee on Procedural Law • Martin Lavesen a member of the Danish Press Council 14 15 LETT Law Firm Copenhagen • Aarhus • lett.dk
