Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Our impacts and performance Sustainability report 2013 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Overview and approach About this report CEO foreword Who we are and what we do Managing sustainability 1 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary About this report Welcome to our seventh The report has been assured to give users confidence that the data is accurate and that the content reflects our most Contents annual sustainability report. important issues. We commissioned DNV GL to undertake independent assurance using AccountAbility’s AA1000 Overview and approach u This report provides an update Assurance Standard (2008) which evaluates adherence About this report u to the principles of: on our performance on the issues CEO foreword u Inclusivity identified as most significant – or Involving stakeholders in the development of the company’s Who we are and what we do u material – to our business and our response to sustainability issues. Managing sustainability u stakeholders. It covers data and Materiality Environment u activities from all Nokia Solutions The relevance and significance of an issue to the company and its stakeholders. Operations u and Networks (NSN) operations Responsiveness Products and services u globally for the 2013 calendar year. Communicating and responding to issues raised by Ethics and human rights u stakeholders. Security and privacy u Selected data indicators are also included in this assurance. Suppliers u An index of our conformance with the Global Reporting Health and safety u Initiative guidelines and reporting against the UN Global Employees u Compact principles, together with more information about Performance summary u our sustainability strategy, approach and policies is available online at nsn.com/about-us/sustainability. KPI summary u Progress against targets summary u Independent assurance statement u 2 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary CEO foreword The last two years have brought significant stresses and The health and safety of our employees and contractors 2013 was another year of great challenges for our people, not least through the reduction of is of vital importance to our business, and our ability to our global workforce by a third as we exited some areas of uphold high standards in this area is greatly valued by our change for NSN. We continued with our business, reshaped others and delivered on cost savings customers. We have achieved global certification to the the two-year transformation started target of more than EUR 1.5 billion. These changes were international health and safety management standard crucially important to guarantee a sustainable and healthy OHSAS 18001 in all the countries where we operate, with the in 2011 and have now completed future for NSN, but we also recognize the impact they have exception of China, where we expect to achieve certification the vast majority of restructuring had on our people. Whether they stayed with NSN or left the in the coming year. This certification gives us a strong company, we have sought to support them throughout. foundation on which to operate our business in a safe and activities related to this effort. In sustainable manner. I am pleased to note that our global employee survey results addition, our ownership and name confirm that our people are highly engaged in our strategy Our management system, however strong, would be nothing changed, with Nokia’s purchase and increasingly confident in the direction of the company. without the individual commitment of leaders from across We are about to engage in a period of cultural renewal, the business. Along with my executive board, I have been of Siemens’ 50% share in NSN. designed to embed our core values and behaviors personally involved in the programs that have been behind We are now wholly owned by Nokia. throughout the business. the performance improvements we delivered in 2013: reducing lost time incident rates by nearly a third and One thing that has remained unchanged throughout our significantly lowering the number of fatalities. transformation is our strong commitment to sustainability and to the values embodied in the UN Global Compact. Despite our efforts, I am saddened to report that two contractors died falling from height during installation and Maintaining high ethical standards and respecting human maintenance work in India in 2013. Any fatality is one too rights is a key priority. In 2013, 96% of our people completed many. We are determined to continue to drive improvements annual training on ethical business conduct. As a founding in our processes, competencies and understanding to member of the Telecommunications Industry Dialogue, we ensure that everyone working for NSN can do so safely. contributed to discussions on implementing the industry Our new consequence management system makes clear Guiding Principles on Freedom of Expression and Privacy that we will not tolerate unsafe behavior from contractors. and hosted a meeting of the Advisory Panel at our headquarters in Finland. 3 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary CEO foreword continued Our continued drive for energy and resource efficiency Highlights 2013 across our operations has resulted in a further 19% reduction in emissions in 2013. We are also developing innovative ways to improve the material and energy efficiency of our products to help customers cut their carbon footprints 82% (+9 points) 282 suppliers and reduce their operating costs. engagement score in our asked to participate in industry due diligence annual employee survey on conflict minerals; 262 responses received We are, of course, part of a wider supply chain and I am pleased to report that our suppliers are also increasingly disclosing and reducing their climate impacts and that we continue to conduct in-depth supplier audits to identify key risks. 68% (+6 points) 121 suppliers of employees support the future reported their climate For NSN, economic sustainability is not, alone, a goal in itself, direction of the company impacts to CDP but must always be combined with a strong focus on social and environmental sustainability. I look forward to reporting further progress in 2014. Rajeev Suri Chief Executive Officer 32% 19% reduction in lost-time reduction in carbon emissions incidents per 1 000 employees from our operations 96% 92% of employees completed ethical of waste recycled, reused or business and anti-corruption training used for energy recovery 122 suppliers Worked through the Telecommunications Industry Dialogue to publish Guiding Principles on Freedom of Expression and Privacy trained on sustainability 4 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Who we are and what we do NSN is the world’s end-to-end Meeting the growing global demand to be connected anywhere, anytime, using any device, requires network Our extensive R&D capabilities – including a team of approximately 16 000 R&D staff – underpin this portfolio specialist in mobile broadband. infrastructure that only very few companies can provide – and help us anticipate and adapt to change in the NSN is wholly owned by Nokia and NSN is one of those companies. With a new, stronger ownership structure we have maintained our resolute telecommunications sector. We made one of the largest investments in R&D in the industry in 2013, spending a total Corporation. We provide the world’s focus on mobile broadband. of EUR 1.8 billion. Our global experts invent the new most efficient mobile networks, the Our customers are many of the world’s largest and most capabilities our customers need in their networks. We strive to provide faster, smarter, interconnected, context-aware intelligence to maximize the value innovative mobile operators. We provide these companies and adaptive services, driven by an evolving device with a Mobile Broadband and Services portfolio for of those networks, and the services designing and building communications networks, landscape and exponential traffic growth. to ensure they work seamlessly. operating and maintaining them, and enhancing the NSN has 10 Global Technology Centers, with specific subscriber experience. With headquarters in Espoo, technology and competence profiles in China, Finland, Finland, we operate in approximately 120 countries and Germany, Hungary, India, Poland and the USA. had net sales of EUR 11.2 billion in 2013. 5 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Who we are and what we do continued The transformation of our business has involved restructuring Business units which resulted in some business areas being divested or Our Mobile Broadband business unit provides flexible managed for value, and a significant reduction in our global and adaptable network solutions for mobile voice and workforce over the past two years to approximately 48 628 data services. In Radio, our portfolio covers all radio in 2013 (see Employees, page 35). These changes aim to technology generations; and our Core portfolio includes a streamline the organizational structure, consolidate sites and comprehensive mobile switching portfolio and voice and activities, simplify processes, and align the workforce with packet core solutions. Our smartphone friendly ‘Liquid’ our new strategy, improving productivity and efficiency. software provides a high level of network capacity and performance. Our expertise in customer experience Mobile Global Our Code of Conduct governs everything we do, and management, virtualization and software-rich solutions helps Broadband Services our commitment to corporate responsibility is unwavering. operators to deal with new technology trends such as cloud See Managing sustainability (page 7) for more details. computing, big data, multi-media content, special events and security. The Global Services business unit provides mobile operators with a broad range of services, from network implementation to care services, managed services for network and service operations, network planning and optimization and systems integration. We use global and local services experts and centralized tools and architecture at two Global Delivery Centers and five Global Service Delivery Hubs around the world. 6 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Managing sustainability Our sustainability priorities are Governance Sustainability at NSN is overseen by the Executive Board, In 2013, focus areas for the Council included recertification of our environmental management system to the international aligned with our new business which reviews performance at least once a year and ISO 14001 standard and global OHSAS 18001 certification strategy. We focus on ensuring provides guidance on sustainability related issues. The Head of Marketing and Corporate Affairs is the for health and safety management. Experts from other parts of the business are also invited to offer insights on particular NSN is economically sustainable, board member directly responsible for sustainability. issues, such as conflict minerals. while maintaining key programs Our Corporate Responsibility (CR) team – part of our that help us promote environmental global Health, Safety and Security function – is responsible for managing sustainability including human rights, and social sustainability. environmental management and compliance with CR‑related regulatory requirements. An Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Council, established in 2012, runs our global EHS management systems, coordinates cross-functional activities, and oversees the management of a wide range of sustainability issues. The Council meets monthly and includes representatives from global business units and Health, Safety and Security teams from each of our regions. It assembles working groups of experts from various business units and functions to discuss relevant sustainability issues, share best practice and run specific projects as needed. 7 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Managing sustainability continued Material issues Materiality assessment We focus on the issues that are most important (or ‘material’) to our business. These are aligned with our new corporate 1 Supply chain strategy and our focus on securing an economically 100 1 2 Privacy and human rights sustainable future for the business. 3 Ethics, bribery and corruption The materiality matrix opposite identifies the issues most 4 Climate change relevant to our stakeholders and our business. It is based on 2 5 Waste and materials use our analysis of criteria set out in a tool developed specifically 6 Access to ICT for our industry by the Global e-Sustainability Initiative. 3 7 Product use issues 8 Customer relationships Importance to stakeholders 9 Employee relationships 10 Privacy and security freedom of expression 11 Intellectual property rights 50 10 4 9 11 5 6 8 7 0 50 100 Influence on business success 8 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Managing sustainability continued Stakeholder engagement In 2013, we engaged with stakeholders on a wide range Stakeholder group How we engage Examples in 2013 of sustainability issues. Examples are highlighted in the table opposite and throughout this report. Customers We collaborate closely with customers to ensure We aligned our new Health & Safety Consequence we meet the sustainability standards they require Management Guidelines for suppliers with our of their own suppliers – and help them meet their customers’ expectations. environmental targets. Employees We communicate with employees throughout the We continued our extensive change management business to ensure they understand and support our program in 2013 to support employees through the strategy, and to gain feedback on how we are doing as transformation of the business and engage them in the an employer through our annual Employee Engagement new strategy. Our annual employee survey showed Survey. Employees can communicate with one another significantly improved levels of engagement despite the and find information on the activities taking place in significant changes in the business (see page 36). our business through NSN Connect, our online networking platform. Suppliers We work closely with our suppliers to improve their We ran a series of workshops and webinars to engage management of ethical, labor and environmental issues, with suppliers in high-risk countries in 2013 and raise their monitoring their compliance through regular audits. awareness of our Supplier Requirements (see page 26). Industry We engage with others in our industry to share best We continued to participate in the Telecommunications practices and develop consistent standards and Industry Dialogue, which published Guiding Principles guidelines on particular issues. for the telecommunications industry in 2013 (see page 21). Governments and We work with governments and regulators to support We represented the Telecommunications Industry regulators the development of new guidelines and ensure we Dialogue and provided advice to the European adhere to their standards. Commission for the development of their guidelines on human rights in the Information and Communication Technology (ICT) sector (see page 21). Non-governmental We engage with relevant NGOs on particular issues. Through the Industry Dialogue, we engaged with NGOs organizations on topics of labor conditions and freedom of association. (NGOs) Communities We have policies in place relating to disaster relief and We focused our efforts in 2013 on helping to restore to employee volunteering. Employees can choose to telecommunications following natural disasters such volunteer their time to support community programs. as a super cyclone in Odisha, India. 9 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Environment Operations Products and services 10 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Operations We seek to reduce emissions Improving the efficiency of our operations and engaging our employees is helping us save energy, carbon emissions Total energy use in buildings *2012 increase due to inclusion of full year data from former across our operations, and save and costs, and minimize waste. Our robust, externally (GWh) Motorola sites for the first time resources by minimizing waste. assured management system underpins all our environmental efforts. 551 558* 540 We focus on finding ways to 518 507 Performance in 2013 decrease energy use in our In 2013, we continued our focus on reducing energy buildings and data centers, consumption and emissions, achieving a 19% reduction of total emissions from our operations. We aligned the efforts and emissions from logistics. of our Green to Gold strategy to target the areas where we have the most significant environmental impacts, including manufacturing, test lab facilities and logistics. Reducing energy use and emissions from our buildings and logistics 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 We are focusing on improving efficiency at our most energyintensive buildings, particularly our test labs. Based on our analysis of energy use at the 10 sites with the highest energy Emissions from operations consumption, we have developed improvement plans for 000 tonnes CO2 each site. In 2013, we also began installing sub-meters to 426 provide more comprehensive energy metering across all test lab sites to better understand, analyze and discover 341 opportunities to reduce our energy use. This has helped us improve power usage effectiveness – the proportion of 275 energy used to power the equipment as opposed to cooling and other ancillary functions – at our test labs to achieve our target of 1.5. 2011 2012 2013 11 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Operations continued Our buildings portfolio has changed as a result of significant Our carbon footprint CO2 emissions relative to sales and employees restructuring across the business, which has included closing some sites and creating new, more flexible sites 000 tonnes CO2 equivalent 2011 2012 2013 20 that can accommodate more staff. With more employees Direct emissions from gas and oil, methane and 3.8 4.6 5.1 working flexibly at home or elsewhere some of the time, we nitrous oxide in heating (Scope 1) 16.5 are able to reduce the average office space per employee 15.4 by adopting a ‘hot-desk’ approach. We have also aligned Indirect emissions from purchased electricity 205 216.2 168.6 and district heating, and chilled water (Scope 2) heating and air conditioning systems with hours of operation and external temperatures to avoid heating and cooling Net total from buildings 208.8 220.8 173.7 buildings unnecessarily. In 2014, we aim to consolidate our (after deducting renewable energy) (60) (57.3) 73.4 data centers, which will further improve energy efficiency. External data centers* 2.4 2.3 – Overall, we reduced energy use in our facilities by 9% in 2013 Outbound logistics 135 65 48 3.9 3.8 3.6 compared with 2012, exceeding our 5% reduction target Air travel 80 53 53 year on year. As well as improving energy efficiency, we have Total emissions from operations 426 341 274.7 also increased our use of renewable energy to account for 2011 2012 2013 45% of our total energy use in 2013. This has contributed to *Figure for emissions from external data centers in 2013 unavailable at time of publishing. further reductions in emissions from energy use. Co2/net sales (g/€) Note to chart: CO2 emissions from refrigerants are not included in the direct CO2 emissions, in line with previous years’ reporting. Ozone depleting substances and HFC from refrigerants Co2 per employee (tonnes) In 2013, we continued our focus on shifting away from air are very small: 77Kg in 2013. transport to lower-carbon alternatives including road and sea freight. Our new space-saving ‘Box on Pallet’ packaging is also helping to reduce emissions and material use associated with transporting our products (see page 16). We also aim to reduce emissions from employee travel. In 2013, we continued to introduce lower-carbon vehicles to our fleet of company cars in Europe – including electric cars for the first time, in Finland. Emissions from air travel remained similar to 2012 levels. 12 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Operations continued Waste treatment in 2013 We used a total of 532 045m3 of water across our Progress against targets Waste (tonnes) operations in 2013. This is an 11% reduction from 2012, mainly as a result of office closures. Our operations in Target Progress in 2013 Status Chennai, India, recycled 10 800m3 of water. 4 1 Average 5% reduction We reduced energy 1. Recycled 4 336 3 Environmental management year on year for energy consumption in 2. Reused 829 consumption of our facilities by 9%, Our robust environmental management system provides the own operations exceeding our target 2 3. Used for 635 basis for all our environmental activity. In 2013, we completed Reduce CO2 emissions We continued to work energy recovery an extensive global audit program to achieve re-certification from IT operations and towards our 20% goal 4. Sent to landfill 444 to the international environmental management standard use of IT products by for 2015 ISO 14001. Our top five most significant environmental 20% (from the 2008 Total waste 6 224 aspects across the business – based on the extent of their baseline) by 2015 impact on the environment and our ability to manage them – are unchanged from 2012. These are: §§ Energy consumption §§ Suppliers and third-party products (see Suppliers, page 26) Waste and water We aim to reduce the amount of waste generated across §§ Travel and transport Future targets our operations and increase recycling by improving facilities §§ Waste management Target for collection and sorting, and encouraging employees to Target date recycle more. As we continue to consolidate our buildings §§ Compliance with environmental laws. Reduce CO2 emissions portfolio, we have also extended our partnership with the Of these, energy consumption is the single biggest from IT operations and 15 social enterprise CSR Eco-Solutions to recycle unused contributor, and therefore the main focus of our targets. use of IT products by 20% furniture globally. (from the 2008 baseline) Our employees play an important role in helping us meet our In 2013, we generated a total of 6 244 tonnes of waste – 12% environmental targets. We use a range of channels to raise less than 2012 – and cut waste sent to landfill by 356 tonnes. awareness and stimulate action. In 2013, we introduced a Packaging material, which was recycled, made up more new intranet site and social networking sites to encourage than half of our total waste (see page 16). our employees to discuss environmental topics and share best practice. Key  Achieved Partially achieved Ongoing Not achieved 15 Target dates 13 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Products and services We are developing innovative ways Use of energy and materials is a key theme in our research and development of new products and services. We estimate the energy used when our products are in use based on their average maximum power consumption and to improve the material and energy By developing products that use energy more efficiently the number of years they are typically in operation in mobile efficiency of our products to bring we can help our customers reduce their energy use, emissions and costs. We also aim to improve efficiency networks. The total usetime energy consumption of our products has increased since 2011. However, significant benefits for the environment and of transporting products and reduce waste through the changes to the type of equipment mean that each product help our customers save money. design of our packaging. enables higher volumes of network traffic when in use – resulting in improved energy efficiency overall. In 2014, Performance in 2013 we will begin work to develop a more meaningful measure We continued to improve the energy efficiency of our of product energy efficiency, following the European products in use by refining hardware models, developing Telecommunications Standards Institute’s standard. software and supporting customers with energy management services. Our Technology and Innovation Research team also focused on using materials more Product usetime energy consumption efficiently in the design and manufacture of our products (GWh) and we sought to ensure components can be recycled at end of life. 30 270† Products using less energy and materials We aim to ensure that every new product is more energy 24 777 efficient than the previous model. For example, the energy 20 500 19 924 efficiency of our 2012 Flexi Multiradio Base Transceiver Station improved by 19% from the 2010 model, and we 16 800 are now working towards further improvements in the next model. –* 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 *2012 data not available. † 2013 energy consumption is based on products sold in high volumes, representing over 80% of the total usetime energy consumption. 14 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Products and services continued In 2013, we formally embedded energy efficiency into Participation in research Managing other environmental impacts our product creation process and trained research and We are partnering with others in our industry to develop a In addition to energy and materials, our product and service development teams accordingly to ensure environmental common framework for measuring environmental impacts, development processes also consider environmental factors considerations are an integral part of product development. and to create standards that help to identify where we can such as hazardous substances, packaging and recyclability. We continue to develop new software and active features, make improvements. Since 2012, we have been participating We comply with the EU Restriction of Hazardous Substances which can change the way existing equipment runs to use in OPERA-Net 2 – a project of the Celtic-Plus European ICT (RoHS) Directive and Registration, Evaluation, Authorization energy more efficiently. This also enables radio access Cluster Research Initiative, part of the Eureka Network – that and restriction of Chemicals (REACH) regulations. networks to better adapt to variable network demand in aims to examine the environmental impacts across network different locations and at different times – a trend that has infrastructure, and works with standards bodies to develop The NSN Substance List identifies substances that have been accentuated by the increased use of smart phones an agreed approach to environmental measurement. been banned, restricted and targeted for reduction, and and demand for data. The results of this project are anticipated in 2015. is updated regularly. In addition to our internal focus, we encourage our suppliers to phase out substances which In addition, our energy management services help network We participate in European Commission pilot projects are classified as ‘Monitored’. operators meet their energy and emissions targets and save to test our standards and develop new approaches energy costs. These services include optimizing equipment to measuring impacts. We have proposed a simplified and site design, remote monitoring and field maintenance, approach that concentrates on energy and resource use as well as other aspects of the customers’ energy use, such across the life cycle of our products. Our previous studies as procurement and use of renewable energy. We have have shown that energy consumption during manufacturing applied energy efficiency measures to more than 5 900 sites and use accounts for 75-95% of the total environmental since 2009. impact, with use being the biggest contributor. Reducing the use of materials in our radio access network equipment also reduces their environmental footprint by using resources more efficiently. In 2013, our Technology and Innovation Research team focused on several material efficiency projects. We continued to analyse material use and disposal through life cycle assessments. For example, over 90% of the materials in our Flexi Multiradio Base Transceiver Stations made in 2013 can be disassembled and recycled at the end of the product’s life. 15 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Products and services continued We take back equipment at the end of its useable life, Progress against targets Packaging reused in our distribution hubs including that of other manufacturers, to ensure that it (tonnes) is disposed of responsibly and sustainably. Our small Target Progress in 2013 Status number of reputable recycling contractors treat everything Introduce product An energy efficiency 4 078 from components to entire products, recycling materials creation process scorecard is now included 3 682 3 597 where possible, and disposing of hazardous waste change aimed at energy as part of our NSN Create 3 471 responsibly. We now use one global recycler across most efficiency improvement process 2 836 regions, giving us greater visibility and control over the in the product portfolio treatment of waste. Future targets Target Target date Work with customers to reduce energy 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 consumption of telecommunications networks through our Packaging is a key area where we can save money and Radio waves and health innovative product reduce environmental impacts. In 2013, we introduced Wireless communications technologies operate well solutions a new method of packaging, using pallets to transport the within the limits recommended by the International Improve the energy boxes without being in additional containers. The new ‘box Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection and efficiency of our products on pallet’ packaging saves space, reduces use of materials, endorsed by the WHO, and the company works to in each main release and limits costs. With 8kg less packaging material per pallet ensure continued compliance of its products with these Implement a methodology load, it helps to reduce fuel consumption in transportation, requirements. NSN engages with its stakeholders and to measure product 15 cutting carbon emissions by around 43%. We reuse the in public discussions on this topic as well as monitoring energy efficiency, following the European packaging for products that we receive at our inbound scientific studies. Telecommunications distribution hub, for outbound products. Standards Institute’s For more information see nsn.com/about-us/sustainability/ standard radio-waves-and-health. Key  Achieved Partially achieved Ongoing Not achieved 15 Target dates 16 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Ethics and human rights Ethics and human rights 17 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Ethics and human rights Maintaining the trust of our Our Code of Conduct details our high ethical standards, and includes our promise to ensure our communications Our Ethical Business Training demonstrates how the Code can be applied to real-life scenarios, addressing issues such customers and the integrity of our technologies are not used to infringe human rights. The as ethics in the workplace, proper accounting and controls, business depends on our strong values and commitments set out in the Code must be upheld across our business by our employees, suppliers, conflicts of interest, and facilitation payments. Around 96% of employees completed this training in 2013. commitment to promote ethical and partners. In 2013, we began to consolidate the policies that define behavior and uphold human rights. We help employees better understand what the Code our ethical standards to make them simpler and easier means to them by providing training in ethical business to understand, starting with a streamlined NSN Gift, practices, and we work with suppliers and business partners Entertainment and Hospitality Policy. to ensure they are aware of our expectations. We encourage people to report any concerns about potential ethical Ethical business training breaches and have a due diligence process to flag human rights risks in our sales process. We investigate all 2011 2012 2013 notifications and take appropriate action. % employees that completed 90 86 96 ethical business conduct training Performance in 2013 (including on human rights issues) Promoting employee awareness of our ethical standards and encouraging openness about concerns remained central to our efforts in 2013. We also worked to overcome Anti-corruption: prevention and detection technical issues related to our human rights due diligence Our anti-corruption strategy focuses on two key areas: tool and continued to engage with others in our industry prevention and detection. To reach as many employees on privacy and freedom of expression. as possible, we offer anti-corruption training online, in‑person, and through WebEx and NSN Tube (our internal Training and awareness video channel). In 2013, 96% of employees completed Annual training on ethical business conduct and human anti-corruption training as part of our wider Ethical rights is mandatory for all employees to help them Business Training and a further 2 127 employees completed understand how to apply our Code of Conduct in everyday our other training options. decision-making. 18 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Ethics and human rights continued Strong due diligence procedures remain in place for the Investigations and resulting disciplinary action Type of enquiries made via the ethics email reporting appointment and extension of any contracts with third channel in 2013 parties used in sales and promotion roles, which are subject 2011 2012 2013 to approval by the Compliance Office. We also aim to 11 12 1 1. Anti-corruption 18 Number of investigations by 112 139 192 engage with others in our industry to contribute to wider Ethics & Compliance Office 10 2 2. Conflict of interest 26 efforts to tackle corruption. Number of employees dismissed on grounds 40 28 26 3. Gifts and hospitality 14 Reporting ethical concerns of violation of Code of Conduct 9 4. Code of conduct 23 We encourage employees and anyone working with NSN Number of employees given a written warning 30 31 16 3 to report any concerns about potential breaches of our 5. H uman resources 28 Code of Conduct. Employees can ask for guidance or report 4 (fairness) ethical concerns by emailing ethics@nsn.com, or remain 6. L  abor conditions and 1 anonymous by contacting the ethics hotline on our website. Ethics enquiries 8 supply chain 5 7 7. Legal and compliance 7 We take all reports of ethical misconduct seriously. In 2013, 2011 2012 2013 6 (Fraud) our Ethics and Compliance Office investigated 192 alleged abuses of the NSN Code of Conduct. As a result, employees Ethical enquiries and concerns raised 302 160 205 8. Workplace practices 14 were dismissed or issued written or verbal warnings. via the ethics email reporting channel 9. General guidance 32 Ethical enquiries and concerns raised 104 114 85 and advice via other channels 10. Human rights 25 11. C  ustomer policy 4 12. Privacy 13 Total 205 19 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Ethics and human rights continued Examples of ethical issues encountered by employees Human rights due diligence We strongly believe that communication networks have an Issue raised Our guidance Action taken important role in promoting human rights by enabling free expression, access to information, exchange of ideas and A whistleblower reported a concern that NSN has a conflict of interest policy which The investigation into the report found no a line manager misused their position to prohibits favoritism. evidence of favoritism, as none of the line economic development. recruit friends and relatives for vacant manager's relatives work for NSN. positions with high salaries. In line with our human rights policy, we carry out extensive risk assessments and due diligence. Our approach starts An employee reported a concern NSN is committed to the highest standards An investigation by the Ethics and that they were given a Performance of ethical conduct and does not tolerate Compliance office found that the employee’s with our sales agents. In 2013, we started training sessions Improvement Plan (PIP), a program discrimination. annual assessment showed their on our human rights policies and due diligence for our low-performing employees are enrolled performance needed improvement. Their employees in the Americas, Asia-Pacific and Europe. In in, based on discriminatory reasons. PIP was given to support their performance, 2014, we will continue providing further training for regional and not as a result of alleged discrimination. customer teams with information specific to their region. A whistleblower reported that an external NSN has a zero tolerance policy for The investigation revealed that the external employee working as an NSN engineer corruption and fraud. employee is the MD and CEO of a company Sales agents feed information about potential deals into our was also running his own company. that works with an NSN competitor. The global sales platform, which features an automated system employee was removed from NSN that assesses the potential for misuse of our technology employment. based on the type of technology for sale and the human rights record of the purchasing country. The automated system is designed to issue a warning flag for sales found to be potentially high-risk. This prompts a review process which involves a detailed analysis and risk assessment of the sale in question. The results of the review are evaluated by a committee, the Head of Sales in the region of interest, and the NSN Executive Board if there is any remaining doubt about potential risk. If we judge that the risk of product misuse is too high, we will decline the opportunity of a sale. 20 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Ethics and human rights continued We identified a glitch in the automated system in late 2013, The Telecommunications Industry Dialogue formally has Progress against targets which meant some cases were not flagged. We uncovered established its own governance and signed a contract the missed cases (a very small number) to double-check initiating a two-year collaboration with the multi-stakeholder Target Progress in 2013 Status their potential risk. The glitch has since been fixed and Global Network Initiative (GNI). Both groups aim to advance Train sales teams in Held three training sessions – preventative measures taken to prevent a re-occurrence. freedom of expression and privacy rights in the Information high-risk countries on in the Americas, Asia-Pacific We are continuing to follow up on these cases to ensure all and Communication Technology (ICT) sector. our human rights policy and Europe – and plan to hold related possible risks are properly mitigated. We are also and due diligence further training in 2014, as well taking steps to further improve our due diligence process by In November 2013, the Industry Dialogue and GNI held their process by end 2013 as providing customer teams embedding these checks deeper in the relevant processes, first joint Learning Forum in Brussels, enabling civil society with information specific to in addition to the automated features in the relevant tools. organizations, academics, investors, government officials, each region international organizations and ICT companies to share their Contribute to the Continued to work with the We will report the outcome of the mitigation work, as well perspectives on current challenges relating to freedom collaboration between Industry Dialogue and hosted as the updated process in our 2014 Sustainability Report. of expression and privacy. Participants discussed issues the Telecommunications a meeting for its Advisory Industry Dialogue on Panel where representatives emerging as a result of revelations about large-scale Privacy and Freedom shared best practices and Further information on our due diligence fact sheet is government-led communications surveillance. of Expression and the discussed the implementation available on our website. Global Networking of the Industry Dialogue’s In December 2013, we hosted the Advisory Panel of the Initiative by end 2013 Guiding Principles on Freedom Developing industry principles Industry Dialogue at NSN headquarters in Espoo, Finland, of Expression and Privacy NSN is a founding member of the Telecommunications where representatives shared best practices and discussed Industry Dialogue, a group of telecommunications operators how to implement the newly published Guiding Principles. and vendors who jointly address freedom of expression and Future targets privacy rights in the telecommunications sector. Download the Guiding Principles from our website. Target Target date In March 2013, the group published and signed the Industry Ensure all employees complete annual Dialogue Guiding Principles. Influenced by the UN Guiding 14 ethical business training Principles on Business and Human Rights, the principles Ensure all employees complete address issues of privacy and freedom of expression as they 14 anti-corruption training relate to the telecommunications sector. They specifically focus on the interaction and boundaries between a Provide training and information on human rights policies and due diligence 14 government’s duty to protect human rights and the for sales teams in high-risk countries corporate responsibility of telecommunications companies to respect human rights. These principles are the result of two years of dialogue that included stakeholder outreach. Key  Achieved Partially achieved Ongoing Not achieved 15 Target dates 21 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Security and privacy Security and privacy 22 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Security and privacy To help our customers safeguard NSN provides network equipment to telecommunications providers (our customers), but we do not control the Managing security and privacy We aim to observe the highest standards of integrity and their users’ personal data personal data transmitted over the network. However, we ethical conduct in all our operations, and embed these as effectively, we build security understand consumers are increasingly concerned about the potential for security breaches or infringements of their part of our organizational culture. Our commitments are set out in our Code of Conduct (see nsn.com/about-us/ and privacy into the design privacy, as more and more data is transmitted and stored sustainability/our-approach/code-of-conduct), which of our products. over telecommunications networks. We help our customers ensure their networks are secure, so that they in turn can includes respecting the privacy of our customers and other parties. We have established robust security and privacy maintain the confidence of consumers. measures, and we run awareness campaigns to mitigate the risk of any breach resulting from human error. We also recognize that requests from governments and law enforcement agencies to access data transmitted Three key objectives underpin our approach to managing over telecommunications networks can raise human rights security and privacy: concerns. We have worked with others in our industry to develop Guiding Principles on Freedom of Expression and §§ To provide products that are designed to help Privacy, which set out a common approach to dealing with telecommunications operators comply with their demands from governments (see page 21). privacy obligations. §§ To offer reliable and trustworthy service to our customers. §§ To ensure that NSN products respect the privacy of end-users. 23 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Security and privacy continued Our security policies are designed to ensure compliance Security and privacy by design Progress against targets with external regulations and customer requirements. They We aim to build security and privacy into the design and are based on best practices and aligned with ISO 27001, the development of new products. Each area of our business Target Progress in 2013 Status internationally recognized standard on information security has a Product Security Manager who oversees the Introduce privacy The privacy impact management. In India, six of our sites are certified to ISO implementation of our product security processes and impact assessments in has been deployed 27001, and in 2013, we extended certification to our global guidelines, and we nominate a Security Lead for each design and development and documented in delivery center in Portugal. In 2014, we will re-certify our sites individual product line. of all products the process description in India and focus on complying with new requirements outlined in the latest version of ISO 27001, including However, not all risks can be resolved at the design stage. improving controls to further secure the services we deliver Our design for security and security vulnerability monitoring to our customers. processes enable us to detect and manage potential vulnerabilities. Where appropriate for the type of product or We conduct external assessments for NSN’s businessfunction, this may include a detailed assessment, supported critical applications based on the perceived risk and by external security experts or hackers, simulating attacks anticipated exposure to security threats. In 2013, that a product might face in a real network. assessments were conducted on end user services, human resources and financial services. The findings concluded Our product privacy guidelines provide a checklist of privacy that security threats did not pose a major risk to our considerations in product design including the level of user business, and that we are managing them adequately. control and the ability to express preferences about how data is used. Key  Achieved Partially achieved Ongoing Not achieved 15 Target dates 24 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Suppliers Suppliers 25 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Suppliers We expect our suppliers to Key suppliers account for the majority of our purchasing spend and are the highest risk to our business as they Driving improvements through supplier audits We conduct in-depth audits on labor conditions and meet the high ethical, labor and provide the products and services that we sell to our environmental management for high-risk suppliers to environmental standards set out in customers. We work closely with them to ensure they meet our Supplier Requirements, with a specific focus on high ensure they comply with the NSN Supplier Requirements. These assessments include document reviews, interviews our Supplier Requirements before standards of health and safety particularly for services with managers and employees, site visits and warehouse we will work with them. We conduct suppliers. To help improve sustainability performance throughout our supply chain, we encourage our suppliers inspections. In 2013, we spent 32 days conducting in-depth audits at 10 supplier sites in China and India. We found 92 regular and robust assessments to to apply the same standards to their own suppliers, and instances of non-compliance, 42 of which related to health ensure compliance, and work with we collaborate with other organizations in our industry. and safety (see table on page 27). Based on the findings of our audits, we made 153 recommendations for improvement suppliers to improve performance Performance in 2013 which are being addressed through corrective action plans In 2013, we conducted more in-depth audits on specific where needed. issues to check that suppliers are adequately addressing (see table on page 27 for examples). key risks. Measures to improve suppliers’ health and safety Health and safety is a particular risk for suppliers supporting performance continued to be a major focus and we saw our Services business, and remains a strong focus for NSN. significant progress in the number of suppliers disclosing In 2013, we included more stringent questions on health and and targeting reductions in their climate impacts. We also safety in our tendering process for service contracts. We engaged with suppliers through industry initiatives to also launched a consequence management system to make conduct due diligence related to conflict minerals. it clear that failing to demonstrate robust safety management is unacceptable. 26 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Suppliers continued Findings of in-depth audits on labor conditions Examples of audit findings and corrective plans and environmental management in 2013 Non-conformities identified Recommendation for improvement Action taken Total Salary increases were being recovered Supplier should stop deducting salary Supplier updated its employment policy Number Number of number of from employees at the end of increases at the end of employment, accordingly, communicated it to all of nonpotential recommenemployment if they left within four months regardless of the duration of an employees and introduced the policy conformities risk areas dations for of receiving a salary increase employee’s contract with immediate effect Category identified identified improvement Supplier was including employee state Supplier should stop including ESI as part Supplier stopped including ESI as part of Child labor (proof of age 0 0 0 insurance (ESI) – a medical benefit of employees’ salaries, and begin paying employees’ salaries, and it is now being paid documents missing) provided by the government – as part this as an additional payment to all to all eligible employees of employees’ total salaries, rather than eligible employees Forced labor 0 0 0 providing it as an additional benefit Health and safety 42 26 68 Supplier was not complying with NSN’s Supplier should identify ways to reduce Supplier introduced training for employees Freedom of association 3 0 3 environmental policy, for example, they water and energy use and waste, and set on how to reduce energy and water use; and right to collective had not introduced any water and energy targets to do so developed a procedure for handling bargaining saving measures or attempted to reduce hazardous waste; and marked Environment the amount of waste they produced Day with the launch of a tree planting initiative Discrimination 3 0 3 The person responsible for occupational Supplier should recruit a qualified OHS Supplier recruited a qualified OHS specialist Disciplinary practices 5 2 7 health and safety (OHS) was not qualified specialist to be responsible for managing and provided a certificate to prove their level to an acceptable level health and safety at the company of qualification Working hours 4 3 7 Remuneration 6 4 10 Management systems 19 14 33 Environmental 10 12 22 management system Total 92 61 153 27 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Suppliers continued In addition to these in-depth audits of high-risk suppliers Supplier audits on specific issues, sustainability criteria are included in our regular performance evaluations of suppliers. Suppliers that 2007 Total to are new to NSN are also subject to system audits to check (April-Dec)* 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 date compliance with our Supplier Requirements. As we continued In-depth audits focused on labor conditions and environment 5 7 6 13 17 2 10 60 to consolidate the number of suppliers we use globally, there were only 27 system audits of new suppliers in 2013. On-site system audits against our Supplier Requirements 37 103 147 108 121 57 27 600 *NSN was established in April 2007. In instances of non-compliance, we invest in programs to help our suppliers improve. But if suppliers fail to show a satisfactory change of behavior, we escalate the issue to Training India and China, focused on addressing health and safety, senior management and will stop working with the supplier We run web-based training workshops for suppliers operating as well as labor and environmental risks. until the issue is resolved. in high-risk countries to raise their awareness of different elements of our Supplier Requirements – including labor Our procurement teams are also trained on sustainability We aim to continually improve the way we assess and issues to help them communicate our requirements to manage suppliers’ sustainability performance. In 2013, we conditions and due diligence on conflict minerals – and to improve their capacity to meet these standards. By suppliers and identify potential sustainability risks. Around began piloting the E-TASC supply chain management tool 96% of procurement staff completed training on ethical powered by EcoVadis and invited our top 100 suppliers to conducting training online, we can reach more suppliers, while reducing costs and carbon emissions associated with travel. conduct and anti-corruption in 2013 as part of our Ethical participate. Of these, 52 suppliers (accounting for 25% of Business Training for all employees (see page 18). We also our total spend) completed the assessment in 2013. In 2014, In 2013, we organized two webinars involving 93 new developed additional web-based sustainability training we plan to follow up with corrective plans for any suppliers suppliers and, as part of our increasing focus on health and related to procurement, health and safety and environmental considered to be a medium or high risk, based on their safety, we ran two training workshops for 29 suppliers in requirements, which will be introduced in 2014. responses to the EcoVadis self-assessment. Supplier workshops Total to 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 date Number of suppliers participating in NSN sustainability workshops and webinars 5 16 54 76 105 122 378 Number of management level supplier workers participating in NSN sustainability 11 33 103 115 133 183 578 workshops and webinars 28 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Suppliers continued Reducing the environmental impact of our suppliers Tackling conflict minerals Through the Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) We aim to reduce environmental impacts associated with Electronic components contain many different metals and the Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI), we support our supply chain by encouraging key suppliers to report often including tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold (‘3TG’). the industry’s Conflict Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI). The their climate impact and set carbon reduction targets These metals are derived from minerals which are widely CFSI aims to trace metals back to smelters through supplier through the CDP Supply Chain Program. Of our top 200 mined in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), where due diligence and certify ‘conflict-free’ smelters by tracing suppliers, 121 (representing 39% of our total procurement there are concerns that the proceeds from mining in certain minerals to individual mines. These efforts aim to improve the spend) have responded to CDP’s request for information – regions are used by armed groups to fuel conflict and human traceability of minerals in the ICT supply chain, and help up from 66 in 2012. rights abuses. companies meet new U.S. legislation requiring them to report whether their products may contain minerals from the According to the CDP responses, around 50% of our top We do not tolerate the use of such ‘conflict minerals’ in DRC and adjoining countries. 200 suppliers are now disclosing their carbon emissions our products. This is clearly outlined in our policy on conflict and 30% have set reduction targets. Their carbon reduction minerals and integrated in our Supplier Requirements, which We have developed a robust due diligence approach that initiatives have saved a total of 46 million tonnes of CO2 are communicated to suppliers. is aligned with the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for equivalent and around USD 1.8 billion in 2013 alone. Watch Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals. We are conducting the video for more on how we have been working with our NSN is supporting industry efforts to tackle conflict due diligence on all relevant suppliers and encouraging them suppliers to improve their energy efficiency. minerals that seek to improve transparency in the supply to ensure their own suppliers are compliant, all the way down chain to enable companies to trace back metals in their to the smelters or refiners where the minerals are processed We have seen considerable improvements in our suppliers’ products to responsible, ‘conflict-free’ sources. We seek into metals. willingness to disclose and address their climate change to develop sustainable solutions that enable support of impacts, and aim to encourage our top 100 suppliers to legitimate trade and positive development in the DRC and set emissions reduction targets by 2016. adjoining countries. All our suppliers (except those with very low environmental impacts) must have a documented environmental management system (EMS) and, for key suppliers and those with higher impacts, this must be certified to ISO 14001. 29 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Suppliers continued In 2013, we continued to evaluate our suppliers’ due Progress against targets Future targets diligence activities and collect information on the smelters Target that the 3TG in our products is sourced from by asking Target Progress in 2013 Status Target date all 282 relevant suppliers to complete the CFSI reporting Work with suppliers to All six open audits were Work with suppliers to template. We received 262 responses. All responses were address open findings addressed, although three ensure all open audit 14 analyzed and we followed up with corrective action plans from audits conducted remain open due to findings are addressed, where needed. We are introducing requirements that will during 2012, and continue management changes and perform 20 new audits direct our suppliers to source 3TG only from smelters that auditing suppliers in line 10 new audits were conducted Increase the number are validated as conflict-free. All this will help us work with the planned audit of suppliers reporting 14 program towards our goal of conflict-free products by 2016. their energy use and Increase the number 121 suppliers reported greenhouse gas emissions Further information on our due diligence activities and the of suppliers reporting to CDP via the CDP to 150 results of our due diligence process in 2013 will be published their energy use and Continue to engage with greenhouse emissions 14 in a Conflict Minerals Report, available at nsn.com/about-us/ via the CDP to 70 and train suppliers on sustainability from May 31, 2014. sustainability issues Complete due diligence As part of our due diligence through workshops and Supplier diversity process on conflict process, all relevant webinars minerals for 80% suppliers were asked to In North America, where there are regulations on supplier Increase the number of relevant suppliers complete the CFSI conflict of suppliers using the 14 diversity, 3.9% of our procurement was spent with minority minerals reporting template EcoVadis supply chain businesses as part of our supplier diversity program and 93% of them responded management tool to cover during 2013. Re-launch in-depth Three new online trainings 50% of our supplier spend training on sustainability developed on sustainability Roll out health and safety for procurement staff for procurement staff consequence management 14 Continue to engage with Two workshops and two systems in further markets and train suppliers on webinars conducted Continue working to sustainability through ensure our products are 16 workshops and webinars conflict free Key  Achieved Partially achieved Ongoing Not achieved 15 Target dates 30 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Health and safety Health and safety 31 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Health and safety We put safety first. The health, We strive to ensure that all employees and contractors are aware of the risks associated with their job, and receive the Health and safety performance safety and wellbeing of NSN necessary training and equipment to work safely – whether 2011 2012 2013 employees and our contractors in the office or on site. Our focus on safety is not only important to us as a responsible business, but is also Total lost-time incidents 160 101 57 is central to how we do business demanded by our customers. Differentiating ourselves Lost-time incident rate per 1 000 employees 2.18 1.73 1.17 at NSN. by demonstrating robust safety standards and improved performance helps us build trust and win work. % Critical and Fatal Incidents of all 4.80% 3.43% 0.45% incidents reported Performance in 2013 Near miss incidents reported 55 141 636 We continued to improve our health and safety performance in 2013 by raising employee awareness and engaging leaders to promote a ‘safety-first’ culture Fatalities worldwide. The rate of lost-time incidents per 1,000 employees decreased by 32% compared with 2012. 2011 2012 2013 Total number of employee fatalities 4 2 0 Our efforts to improve health and safety have helped to significantly reduce the number of fatalities in 2013. Total number of contractor and 9 10 2 But any fatality is unacceptable to NSN. We deeply regret subcontractor fatalities that two contractors died as a result of falls from height during installation and preventive maintenance work for Improving safety management NSN in India. Both incidents were fully investigated and In 2013, we achieved OHSAS 18001 certification for all our corrective and preventive actions have been taken to global operations except China, due to changes to China’s prevent similar incidents. certification requirements. We aim to certify our operations in China by the end of 2014. OHSAS 18001 is an internationally recognized standard that provides the framework and foundation for our health and safety management system, and drives continuous improvement. Achieving this certification, following a series of independent external audits, demonstrates our focus on preventive measures, contractor controls, employee awareness and meeting customer and legal requirements. 32 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Health and safety continued Our mandatory health and safety training underscores the Addressing key risks Progress against targets importance of identifying and avoiding risks and reporting In addition to conducting risk assessments, we track and incidents. Engaging our leaders and encouraging reporting analyze high potential incidents to identify our most pressing Target Progress in 2013 Status of near-misses – hazards or incidents that did not result risks and develop effective corrective plans. Key safety risks Achieve zero fatal Fatal accidents declined from in injury but could have – helps to reinforce the importance for our employees and contractors include driving and accidents by collaborating 12 in 2012 to 2 in 2013, but any of proactive safety management. By creating a culture that working at a height, which together accounted for 76% closely with our customers fatality is unacceptable and we identifies hazards and supports active risk prevention and of high-potential incidents in 2013. and contractors are working to tackle the root action, we can significantly lower the number of incidents causes of these incidents that occur. As part of this shift, senior leaders are getting More than half of high potential incidents recorded in 2013 Achieve global certification Achieved global certification more actively involved in safety with regular management were road traffic accidents. We provide targeted road safety to OHSAS 18001 for all to OHSAS 18001 for all reviews and site tours. awareness programs and safe driving initiatives in high-risk NSN operating countries NSN operating countries regions. In Latin America, for example, initiatives such as by end 2014 except China We have increased our focus on reporting of near miss GPS tracking to monitor employees’ driving speeds and incidents in 2013, tracking 636 near misses – more than ‘How’s my driving?’ stickers to encourage the public to three times the amount recorded in 2012. We investigate report unsafe behavior have helped to reduce speeding high potential incidents and near misses to identify and fines and traffic accidents. analyze their root causes, so we can put in place effective Future targets measures to prevent similar incidents from happening again. Many high-risk activities, including working at height, are carried out by subcontractors for our customer operations, Target All fatal and high potential incidents are reviewed with Target date members of the Executive Board and we hold quarterly so it is important they are aware of the proper safety procedures and use the right equipment. In addition, Achieve zero fatal fatality prevention meetings. accidents by collaborating we are working hard to enhance our safety standards closely with our customers Our internal Safety Award recognizes outstanding efforts by conducting field and site inspections and rigorous risk and contractors to improve safety across the business. A team working assessments, as well as requiring appropriate personal Achieve global certification with one of our key customers in Italy won the award in protective equipment to be worn at all times when working to OHSAS 18001 for all 14 2013 for the development of mandatory safety training for at height. To support this effort, in 2013 we ran two training NSN operating countries subcontractors, which supplemented existing training with workshops for suppliers in India and China that aimed to by end 2014 information specific to NSN site activities and contributed support them in identifying and addressing safety issues. to zero accidents in that part of the business in 2013. We have also introduced a consequence management system for contractors that fail to demonstrate robust safety management (see Suppliers, page 26). Key  Achieved Partially achieved Ongoing Not achieved 15 Target dates 33 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Employees Employees 34 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Employees NSN is emerging from a major Performance in 2013 We achieved our cost savings target of more than 1.5 billion Changes in our workforce restructuring process. We aimed to by the end of 2013. We also continued to focus on delivering 2011 2012 2013 support our employees throughout an efficient and effective change management program, and we are now entering a new phase of change that will focus Total number of employees at 31 December 73 529 58 411 48 628 and keep them informed of on embedding a strong values-based corporate culture. Total number of leavers 10 534 18 584 16 278 changes through regular dialogue. Results of our global employee survey show that employees recognize our efforts and are increasingly engaged with our Voluntary leavers 6 919 8 341 3 737 We are now entering the next phase new business strategy, and scores increased in all areas. We Employee turnover of voluntary leavers 9.9% 9.9% 7.5% of change, focused on NSN’s continue to invest in training and maintain our commitment to provide safe, fair and equal working conditions by Employee turnover of involuntary leavers – 14.2% 18.2% cultural transformation. following global standards for labor conditions. Attrition due to common agreement – 5.8% 7.1% Leavers through voluntary severance package 302 1 744 758 Restructuring Involuntary leavers 3 615 8 453 8 905 The two-year restructuring program announced in 2011 was essential to improve the efficiency of our business. It has also Leavers through common agreement 610 1 745 2 878 led to significant changes in our workforce. By the end of Leavers through outsourcing and divestments 386 1 374 3 290 2013, we had 48 628 employees – one third fewer than 2011 (see table opposite). External temporary labor 12 169 10 617 5 684 New employees 17 228 6 757 6 270 Throughout the restructuring process, we aimed to provide support and clearly communicate changes to affected employees – and wherever possible, transfer them into new roles within NSN. In instances where redundancies were unavoidable, we followed local legal requirements when and where required, and worked with local communities to help people find employment. 35 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Employees continued Change management Engagement Employee Engagement Index In 2013, we continued our Focused Mind program to help In 2013, we increased the number of questions in our The Employee Engagement Index measures our our people feel equipped to cope with change and motivated annual employee engagement survey to give us a better people’s emotional, rational and motivational to deliver our new business strategy. We also began the understanding of employees’ perspectives on our business commitment to the company based on a set of nine global rollout of our Discipline, Accountability and Profit and and how we are managing them. Results from our survey survey questions. The Leadership Perception Index measures employees’ confidence in our leaders’ Growth (DAP) mindset program, following a pilot in 2012. showed record high employee engagement levels in 2013, capabilities based on a set of seven survey questions. with our highest ever response rate of 93% (up from 87% By outlining a common approach for all business units to in 2012) and an overall Employee Engagement Index of 82%, follow, DAP is helping to drive a consistent way of working 82 a nine point increase from 2012. and encouraging a collective transformation of our business. 73 70 Each business unit has an action plan to address DAP Our efforts to manage change, create a clear direction for 64 related challenges, and performance against DAP is now the company and address other key areas for improvement part of employee performance evaluations. The results of our identified in our previous surveys are paying off. In 2013, 52 Employee Support for Direction and Change survey showed we saw significant increases in all areas of the engagement 45 that DAP is working, with 68% of employees responding survey (see table on page 37). Employees’ optimism about positively in 2013, exceeding our target. the future of NSN increased by 15 points, pride in working at NSN increased by 14 points and overall perception of In 2014, we will begin implementing a program to embed leadership increased by 12 points. our values and build a strong corporate culture to support NSN’s business strategy. We used feedback from Despite the significant change we have undergone, employees and leaders to develop a framework to support NSN’s engagement results are now comparable with this cultural transformation. other telecommunications companies overall (based on December 2011 October 2012 October 2013 comparative normative data), and stronger than comparative Employee Engagement Index scores in the areas of change (+3.4%) and innovation (+5.1%). Leadership Perception Index However, performance and personal development remain lower than the external benchmark of the telecommunications industry and we aim to address this in 2014 by encouraging employees to complete Personal Development Plans (see page 37). 36 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Employees continued Survey questions (% positive responses) Training and development We recognize personal development is a key factor in We continued to invest in training and support for our retaining and engaging our employees, and improving Dec Oct Oct people to develop the capabilities needed to deliver our opportunities in this area has been a focus in 2013. We 2011 2012 2013 new business strategy. In 2013, we spent approximately encourage employees to complete a Personal Development I am proud to tell others I work for NSN 63 63 77 EUR 41.5 million (compared with EUR 50 million in 2012) on Plan (PDP), agreed with their line manager, outlining how 124 600 days of training for employees through our Academy. they will work towards their personal and career aspirations I fully support NSN’s values 84 86 90 This reduced expenditure is the result of a significant in the short and long term. In 2013, the number of employees I strongly believe in the goals and objectives 66 72 82 reduction in the number of employees at NSN, as well as with a PDP increased significantly to 68% from 36% in 2012. of NSN our increasing use of more cost-effective virtual technologies Additionally, over 84% of employees completed a The senior leadership of NSN communicates 46 57 69 to deliver training, such as virtual classroom learning. performance evaluation. a clear sense of direction Training days Changes within NSN are well communicated – 63 74 I am optimistic about the future of NSN – 56 71 2011 2012 2013 Total amount of training days provided 118 563 106 759 124 600 I believe I have the opportunity for personal 54 – 67 by our Academy development and growth Average number of training hours 9.9 14.1 19.2 per employee Leadership development is a priority for NSN and we remain committed to enabling employees at all levels to develop their leadership skills. In 2013, programs included Leading for Performance, designed to develop the leadership skills of high potential managers, Leading with Influence for high potential employees, and Communication for Presence for senior managers and executives. We also offer training programs such as Leading Teams and Coaching for Performance. Globally, over 1 400 employees were involved in our leadership programs (more than double the number in 2012), and the overall satisfaction rate was 5.43 out of 6. 37 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Employees continued Gender balance Progress against targets Future targets 2012 2013 Target Progress in 2013 Status Target Due by Male Female Male Female Increase Employee Employee Engagement Index Increase Employee Total employees (%) 81 19 80 20 Engagement Index by increased by nine percentage Engagement Index by 14 three percentage points points to 82 1.5 percentage points Line managers* (%) 87 13 85.5 14.5 Increase Leadership Leadership perception Increase Leadership Senior Management (%) † 87.5 12.5 87 13 Perception Index by increased by 12 percentage Perception Index in our 14 four percentage points points to 64 annual survey by two Executive Board (%) 82 18 71 29 percentage points Increase employee Support for direction of the *Employees with one or more subordinates. support for direction business increased by six Increase employee support † Representing approximately 350 employees. of the business by four percentage points to 68 for direction of the business 14 percentage points by at least four percentage points Diversity Provide leadership Provided Leading for Having a gender-balanced and ethnically diverse workforce training programs to Performance and Leading with Provide leadership training 1 280 high potential Influence programs to over for around 1 950 leaders at 14 is important to our business and we have a very diverse employees 1 400 high potential employees various levels of the business Executive Board. In 2013, the number of women on the Retain 90% of topRetained 97% of our topRetain 90% of topExecutive Board increased from two to four out of 14 14 performing employees performing employees performing employees executive members, and nine different nationalities are represented. Despite the reduction in our overall workforce, in 2013 the male to female ratio remained relatively steady at 4:1 and the proportion of women in management continued to increase (see table above). NSN employees represent approximately 150 different nationalities. Labor standards Our Code of Conduct sets out clear standards for labor conditions. We operate according to the detailed Global Labor Standard, aligned with International Labor Organization conventions, SA8000 and common industry code of conduct. Key  Achieved Partially achieved Ongoing Not achieved 15 Target dates 38 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Performance summary KPI summary Progress against targets summary Independent assurance statement 39 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary KPI summary 2010 2011 2012 2013 Environment Energy Total Energy Use (GWh) 518 540 5581 507 Product usetime energy consumption (GWh) 19 924 24 777 – 2 30 2703 Carbon footprint Total CO2 from our operations (thousand tonnes) 369 426 341 275 Total CO2 normalized by sales (g/€) 20 20 16.5 15.4 Health and safety Number of lost-time incidents 118 160 101 57 Employees Employee satisfaction/engagement index (%) 73 70 73 82 Diversity Senior leader gender balance (%)4 Male 89 88 87.5 87 Female 11 12 12.5 13 Training and development Hours of training per year per employee 14.8 9.9 14.1 19.2 Ethics Percentage of employees who have completed online training on ethical business conduct 92 90 86 96 Suppliers Number of in-depth audits (focused on labor conditions and environment) 13 17 2 10 1  012 increase due to inclusion of full year data from former Motorola sites for the first time. 2 2 2012 data not available. 3 2013 energy consumption is based on products sold in high volumes, representing over 80% of the total usetime energy consumption. 4 Representing approximately top 340-370 employees. 40 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Progress against targets summary Environment Target Progress in 2013 Status Future targets Target date Products and services Introduce product creation process change An energy efficiency scorecard is now Improve the energy efficiency of our products aimed at energy efficiency improvement in included as part of our NSN Create process in each main release the product portfolio Work with customers to reduce energy consumption of telecommunications networks through our innovative product solutions Implement a methodology to measure product 15 energy efficiency, following the European Telecommunications Standards Institute’s standard Operations Average 5% reduction year on year for energy We reduced energy consumption in our consumption of own operations facilities by 9%, exceeding our target Reduce CO2 emissions from IT operations We continued to work towards our 20% goal Ongoing 15 and use of IT products by 20% (from the 2008 for 2015 baseline) by 2015 Key  Achieved Partially achieved Ongoing Not achieved 15 Target dates 41 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Progress against targets summary continued Ethics and human rights Target Progress in 2013 Status Future targets Target date Contribute to the collaboration between the Continued to work with the Industry Dialogue Telecommunications Industry Dialogue on and hosted a meeting for its Advisory Panel Privacy and Freedom of Expression and the where representatives shared best practices Global Networking Initiative by end 2013 and discussed the implementation of the Industry Dialogue’s Guiding Principles on Freedom of Expression and Privacy Train sales teams in high-risk countries on Held three training sessions – in the Americas, Provide training and information on human 14 our human rights policy and due diligence Asia-Pacific and Europe – and plan to hold rights policies and due diligence for sales process by end 2013 further training in 2014, as well as providing teams in high-risk countries End 2014 customer teams with information specific to each region Ensure all employees complete annual ethical 14 business training End 2014 Ensure all employees complete anti-corruption 14 training End 2014 Key  Achieved Partially achieved Ongoing Not achieved 15 Target dates 42 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Progress against targets summary continued Security and privacy Target Progress in 2013 Status Future targets Target date Introduce privacy impact assessments in The privacy impact has been deployed design and development of all products and documented in the process description Key  Achieved Partially achieved Ongoing Not achieved 15 Target dates 43 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Progress against targets summary continued Suppliers Target Progress in 2013 Status Future targets Target date Work with suppliers to address open findings All six open audits were addressed, although Work with suppliers to ensure all open 14 from audits conducted during 2012, and three remain open due to management audit findings are addressed, and perform continue auditing suppliers in line with the changes 20 new audits End 2014 planned audit program 10 new audits were conducted Increase the number of suppliers reporting 121 suppliers reported to CDP Increase the number of suppliers reporting 14 their energy use and greenhouse emissions their energy use and greenhouse gas via the CDP to 70 emissions via the CDP to 150 End 2014 Complete due diligence process on conflict As part of our due diligence process, all Continue working to ensure our products are 16 minerals for 80% of relevant suppliers relevant suppliers were asked to complete conflict free the CFSI conflict minerals reporting template and 93% of them responded Continue to engage with and train Two workshops and two webinars conducted Ongoing 14 suppliers on sustainability through workshops and webinars End 2014 Relaunch in-depth training on sustainability Three new online trainings developed on for procurement staff sustainability for procurement staff Increase the number of suppliers using 14 the EcoVadis supply chain management tool to cover 50% of our supplier spend End 2014 Roll out health and safety consequence 14 management systems in further markets End 2014 Key  Achieved Partially achieved Ongoing Not achieved 15 Target dates 44 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Progress against targets summary continued Health and safety Target Progress in 2013 Status Future targets Target date Achieve zero fatal accidents by collaborating Fatal accidents declined from 12 in 2012 to Ongoing closely with our customers and contractors 2 in 2013, but any fatality is unacceptable and we are working to tackle the root causes of these incidents Achieve global certification to OHSAS 18001 Achieved global certification to OHSAS 18001 Ongoing 14 for all NSN operating countries for all NSN operating countries except China End 2014 Key  Achieved Partially achieved Ongoing Not achieved 15 Target dates 45 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Progress against targets summary continued Employees Target Progress in 2013 Status Future targets Target date Increase Employee Engagement Index Employee Engagement Index increased Increase Employee Engagement Index 14 by three percentage points by nine percentage points to 82 by 1.5 percentage points End 2014 Increase Leadership Perception Index Leadership perception increased by Increase Leadership Perception Index in 14 by four percentage points 12 percentage points to 64 our annual survey by two percentage points End 2014 Increase employee support for direction Support for direction of the business Increase employee support for direction of the 14 of the business by four percentage points increased by six percentage points to 68 business by at least four percentage points End 2014 Provide leadership training programs Provided Leading for Performance and Provide leadership training for around 1 950 14 to 1 280 high-potential employees Leading with Influence programs to over leaders at various levels of the business 1 400 high-potential employees End 2014 Retain 90% of top-performing employees Retained 97% of our top-performing Ongoing 14 employees End 2014 Key  Achieved Partially achieved Ongoing Not achieved 15 Target dates 46 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Independent assurance statement Scope and objectives Basis of our opinion Findings and opinion DNV GL has undertaken independent assurance of the Our work was designed to gather evidence to provide We reviewed and provided feedback on drafts of the Report Nokia Solutions and Networks’ (NSN) Sustainability Report moderate level assurance as defined in AA1000AS (2008). and, where necessary, changes were made in relation to the 2013 (‘the Report’). We undertook the following activities: information and data assured. The assurance process was conducted in accordance with §§ Review of the current sustainability issues that could On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing came to our AA1000AS (2008). We were engaged to provide Type 2 affect NSN and are of interest to stakeholders; attention to suggest that the Report does not properly reflect moderate level assurance, which covers: its material issues or describe NSN’s adherence to the §§ Interviews with selected directors and senior managers Principles or its performance, with the following exceptions: §§ evaluation of adherence to the AA1000APS (2008) responsible for management of sustainability issues and principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness review of selected evidence to support issues discussed; §§ NSN discovered in August 2013 that the system for (‘the Principles’); and §§ Review of NSN’s approach to stakeholder engagement flagging potential human rights issues during due and recent outputs; diligence processes had failed to operate automatically §§ the reliability of specified sustainability performance as expected. It is understood that this means there is information, as listed in the NSN Key Performance §§ Review of information provided to us by NSN on its a risk that sales could have potentially gone ahead that Indicators (KPIs) section on page 40. reporting and management processes relating to may have been declined if human rights issues had Responsibilities of the directors of NSN the Principles; been properly identified during the due diligence and of the assurance providers §§ Review of supporting evidence for key claims and process. We understand that remediation actions are The directors of NSN have sole responsibility for the performance indicators prioritised according to being put in place, and that NSN will report on this issue preparation of the Report. materiality at a consolidated corporate level; and in the next sustainability report. We were not involved in the preparation of any part of the §§ Review of the processes for gathering and consolidating Observations Report and we have no other contract with NSN. This is performance data and for a sample, checking Without affecting our assurance opinion we also provide the third year that we have provided assurance. consolidation from reporting system to the Report. the following observations. In addition to the assurance of the Report, we reviewed We used the AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard as §§ Last year we stated that NSN should demonstrate evidence for a sample of material claims in NSN’s 20-F criteria to evaluate the nature of adherence to the principles how the business priorities have been adapted for submission to Nokia Group. of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness and the Global the newly restructured business and how the new Reporting Initiative Quality of Information Principles as business strategy will be implemented. The ongoing Our statement represents our independent opinion and transformation programme and wider business review is intended to inform all of NSN’s stakeholders. We adopt criteria for evaluating the selected performance information. process is impacting on NSN’s ability to finalise its longer a balanced approach towards all stakeholders. term sustainability strategy including setting meaningful measurable targets. We understand that the next report will outline the new strategy and targets. 47 Overview Environment Ethics and Security Suppliers Health Employees Performance and approach human rights and privacy and safety summary Independent assurance statement continued Inclusivity concerns the participation of stakeholders §§ NSN has identified that emissions from products §§ Reported emissions data currently do not include any in developing and achieving an accountable and constitute significant impacts on the environment. data on emissions from the company fleet. NSN are strategic response to sustainability We would recommend that the measurements are aware that this data is material and NSN will report on §§ NSN continues to demonstrate an inclusive approach to based on a publicly available methodology on how fleet emissions in the future. employee engagement and has undertaken a specific NSN compares and calculates energy efficiencies, §§ As per last year, the fatality numbers reported match employee survey. Despite the recent restructuring and to enable improved comparability and transparency the evidence provided; however, NSN is aware of an changes to the business, we note that the employee across operations. improvement opportunity for the data collection system survey results are still largely positive and indicate positive Responsiveness concerns the extent to which to enable capturing each individual fatality, rather than support from employees for the future direction of the an organisation responds to stakeholder issues incidents, which has the potential to over or under company. This reflects the efforts in communications and §§ Last year we recommended disclosure on the rationale report fatalities. management of the impact of the restructuring programme. for changes to targets, particularly relating to Health and §§ For many KPIs data collection remains largely manual, §§ In our statement last year we noted that NSN collaborates Safety, Employees, and Supplier performance, as they thus increasing the risk for potential human error in data closely with its stakeholders. We recommended reviewing remain material. We restate this recommendation. transmission. We recommend consideration of automated the opportunities from a formalised structure, for example §§ NSN has implemented energy efficiency measures, data collection processes/systems where practicable. a stakeholder panel, to integrate stakeholders’ views such as sub-meters, for different sites in its real estate into strategic decision making, enhancing sustainability §§ For example, as supply chain activities expand more portfolio. We recommend extending this to all material management. We restate this recommendation. data is being collected and reported. This data is held sites (e.g. based on energy consumption) to allow for in different systems and aggregation is largely manual. Material issues are those which are necessary for granular data to be collected at site level. This will Processes would benefit from further integration of stakeholders to make informed judgments concerning enable NSN to identify site level efficiencies and systems and automation. NSN and its impacts target investments. §§ Last year NSN undertook a review of its material issues DNV Two Tomorrows Ltd Performance information to align its sustainability efforts with the new business London §§ We observed generally robust data collection, collation strategy. We understand that future materiality reviews April 17th, 2014 and reporting systems and processes. On the basis will be validated with external stakeholders including of the work undertaken, nothing came to our attention investors and customers who are engaged as part of the to suggest that the data published is inaccurate or development of NSN’s sustainability platform. This will materially misstated. allow a broader scope of stakeholders to understand in greater detail how their concerns have been addressed §§ We observed greater accuracy of emissions data for in line with NSN’s overall sustainability strategy. We facilities as the use of estimates has been reduced Douglas Farquhar recommend that this activity continues to be prioritised. and the calculations are now largely based on actual Principal Consultant billed data. DNV Two Tomorrows Ltd 48
