Sid 1 av 4 2014-04-25 ALTECO COP UN Global Compact reporting of Communication on progress (COP) for 2013. The company Alteco is a Swedish technical consulting company, established in 1994 with offices in Bollnäs, Stockholm and Mora. We offer highly qualified services for power distribution, electrical and security installations, public lighting, telecom networks, industrial automation, plus land and facility. Our consultants are experienced, competent and well known for their great ambition to fulfil our customer's needs and expectations. Alteco's system for quality, environmental and occupational health and safety management is since 2001 certified according to SS-EN ISO 9001 and SS-EN ISO 14001 and since 2009 according to SIS-OHSAS 18001. Alteco is verified as a Climate Neutral Enterprise since the year 2007 by the Swedish company Respect Climate. Alteco’s general policy of operations is built upon 4 keywords; Equipped, Dedicated, Efficient and Responsible. When our customers hire us, they can rely on our delivery and product to fulfil top quality within these categories. We are eager to develop; meaning responsibility to environmental, social and economic factors is a major part of our core business. Statement of support from Mr Andreas Lundström, Alteco Chief Executive Officer “We have been supporting the UN Global Compact since May 2009. We express our commitment on our website, in presentation materials and to our customers. The ten principles are obvious for our management and employees. Alteco supports all of the ten principles and is dedicated to report progress in our work in issues concerning human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption in our annual COP, in hopes of making the world a little bit better” Below is a review of 2013’s progress in policies and actions under the principles of the Global Compact. Human Rights Alteco AB Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaime Bollnäs (HK) d human rights Box 261 Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuse Långgatan 30 821 23 Bollnäs Tel: 0278-63 20 80 Alteco supports and follows the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. It is the aim of Alteco not to be complicit in violating any of the human rights stated in the declaration. Alteco Mora Dalagatan 4 follows and respects the human rights set by the UN, and the applicable parts of Swedish 792 32 Mora law, in all its operations. Tel: 0250-270 70 Stockholm No violations on the human rights, as they are stated by the UN, have been reported Arenavägen 47 during the year. 121 77 GlobenStockholm Tel: 08-601 91 50 Säte: Bollnäs Orgnr: 556550-2209 epost@alteco.se www.alteco.se Fel! Hittar inte referenskälla. Sid 2 av 4 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Alteco follows all applicable laws on labour in Sweden, and are aware of the core rights of workers stated by the International Labour Organisation (ILO) in its core conventions. Alteco holds a pro-active approach to these rights, and continuously works with the environment and rights of our employees. No infringements on the ILO core labour rights or Swedish worker rights laws have been reported during the year. As a company, we have a permanent concern to respect and promote the principle of non-discrimination on all levels of our human resources, putting special emphasis on recruitment, career development and training. With this intention, Alteco commits not to practice any form of discrimination, based upon age, gender, religion, origin (social or ethnic), political views or trade-union membership. The CEO actively recommends every employee to be a member of the union or at least to join the unemployment fund. Every year all employee fills out an anonymous survey about work-environmental issues, a job satisfaction survey. The one responsible for the job satisfaction survey is the safety and health coordinator. Altecos goal is to improve the result from this survey every year, and hope is that the survey can help Alteco achieve “no absence due to illness caused from work”. On a scale from 1 to 5, the result from the survey 2013 was 4.03 (2012: 3.89), the result was a better than last year. The CEO has personal development interviews with all the employees which covers questions such as working conditions, health, education/development and any other question. The interviews are documented in writing and the CEO keeps the original and the employee gets a copy. To promote gender equality, and to meet regulations set in the Swedish labour law, Alteco has constructed and adopted a gender equality policy. No discrimination due to gender is accepted at the workplace, and no cases of violations to this policy have been reported. Out of Alteco’s 26 employees, 2 are men and 6 are women. In recruitment, Alteco actively works to meet expectations on a diversified workforce, and continuously seeks competence from both genders. The aim is to even the up the male dominated balance of today. Other highlights include: Alteco with its employees follow the Swedish Work Environmental Act (OSH Act) in every work done. The company have signed a collective agreement. Alteco’s management system is since 2009 certified to OHSAS18001. Alteco is also engaged in conscious and structured health efforts aimed at increasing employee well-being which includes for example outdoor activities, medical insurance and subsidized gym membership. Alteco has appointed an employee that is responsible for the work environment, who works as a spokesperson and connection for employees to management, as a measure to develop the environment surrounding co-workers every day. Alteco has two safety representatives, one in the Stockholm office and one in the Bollnäs office, to ensure that regulations set in the Swedish law are met. Fel! Hittar inte referenskälla. Sid 3 av 4 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies In all projects and all work done, Alteco follows the Swedish Environmental code (Miljöbalken). We follow a precautionary approach in our work, and educate our employees in general environmental work as well as environmental codes specific for Alteco. In addition to that, the company has identified the climate issue as a key issue, and strives to minimise its effect on the climate and takes measures to promote climate work among employees as well as customers. Alteco’s management system includes several governing documents that support and ensure the quality of our environmental work, and since 2001 the management system is certified to ISO 14001. Also, every employee gets an education in Alteco’s way of tackling environmental issues. This is part of our strategy to raise awareness on environmental protection. In addition to these educations, Alteco tries to hold extra educations and workshops to broaden perspectives among our staff. Altecos biggest source of impact on the environment is detected being the CO2e-waste, a result from many trips by trains, buses and cars. Since the climate issue has been detected as a key issue, Alteco has decided to work together with a partner to find efficiency in accounting and actions to decrease our impact. Together with our partner, the sustainability consultancy Respect Climate, Alteco has been able to make progress in minimizing our greenhouse gas emissions. We follow international standards set in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and our goal for 2013 was to reduce our CO2e-waste per employee by 5% compared to 2012. In a three year perspective, our goal is to reduce our waste by 5% each year. Alteco follows goals and criteria set in the action programme Climate Neutral Enterprise, an action programme verified by Respect. In the programme, Alteco works with detecting and measuring it’s greenhouse gas emissions, and then sets up goals and methods to reduce them. This work is done in 4 steps: 1. Identification of sources of emissions, 2. Measurements of CO2e emissions (Scopes 1 and 2, + business trips), 3. Implement activities for reducing CO2e emissions, 4. Offset remaining emissions in projects working to reduce emissions in other countries, by buying reduction units from credible standards verified by a third party. After completed action programme you are considered Climate Neutral, by not adding any net emissions to the atmosphere (following the UN definition on Climate Neutrality). This work is done annually, and to keep the Climate Neutral Enterprise-logo, we have to achieve our goals and continue to develop our environmental work. Every year since Alteco first got certified (2007) our total CO2e-waste has decreased except 2013. In 2010 our total CO2e-waste per full-time employee was 2.94 tonnes. In 2011 that number has decreased by 7.5% to 2.69 tonnes and we have in 2012 decreased by 15.6% to 2.27 tonnes unfortunately we had increased by 10% to 2.59 tonnes per full-time employee. We work hard with trying to decrease emissions from business trips, by implementing a travel policy. The policy states that employees are to choose travelling by train or bus. If, for some reason, we have to travel by car we primarily use our “green cars”, Toyota Prius. The Toyota Prius meets Swedish regulations for what can be considered a green car, with an average emittance of 89g Co2/km Fel! Hittar inte referenskälla. Sid 4 av 4 This year’s offset was made in Kenya Paradigm, energieffective Cook Stoves and water treatment technology in Kenya, a Gold Standard-certified project, thereby decreasing emissions in the region. Alteco bought offsets corresponding to 67 tonne CO2e. Alteco’s strive is always to be efficient in our way of handling waste and have an aim of recycling what is possible. This has turned out to be a challenge since many of our employees are spread at two different office hotels in Sweden. This year however, Alteco has moved the Nacka office to Globen in Stockholm, which are our own hired office just like the Bollnäs office. As a result, through the implementation of policies, we can easier affect our way of handling waste and our sources of emissions (i.e. from energy use et.). Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Alteco condemns any practice of corruption in all its forms, and actively works to ensure that no part of our organisation partake in any actions that can be understood as corrupt. As a consultancy, Alteco is aware of the risks in relations to customers and suppliers. Therefore, we have implemented a routine document, called “Vett och Etikett”, a Code of Conduct that describes how Alteco should act as a neutral consultancy. The document advices how to act against suppliers in relation to rewards, discounts or gifts in the form of study travels or other situations when Alteco’s impartiality can get questioned. If questionable offers come from suppliers, or if someone hears of such offers, the CEO shall be informed immediately. There have been no reports on corrupt activities, including extortion or bribery, during the year.
