UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 1 CONTENT STATEMENT OF CONTINUED STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT IN 2013 SUPPORT IN 2013 ...................... 3 OUR STORY ................................ 5 I am pleased to confirm that Royal Copenhagen In this annual Communication on Progress, we reaffirms its support to the Ten Principles of the describe our actions to improve the integration OUR COMMITMENT TO United Nations Global Compact in the area of of the Global Compact and its principles into our THE UN GLObAL COMPACT ..... 7 Human Rights, Labor, Environment, and Antibusiness strategy, culture, and daily operations. Corruption. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of OUR SUPPLY CHAIN .................. 9 The highest quality standards and craftsmanship communication. are an essential part of Royal Copenhagen’s brand. Our membership to the UN Global ComSincerely yours, GOVERNANCE......................... 11 pact helps us ensure that we similarly uphold high globally recognized standards for human rights, labor rights, the environment, and anOUR CORPORATE SOCIAL ti-corruption. The UN Global Compact provides RESPONSIbILITY JOURNEY ..... 13 a framework for us to work with these issues, and Lotte Wamberg, thus we are thrilled to renew our support. Managing Director HUMAN RIGHTS ...................... 15 LAbOR ...................................... 19 ENVIRONMENT ....................... 23 ANTI-CORRUPTION ................. 29 PORCELAIN DONATIONS ....... 31 2 3 OUR STORY Since 1775, Royal Copenhagen porcelain has At Royal Copenhagen, we look to our Danish herbeen a symbol of an up-to-date, quality conitage, act on it, and carry it with us into a global scious lifestyle. With untiring enthusiasm, we environment. continuously sustain the high standards of craftsmanship that ensure the flawless quality for which Starting from 2009, Royal Copenhagen has reviRoyal Copenhagen is so well known. talized the brand through fundamental strategic changes, product development and focus on conOur mission is to add a feeling of luxury to everycepts, which has resulted in a strong increase in day moments through premium, contemporary the global sales of the brand. Royal Copenhagen porcelain with deep roots in Danish design histowas acquired by Fiskars in the beginning of 2013, ry. Our vision is to elevate everyday moments. a global company with a portfolio of trusted brands. Fiskars and Royal Copenhagen share the The Royal Chartered Porcelain Factory was foundsame values such as our Nordic roots, world-reed in 1775 under the patronage of the Queen nown products, and conducting business in a Juliane Marie. We can trace our roots back to the responsible way. Fiskars has implemented Code Royal Family, and have become a part of Danish of Conduct training for all employees, focusing culture. on the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. Our strong relation with the Danish Royal Court continues, as there is a strong cooperation on many occasions, as well as a deep interest in the Royal Copenhagen brand. 4 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 5 OUR COMMITMENT TO THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT An essential part of Royal Copenhagen’s DNA is The ten principles of the UN Global Compact to honor our obligations towards the communihave served as the backbone of Royal Copenhaties in which we operate by maintaining a healthy gen’s policies, and provide guidance in practicing dialogue with stakeholders, both internally and corporate social responsibility in our daily operaexternally. We are determined to continuously entions. hance our labor practices, strive to protect human rights in our supply chain, minimize our environmental impact, and work against corruption. 6 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 7 Royal Copenhagen’s Value Chain DESIGN & PRODUCT OUR SUPPLY CHAIN DEVELOPMENT SOURCING Every piece of Royal Copenhagen porcelain is Flora Danica is one of the world’s most prestigunique. During the production process, it will ious and luxurious porcelain dinner sets. All Flora pass through the hands of about 30 people Danica pieces are crafted, glazed, and painted by before being shipped to our customers. Royal hand in Denmark. Copenhagen products are a testimony to authenticity and credibility, both because of the characRoyal Copenhagen pieces are known and sold OWN PRODUCTION ter of our craftsmanship, and because of a unique all over the world, with sales offices in Denmark, back stamp approving each piece’s quality and Japan, South korea, Taiwan, Germany and the originality. US. Royal Copenhagen also has 20 of our own retail stores and 106 Shop in Shops around the Today, Royal Copenhagen product development world. takes place and original molds are made at our competence center in Glostrup, Denmark. Copies because of our very high quality standards, it WAREHOUSING FREIGHT of the molds are then sent to Royal Copenhagen takes years to develop relationships with and Thailand in Saraburi, where the porcelain pieces train suppliers. For this reason, we tend not to are produced. Royal Copenhagen Thailand opershift suppliers, but rather work with our suppliers ates with high standards for human rights, labor, to develop their competencies. We believe that environment, and anti-corruption. maintaining an ethical and responsible relationship with our suppliers is the best way to deliver high quality and is the “right” way to do business. SALES & MARkETING OUR STORES END-USER 8 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 9 GOVERNANCE Royal Copenhagen’s work within CSR is outlined managers in the countries where we operate are in our CSR strategy. The daily work with CSR is responsible for overseeing the day-to-day implehandled by the CSR manager in Denmark and mentation of the CSR strategy. The CSR manager the CSR Organization in Thailand. The local reports to the Global Management Team on this. 10 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 11 OUR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY JOURNEY Where We started Challenges along the Way Royal Copenhagen began our CSR journey in Social responsibility “lives in the walls” and 2012, an initiative that was heavily supported “runs through the DNA” of Royal Copenhagen. by top management. We wanted to get a clear In everything that we do, we bring our Danish picture of where to place our focus, so we first legacy, our craftsmanship, and our high quality investigated our value chain in terms of CSR. We standards. This means that we maintain longconducted selected supplier visits and staketerm relationships with our suppliers and customholder analysis and found that our stakeholders ers, and work with them to work in a way that is care most about how our employees are treated ethical, reasonable, and responsible. because outside of Denmark. Our stakeholders expressed many aspects of CSR such as high labor and enthat they already expected a brand like Royal vironmental standards are ingrained in our comCopenhagen to be compliant in environmental pany DNA and carried out by employees across and anti-corruption issues. With this in mind, we many functions, the greatest challenge for Royal decided to place focus on labor and human rights Copenhagen is formalizing our CSR values and in our own operations, and work outwards to our processes into policies so that they can be presuppliers, as described in our CSR Strategy. served for our future employees, Royal Copenhagen Thailand, and our suppliers. In addition to the issues recognized by our stakeholders, we identified five focus areas on which to base our work during our four year work plan. our Future roadmap These focus areas are: our Suppliers Code of Conduct, the Forest Stewardship Council certification, During the first two years of our CSR journey, we energy saving, recycling, and CSR education for have placed much of the focus looking inwards at our relevant employees. Royal Copenhagen, ensuring that our own factory and production live up to the highest standards We decided to conduct an external audit on Royal of human rights, labor, environmental, and anCopenhagen Thailand to confirm and document ti-corruption standards. Looking forward, we will that the factory operates according to the highest pass on the CSR expertise that we have gained in standards. In 2013, we hired an independent exthe last two years to our suppliers, starting with at ternal auditor to conduct a social audit for Royal least one external supplier audit in 2014. Copenhagen Thailand. The conclusion of the audit has served as a baseline for the future work with CSR at Royal Copenhagen Thailand. 12 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 13 HUMAN RIGHTS prinCiples Challenges 1. business should support and respect the proRoyal Copenhagen are focusing on dedicating tection of internationally proclaimed human resources to assess human rights risks and rights impacts along our supply chain. 2. business should make sure that they are not As part of our CSR journey, we have thus far complicit in human rights abuses mainly focused on creating a safe and healthy working environment for all of our employees that complies with international and local standassessment, poliCy & goals ards. Our focus for this coming year will be on our suppliers, which will bring us much closer to At Royal Copenhagen, we are committed to fully assessing, understanding, and acting upon upholding all internationally proclaimed human the human rights impacts in our supply chain. rights within our influence, especially when it comes to protecting our employees. implementation We recognize that our influence to prevent adverse human rights impacts is strongest within the Striving to uphold all internationally proclaimed health and safety of our own employees, and the human rights is the minimum standard for Royal employees of our suppliers. Thus this is our focus Copenhagen. We see a unique opportunity as area and starting point for working to minimize a company with strong Danish roots, to have and protect adverse impacts in our supply chain. a great impact on the occupational health and safety of employees in regions where human We also hold our suppliers to high human rights rights standards may not be as highly integrated standards, which are reflected in Royal Copenhainto local regulation as in Europe and Denmark. gen’s Supplier Code of Conduct. Our suppliers must support and respect internationally recogRoyal Copenhagen’s Global Management Team nized human rights as defined by the UN, and and the local management team at Royal Copenassess the risks and impacts of their operations hagen Thailand hold the responsibility for human on human rights with a view to ensure that we are rights. At Royal Copenhagen Thailand, we regnot complicit in human rights abuses. ularly train all of our employees on health and safety, and organize annual health checks for all Our goal for 2014 is to continue to assess the huemployees. man rights impact of Royal Copenhagen, starting with a social audit of at least one supplier. 14 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 15 CASE Our ability to influence outcomes in the area of urement. We have an overview of employees’ the health and safety rights of employees exphysical checks, working environment, sick leave, employee health and saFety at royal Copenhagen thailand tends beyond our own operations. Royal Copenand injuries. Measuring the outcomes helps us hagen expects our suppliers to respect human understand how we can continue to improve At Royal Copenhagen Thailand, a safety comAs a Danish company operating abroad, it is rights through engaging in an ongoing dialogue health and safety for our employees. mittee consisting of 11 employees and manoften a challenge to overcome the cultural barwith their stakeholders in a way that is culturally agement representatives has been elected to riers that may come with implementing a more appropriate, free, and informed. According to an independent external auditor oversee the company’s safety plan, introduce European standard for employee health and in 2013, Royal Copenhagen Thailand provides a safety projects in areas where they see the safety. Our CSR organization in Thailand introsuitable working environment in terms of venpotential for improvement, and give recomduced a suggestion box for the employees, so measurement oF outComes tilation, temperature, lighting, and cleanliness. mendations to the management team if they that they can express their concerns in a more Additionally, all appropriate personal protective see a health risk or safety issue. The commitanonymous and culturally appropriate way. Royal Copenhagen is committed to ensure conequipment is provided, and environmental tests tee inspects all of the safety equipment in the The management team reviews the suggestinuous improvement in the area of human rights are conducted regularly. facility, including fire extinguishers and alarms, tions on a monthly basis. They then give feedthrough ongoing risk assessment and kPI measand reports back to management. This helps back to all employees who make a suggestion to ensure that all safety equipment is functionand take action on all feasible suggestions. ing at all times. Employees take this opportunity to regularly CASE place attention to possible improvements in The safety committee also organizes an anproduction processes and other issues directly nual safety week, during which employees related to their work. receive first aid and safety training, engage in team-building activities, and a safety award At Royal Copenhagen, raising the standard of is given to the employee that has raised the working conditions at all of our facilities is of most important safety issues throughout utmost importance to us, and we constantly the year. strive to find culturally appropriate ways to achieve this. annual health CheCk tion test, audio test, OC vision test, urinalysis, and PAP smears are conducted. A total of 302 Annual health checks for all employees at Royal employees participated in 2013, resulting in inCopenhagen Thailand are led by bangkok dividual and confidential health reports, as well Occupational Medicine Center Co. Ltd. The as an overview for management. This service health checks include basic physical measureof annual health check is much appreciated ments such as weight, height, blood pressure, by the employees as most examinations are and bMI, as well as a blood analysis for hemaexpensive and would not be prioritized by the The picture depicts tocrit, red blood cell morphology, white blood employees if they were not offered to them for the number of cell count, platelets, blood sugar, cholesterol, free. A future goal for us is to include full eye man hours worked triglycerides, HDL, LDL, and liver disorders. sight checks if an employee needs corrective during which Royal Additionally, a chest X-Ray, SPIRO lung funcglasses, upon request. Copenhagen Thailand was accident-free in 2013. 16 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 17 LABOR prinCiples on the basis of personal characteristics that are irrelevant to job requirements. We encourage our 3. businesses should uphold the freedom of associsuppliers to base employment on the principles of ation and the effective recognition of the right to equal opportunity and fair treatment, and never collective bargaining discourage workers from electing worker represent4. The elimination of all forms of forced and comatives, forming or joining workers’ organizations, or pulsory labor collective bargaining. 5. The effective abolition of child labor 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of We will assess the social risks and impacts for our employment and occupation primary suppliers. The Royal Copenhagen Supplier Code of Conduct outlines all the labor requirements for our suppliers. The Code of Conduct is an integral assessment, poliCy & goals part of all Royal Copenhagen supplier contracts, and we furthermore ask that all suppliers ask their At Royal Copenhagen, we believe that everyone suppliers to comply with the Royal Copenhagen has the basic and unalienable rights to be free from Code of Conduct Requirements. discrimination and harassment, the right of collective bargaining, the right to choose to work freely with a legal contract, and that every child should implementation have the right to an education. To achieve this, we will continuously protect and document labor rights Royal Copenhagen strives to bring our Danish in each and every part of our operation. Our policy labor standards with us where we work outside of and goals regarding labor rights are outlined in our Denmark. Through the many years of our history, CSR Strategy. Royal Copenhagen has gained proven experience in respecting and implementing workers’ rights, and Our suppliers are held to Royal Copenhagen’s has established and maintained healthy cooperahigh labor standards through our Supplier’s Code tion with unions. A lot of this experience is “in the of Conduct. Suppliers shall not employ children, walls,” but we have initiated an effort to transfer and in any manner that is economically exploitative, is communicate this knowledge to our employees in likely to be hazardous or to interfere with the child’s Denmark and all the locations where we operate. education, or to be harmful to the child’s health or physical, mental, spiritual, moral, or social developIt is important to Royal Copenhagen that all levels of ment. Suppliers shall not employ forced or compulmanagement respect employees’ rights to join and sory labor, nor trafficked work forces. Suppliers are form unions. Therefore, our CSR strategy informs also expected not to make employment decisions all of our employees globally about the freedom of 18 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 19 association. A union was formed at Royal Copenregular site visits to Royal Copenhagen Thailand. The following is a table of Royal Copenhagen employees by age and gender: hagen Thailand in 2005, and an employee comIn 2013, we asked an independent auditor to mittee was formed in 2009, both of which have review our social performance. We have followed strong support from management. Employees can up on all non-compliances with an internal re-audit 79% join either the local labor union or the company in 2013. The external audit revealed that Royemployee committee. al Copenhagen has high standards in terms of labor rights and confirmed that all employees are We have a continuous dialogue with the local employed on legal terms. The external auditor exlabor authorities in Saraburi, Thailand to ensure amined pay roll records, interviewed employees, that local standards are met and upheld, and seek and inspected the Royal Copenhagen Thailand 21% knowledge about our impact on the community. site independently. At Royal Copenhagen, we continuously seek to improve our knowledge about local cultures and The audit had very few non-compliances. It ways to honor local customs and practices. showed that there is no child labor and the emHeadcount as of December 31 Male Female Total ployees work based on their own free will. It was Age <18 0 0 0 also found that both employees and supervisors Age 18-25 23 76 99 measurement oF outComes reflect local ethnic and religious breakdowns. Finally, the audit showed no discrimination or patAge 26-35 53 209 262 In order to ensure that Royal Copenhagen lives terns of dismissal, and employees have access to Age 36-45 60 251 311 up to our commitment to labor rights, we conduct file complaints about discrimination. Age 46+ 50 160 210 Total 186 696 882 CASE % 21% 79% 100% CASE The following is a table of Royal Copenhagen’s Global Management Team by gender: 58% independent soCial audit oF royal Copenhagen thailand One recommendation that the independent a specific gender or age. This issue was im42% auditors provided was to improve a job specimediately addressed and solved by changing fication on the recruitment process at Royal Cothe announcement in the standard recruitment penhagen Thailand so that it does not request templates. Male Female Total 7 5 12 58% 42% 100% 20 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 21 ENVIRONMENT prinCiples Copenhagen’s suppliers must strive to minimize harm on the environment caused by their activities by actively limiting the use of scarce natural 7. businesses should support a precautionary resources, reducing emission, noise, odor, dust, approach to environmental challenges soil contamination, and dangerous substances, 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater envias well as through product issues, which includes ronmental responsibility design, packaging, transport, use, and recycling. 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of Suppliers are additionally expected to handle environmentally friendly technologies waste in a responsible way and continuously improve their overall environmental performance. assessment, poliCy & goals In 2014, one of our goals is to increase our use of FSC® certified paper. At Royal Copenhagen, we consider ourselves bearers of a long Danish tradition of identifying and minimizing environmental impact responsibly implementation across all branches of our operation. We continuously aim to transfer and communicate these In both Denmark and Thailand, Royal Copenhaprinciples and know-how to our operations and gen has taken the initiative to reduce our impact suppliers all around the world. on the environment, focusing on sustainable supply chain. In 2014, Royal Copenhagen will Royal Copenhagen pieces have an extraordinarily conduct a risk assessment of the environmental long lifecycle, in many cases spanning several genimpact of our primary suppliers. We believe in erations, so the products do not tend to be thrown working with and investing in increasing the caaway. Therefore, we believe that our environmenpacity of our suppliers to meet our standards. tal impacts are most relevant during fabrication, packaging, and transport, in the areas of energy At Royal Copenhagen Thailand, there is a manconsumption, emissions, and waste management. agement representative with the responsibility of We work constantly to reduce the environmental enforcing the environmental policy in everyday impact through our choice of materials, recycling, operations. There is also a regular working group, design, and product development. which is comprised of a safety officer, a plant engineer, CSR coordinator, and other relevant The Supplier Code of Conduct further clarifies employees. by cooperating between functions, and supports the minimization of environmenwe continuously strive to ensure that policies are tal impacts along our entire supply chain. Royal implemented in daily operations. 22 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 23 measurement oF outComes An independent external audit conducted at Royal Copenhagen Thailand in 2013 confirmed Regular site visits to Royal Copenhagen Thaithat 100% of the clay that was not burned is land and suppliers to assess the environmental being recycled. The audit also showed that water risks and impacts helps us measure progress and consumption is being measured and wastewater continuously improve. Our environmental meaquality is sufficient. Energy consumption is being sures include: wastewater quality analysis, energy measured, and water, electricity, natural gas and consumption, air emissions analysis, the amount air emissions are measured and sufficient. of FSC paper used, and the percentage of the reuse of packaging in our warehouse in Denmark. CASE FsC CertiFied paCkaging CASE Our main supplier of paper boxes has been a Increasingly, we are seeing that our major cussupplier for Royal Copenhagen since 2009. The tomers are expecting and requiring FSC certified Waste management at royal Copenhagen supplier is a small Thai family company that has gift boxes. Currently, all four sizes of gift bags in worked very hard to be certified by the Forest Denmark, catalogues, brochures, and our brand In Denmark in general we are very good at to residential neighborhoods. This requires that Stewardship Council. Not many suppliers in Thaibook are already printed on FSC certified paper sorting waste. At Royal Copenhagen in Denchemical odor neutralizing spray must be used land are FSC certified, so our supplier will gain and have been since 2012. From 2014, all Christmark we have created a system that makes close to residential homes. a competitive advantage in the Thai market with mas collectibles and Easter eggs will packed in it easy to sort and recycle waste. We wanted the certification. In November 2013, they passed FSC certified gift boxes. to bring this expertise to Royal Copenhagen After visiting several local waste management the initial audit. Thailand. companies, Royal Copenhagen found a local company founded by the Ministry of IndusThe challenge moving forward in 2014 is to find The challenge of balancing Royal Copenhatry that removes and effectively neutralizes it sub-suppliers of FSC certified corrugated paper, gen’s European standards while respecting the before disposal. Under the agreement, waste which is required for the boxes. Royal Copenlocal context in which we operate in Thailand at the Royal Copenhagen factory is separated hagen, specifically the logistics manager and can be seen through our journey with waste by general waste, industrial and/or hazardous CSR coordinator in Thailand, have invested a management at Royal Copenhagen Thailand. waste. The industrial waste is then neutralized lot of time in working with our supplier, and will Waste management in Thailand has been a before disposal into landfills that are controlled continue to support our supplier through the challenge for us because there are very few by the Thai Ministry of Industry. According to FSC certification process. We strongly believe in local waste management companies that can our CSR Coordinator in Thailand, “This is as constructive, responsible, and long-term relaappropriately neutralize and dispose of hazardgood as it gets as far as waste disposal for a tionships with our suppliers. This was the driving ous waste. For instance, many landfills do not small company in Thailand.” Reusable waste, force behind our choice to embark on this CSR require general waste to be separated from such as paper, plastic bottles, wood, and iron journey with one of our longtime suppliers. industrial waste, and landfills are often adjacent are separated and sold locally. 24 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 25 CASE energy saving organization at royal Copenhagen thailand The Energy Saving Organization started in automatically switches off in the production the summer of 2012 at Royal Copenhagen area during the lunch break. All existing light Thailand with the purpose of monitoring and bulbs were also exchanged for energy saving reducing energy consumption. The Energy bulbs. The consumption of electricity, natural Saving Organization first formulated an Energy gas and water has been measured. In an effort CASE Conservation Policy, conducted a self-assessto increase employee engagement in the enerment, defined goals, action plans, and trained gy saving initiative, a proportion of the savings relevant employees. The organization continufrom the initiative will be given to the employreCyCling and energy eFFiCienCy at royal Copenhagen denmark ously monitors, evaluates, and updates goals. ee committee to use for employee activities or Our warehouse in Hvidovre, Denmark, reThe following is a table of the percentage of improvement of recreational facilities on site. ceives shipments of porcelain from Royal boxes recycled in our warehouse in CopenIt is customary in Thailand that employees Copenhagen Thailand before the products hagen in 2013: spend their one hour lunch break outside. The The following is a table of our electricity, water, are shipped to our customers. Rather than Energy Saving Organization implemented an and natural gas usage at Royal Copenhagen unpacking the porcelain from the shipping initiative where all lights and air conditioning Thailand from 2012-2013: TOTAL bOXES USED 119.941 boxes, and into new boxes to be shipped to customers around the world, the Warehouse TOTAL bOXES RECYCLED 47.487 2012 2013 Manager saw an immense opportunity to save PERCENT 40% ELECTRICITY kWH 1.433.220,00 1.785.680,00 paper boxes by reusing the boxes. In the first kWH/PCS 8,74 8,14 year that this was implemented, 40% of boxes Additionally, all light bulbs that need to be were reused. The goal for 2014 is to reuse WATER M3 20.668,00 21.326,00 changed in the Danish warehouse will be 45% of all boxes. replaced by energy efficient bulbs. ThroughM3/PCS 0,13 0,10 out all of our operations, Royal Copenhagen NATURAL GAS MMbTU 31.515,59 44.856,64 strives to find smart ways to conserve resources and reduce our impact on the environment. MMbTU/PCS 0,19 0,20 26 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 27 ANTI-CORRUPTION prinCiple At our headquarters in Denmark, we strive to en10. business should work against corruption in all sure that our samples are only sent out for official its forms, including extortion and bribery. uses, for example, demonstration purposes, or to be photographed for a catalogue. All Royal Copenhagen pieces that are sent out must be assessment, poliCy & goals registered to the employee, and the reason for the piece. keeping records of how our pieces are Royal Copenhagen has always practiced a zero used ensures accountability. tolerance policy towards corruption, including bribery, facilitation payments, kickbacks, theft, We strive to conduct a risk assessment on all fraud, blackmail, and favoritism. Additionally, we primary suppliers to the Danish warehouse. have guidelines on anti-corruption, specifically regarding entertainment accepted or offered. measurement oF outComes Challenges Royal Copenhagen has not been involved in any legal cases or claims related to corruption and Royal Copenhagen has a zero tolerance policy tobribery. The records that we keep are used as wards any form of corruption. At the same time, one of the methods to oversee the shipment of we are aware of the constraints that our suppliers our pieces and ensure that they are not used in a may face in certain markets. We strive to act in a quid-pro-quo exchange. way that will not cause negative repercussions on our suppliers in the future. implementation All Royal Copenhagen employees have been given the Fiskars Code of Conduct training, which includes anti-corruption policies and scenarios. Royal Copenhagen has a policy regarding gifts, hospitality, and entertainment. 28 UNITED UNITED NATIONS NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACTGLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 ON PROGRESS 2013 29 PORCELAIN DONATIONS CASE Royal Copenhagen donates porcelain on a casedanner house by-case basis to non-profit organizations upon request. Danner is an NGO working to promote respect, equality and equal opportunities With strong roots in the Danish market Royal between the genders, and a world free of Copenhagen has decided to elevate the feeling violence against women and children. of luxury to everyday moments by donating porcelain to some who has a challenged or turbulent In 2012, Danner House in Copenhagen, period in life. a shelter for abused women and children, was restored. As part of the restoration, In the future, we will look into similar donations in the house was decorated with a beautiful the countries where we operate. blend of old and new furniture. Royal Copenhagen decided to donate porcelain for the 18 apartments and the kitchens in Case the restored Danner House. This donation goes hand-in-hand with our vision of “elevating everyday moments,” and “everyday luxury.” According to Lotte Wamberg, Managing Director of Royal Copenhagen, “For more than 235 years, Royal Copenhagen has manufactured products with the deepest respect for tradition and the finest craftsmanship. The good craftsmanship and respect for tradition is visible in the herlev hospital restoration of Danner House, and so it was natural for us to give our porcelain In 2013, Royal Copenhagen donated a dicontribution. It doesn’t get any better than verse set of porcelain to the palliative unit when we can also provide a little luxury in at Herlev Hospital in Denmark. The porcethe life of women and children.” lain is used by patients and their families for a “feeling of homely luxury” and “to feel a bit special.” 30 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 31 www.royalcopenhagen.com
