For the first time, we’re proud to include highlights from our Corporate Sustainability Report within these pages. As an integral component of our various operations, both internally and in our service offerings, our varied sustainability efforts build value for each of our stakeholders for whom we have created this report – they include our clients, shareholders, employees, supplier partners and others with an interest in our approach to corporate sustainability. ABM is also proud to announce our new Corporate Sustainability micro-site (www.abm.com/sustainability), which falls within the pages of abm.com, where stakeholders may view our reporting in full based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. This report details the sustainability achievements, goals and challenges that ABM has identified within our operations, and it publicly identifies our commitment to monitor and improve our impact on people and the earth. ABM is a publicly-traded company and thus held to a higher standard of ethics and compliance compared to many competitors in the facility services industry. A key example of ABM’s compliance is our Sarbanes Oxley (SOX) certification. ABM rigorously adheres to SOX standards to ensure financial accuracy, auditor Corporate Sustainability independence and corporate responsibility across the enterprise. Sustainability reporting is an ever-changing Our Efforts Build Value for discipline, and as our corporate sustainability programs continue to mature, so too must Each of our Stakeholders our reporting. With that goal in mind, we have submitted this report for the third consecutive continued on page 4 ABM UN GLOBAL COMPACT ASSURANCE 1 President's Letter Dear Stockholders, Employees and other Friends of ABM: Fiscal 2013 was not only a year of record revenue and operating profit for ABM, it improved our growth prospects and, in doing so, we achieved a number of was also a year of many significant milestones, including a record-breaking number milestones in ABM’s 104 year history. of clients and square footage serviced, new and innovative facility solutions, and an expanded international presence (through our acquisitions of Air Serv and In fiscal 2013, our revenues exceeded $4.8 billion and we achieved Adjusted EBITDA Blackjack Promotions). of $206 million, the first time that ABM has surpassed the $200 million threshold. Last year, I wrote to you about the many changes underway as we rebranded ABM, We achieved our fifth year of free cash flow exceeding $100 million and we ended integrated our service lines and worked to create a culture of collaboration. In fiscal 2013 with $315 million in borrowings under our credit facility, having paid fiscal 2013, we continued to build on these changes by realigning our infrastructure down over $100 million of the approximately $200 million borrowed in early fiscal to support our new integrated strategy and further developing our end-to-end 2013 to fund acquisitions. Following the close of the year, I’m pleased to announce service delivery model. that we amended our credit agreement, increasing our borrowing capacity to $800 million, providing additional capacity for strategic initiatives. Our balanced Our relationships with our clients have always been at the heart of everything we strategy of investing in the business and returning value to shareholders continues do at ABM, and we have built our business on listening to their needs. In today’s to serve us well as we completed five acquisitions in fiscal 2013 and returned more environment, our clients require a partner with deep knowledge of their industries than $32 million to shareholders through dividends. and an understanding of the unique challenges they face, as well as the ability to turn that knowledge into personalized facility solutions. Our vertical strategy in healthcare and aviation was anchored by our acquisitions of HHA and Air Serv, and each company has far exceeded our expectations. Air Serv’s By moving from a traditional service-line based strategy to a solutions oriented, first year as part of ABM was an unmitigated success as our combined expertise, collaborative and integrated facility services company, we are able to leverage solutions and manpower, when combined with our other businesses, has created an our strengths to best capture the market opportunities and meet client demands. industry leader that serves more than 100 airports worldwide and generated $643 In addition, we continued to complement and expand our key industry verticals million in revenue. through several strategic acquisitions, and we deployed cutting-edge technologies to improve our productivity and our customer service. We continue to be pleased with the HHA acquisition as our ability to integrate and grow the business while maintaining a 100% client retention rate was a significant We are well positioned to continue delivering record results, reflecting the accomplishment. With the recently announced formation of ABM Healthcare strength of ABM’s people, processes, systems and end-to-end service platform. Support Services, there is even more opportunity to build this vertical in coming And we are focused on delivering excellent service to our clients and long-term years, as we leverage our combined healthcare businesses to create an unmatched value to our stockholders as we write the next chapter in ABM’s long history. breadth of services and higher quality care at lower costs for our clients. Looking Back on a Remarkable Year In fiscal 2013, we consolidated the daily operations of our Onsite Services of By all measures, fiscal 2013 was a banner year for ABM. Our performance reflects janitorial, parking, security and facility services, which, along with our focus on the success of our transformation and the expertise of over 100,000 dedicated vertical markets, enabled us to deliver record results and some of the strongest employees around the world, who each day make a difference to our clients. growth rates in recent years. Our janitorial business ended the year with record revenue and organic growth of over 4% in the fourth quarter—a rate we Our strategic focus on vertical markets, such as aviation and healthcare, as well as haven’t experienced since the mid-2000s. Parking, security and facility services our shift to an onsite, mobile, and on-demand operational model has significantly increased year-over-year operating profit significantly as each business did an outstanding job of adding clients and managing costs. Parking was particularly 2 ABM UN GLOBAL COMPACT ASSURANCE successful in our new aviation market and achieved a milestone of servicing 40 airports nationwide. ABM Security Services gave the market a compelling reason for using its services and people, and as a result, posted a record year for this segment of our business with top-line growth over 4% and operating profit up 65%. ABM’s Building & Energy Solutions business delivered a record-setting performance in fiscal 2013, with strong contributions across the business, including our HHA Services and Calvert-Jones acquisitions that we made last year. Despite sequestration and the budget challenges, our government business contributed to growth in operating profits as well. Our energy business achieved a number of firsts as our innovations in bundled energy solutions, electric vehicle installation and maintenance and our enhanced expertise in the solar market drove record revenues for this segment. We started our largest energy retrofit job – Wright State – at $25 million – a fine example of the capabilities our ABM Building & Energy Solutions team brings to the marketplace. And we ended the fiscal year with our best performance; revenue in the fourth quarter grew organically over 26% compared to the prior year period and operating profit improved by 80% on a year-over-year basis. We are thrilled with these stellar results for our Building & Energy Solutions line of business. We continue to make critical investments in our infrastructure, including ABM is committed to building partnerships and bringing added value to our upgrading our information technology systems, consolidating back office clients. By being their trusted advisors and working collaboratively, we can operations and improving business analytics. During fiscal 2013, we launched address the challenges in their industries and deliver the facility service solutions our MPower™ platform, which provides mobile access to ABM data systems that best meet their needs. and enables us to better service our clients. We are confident that this strategy and the changes we have made over the Finally, we continue to invest in sustainability to help reduce both ABM past few years have positioned ABM to uphold our commitment to our clients and our clients’ impact on the environment as we believe that continually to provide consistent, quality, and reliable facility service solutions and in the evolving our sustainability initiatives is critical to our long-term success and process, deliver long-term value to our shareholders. ensuring growth throughout all of ABM’s operations. As a major employer and international enterprise with countless touch points, we have a responsibility As always, I would like to thank our shareholders for their confidence and to do our part to minimize our environmental impact and help improve the dedication. I would also like to acknowledge our clients for their devoted health of our planet. ABM remains committed to our participation in the U.N. patronage and our employees for their discipline and drive for excellence and to Global Compact and proud to be a part of this strategic policy initiative. whom we attribute our performance. We look forward to another rewarding year ahead. Continuing to Deliver Value As pleased as I am with our performance and the changes we enacted to our business in fiscal 2013, I am more excited about the growth opportunities in fiscal 2014 and beyond as we continue to adapt to changing market demands Henrik C. Slipsager and invest in market-leading solutions to achieve our goal of being the global President and Chief Executive Officer leader in integrated facility solutions. ABM UN GLOBAL COMPACT ASSURANCE 3 year for the assessment by The Centre Some of the key value-adds the GreenCare program ABM’s commitment to measuring its own for Sustainability and Excellence (CSE) an offers ABM clients include: performance has led to some eye-opening independent, outside entity. CSE’s assurance statistics relating to its clients’ sustainability ▪▪ Janitorial: Green cleaning programs with statement is included on the micro-site. efforts, including: Green Seal certified equipment and chemicals to improve indoor environmental quality ▪▪ ABM GreenCare has been implemented at Readers can provide feedback, comments, questions for building occupants; recycling programs over 800 buildings, totaling more than 360 or concerns to ABM’s Corporate Communications and touch-free water conservation; LEED million square feet across the United States. team at sustainability@abm.com. We welcome certification assistance for clients. ▪▪ ABM has assisted 351 buildings with products your insights on how we can meet our shared commitment to a sustainable world. ▪▪ Energy: ABM’s energy conservation methods and procedures to maintain certification for clients include its Bundled Energy Solutions through the Leadership in Energy and ABM GreenCare® Firsts Program, Electric Vehicle (EV) Charging Environmental Design (LEED) rating system. Station installation and maintenance and solar ▪▪ In 2013, ABM’s Bundled Energy Solutions In 2013, we announced the integration of ABM’s capabilities for fixed/reduced energy costs. program reduced clients’ energy use by over sustainable offerings under our ABM GreenCare® ▪▪ Parking: ABM’s customized mobile app, pay by 27 percent. program. Where the ABM GreenCare program had phone option, and web services help drivers ▪▪ ABM has installed nearly 700 EV charging been traditionally reserved for our Janitorial and EV spend less time in their cars. stations across the United States with many services, we are now providing ABM’s full array of sustainable offerings under the program’s umbrella. ▪▪ Security: Round-the-clock technology helps more expected in 2014. ABM manage security communications in a ABM GreenCare helps clients make improvements paperless environment; ABM security guards in four key areas: environmental and social use electric or hybrid vehicles at many sites. responsibility, employee productivity and retention, ▪▪ Landscape & Grounds: ABM utilizes property protection and fiscal responsibility. This alternative fuel and water-efficient irrigation program's offerings span our Janitorial, Energy, systems to help keep clients’ properties Parking, Security and Landscaping businesses. sustainable. 4 ABM UN GLOBAL COMPACT ASSURANCE ABM's Sustainability Firsts ABM is keenly focused on how our facilities and Elsewhere within our operations, ABM continues operations affect our shared environment. Just as to leverage technology in order to streamline we are Building Value for clients through worldour operations and provide a better working class services, we continually seek to enhance our environment for our employees, all while impacting organizational efficiencies and reduce ABM’s own the environment by cutting down on the resources carbon footprint across the enterprise. Every day, we use. Some of our firsts included: we walk the sustainability talk. Electronic Pay Emissions For the first time, more than 70% of ABM 2013 2012 employees are participants in the ABM Electronic Scope 1 CO2 e Tonnes 48,007 49,032 Pay platform – providing a more secure, convenient, Scope 2 CO2 e Tonnes 10,181 9,796 less costly and timely method of pay distribution. Scope 3 CO2 e Tonnes 1,706 1,453 Fuel used MWh 199,058 204,744 Electronic Pay Advices Electricity Used MWh 19,333 17,020 FY 2013 was the first year that we eliminated the printing and distribution of over 8,000 pounds of paper via the electronic/online pay advice program. ABM’s Overall Fuel Consumption (Fleet and Office Locations) Workforce Management MWh For the first time, a majority of ABM service Electricity 19,333 employees utilized the ABM Workforce Motor Gasoline 183,033 Management electronic timekeeping system to Diesel 7,955 report time, which improves the accuracy and E-85 89 efficiency of time collection, helping ensure ABM Propane 8 employees are paid correctly. Natural Gas 7,973 ABM UN GLOBAL COMPACT ASSURANCE 5 GRI Application Level Check The 2013 Sustainability Report presents the commitments, achievements and evolution Report of ABM in the area of Sustainability. The 2013 Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ Sustainability Report presents ABM’s overall economic, environmental and social challenges and Report on: Report on all criteria Same as requirement performance as well as all related improvements 1.1 listed for Level C plus: for Level B OUTPUT G3 Profile 2.1 2.10 1.2 made within 2013 throughout the US operations. Disclosures 3.1 3.8, 3.10 3.12 3.9, 3.13 4.1 4.4, 4.14 4.15 4.5 4.13, 4.16-4.17 ABM has self-declared the 2013 Sustainability Standard Disclosures Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report, reporting to be Application Level C+. Report Externally Assured Not Required Management Approach Management Approach Disclosures for each Disclosures for each Centre for Sustainability and Excellence (CSE) has Indicator Category Indicator Category OUTPUT G3 Management checked and confirms that ABM has satisfactorily Approach Disclosures applied the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Reporting Framework, as specified by G3 Guidelines. The 2013 Sustainability Report, meets the requirements of GRI G3 Version 3.0 Application Report on minimum of 10 Performance Indicators, Report on a minimum of 20 Performance Indicators, Report on each core G3 and Sector Supplement* G3 Performance Level C+. Indicators & including at least one from at least one from each of: Indicator with due regard OUTPUT Sector Supplement each of: Economic, Social Economic, Environmental, to the Materiality and Environmental. Human Rights, Labor, Principle by either; a) Performance Society, Product reporting on the Indicator, Indicators Responsibility. or b) explaining the reason for its omission. 6 ABM UN GLOBAL COMPACT ASSURANCE G3 Content Table STANDARD DISCLOSURES Section Coverage 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization about the relevance of Statement from the most senior decision maker Fully sustainability to the organization and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Risks and Opportunities Fully 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. About ABM Fully 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. About ABM Fully ABM Operational Structure and Service Offerings 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, Governance Structure Fully and joint ventures. ABM Operational Structure and Service Offerings 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. About ABM Fully ABM Operational Structure and Service Offerings 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major ABM Operational Structure and Service Offerings Fully operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. About ABM 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. About ABM Fully 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/ ABM’s Approach to Sustainability Fully beneficiaries). Significant Changes since our Last Report 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization About ABM Fully Corporate Sustainability Reporting 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Significant Changes Fully 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Recognition for Our Integrity and Expertise Fully 3. Reporting Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. Report Parameters Fully 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Report Parameters Fully 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Report Parameters Fully 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Contact Information Fully 3.5 Process for defining report content Corporate Sustainability Reporting Fully 3.6 Boundary of the report Report Parameters Fully 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Report Parameters Fully ABM UN GLOBAL COMPACT ASSURANCE 7 G3 Content Table (continued) STANDARD DISCLOSURES Section Coverage 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and Report Parameters Fully other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques Significant Changes Fully underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the Report Parameters report. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the No restatements reasons for such re-statement 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods Introduction Fully applied in the report. Significant Changes 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. GRI Table 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. External Assurance Fully 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body Governance Structure Fully responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their Governance Structure Fully function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest Governance Structure Fully governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest Corporate Sustainability Reporting Fully governance body. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy Recognition for Our Integrity and Expertise Fully organizations in which the organization 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Our Stakeholders Fully 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Our Stakeholders Fully 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by Our Stakeholders Fully stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Fully organization has responded to those key topics and concerns including through its reporting. Our Stakeholders 8 ABM UN GLOBAL COMPACT ASSURANCE G3 Content Table (continued) ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Section Coverage EC1 Direct, economic value generates and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee Annual Report Fully compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings and payments to capital. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate ABM’s approach to sustainability Fully change. Supply Chain EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. ABM does not receive any significant Fully financial assistance from host governments EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public Recognition for Our Integrity and Fully benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Expertise ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Section Coverage EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Sustainability in ABM Operations Partially EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Sustainability in ABM Operations Fully EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Sustainability in ABM Operations Fully EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Sustainability in ABM Operations Partially EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products and services, and reductions Sustainability in ABM Operations Fully in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. Sustainability in ABM Operations Partially Energy business EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. Sustainability in ABM Operations Partially EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Sustainability in ABM Operations Fully EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Sustainability in ABM Operations Partially EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. Supply Chain Fully ABM UN GLOBAL COMPACT ASSURANCE 9 G3 Content Table (continued) LABOR PRACTICES INDICATORS Section Coverage LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. Employee Breakdown Fully LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. Code of Business Conduct Partially LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce Employee Training Fully members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. Employee Training Fully LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of Employee Training Fully employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. Building Value through Our People Fully HUMAN RIGHTS INDICATORS Section Coverage HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. Code of business code Fully HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to Risks and Opportunities Partially contribute to the elimination of child labor. HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and Extra Benefits Partially measures taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. 10 ABM UN GLOBAL COMPACT ASSURANCE G3 Content Table (continued) SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Section Coverage SO2 What is the percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption? Risks and Opportunities Fully SO3 What is the percentage of employees trained on anti-corruption policies and procedures? HR Training and anti-corruption Fully Human Rights SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying Governance Structure Partially PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY INDICATORS Section Coverage PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health OSHA Fully and safety impacts of products and services, by type of outcomes. PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, Building Value through Our People Fully including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing Building Value through Our People Fully communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes. ABM UN GLOBAL COMPACT ASSURANCE 11 ABM Corporate Headquarters 551 Fifth Avenue, Suite 300 New York., NY 10176 212.297.0200 abm.com ©2014 ABM Industries Inc. All rights reserved.
