United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress (COP) Polaris Parks was officially launched in January 2008 by the Turkish president, Abdullah Gul, as the first initiative of its kind in Egypt, both as a private industrial park and as a large-scale joint collaboration between Turkey and Egypt, aiming to enhance the competitive edge of both countries in order to enable them to penetrate global markets. The both projects, Polaris International Industrial Parks and Polaris Al Zamil Industrial Park, are focusing on attracting industrial investors operating in light industries with clean processes, abiding by the environmental regulations in accordance with the governmental regulations. Accordingly, Polaris International Industrial Parks is the first environmentally friendly industrial park in the MENA region, setting great importance on the additional value added to investors through measures such as solar lighting system in the streets to reduce overhead costs and carbon footprint, and 80.000 square meters of planted green areas and regulatory By-Laws to support coherent existence between different industries. Polaris Parks works for the development of the country together with its industry in order to adapt and compete in the global economy by preparing the necessary environment for industry while aiding investors through difficulties of the start-up period and moving into operational phases. And in order to do this Polaris Parks develops unutilized areas into industrial compounds with infrastructure networks, offering value-added facilities and providing professional management systems. Polaris International Industrial Parks was honored In Financial Times FDI Magazine. The magazine ranked Polaris International Industrial Park No. 45 in their Global Free Zones of the Future Report 2012/2013. FDI is the world's premier publication for the business of globalization and a prime division of The Financial Times Ltd, specializing in all areas relating to foreign direct investment and investment promotion. During year 2014 and after joining the UNGC , Polaris International is fostering during its daily operations and with its stakeholders the Global Compact Principles . This report describes all the relevant actions and procedures taken for promoting the UNGC. Polaris International is pleased to confirm and reiterate its support of all United Nations Global Compact principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and anti-Corruption. Polaris International with its policies and strategies, is promoting industrial development and economic performance while adopting the highest standards of environmental protection and improving the quality of broad Egyptian industrial community through dedicated development initiatives. *Polaris International is aware of the importance of creating an environmentally developed industrial area to assist in the global battle against climate change. In this spirit, Polaris International environmental protection is main key of its corporate pillars is using advanced Solar system to reduce carbon print . * In year 2014 , Polaris International has put extra efforts and investments to implement more and extra irrigation areas in the park. * Once joined the UNGC Polaris and during the Christmas and new year event (last year) for its employees , has promoted and clarified the importance of integrating the UNGC principles . Chairman and General Manager have clarified that good intensions are not enough and real actions have to be taken to support these principles . * Throughout its foundation “WEF “ Polaris International has invited its main stakeholders (operated investors) for a pilot training on ethical behavior . This free training was meant for promoting and supporting 3 main principles: Human rights and labor practices (all employees have the right to be developed and be aware of the value of applying work ethics ) Anti corruption ( Work ethics protect and promote the anti corruption values ). * Same training has been conducted to all Polaris International employees (Earlier the training was meant for its management only ). * knowing and believing in the gender equality , Polaris International assisted GIZ on promoting its project “EconoWin” . An info session has been conducted in cooperation with Polaris and GIZ for all our investors to promote the importance of gender equality and how women have the right in fair operating system by facilitating her work environment . * In same notion Polaris International , has informed and clarified to recruitment agencies that we support and accept female qualified candidates . Earlier there wasn’t any discrimination for women and we were accepting female candidates but we haven’t disclosure it clearly to recruitment agencies . * An open door complaints is applied directly with the Chairman and GM , everyone has the right to talk openly about his concerns and problem if any . An immediate action is taken . * We are taking procedures on implementing a complaints system (e-mail ) and an assigned person will be in charge. * This year a new employee evaluation system has been implemented that works in depth with transparency taking into consideration new monitoring aspects that commit to UNGC principles and moreover with motivation system to protect the labor rights. * AS Polaris International is always taking initiatives for community environmental development , this year we participated in wind energy tender . *Polaris International is providing to its employees and stakeholders a formal framework – guidelines, actions to be taken , monitoring its operations to ensure the business as a whole complies with all applicable antitrust laws. Finally Polaris is totally supporting the UNGC to extended that this year she was hosting the annual MENA region event for the first time in Egypt . United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress (COP) UNGC SPHERE OF SOURCES OF ACTIONS INDICATORS principles BUSINESS CORPORATE TAKEN CORRESPONDE INFLUENCE GOVERNANCE NCE Human Rights Principle1 Employees – Internal policies Training and G4HR2, HR4 Businesses Investorsand code of ethics awareness for should support contractorsstaff on human and respect rights aspects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Employees – Internal policies HR policies and G4-HR,HR2-HR4 Human Rights Investorsand code of ethics procedures Business should contractors declared make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Principle 3: Employees – Internal policies Awareness HR5, LA9,LA4, Labor Investorsand code of ethics sessions and LA5 Businesses contractorstraining to should uphold employees for the freedom of labor aspects association and then Follow up the effective with assessment recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Employees , Internal policies No HR2 –HR7 The elimination investorsand code of ethics Case of of all forms of contractors forced or forced and compulsory compulsory labor in Polaris labor Principle 5 EmployeesInternal policies No case of child HR6 The effective Investorsand code of ethics labor abolition in abolition of child Contractors Polaris as it is labour clearly declared from the beginning Principle 6 Employees – Internal policies Clearly declared LA2; LA14; EC5; The elimination Investors and code of ethics with updated HR2; HR4; EC7 of discrimination contractors agreement with in recruitment respect of agencies employment and Updated occupation interview system for employment Environment Internal policies and code of ethics Principle 7 Employees – Internal policies As we are first EC2, Businesses Investors – and code of ethics environmental EN3,EN8,EN18, should support a contractorsindustrial park an EN30 precautionary Governmental ongoing approach to university environmental environmental (Cairo policies is challenge University applied Principle 8 EmployeesInternal policies Continuous EN6, EN7 , EN30 Undertake Investorsand code of ethics approaches and initiatives to communities advices supplied promote greater to develop more environmental industrial areas . responsibility Principle 9 Employees , Internal policies participating in EN6, EN7, EN18 Encourage the communities and code of ethics new development and environmental diffusion tender announced of by government environmentally “wind energy” friendly technologies Anti-corruption Principle 10 Employees – Internal policies Give training on SO2, Businesses investorsand code of ethics ethical behaviors SO3,SO4,SO5 should work contractorsto its against communities stakeholders and corruption in all promoting for its forms, importance of including integrity on extortion and economic and SR bribery
