2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITIES & GIVING PEOPLE & CULTURE ETHICS & COMPLIANCE GOVERNANCE HEALTH & SAFETY CONTENTS CLICK BELOW TO JUMP TO EACH SECTION STAKEHOLDER LETTER ABOUT AWARDS & MILESTONES ENVIRONMENTAL COMMUNITIES PEOPLE SUSTAINABILITY & GIVING & CULTURE ETHICS & HEALTH GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE & SAFETY CBRE GLOBAL INVESTORS TRAMMELL CROW COMPANY REPORTING INDEX STAKEHOLDER LETTER Dear Stakeholder, CBRE’s preeminent position in commercial real estate services and investment reflects the strength of our service line and geographic footprint and the ability of our people to work together to deliver superior outcomes for our clients. Equally important to our success Equally important to our success – today and tomorrow – is a culture of service, excellence and – today and tomorrow – is a responsible business practices. culture of service, excellence and In 2013, CBRE made notable progress in corporate responsibility, responsible business practices. including: • We were one of just 50 companies – and the only firm in our sector – to merit inclusion in Carbon Disclosure Project’s Climate Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI). • We were named a 2014 World’s Most Ethical Company® by the Ethisphere Institute in recognition of our cultural commitments to ethical leadership and corporate behavior. • Our people around the world increased their charitable giving through the company by more than 19% to $8 million. 3 • Our new downtown Los Angeles global headquarters was the first office facility in the world to receive a Delos WELL® certification, reflecting our commitment to a healthy, productive work environment. • Our record of workplace safety garnered 29 awards from the Royal Society of Prevention of Accidents. These achievements, and others detailed in this report, would not be possible without the dedicated focus of our 44,000 employees around the world. They are the reason CBRE remains the industry leader for client service and responsible business practices. Bob Sulentic President & Chief Executive Officer ABOUT ABOUT CBRE GROUP, INC. CBRE Group, Inc. (NYSE:CBG), a 132,300 appraisal and valuation OPERATIONAL STRUCTURE Fortune 500 and S&P 500 company assignments in 2013, and our projCBRE Group, Inc. is a holding headquartered in Los Angeles, is the ect management contract value was company that conducts all of its operworld’s largest commercial real estate $28.9 billion. Our global investations through its indirect subsidiaries services and investment firm (in terms ment management subsidiary, CBRE and affiliated offices in more than 62 of 2013 revenue). The Company has Global Investors, had $89.1 billion countries. We report our operations approximately 44,000 employees of assets under management as of through five business segments: (excluding affiliates), and serves real December 31, 2013, and our develestate owners, investors and occupiopment services subsidiary, Trammell The Americas is our largest segment ers through approximately 350 offices Crow Company, had $4.9 billion of of operations and provides a compre(excluding affiliates) worldwide. CBRE development property in process. hensive range of services throughout offers strategic advice and executhe United States and in the largest tion for property sales and leasing; CBRE made 11 acquisitions during metropolitan regions in Canada as corporate services; property, facilities 2013. Most notably, we acquired well as key markets in Latin Amerand project management; mortgage U.K.-based Norland Managed ica. Services are provided through banking; appraisal and valuation; Services Ltd, a leader in commermostly wholly owned operations but development services; investment cial building technical engineering also independent affiliated offices. As management; and research and services. This acquisition allows us of December 31, 2013, our Americonsulting. Except where indicated all to self-perform these services for our cas segment had more than 24,175 4 financial figures are in U.S. currency. occupier clients in the EMEA region, employees and accounted for 63% of CBRE Group, Inc. is incorporated in and adds substantial expertise in the our 2013 revenue. Delaware in the United States. The rapidly growing critical environments company’s Class A common stock market. In addition, during the year, Our Europe, Middle East and Africa is traded on the New York Stock we completed 10 in-fill acquisitions (EMEA) segment operates in 40 Exchange under the symbol “CBG.” that complemented our service offercountries with our largest operations ing or reinforced existing strengths. located in France, Germany, Italy, the In 2013, CBRE advised clients on Netherlands, Russia, Spain and the 72,775 property sales and lease As previously reported, CBRE’s posiUnited Kingdom. As of December 31, transactions valued at more than tion as the world’s largest commercial 2013, within EMEA, we had more $223 billion. As of December 31, real estate services and investment than 10,250 employees. Our EMEA 2013, we managed 3.5 billion firm has occurred through organic segment accounted for 17% of our square feet of commercial properties growth and a series of strategic 2013 revenue. and corporate facilities around the acquisitions. With our company footworld (including property managed print well-established in every market Our Asia Pacific segment operates by our affiliate offices). Commercial in which we choose to do business, in 13 countries. Our principal opermortgage loan originations, includCBRE is building infrastructure to ations in Asia are located in China, ing loan sale advisory, totaled $26.9 support a truly world-class operation. Hong Kong, India, Japan, Singapore billion; and loan servicing, includand South Korea. The Pacific operAside from what is noted above, there ations include Australia and New ing loans serviced by GEMSA—a were no other significant changes to joint venture between CBRE Capital Zealand. As of December 31, 2013, the size, structure or ownership of Asia Pacific had more than 8,300 Markets and GE Capital Real Estate— CBRE Group, Inc. during the reporttotaled $133.9 billion. We completed employees and accounted for 12% of ing period. our 2013 revenue. Operations in our Global Investpendent framework for reporting on are addressed across multiple pages ment Management segment are sustainability issues. For this year’s and/or sections. conducted through our indirect wholly report, we used the G3.1 Guidelines. owned subsidiary CBRE Global InvesOur process for determining mateAll data presented in our report is tors, LLC, which we also refer to as riality was conducted by our global supported by documentation, interCBRE Global Investors. As of DecemCorporate Responsibility committee, nal systems and information from ber 31, 2013, Global Investment comprised of practice leaders and external organizations. Management had more than 1,000 subject matter experts for each of our Our goal is to produce a compreemployees and accounted for 7% of six topics and two subsidiaries, as hensive report on all of our global our 2013 revenue. well as senior company executives, operations and we work diligently and vetted with key stakeholders. toward that each year. While our Our indirect wholly owned subsidiIn our materiality assessment, we ary Trammell Crow Company and report reflects that the majority of objectively identified those GRI Perforour operations are in the U.S., each certain of its subsidiaries provide mance Indicators that are relevant Development Services, primarily section also contains global perspecto our business as a services firm; tive. While some of CBRE’s growth in the United States, to users of and report topics are not prioritized within investors in commercial real estate, has been organic, most of the compathe report, as we consider all topics ny’s growth over the past decade is as well as for its own account. As of equally important. The Corporate December 31, 2013, Development attributed to the more than 60 acquiResponsibility committee also reviews sitions completed in that timeframe. Services had more than 185 employand refines stakeholders annually. ees and accounted for 1% of our These acquisitions allow us to build We define our stakeholders in the our global service delivery platform 2013 revenue. following categories: shareholders, and solidify our industry-leading clients, employees and their famimarket position. However, growth Please refer to the CBRE Group, lies and communities, CBRE Board through acquisitions also means Inc. 2013 Annual Report for more of Directors, CBRE affiliates and there are multiple programs and information about CBRE and our 5 joint-ventures, suppliers and vendors, systems that track our corporate data. operations. commercial real estate services and One of our key priorities has been ABOUT THIS REPORT investment industry organizations, planning, designing and building the regulating bodies, advocacy and systems and structures that will globThis report provides an overview of activist groups, governmental orgaally integrate vital corporate data. In the social, economic and environnizations and regulating bodies, 2013, we finalized the implementamental impacts of CBRE globally NGOs and competitors. All of these tion of our global finance platform, in 2013. This is our seventh annual processes are conducted via regular and made significant progress in the Corporate Responsibility report, with strategy meetings during the reportdeployment of our global HR platthe most recent previous report ing timeframe. Since we are a U.N. form. Once complete, these systems (our 2012 Corporate Responsibility Global Compact (UNGC) particiand structures will streamline or elimreport) published in June 2013. After pant, we have also communicated inate many of the manual processes publishing our previous report, we our progress toward the 10 UNGC we currently use. We believe these, have not received any information— Principles. and other efforts underway, will internally or externally—that requires us to re-state information provided Our Reporting Index, contains referbenefit our corporate responsibility and there have been no significant ences to specific GRI indicators and reporting in the future. changes in our corporate responsistandard disclosures, and UNGC bility strategy from previous reporting For now, however, there remains principles. In the Index, we made information for which the systems periods. an effort to show the section(s) and have not yet been developed and/ page(s) where each GRI indicator or that we are unable to report In preparing this report, we referor standard disclosure, and each of globally. Also, especially outside the enced the Global Reporting Initiative the 10 UNGC principles is located, U.S., we are just beginning to track (GRI), the globally accepted indebut it is important to note that some certain corporate responsibility-reCORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY It is our policy to act responsibly in lated (and other) data and statistics. FRAMEWORK AND VISION our day-to-day relationships with our As noted above, we are taking steps customers, suppliers, employees and to establish a streamlined data-gathCBRE is committed to our Corpocommunities. We consciously focus ering process and create centralized rate Responsibility program and our attention on the areas where we systems to collect data across the agenda. We aspire to be known as believe we can make the greatest company. For now and for the next much for our commitment to responimpact: few years, however, this process will sible business as for the quality of remain manual and have limitations. our commercial real estate services. • helping to mitigate the impact of We are committed to integrating the built environment on climate Except where noted, the information responsible and sustainable business change; covered in this report highlights our practices across our global opera• using our talent, energy and corporate responsibility initiatives in tions. Our Corporate Responsibility resources to improve the quality of fiscal-year 2013 (January 1, 2013, program encompasses: life of others and; through December 31, 2013). When available and significant, updates • Environmental Sustainability • helping our people to reach their through early 2014 are included. This • Communities & Giving full potential while providing a safe report covers CBRE’s global operand ethical workplace. • People & Culture ations including our wholly owned, Being known as a responsible busiindependently operated subsidiar• Ethics & Compliance ness is an essential element of our ies, Trammell Crow Company and • Governance brand and fundamental to our RISE CBRE Global Investors, unless othervalues of Respect, Integrity, Service • Health & Safety wise noted. This report excludes joint and Excellence. It is also key to the venture and affiliate office informaWe run our business in a way that is continued growth and success of our tion, unless otherwise noted, and both profitable and responsible. We business. For this reason, our corposupplier information. We plan to focus on providing exceptional service 6 rate responsibility strategy is backed continue reporting on our initiatives for our clients, delivering financial by tangible commitments and our annually. This report and future performance for our shareholders, performance is evaluated annually updates can be accessed at www.cbre. and making positive contributions to and assessed against external reportcom/responsibility. For questions our local communities, the environing standards. regarding the report or its contents, ment and all of our stakeholders. contact responsibility@cbre.com. CBRE Partners with 3BL Media. Click here to follow our CBRE news feed. AWARDS AND MILESTONES #363 IN 2014 FORTUNE 500 TOP INDUSTRY RANKING FOR FOUR CONSECUTIVE YEARS #1 BRAND FOR 13 CONSECUTIVE YEARS 2013 CARBON DISCLOSURE LEADERSHIP INDEX 7 #TOP INDUSTRY SCORE FORBES GLOBAL 2000 FOR SECOND CONSECUTIVE YEAR TOP INDUSTRY RANKING (#102) U.S. EPA 2014 ENERGY STAR FOR SEVEN CONSECUTIVE YEARS WORLD’S MOST ETHICAL COMPANY HONOR ROLL FOR SEVEN CONSECUTIVE YEARS ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 8 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY We are committed to performing and reporting in alignment with our 2012 Environmental Sustainability Policy. This section shares highlights of those policy components, including Resource Management, Occupancy, Internal Certification, Procurement, Client Service, Communications and Training, Public Policy and Academic Collaboration, and other topics. ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY AWARDS & RECOGNITION • CBRE was recognized for its climate-change disclosure transparency through inclusion in CDP’s S&P 500 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index 2013. • Newsweek ranked CBRE no. 102 in its 2014 Green Rankings, a list which measures the environmental performance of the 500 largest U.S.-based publicly traded companies. • The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) named CBRE as a 2014 ENERGY STAR Sustained Excellence Award Partner of the Year, the company’s seventh consecutive year of recognition. • CBRE’s Madrid office achieved LEED Platinum status, making it the most sustainable workplace in Spain. • CBRE UK won a record 16 Green Apple awards and was crowned UK Champion for environmental best practices in 2013. • Ranked #7 in the Barron’s 500. • International Association of Outsourcing Professionals ranked CBRE no. 3 among outsourcing companies (all industries) and no. 1 in real estate occupier outsourcing for five consecutive years. RESOURCE MANAGEMENT As part of our policy commitment to improving our occupancy and as a component of our Workplace360 program, CBRE has mandated 9 that all existing offices undergoing future lease renewal and/or tenant improvements be retrofitted with EMON submeters to measure electric usage. In the U.S., a submeter is monitored and its data is collected remotely via a server-based software program. This process produces real-time energy use data that supports accuracy for our corporate carbon footprint measurement and helps us meet LEED certification credits under the USGBC LEED for Commercial Interiors rating system. 48% COMPLIANT We use revenue grade EMON Class 3000 with Ethernet submeters. We AGAINST 2017 currently have 24 meters installed in 50 of our highest emitting offices, POLICY GOAL which puts CBRE 48% compliant against our 2017 policy goal. CBRE MADRID’S LEED PLATINUM OFFICE CBRE’s Sustainability team secured a Platinum LEED rating for our new Spanish head office at Castellana 202 in Madrid. One of only five projects in Spain with this certification, CBRE’s office is the country’s most environmentally efficient office space. The new CBRE office includes energy efficient features like CO2 monitoring, low VOC materials, a greywater capture system, and photovoltaic and solar hot water panels. WORKPLACE360 2013 saw rapid execution of CBRE’s Workplace360 – our response to shifting workplace occupancy patterns among a highly mobile employee base. The approach examines all aspects of the workplace, including work environment, supporting technology, branding, personal productivity, space efficiency, sustainability, mobility, flexibility and more. The results not only translate into office build-outs – many of which have a positive environmental impact, but also help shape productivity and maximize employee behavior and cultural outcomes. For more information on our workplace strategy, click here. ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY OCCUPANCY CBRE Asia In 2013, CBRE continued our policy commitment to locate CBRE’s flagship Tokyo and Singapore offices were planned at least 70% of our corporate facilities over 20,000 square to both seek green certification and adopt the Workplace360 feet in space or buildings with recognized green building strategy concept. The Tokyo office is pursuing LEED for standards (LEED, BREEAM, Green Star and other regionCommercial Interiors certification as there is no equivalent ally relevant schemes) by 2017. The below map indicates scheme under Japan’s CASBEE green building rating system. all CBRE, CBRE Global Investors and Trammell Crow In Singapore, however, CBRE is pursuing the national Company offices certified at the time of publication. Building Construction Authority’s Green Mark for Office New Pacific Environmental Policy Interiors rating system. With three existing LEED-certified CBRE Pacific have built on global standards to deliver buildings in the Asia market, choosing an Asian green a regionally tailored policy for how CBRE manages our building system resonates well with the local market. As own premises. The policy details the minimum stanoccupier clients in Singapore are increasingly choosing to dards that CBRE tenancies should adhere to. We have use Green Mark, our firsthand experience helps our Projset goals, actions and targets against areas such as ect Management teams better facilitate successful program energy, waste, water, office supplies and suppliers, and outcomes for our clients. Many aspects of Green Mark for indoor air quality. The aim is for all tenancies entering a Office Interiors are fundamentally different from LEED for new lease agreement or renewal of lease to meet these Commercial Interiors, particularly the focus on ongoing targets by 2015. office operations after the fit-out is complete, commitment GLOBAL OFFICE CERTIFICATIONS | CERTIFICATIONS INCLUDE LEED, NABERS, ISO14001, BREEAM, SINGAPORE ECO-OFFICE 10 CERTIFIED OFFICES OFFICES PURSUING CERTIFICATION ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY to performance improvement targets for aspects such as energy and water, and the need to recertify the project after three years. Undertaking this program allows CBRE’s Singapore office to become a useful test bed for corporate sustainability initiatives. Both the Tokyo and Singapore projects were completed in 2014 and are awaiting final award of their certification. Digitization Initiative WORKPLACE360 GOING PAPERLESS Reducing file storage requirements is a critical component of Workplace360’s streamlined, efficient environment. In 2013, eight U.S. CITY AVG PURGE % CBRE offices adopted a digitization initiative in which existing paper Denver 100% files were scanned and recycled. Initiative outcomes are captured in Kansas City 97% the below graphic. Los Angeles 84% Honolulu 82% Orlando Saddle Brook 75% 64% 17.2M TOTAL # OF PAGES 3.4M TOTAL PAGES 9.1M SHEETS OF WE STARTED WITH SCANNED PAPER PURGED Carlsbad 63% San Diego 61% Dallas Pilot 59% Ontario 56% 11 Sacramento PURGE AVERAGE 49% 72% 172 TREES RECYCLED 1.09 MILES OF PAPER 34,399 REAMS OF PAPER As we roll out the digitization and other initiatives of Workplace360 across our global occupancy, we expect to report similar reduction achievements. SUSTAINABLE OFFICE OPERATIONS STANDARDS • Participate in a recycling program that includes paper and aluminum at a minimum. • Purchase all green office supplies, such as paper and remanufactured printer toner cartridges whenever available. • Optimize efficiency for all printing, copying, scanning and mailing functions. • Encourage electronic marketing materials whenever possible. • Turn off office lights and equipment when not in use, particularly at night and on weekends. • Eliminate the purchase and use of plastic, paper and/or Styrofoam utensils and cups. • Eliminate the purchase and use of bottled water. • Employ green cleaning practices. • Properly dispose of any electronic office equipment and batteries. • Actively participate in the local market Green Task Force and national Eco Knight program. ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY INTERNAL CERTIFICATION and investments that elevate our environmental perforSince 2008, CBRE has mance. In 2013, we certified 65 offices, including 7 Gold, audited all U.S. offices over 32 Silver and 26 Bronze. The 2014 certification cycle was 5,000 square feet (about 90) in-process at the time of this report’s publication. through our Toward a Greener Tomorrow certification, In our 2012 Environmental Sustainability Policy, we which recognizes offices that have most fully implemented committed to promote and expand the Toward a Greener CBRE’s Sustainable Office Operation Standards. CertificaTomorrow office certification program to all global offices tion criteria are aligned with aspects of the USGBC’s LEED over 5,000 square feet by the end of 2014. As of second and EPA ENERGY STAR® programs and are customized to quarter of 2014, we certified 30 offices in Canada, EMEA the unique operational requirements of a firm of our size and the Pacific region, including 6 Gold, 11 Silver and and complexity. This survey process provides operational 13 Bronze. In 2014, we began expanding the certificabest practices, enhances our understanding of CBRE’s tion program to the Asia region and expect completion specific operational challenges, and informs decisions in 2015. 2013-2014 CBRE TOWARD A GREENER TOMORROW GLOBAL OFFICE CERTIFICATIONS 12 GOLD SILVER BRONZE ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY PROCUREMENT Technology Like most Fortune 500 companies, CBRE is working diliCBRE’s Procurement strategy continues to replace legacy gently to raise the strategic contribution of procurement office equipment with ENERGY STAR or comparable by redefining and improving our procurement practices versions in our global offices. Working with RICOH to and business relationships to ensure we are a responsible support CBRE’s Workplace360 initiative, we reduced our consumer and supplier to our clients. global printer and copier inventory from 777 RICOH devices using 4.7 million sheets monthly to 604 devices In 2013, CBRE Global Sourcing was created to generusing 1.8 million, a 62% reduction in paper usage. The ate savings on all major sourcing initiatives, improving total 2013 carbon emissions derived from our paper supplier performance and including corporate responusage was 9,317 metric tons. sibility requirements as part of our RFPs as appropriate. Some of the key accomplishments included: In 2013 CBRE implemented efforts to improve technology asset disposal tracking – an initiative that provided our first • Increasing team size, capabilities and capacity to publicly reported asset disposal metrics in 2014. In the manage sourcing initiatives for CBRE spend: in 2013 first half of 2014, CBRE disposed of 4.7 million pounds of Global Sourcing made several key hires of strategic assets, and in the second quarter, recycled 1,810 pounds sourcing and procurement professionals in newly of asset glass, metal and plastic. created management positions and supplemented the new CBRE team with third parties in specialized subject We are on track to deliver the expectation, stated in our areas; 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report, that 50% of our data requirements will be virtualized by 2017. In 2013, we • Negotiating major contracts: in 2013 over 400 continued to reduce infrastructure energy requirements by contracts were executed by CBRE, and at the time of standardizing equipment to ENERGY STAR or comparable publication, the team was involved in varying phases servers and equipment. We started with 16 data centers in 13 with more than 30 product and service negotiations 2012 and expected to reduce that number to six by 2015. that were either global, multinational or cross business in scope, leveraging CBRE’s scale; • Implementing global procurement strategies: at the time of publication, Global Sourcing was working with business and global shared services leaders in developing regionally relevant solutions via several key projects: digital marketing, managed print, office products, IT equipment, global Wide Area Network services, data visualization, cloud data storage, telecommunication services, audio conferencing, airline travel and global asset disposal. In an effort to continue building a world-class procurement platform, CBRE has committed to a redraft of our global procurement policy and initiating a Global Procurement Council in 2014. ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 2013 TRAVEL EMISSIONS BY TYPE Travel In committing to report our Scope 3 emissions for 2013, CBRE has quantified our corporate travel metrics for the U.S., where most of our corporate travel occurs. Our corporate travel program, myTravel, has been effective in the U.S. for several years and following a 2012 revamp of our travel policy to ensure compliance with the program, we estimate that more than 85-90% of all U.S. travel is currently booked through myTravel. Based on myTravel data and estimates for bookings outside the system, in 2013 our U.S. employees: • Flew 44,269,266 air miles (generating 8,028 metric tons of CO2); • Drove 1,209,289 rental car miles (462 metric tons); Air 89.08% Rail 0.30% • Traveled 148,107 rail miles (27 metric tons); and, Car 5.13% Hotel 5.49% • Stayed 23,024 nights in hotels (495 metric tons) We are working to continue a multi-year plan to capture more travel impacts across all other regions. In the Pacific, we will again offset our Scope 3 emissions, a project that is in-process at the time of publication. 14 CLIENT SERVICE CASE STUDY Due to Interface’s dedication to sustainability and the willingness of the building, the team was able to install highly efficient flush and Interface Chicago Showroom flow plumbing fixtures which significantly reduced water consumption. Interface, the world’s largest designer and Interface also prioritized FSC wood, materials with little to no offmaker of carpet tile, engaged CBRE to gassing and materials with high recycled content. manage the LEED certification for its new Chicago Showroom. The space was to be dual As a result of these strategies the project received LEED Platinum purposed; serving as office space as well as a certification, the highest level available to project teams. Some LEED high design showroom located in one of the highlights include: world’s premier design districts. These space functions require distinctive design elements • A 35% lighting power density reduction from the ASHRAE 90.1-2007 creating challenges for certain aspects of LEED baseline certification, particularly around reducing • A 41% water-use reduction from the EPA baseline overall lighting loads when showcasing • 25% of materials, based on cost, have a high percentage of recycled products. content By incorporating daylight strategies such as floor to ceiling windows, • 73% of new wood products, based on cost, are FSC certified shallow floor plates, low furniture profiles and efficient lighting fixtures, • 91% of waste was recycled during construction artificial lighting needs were significantly reduced from the ASHRAE 90.1-2007 baseline. • Platinum Certification awarded on the initial review; no revisions were required Interface also had a rare opportunity within a multi-tenant building to have a dedicated stand-alone HVAC system serving their new space. The team “We are very excited to be awarded this level and appreciate all the took advantage of this opportunity and installed a demand control system hard work that went into earning it.” for energy optimization. This level of tenant control resulted in the award of certain LEED credits not typically afforded to LEED CI projects. — Victoria, deVuono, Vice President A&D, Interface ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY CLIENT SERVICE NABERS Ratings for Stockland LEED Certification CBRE’s Pacific sustainability team signed a three-year CBRE’s Global Energy & Sustainability LEED Programs contract to provide sustainability services to the Stockland team, the clear industry leader in green building certifiportfolio across 14 of its commercial assets throughout cation, assists CBRE clients in navigating the LEED rating Australia, totaling 224,000 square meters. The services system by embedding long-term, sustainable best pracprovided include National Australian Built Environment tices at both the individual building and portfolio level. Ratings (NABERS) Energy & Water ratings and Tenancy The programs developed and implemented through the Lighting assessments. process have positive impacts on economic, environmenASIA tal and social aspects of our clients’ assets. In response to Asia’s growing client demand for sustainIn the first half of 2014, the Global Energy & Sustainabilability strategy development and implementation, CBRE ity LEED Programs team crossed the 300-building mark, formed a new sustainability team. The team includes resulting in a roughly $16 million energy cost savings for three dedicated staff with regional remits and provides CBRE clients (based on $0.10/kWh) and solidifying CBRE bespoke sustainability consulting work for clients in as the industry leader in LEED EB certifications. China, Singapore and Taiwan. At year end, CBRE Asia had 61 green building, energy and environmental professionals holding a combined 73 sustainability credentials, LEED EB Certifications by CBRE 305 including 42 LEED professionals. The company intends Total SF Commercial Space LEED 95,200,000 to continue expanding the team, adding expertise in key EB Certified by CBRE regional hubs. U.S. States with Certifications by CBRE 30 15 Annual Water Savings in Gallons 152,921,152 Annual kWh Energy Savings 162,506,629 U.S. SUSTAINABILITY BY THE NUMBERS Midyear 2014 Annual Metric Tons CO2 emissions reduced 112,057 ENERGY STAR® Energy Star Buildings Benchmarked and Registered 1,345 Square Feet Benchmarked and Registered 237M During 2013, CBRE registered and benchmarked 1,345 Buildings Labeled 217 buildings in the U.S., representing more than 237 million Buildings with Labels in Process 20 square feet. CBRE’s 217 labeled buildings under manageBuildings Eligible to Apply 320 ment represent almost 3% of the 7,551 U.S. office buildings LEED labeled in ENERGY STAR. We have another 340 properties LEED for Existing Buildings Buildings Certified by CBRE 305 that are either currently in the application process or eligible Square Feet Certified by CBRE 95M to apply. Due to a combination of effective energy manageBuildings with Certification in Process 32 ment practices and closely monitoring consumption trends, LEED for New Construction 132 million square feet, or more than 56% of the total Buildings Certified by CBRE 8 benchmarked portfolio, has an energy efficiency score of LEED for Commercial Interiors 75 or greater. Our efforts across this portfolio translate into Projects Certified by CBRE 98 a savings of 11,751 metric tons of CO2, which is equivalent LEED for Core & Shell to removing 2,440 cars from the road for one year. Buildings Certified by CBRE 2 ACCREDITATION LEED Professionals 479 TRAINING BOMA Energy Efficiency Program Attendees 14,674 Green Knights 71 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY CBRE Asia project management and property management teams worked on a total of 19 LEED certification CASE STUDY projects that completed in 2013, including the CompaTAIPEI 101’s First Corporate Sustainability Report ny’s first LEED for Existing Buildings projects in China TAIPEI 101 has always set industry and India, and the provision of an innovative integrated standards, including becoming the LEED for Commercial Interiors certification consulting and tallest green building in the world in 2011. When property owner, project management services project for the Asia Pacific Taipei Financial Center Corporation headquarters of a major U.S. company in Hong Kong. (TFCC) sought to be the first landlord/ developer in Taiwan to produce a corporate sustainability report, they asked CBRE Sustainability Asia’s guidance on how to create a report GREEN PROFILE: TIM SHEN, to international standards. CBRE DIRECTOR OF SUSTAINABILITY, ASIA recommended that TFCC pursue the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) CBRE’s Tim Shen is a driving force framework, which is widely regarded of environmental sustainability in as the industry standard for corporate the Asian commercial real estate sustainability disclosure. industry. In 2013 alone, he joined the Asia Pacific Real Estate Association’s CBRE undertook a comprehensive stakeholder engagement (APREA) Sustainability Committee and assessment. Following the AA1000 Assurance Standard and Chatham the GRESB Asia Pacific Benchmark House Rule, CBRE acted as a neutral third party to facilitate stakeholder Committee, and became the Asia engagement with key groups identified by the client. To ensure that Pacific representative on the CoreNet TFCC received a holistic and robust picture of their current standing Global Sustainability Knowledge with stakeholders, CBRE assessed qualitative and quantitative feedback, Advisory Panel. In addition, Tim yielding a deep understanding of patterns, improvement areas and taught the CoreNet Global Masters of Corporate Real Estate performance targets. Sustainability seminar in Tokyo and chaired the sustainability 16 panel discussion at the FIABCI 64th World Congress in Taiwan. CBRE also performed a materiality assessment, allowing management to identify material issues to the company as a whole, as well as Tim was also the LEED International Roundtable representative underlying opportunities and risks, to inform business strategy. Once for the Hong Kong-based LEED professional association, the issues were established, CBRE worked closely with TFCC to collect Platinum, which was singled out for special mention by USGBC and analyze data from the previous year, compile company policies CEO, Rick Fedrizzi, at his closing plenary speech at GreenBuild and SOPs, which were mapped onto the GRI framework to maximize 2013. Tim’s CBRE Project Management colleagues in Hong disclosure in order to meet TFCC’s goal to report at GRI Level A. Key Kong volunteered to hold treasurer and secretary positions in performance metrics such as energy consumption, GHG and water Platinum in 2013, helping the association to grow in numbers intensity were normalized for year-on-year comparability. and organize an unprecedented number of events to promote green building and support LEED professionals based in Hong In addition to research and authorship of the report content, the team’s Kong. Tim was also instrumental in expanding the region’s involvement extended to the provision of graphic design advice and Green Day into a company-wide Green Week in 2013. Chinese translation consulting to the extended project team. “This has been a very good exercise for our company, and in the process, CBRE have demonstrated good knowledge, professionalism and dedication in delivering a high quality report as we requested. We believe the result of their work will help TAIPEI 101 to continue to be the benchmark for the industry.” — Cathy Yang, General Manager, Tower Division, TFCC ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY GLOBAL CORPORATE SERVICES Recognition Award Program Sustainability In 2013, six GCS teams were recognized for their sustainability services on client properties and portfolios. Team: John Browne, Senior Facilities Management Engineering Operations Manager Client: Walgreens Outcomes: Implementation of standardized procedures to reduce energy management equipment downtime and work orders. Systems management training, creating significant client energy cost savings. Implementation of highly-visible maintenance programs. Team: Mark Hamilton and Asia-Pacific Project Management team Client: Google Outcomes: LEED Platinum properties for Google in Mumbai, Singapore and Bangkok, and LEED Gold properties in Sydney, Shanghai, Bangalore and Tokyo. Healthy Materials program in 12 Asia-Pacific countries. Waste diversion from landfill rate of 97% in Sydney. Benchmarked LEED cost premiums to demonstrate investment ROI. Team: Chris Liston the Energy and Sustainability Team Client: Bank of America Outcomes: LEED certification at 16 sites, totaling more than 1 MSF. Several dozen conservation projects including 17 smart irrigation projects, the installation of low-flow aerators, and toilet replacements will lower the bank’s water usage by 21.7 million gallons. Team: Energy & Sustainability Consulting Team London 17 Client: Various Outcomes: Recognizing legislative and client demand shifts, the team developed the Energy and Sustainability Risk Management service focused on managing investors’ reputation, financial and legislative risks associated with energy and sustainability. The service focuses on mitigating obsolescence risk driven by new UK legislation prohibiting the sale and rental of poor energy performing properties from 2018; delivering occupancy cost reductions through energy saving projects; and mitigating landlord reputation risk through establishing and implementing a novel approach to Responsible Property Investment (“RPI”) Reporting. Team: Elodie Michaels and Energy and Sustainability Team, Solutions Client: Sprint Outcomes: Sprint Energy Building Analytics, an integrated building solution that drives an estimated 10% energy savings per building. DOE Better Building Challenge showcase building achieved 50% energy usage reduction. DOE EV Charge Challenge installed electric vehicle charging stations in 14 garages. EPA Waste Wise Partner of the Year Award recognition for 36% national recycle rate and 45% headquarters campus waste diversion rate. Zero Waste Program at headquarters campus using composting and waste-to-energy partnerships. Two LEED-certified call centers. Team: Robert Real and CBRE Energy and Sustainability Team Client: Infrastructure Ontario (IO) Outcomes: Achieved IO’s ten-year 27% electricity reduction target. Overperforming on extended ekWh target 4.4% reduction vs. 2% annually. Implemented CBRE’s innovative Smart Green Building Strategy in 13 buildings. Designed and implemented a retro commissioning program in 16 buildings. Achieved ISO 14001 re-accreditation for portfolio EMS. Certified 72 buildings under BOMA BEST program. ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY EMEA CBRE EMEA CROSS-BORDER SUSTAINABILITY TEAM GOALS Leading the Way: EMEA Sustainability Services In 2013, CBRE EMEA hired Rebecca Pearce, the • Embed sustainability in each of our service lines, equip teams to advise a broader range of clients company’s former Pacific sustainability leader, as • Align and grow our standalone sustainability services the new EMEA Head of Sustainability. In this role, Rebecca works to link sustainability services across • Raise our profile so we are recognized as the number one advisor the region, integrate sustainability across all busi• Research and thought leadership to support ness lines and drive sustainability as a key business this position strategy in EMEA. By the end of 2013, CBRE had • Global connections – collaboration to grow identified 50 dedicated sustainability team our business members across eight countries, and those counts had risen to 63 • Reduce footprint of our internal operations team members across 10 countries by midyear 2014. • Internal engagement to raise profile of sustainability with staff • CBRE Global Investors – support and expand EMEA SUSTAINABILITY SERVICES relationship Productivity and Performance • Energy, water waste management to reduce consumption carbon emissions • Energy procurement strategies including renewables on-site generation • Sustainability audits, benchmarking improvement plans and refurbishment CASE STUDY advice to drive performance CBRE Global Investors • Green lease implementation management to enhance owner and occupier relationships In May 2013 CBRE Global Investors CEE and 18 CBRE’s Sustainability Services EMEA agreed on a • Workplace strategies to promote productivity and well-being. collaboration to support CBRE Global Investors Reputation and Reporting CEE’s project on becoming the first responsible real estate investment fund in the CEE region. As part • Mandatory voluntary sustainability and CR reporting of the funds’ strategy, CBRE finalized the BREEAM • Green building ratings using all major tools BREEAM, DGNB, HQE, LEED In-Use certification process which started in 2012, so that by the end of 2013 both funds received a • Stakeholder engagement and sustainability change programs BREEAM In-Use certification for more than 80% of Reducing Risk their properties . • Risk management services to identify mitigate risk across ESG dimensions During the certification process, CBRE conducted • Sustainability due diligence reporting to assist acquisition and sale. sustainability checks for key properties in Poland and Hungary, that were developed in-house as a joint project between CBRE Global Investors’ Green Team and CBRE. Based on the outcome of this project the fund management team received The EMEA team has created strong linkages and enhanced client valuable support to evaluate the sustainability services through a truly collaborative approach with other CBRE performance of its existing portfolio. services, including Asset Services, Facilities Management and Global Through this evaluation process and knowledge Corporate Services, Building Consultancy and Planning, Rating and sharing the sustainability performance of those Taxation, and Workplace Strategies. Additional specialty services key assets became more transparent, enabling management to take action over to update the include environmental impact assessments, geo-environmental and existing ESG criteria for new acquisitions. contaminated land assessments and advisory services, and due diligence for investment properties and consulting on energy from waste development opportunities. ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY PACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY SPOTLIGHT: PACIFIC REGION CASE STUDY Australia and New Zealand property companies continue 51 Pirie Street – A Nabers First for Adelaide Office Landmark to show strong commitment to sustainability and corporate responsibility, and CBRE Pacific is proud to support them The 151 Pirie Street office tower in Adelaide has become the in these endeavors. 2013 saw a strong focus on social first commercial building in South Australia to achieve a 5.5 star sustainability by Australian property companies. Regional NABERS Energy Base Building Rating without the need to purchase sustainability issues include shared value, social return on green power. investment and community development plans, and CBRE continues to work with leading organizations on related 151 Pirie Street is owned by Real I.S. AG and managed by CBRE. The innovations. rating is the latest to highlight the building’s green credentials, after the property also maintained its NABERS water rating of 4.5 stars. Our work in providing various environmental improvements continues to grow, as well. Provision of National Australian Built CBRE’s Adelaide headquarters are located in 151 Pirie Street – a Environment Ratings (NABER) has grown 38% in 2013 and 12,000 square meters building overlooking Hindmarsh Square shows no signs of slowing. Through this work, we provide our in the heart of the Adelaide CBD. Originally designed to achieve clients with informed building improvement plans, minimizing a 4.5 star NABERS Energy Base Building Rating, under CBRE’s operational costs and providing environmental efficiency in the management the building initially achieved a 5 star rating through areas most needed. operational optimization alone. In 2013 we also launched the There previously had been an overriding focus on managing the Sustainability Showcase for the property effectively to minimize energy without compromising region, highlighting buildings and tenant environmental conditions. This included the use of Solar portfolios where CBRE has assisted Photovoltaic Cells, energy efficient lighting in the common areas in improving performance. This and sub-metering of the tenant condenser water loop. The step up showcase is provided to all clients to a 5.5 star rating was achieved following the implementation of a and potential clients and has elicited range of initiatives, including a rooftop solar installation to provide strong feedback from both internal renewable energy for the base building. and external stakeholders. Diligent operational management has also contributed to the 19 Regional client sustainability increase in the Base Building Rating, which takes into account demand looks bright, as clients are energy used by common services such as cooling and ventilation increasingly requesting proposals systems, lifts, hydraulics, car parks and lobbies and inclusions of sustainability — Amanda Steele information for their assets. CBRE is taking a proactive Head of Sustainability, Pacific approach to this work, utilizing our knowledge of individual buildings to deliver high quality sustainability services. As the cost of energy and waste continue to increase, these areas are obvious focus points for our business. Further, CBRE CASE STUDY recognizes that climate resilience and adaptation continue to dominate the interests of policy makers and institutional clients. Dexus Property Group Where we can assist in delivering innovative solutions to these CBRE currently has more green persistent problems, we do and we expect 2014 to bring more buildings under management than sustainability strategy work and look forward to delivering any other Australian property services quality solutions with our clients of all size and all asset classes. company, and our sustainability management performance is best evidenced in one of our larger portfolios , Dexus Property Group. With the Dexus portfolio we have been successful in delivering sustainability performance in line with targets and strategic expectations. This has resulted in a portfolio NABERS average of 4.5 Stars NABERS Energy in accordance with Dexus’ expectations. The Dexus’ portfolio has garnered savings of $2.3 million annually in energy costs due to our sustainability team’s work in energy management and contracting. CBRE’s ability to achieve these goals has been due to our FM Plus package, which includes a dedicated sustainability resource. This sustainability resource manages the environmental performance of the portfolio and is considered an extension of the Dexus team. Due to the proficiency in data management, anomalies in environmental performance can be dealt with through daily phone calls and emails to the asset managers. ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNICATIONS AND TRAINING GREEN WEEK BY THE NUMBERS Green Week CBRE’s first-ever global Green Week (October 21-25, 2013) was a 13,000+ CBRE EMPLOYEES success, with thousands of employees in offices around the world working to elevate awareness of energy efficiency and sustainability PARTICIPATING IN practices. In more than 100 activities globally, employees practiced GREEN WEEK recycling, developed organic food menus, reduced (or completely elimi100+ GREEN WEEK nated) printing, took field trips, held educational forums and competed on teams to demonstrate who had the greatest green expertise. Many INITIATIVES GLOBALLY employees rode a bicycle or walked to work, and the Twitterverse and 23,000 VIEWS OF EMEA other social media platforms were abuzz with visuals and micro blogging that kept followers aware of CBRE’s global commitment. SANS FRONTIÈRES GREEN WEEK EDITION Broker Training In support of our 2012 Environmental Sustainability Policy goal of 1.25M TWITTER IMPRESSIONS training 1,000 CBRE brokers globally by 2015, CBRE developed “The Business of Green – For Brokers,” a comprehensive approach to bridg#CBREGREENWEEK ing the sustainability knowledge gap and creating actionable expertise 378TWEETS in our broker community. This is the industry’s largest training series of its kind. In 2013, we completed our first round of in-person training and created an online version that will be used to meet the 2015 goal. 60+ BAGS OF LITTER CLEANED Employee Certifications FROM TOKYO STREETS & As of yearend 2013, more than 500 CBRE professionals worldwide had 20 HONG KONG BEACHES obtained the LEED professional designation, which signifies advanced 50,000 STAIRS CLIMBED knowledge in green building practices. Nearly 50 CBRE employees in the Americas have been designated as Green Knights, a CBRE InstituBY CBRE ASIA tional and Corporate Services program that helps clients strategically transform their facility operations via sustainable practices, products 6,000 REUSABLE WATER and behaviors. More than 100 CBRE employees have participated in CBRE’s Green Teams, local market volunteers who support CBRE’s BOTTLES DISTRIBUTED TO EMEA EMPLOYEES sustainability activities. 350KM WALKED TO WORK BOMA BEEP CBRE continues to equip building staff with the knowledge, proper IN AUSTRALIA tools and best practices required to manage and reduce energy 100% INCREASE IN PERTH’S consumption. In partnership with BOMA, CBRE licensed BOMA Energy Efficiency Program (BEEP) training and has offered weekly sessions to OFFICE PLANTS employees for the past seven years. BEEP provides energy consumption and cost reduction strategies for optimizing equipment, people 3 SQUARE FEET and practices. Since 2007, more than 15,220 attendees have participated in the four-part training series. OF WHEATGRASS SERVED IN LATVIA 180 SMOOTHIES MADE BY BIKE POWER IN LONDON 500 BIKE SEAT COVERS ADOPTED IN AMSTERDAM CHECK OUT #CBREGREENWEEK TWITTER ACTIVITY HERE ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Earth Hour 2014 As a result of our comprehensive global campaign, more than 2 million tenants in nearly 409 million square feet of CBRE-managed properties participated in World Wildlife Fund’s Earth Hour. Poland Workplace Conference CBRE in Poland hosted a local market Workplace Conference in which sustainable buildings and productivity were discussed; CBRE sustainability professionals David Lazaro, Rebecca Pearce and Jonathan Steer presented. Communication Channels A key driver in creating lasting behavioral change is an ability to communicate – to capture and convey meaningful ideas about sustainability that engage users and alter their daily habits. At CBRE, we strive to connect our messages strategically with our stakeholders through a variety of key channels: • Media partnership – In 2013, we hired 3BL Media to improve the reach of CBRE’s corporate responsibility communications. • Social media – In 2013 CBRE 21 launched The Green Perspective, a global sustainability blog. We also remained active via our Twitter account @cbregreen. • Video – We leverage CBRE’s YouTube channel to host videos like “The Business of Green” and others to share messages about our CR activities, business and market trends. • Inside the Office – Inside the Office is our employee portal for access to office-related sustainability tools and resources. • Employee engagement – Recognizing that our employees can be our greatest advocates, best idea generators and even strongest critics, we use a dozen internal channels to harness our employees’ environmental commitment, giving them current updates, participation opportunities and feedback channels. PUBLIC POLICY CBRE maintains our relationships with various non-governmental organizations and environmental specialists around the globe including The Climate Group, C2ES’ Business Environmental Leadership Council, World Wildlife Fund, the Natural Resources Defense Council, United States Green Building Council and other global Green Building Council organizations, and numerous other region-specific entities. ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY GRESB U.S. Launch CBRE hosted more than 110 industry managers, investors and stakeholders at a reception at CBRE’s New York office as Nils Kok, executive director of GRESB (Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark), unveiled the U.S. results of the 2013 GRESB Survey. The first benchmark of its kind, GRESB provides insight into sustainability performance across commercial real estate portfolios, and attendees learned how the implementation of sustainability could positively impact their organization and bottom line. EPA Energy Star EPA | CBRE BROKER PERSPECTIVE SURVEY As a long-standing EPA partner, CBRE collaborates to develop brokerage sales 2012-2013 tools and client engagement resources on 79% interest in EPA training & CEUs energy performance and sustainability. 71% interest in green broker designation In an effort to define and serve the brokerage community’s perspec86% expect enhanced reputation from designation tive on energy performance sales tools and client resources, CBRE has collaborated with EPA ENERGY STAR on a survey of key drivers and educational needs. The results of that survey, published in 2013, indicated that: • 79.3% were interested in EPA training on energy performance and saw broker CEU value 22 • 71.2% were interested in green broker designation courses • 85.9% expected such knowledge and designation to provide reputation enhancement IMT & NRDC City Energy Project In 2013, we continued our alliance with the Institute for Market Transformation (IMT), and the Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC) supporting the City Energy Project. This national initiative will create healthier and more prosperous American cities by improving the energy efficiency of buildings. Working in partnership, the Project and participating cities will support innovative and practical solutions that reduce pollution, boost local economies, and create healthier environCITY SWITCH ments. The pioneering actions of the 10 leading cities involved in the In November 2013, CBRE became one of the first City Energy Project will help shape and define next-generation energy organizations to become a national Signatory efficiency efforts in communities nationwide. to CitySwitch’s Green Office energy efficiency program. As a national CitySwitch Signatory CBRE Green Building Councils has committed to achieving 4.5 star NABERS Energy tenancy ratings across 21 Signatories and over CBRE enjoys a long-standing relationship in Green Building Council 16,000 square meters of office space. chapters, a trend that expanded notably last year. In 2013, CBRE’s Michaela Nedorostova was elected the first female member of the Czech GBC Board. Rebecca Pearce, Head of EMEA Sustainability, sat on the UKGBC Policy Committee. The CBRE Sustainability Asia team helped found a new LEED professional association in Taiwan, which is the sixth largest market for LEED projects in Asia. This new association, called Seed, was accepted to the ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY LEED International Roundtable in 2013. Through CBRE’s involvement THOUGHT LEADERSHIP with both Platinum and Seed, employees were also directly engaged in CBRE professionals are regularly sought as thought determining Greater China Regional Priority Credits for all of the LEED leaders for sustainability industry events and v2009 and LEED v4 rating systems – a significant step in making LEED organizations, think tanks and publications. an even more effective green building system for the region. In 2013, some examples included: C2ES Business Environmental Leadership Council • BOMA International panelists Now in our second year of membership in • BOMI Board of Trustees member the Center for Climate and Energy Solutions’ • BOMI High Performance Buildings RPA book Business Environmental Leadership Council, editor, pilot course instructor and development CBRE hosted BELC’s west coast meeting in advisor 2013 at our San Francisco office. California • CoRETech Seattle speaker Governor Jerry Brown was in attendance. • RealComm/IBcon speaker Dave Pogue, Global Director of Corporate • RealComm Advisory Board member Responsibility, and California Governor Jerry Brown • CoreNet Las Vegas session speaker • SXSW Eco session speaker IMT CBRE and IMT again produced the Guide to State and Local Energy • CUSP Building Informatics workshop NYU invited participant Performance Regulations, which features energy mandate require• University of San Diego sustainability conference ments and implementation schedules by U.S. city moderator and state, a valuable resource for building owners • CRE Radio program speaker and management teams navigating through the • RICS member and advisory committee compliance process. 23 • BRE/ BREEAM member • Cambridge University Land Society event speaker • 40percent Symposium participant • ICSC European Sustainability Committee CBRE has demonstrated outstanding national • LEED International Roundtable leadership on energy benchmarking policy. • FIABCI 64th World Congress Their efforts have contributed to the adoption of benchmarking policies in major cities across the country, and significantly advanced the commercial real estate industry’s understanding of benchmarking policies and awareness of the benefits of good energy management practices. We can only hope other real estate companies follow the tremendous example set by CBRE. CLIFF MAJERSIK Executive Director, IMT ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Business Roundtable In 2013, Bob Sulentic continued our long-standing membership in Business Roundtable, including participating in “Create, Grow, Sustain: Celebrating Success,” a sustainability report featuring CEO THE CLIMATE GROUP narratives on their companies’ efforts to drive a CBRE’s supported The Climate Group’s Climate sustainable economy. Week NYC 2013, by hosting the North American Members Meeting at our LEED certified midtown Plan Batiment Durable Manhattan office. Dave Pogue, Global Director of Corporate Responsibility, was appointed to The CBRE’s Christian Beaur played a key role in the Climate Group’s North American Board of Directors, development of French Plan Batiment Durable and CBRE expanded our relationship with The and Grenelle two legislation to promote and Climate Group in EMEA. support sustainable property. RICS Professional Guidance rics.org RICS Professional Guidance, UK GN 105/2013 CBRE London’s Chris Richards chaired the working RICS HQ Parliament Square London SW1P 3AD United Kingdom Advancing standards in land, property and construction. RICS is the world’s leading qualification when it comes to professional standards in land, property and construction. Sustainability: improving performance in existing buildings group that developed Sustainability: Improving Performance in Existing Buildings, a professional Worldwide media In a world where more and more people, governments, banks and 1st edition, guidance note enquiries: commercial organisations demand greater certainty of professional e pressoffice@rics.org standards and ethics, attaining RICS status is the recognised Contact Centre: mark of property professionalism. e contactrics@rics.org t +44 (0)870 333 1600 Over 100 000 property professionals working in the major established guidance publication produced by the RICS Buildf +44 (0)20 7334 3811 and emerging economies of the world have already recognised the importance of securing RICS status by becoming members. RICS is an independent professional body originally established in the UK by Royal Charter. Since 1868, RICS has been committed to setting and upholding the highest standards of excellence and integrity – providing impartial, authoritative advice on key issues affecting businesses and society. ing Surveying Professional Group. The publication RICS is a regulator of both its individual members and firms enabling it to maintain the highest standards and providing the basis for unparalleled client confidence in the sector. RICS has a worldwide network. For further information simply contact the relevant RICS office or our Contact Centre. provides a roadmap for integrating sustainability Europe Asia Americas (excluding United Room 2203 One Grand Central Place Kingdom and Ireland) Hopewell Centre 60 East 42nd Street Rue Ducale 67 183 Queen’s Road East Suite 2810 1000 Brussels Wanchai New York 10165 – 2811 Belgium Hong Kong USA t +32 2 733 10 19 t +852 2537 7117 t +1 212 847 7400 f +32 2 742 97 48 f +852 2537 2756 f +1 212 847 7401 ricseurope@rics.org ricsasia@rics.org ricsamericas@rics.org into existing buildings and assists building surveyUnited Kingdom Africa Ireland Parliament Square PO Box 3400 38 Merrion Square London SW1P 3AD Witkoppen 2068 Dublin 2 United Kingdom South Africa Ireland t +44 (0)870 333 1600 t +27 11 467 2857 t +353 1 644 5500 Dave Pogue speaks at Climate Week NYC on f +44 (0)207 334 3811 f +27 86 514 0655 f +353 1 661 1797 contactrics@rics.org ricsafrica@rics.org ricsireland@rics.org Oceania Middle East India Suite 2, Level 16 Office G14, Block 3 48 & 49 Centrum Plaza ors in explaining options to clients, including 1 Castlereagh Street Knowledge Village Sector Road Sydney, NSW 2000 Dubai Sector 53, Gurgaon – 122002 Australia United Arab Emirates India t +61 2 9216 2333 t +971 4 375 3074 t +91 124 459 5400 Hub Culture f +61 2 9232 5591 f +971 4 427 2498 f +91 124 459 5402 info@rics.org.au ricsmenea@rics.org ricsindia@rics.org relevant issues in property sustainability initiatives. 24 rics.org/standards Better Buildings Partnership CBRE Sydney completed the Better Buildings Partnership on Green Lease Clauses with law firm Sparke Hellmore and other property companies. The Tenants and Landlords Guide to Happiness Fifth Estate, a leading Australian online property magazine, in conjunction with the Better Buildings Partnership, released a third chapter in its series “The Best Practice and Green Leasing The Tenants and Landlords Guide to Happiness.” CBRE’s Jenine Cranston, Senior Director of Office Services, and Amanda Steele, Head of Sustainability, Pacific, contributed to the chapter, which outlines sustainability influences that encourage tenants to move into green buildings. IPD EcoPas CBRE UK continued to sponsor the IPD EcoPas, a confidential benchmarking service that identifies and highlights the potential environmental risks in a real estate investment portfolio. ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY ACADEMIC COLLABORATION GREEN BUILDING Launched in September 2012, the Real Green ADOPTION INDEX Research Challenge (RGRC) is CBRE’s US$1-milNATIONAL GREEN BUILDING The first completed and lion commitment to fund leading-edge ADOPTION INDEX 2014 published Real Green Research Challenge project, sustainability research and innovation in commerthe Green Building Adoption cial real estate. Index, is perhaps the most simple in design, straight In July 2013, CBRE awarded RGRC funding and organizational support forward in process and most eye catching of all. to five sustainability projects from more than 100 submissions: In partnership with The premise was simple. How • Natural Resources Defense Council’s Center for Market Innovation wide spread had the “green building” phenomenon is developing a rating system for comparative tenant energy use become? What progress had been made? Is “green” the new norm? The answers researcher Nils that provides a quantitative foundation for identifying and promotKok and his team discovered were both surprising ing energy efficient practices. and satisfying. • Stanford University, Center for Integrated Facility Engineering is At the end of 2005, our research shows that barely creating a detailed empirical evaluation of EPA ENERGY STAR® 1% of all office buildings in the top 30 U.S. markets energy management strategies allowing facilities and property held an EPA Energy Star label and less that.01% of those buildings were USGBC LEED certified. By the managers to prioritize energy efficiency projects end of 2013, 10.2% of all office buildings in the • EURO Institute of Real Estate Management is performing a compretop 30 U.S. markets were now Energy Star labeled. And the LEED data is even more remarkable. 19.4% hensive economic analysis of the value implications of green of all space in those markets is now LEED certified, building practices on large institutional real estate portfolios. with 15.4% of that space certified as LEED EB. Overall 39.3% of the square footage in the top 30 • Cleveland State University and Central Michigan University is creat25 US markets now holds either a LEED certification or ing a new industry-wide, regionally sensitive, green building scoring Energy Star label or both. protocol system to inform U.S. office tenants’ leasing decisions and And the gains were widespread. In 10 cities developers’ sustainable building choices. more than 50% of all space qualifies as green. • Maastricht University has completed an annual green building Minneapolis shows an incredible 77% of all space as green, followed by San Francisco at 67% and index of the top 30 U.S. metro markets, yielding insights for policy Chicago at 62%. makers, developers and other stakeholders and supporting lenders’ risk management analysis and investors’ decisions (see “Green This study reveals an extraordinary transformation occurring over a very short period of time. From Building Adoption Index”). a virtual standing start, in a period of less than a decade, and using entirely voluntary action, a COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS traditionally conservative industry adopted a new operating standard. Green is the new norm and It is our policy to implement environmentally sustainable best practices in most markets virtually every large building has and to meet both the letter and the spirit of all environmental laws adapted and adopted these new standards. and regulations where we do business. In 2013, we were not issued any fines in violation of environmental regulations or law, nor have we been responsible for or party to any significant spills. Sustainable Reporting In addition to this report, CBRE reports on sustainability matters through various third-party organizations, including the UNGC, GRI, CDP, FTSE4Good and numerous investment indices. Many of these and other reports include criteria that may not directly apply to our company. By way of organizational transparency, we offer the following insights. As a service provider, the environmental impact of our operations is relatively low by comparison to similarly sized firms in other industries. In 2013, we estimate that our global operations electricity use was 66,430 MWH and our distillate fuel (oil) usage was 111,224 MWH. ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Full detail on our energy use is published annually CBRE’s Carbon 2013 CARBON EMISSIONS Disclosure filing, which is available for download on CDP’s website. Scope 1 – 20,646 metric tons Scope 2 – 29,977 metric tons Our natural resource use and waste stream are not related to manufacScope 3 – 11,455 metric tons* turing, research and development, logistics and other resource-intensive *Pacific only activities. Since we do not produce, package or transport goods, we do not source sustainably or reclaim any products or packaging, nor do we transport hazardous waste or water. The majority of our operations occur in office settings, and in most cases, we lease but do not own the space we occupy, and our leases comprise only a small portion of the buildings in which they are located. In addition, in multiple tenancy buildings, we do not always have access to energy submeters. As a result, we do not have the means to track materials source or use beyond recycling efforts, water withdrawal or discharge, or significant air emissions beyond those indicated elsewhere in this report section. Our operations are largely based in urban and suburban areas, minimizing our exposure to protected natural areas and potential impacts on biodiversity and endangered species. To the best of our knowledge, we do not own or occupy facilities or land on or adjacent to protected habitats or areas nor have we participated directly in habitat restoration. 26 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY STEERING COMMITTEE 2013 MEMBERS LARRY MIDLER ROB HENSLEY EVP and General Counsel, Global Managing Director, Valuation & Head of Corporate Responsibility Advisory DAVE POGUE STEVE IACO Global Director of Corporate Senior Managing Director, Corporate Responsibility, committee chairman Communications BOB ABBERGER MINDEE METZ Senior Managing Director, Trammell Director of Corporate Responsibility Crow Company REBECCA PEARCE MARK CREAMER Head of Sustainability, EMEA Deputy Managing Director, UK ED SCHREYER MAUREEN EHRENBERG President, Agency and Asset Services, Global Director of Facilities the Americas Management TIM SHEN KAREN ELLZEY Director of Sustainability, Asia Executive Managing Director, Consulting BRIAN STOFFERS Chief Operating Officer & President, PIETER HENDRIKSE Capital Markets, Debt & Equity Chief Executive Officer, CBRE Global Finance Investors EMEA STEVE SWERDLOW Chief Operating Officer, Americas COMMUNITIES & GIVING 27 COMMUNITIES & GIVING “ Philanthropy is my promise to make a difference in the world. A time to show compassion by sharing your resources and time in exchange for something meaningful and worthwhile—to provide hope to those in need. While one person can create a ripple effect that lasts a lifetime, I believe that together—through CBRE Cares—we make a ” larger impact not only in our community and around the world, but to each other as well. HEIDI PECKHAUS Client Services Coordinator, CBRE’s Boca Raton, Florida, office COMMUNITIES & GIVING CBRE CARES CBRE is committed to fulfilling its role as a responsible corporate citizen by supporting and adding value to the communities in which our employees live and work, and we continue, as a firm, to build on that passion for assisting those in need throughout the world. CBRE Cares, the company’s corporate giving and volunteerism organization, helps facilitate this effort by serving as an overarching platform to further a variety of charitable endeavors, both large and small in scope. CBRE Cares strives to leverage the passion and talents of our employees around the world to create real benefit for individuals in need through local community outreach and support, disaster-response initiatives, CBRE was one of only 13 companies named to the and locally driven, regionally sanctioned programs. prestigious 2013 Companies That Care Honor Roll by the Center for Companies That Care, a U.S. nonSince the CBRE Foundation assumed the governance and execution of profit dedicated to social sustainability by engaging CBRE Cares seven years ago, the company’s charitable initiatives have employers in improving the lives of employees, families and communities. This was the sixth transformed from scattered, grassroots efforts to a cohesive program consecutive year that CBRE was named to the list. aligned with our business and values. While each of our company’s regions—Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa; and Asia Pacific— operate independently, establishing their own programs and initiatives, one element remains unchanged: the charitable spirit and enthusiasm for service of our employees—who set a new record for giving in 2013. In addition to in-kind donations, CBRE and our employees globally donated a total of $8 million in 2013, 19.4% more than the year before. Disaster relief is a long-held tenet of CBRE’s charitable agenda. To 28 further our support of victims of natural disasters around the world, CBRE formed the CBRE Disaster Relief Foundation in late 2012. The CBRE Disaster Relief Foundation, acting in tandem with the CBRE Foundation and CBRE Cares, matches employee contributions and distributes the funds through a network of pre-approved organizations that focus on disaster relief and rebuilding communities in need. In addition, the CBRE Disaster Relief Foundation enables employees around the world to aid fellow colleagues who have suffered a catastrophic loss as a result of a natural disaster by providing financial assistance via a grant process. In 2013, the CBRE Disaster Relief Foundation responded to two catastrophic events on opposite sides of the globe—the massive tornado that struck Moore, Oklahoma in May and Typhoon Haiyan, which hit the Philippine islands and parts of Southeast Asia in late November. In the immediate aftermath of these storms, CBRE’s executive leadership team launched internal fundraising campaigns, encouraging employees to give what they could via the Foundation’s website or directly to pre-identified charities. With a matching grant from the CBRE Disaster Relief Foundation, U.S. employees contributed a total of $34,785 to Moore, Oklahoma. The response to Typhoon Haiyan was the company’s first global campaign through the newly formed CBRE Disaster Relief Foundation and, with a matching grant, raised an astonishing 2013 INCREASE IN EMPLOYEE GIVING $149,138 in 48 days. Disaster relief funds were distributed to the Red COMMUNITIES & GIVING Cross, as well as Rebuilding Together in Moore, Oklahoma, and to UNICEF in response to Typhoon Haiyan. A portion of the proceeds of the Moore, Oklahoma, campaign were also distributed as emergency funds, through a grant process, to employees who suffered devastating losses as a result of the storm. Correspondingly, emergency funds were available to CBRE employees in the areas impacted by Typhoon Haiyan, though no CBRE employees were directly affected by the storm. After a disaster of this magnitude, the first month of relief efforts is primarily focused on search and rescue, distributing food and medical supplies, providing temporary shelter, and addressing other immediate needs. Where CBRE can really help is in the long-term recovery and rebuilding of the impacted areas. I am continually impressed by the generosity of our company and our employees during times like these when we can come together 29 to lend a helping hand to people in need. MIKE LAFITTE CBRE Chief Operating Officer, in response to Typhoon Haiyan CBRE prides itself on having “feet on the ground” in all major markets around the globe, and our corporate philanthropy efforts focus on measures that embrace that quality and allow our employees to show—and build on—their compassion for others. At CBRE, we recognize that supporting the charitable endeavors of our employees not only benefits the communities in which they live and work, but it also benefits our employees, increasing morale, aiding in talent retention, contributing to overall job satisfaction and, most importantly, fostering a healthy work-life balance. COMMUNITIES & GIVING AMERICAS UNITED STATES In the U.S., CBRE Cares’ Matching Funds program continued to empower local offices to make charitable-giving decisions by returning 75% of all funds raised by our employees to the local offices and client account teams to be allocated to the causes they feel most strongly about (See “All Together Now! South Florida Employees Help Many Through One, Big Fundraising Bash” and “CBRE Takes a Big Step in the Silicon Valley Kidney Walk”). Our professionals made the most of the Matching Funds program, and in 2013 donated to more than 575 different groups (see “Selection of Organizations Supported by CBRE and Our U.S. Employees in 2013”). ALL TOGETHER NOW! In 2013, CBRE’s U.S. corporate and employee donations grew by South Florida Employees Help Many 7.4% to $5.8 million, to which the CBRE Foundation added $317,800 Through One, Big Fundraising Bash through its Matching Funds program. Not included in this total are It was truly a team effort at CBRE’s South Florida in-kind donations, such as the 16,900 pairs of shoes CBRE employoffices, bringing together more than 100 employees, guests, clients and vendors at CBRE’s Charity ees donated via our annual, nationwide collection effort (see “CBRE Bash at the SpareZ Bowling center. In addition Partners with Soles4Souls® to Provide Shoes to 16,900 People Around to fun and games, money was raised through the Globe”) and 768 individual birthday cakes, delivered through our clientand employee-sponsored bowling lanes, a cherished Birthday Cakes & More for Homeless Children program silent auction and the sale of raffle tickets. In total, nearly $53,000 was raised for local charities. This see “CBRE Helps Homeless Children Celebrate a Happier Birthday”). year, children were the focus of the employees’ CBRE also continued to offer employees two days paid time off during fundraising efforts. the year for their participation in certain volunteer opportunities. 30 “There is strength in numbers. I feel that collectively, we can do more together than by submitting Established in 2010 in partnership with national housing nonprofindividual donations.” its Rebuilding Together and HomeAid, CBRE’s Shelter Program has — Harry Tangalakis, a broker in CBRE’s emerged as the flagship program for CBRE Cares in the U.S. The Fort Lauderdale, Florida, office program is designed to help improve housing options for individuals in need, and allows our professionals to build on their leadership skills Across the U.S., more CBRE offices are hosting major charity events and raising thousands of to deliver measurable results in their communities. Since its inception, dollars to make a significant impact in their more than 4,550 CBRE employees have donated nearly 32,400 hours communities and support the causes their of service through the program, participating in 98 house rebuilding employees are passionate about. projects across the U.S. and in Mexico. CBRE TAKES A BIG STEP IN THE SILICON VALLEY KIDNEY WALK The Silicon Valley Kidney Walk has been part of the San Jose, California, community for seven years. Yet the annual event might not have gotten off the ground without help from CBRE. When organizers were seeking a place to stage the community walk, it was CBRE that secured its prime downtown location at CityView Plaza. And throughout the years, CBRE’s involvement has grown into a passion project for our San Jose employees, many not only participating in the walk, but also serving on its hardworking volunteer committees. CBRE also supports this event each year through our generous corporate sponsorship and enlists the participation of vendors and clients. The Kidney Walk is the nation’s largest walk to fight kidney disease. Held in more than 100 communities, the event raises awareness and funds lifesaving programs that educate and support kidney patients, their families, and those at risk. To date, the Silicon Valley Kidney Walk has grown to more than 1,000 participants and raised in excess of $1 million. COMMUNITIES & GIVING In 2013, the Shelter Program continued its strong growth. On its own, the fourth-annual BuildMonth saw more than 500 CBRE employees in 20 offices trade their desk jobs for a day, becoming painters, plumbers, carpenters and all-around handymen and -women to rebuild housing in their communities. In total, 30 facilities—private residences, neighborhoods, shelters and community centers—received critical upgrades as a result of CBRE’s Shelter Program BuildMonth. This was nearly twice as many facilities as the year before (see “CBRE Cares 2013 BuildMonth Slideshow”). In addition, CBRE continued to incorporate large-scale Shelter Program CBRE CARES 2013 projects into the programming for national conferences and corpoBUILDMONTH SLIDESHOW rate initiatives, bridging geographies and business lines—and offering CBRE employees trade their desk jobs for a day to rebuild housing in their communities. opportunities for networking in the process. These projects included: Rebuilding Together’s Kickoff to Rebuild For the third year in a row, CBRE sponsored and participated in the NFL-sanctioned event, which was held in the Super Bowl host city in the week preceding the big game. As part of the event, CBRE employees worked alongside hundreds of other volunteers to perform renovations on 10 homes owned by low-income families in 31 New Orleans’ Algiers neighborhood. CBRE HELPS HOMELESS CHILDREN CELEBRATE A HAPPIER BIRTHDAY U.S. employees continued to support CBRE’s signature Birthday Cakes & More for Homeless CBRE PARTNERS WITH Children Program, a grassroots initiative in which SOLES4SOULS® TO PROVIDE volunteers hand deliver personalized cakes to SHOES TO 16,900 PEOPLE homeless children to help them celebrate their AROUND THE GLOBE birthdays. In 2013, 768 cakes were delivered to children nationwide. Since its inception in 2001, CBRE’s third-annual National Shoe the program has delivered 7,493 birthday cakes Collection Drive—supporting the to 81 shelters, and today we have 32 CBRE offices international charity Soles4Souls—collected supporting 48 shelters in 31 cities. The program more than 11,270 pairs of shoes for people in need. In addition, CBRE Cares also offers supplemental support through schooldonated $5,636, the equivalent of an additional 5,636 pair of shoes. As a result, supply donations, holiday parties, clothing drives the drive enabled Soles4Souls to provide shoes to more than 16,900 adults and and more. children worldwide. The annual CBRE campaign is one of Soles4Souls most successful internal company-wide shoe drives, and has provided more than “Many of us take for granted the cake we enjoy on 50,900 shoes to people in need during the past three years. our birthday. Yet to the mothers and children living in crisis and in shelters, a simple birthday cake means “We are pleased to partner with Soles4Souls year after year in this important so much more. It means hope and happiness at what initiative. Our employees raised the bar and set an ambitious collection goal in may be a scary or unsettling time in their life.” 2013—exceeding it by more than 12%. Their effort is truly a testament to the charitable giving of CBRE employees across the country.” — Katherine Haug, Communications & Media Manager and Birthday Cakes & More for — Chad Phillips, Office Operations, Manager and National Shoe Collection Homeless Children volunteer, CBRE’s Phoenix, Drive Chairman, CBRE’s Indianapolis, Indiana, office Arizona, office COMMUNITIES & GIVING CBRE Women’s Networking Forum More than 220 employees participating in the annual conference in Chicago, Illinois, spent a day at the Mt. Calvary Youth Center and Food Pantry in Chicago’s Englewood community and provided much needed upgrades, including painting, installing new flooring and assembling playground equipment and planter boxes for a vegetable garden. CBRE Americas Summit Prior to the company’s largest event, held in Las Vegas, Nevada, CBRE employees performed important upgrades to the Shade Tree, a safe shelter for homeless and abused women and children in Southern Nevada. Many of these repairs were necessary to ensure the longevity of the facility and safety of its residents (see “2013 Americas Summit BuildDay Video”). CBRE also continued to make good on its promise to focus on rebuilding projects in areas of the northeastern U.S. affected by Superstorm 2013 AMERICAS SUMMIT Sandy, including: BUILDDAY VIDEO A precursor to CBRE’s Americas Summit, a one day, National Rebuilding Day 32 hands-on community project was held at The Shade Thirty-four employees in CBRE’s WashTree, a transitional residential facility in Las Vegas, ington, D.C., office joined hundreds Nevada, providing safe shelter to homeless and abused women and their children. of Rebuilding Together volunteers on National Rebuilding Day to revitalize area neighborhoods. The CBRE volunteers spent the day making home repairs and installing new landscaping for a disabled homeowner whose residence was severely damaged by the late-2012 storm. Brooklyn BuildDay Approximately 30 professionals from CBRE’s New York Tri-State Women’s Network participated in a BuildDay in Brooklyn, New York, benefitting victims of Superstorm Sandy. The large-scale project was organized by Rebuilding Together and involved hundreds of volunteers, who made much-needed repairs to a dozen homes in the Gerritsen Beach neighborhood and helped rebuild local community areas affected by the storm. In addition, the Tri-State Women’s Network raised more than $37,000 to fund the project. Rebuilding Together’s Pre-Kickoff to Rebuild CBRE employees in the New Jersey area took part in a pre-Kickoff to Rebuild event, which was held in the fall, in advance of Super Bowl 2014. The CBRE employees joined more than 200 volunteers to provide critical home repairs for 12 low-income homeowners, revitalize two community COMMUNITIES & GIVING centers and install a new playground in a Moonachie, New U.S. is featured on the CBRE Cares website, as well as the Jersey, neighborhood devastated by Superstorm Sandy. homepage of the Navigator and in CBRE Today, a weekly email distributed to all U.S. personnel. These three commuLastly, in late 2013, we completed significant changes to nication channels continue to raise the level of awareness the CBRE Cares website, which is located on the Navigaof CBRE’s philanthropic activities among U.S. employees. tor, the company’s intranet site. In addition to engaging, new imagery, the site has robust content and a centralCANADA ized resource menu, making it easier for employees to The generosity of CBRE’s employees and private donors find contact information and material about CBRE Cares was on full display in Canada in 2013, with total contriprograms, and submit donations. A new feature of the butions topping $209,488 (CA$223,000). A variety website is an online form that allows employees to submit of creative fundraising efforts were held in support of the number of volunteer hours they contribute while workorganizations such as the Canadian Red Cross, Juvenile ing on projects with CBRE Cares or as individuals working Diabetes Research Foundation, Parkinson Society Canada, with charities in their own communities. This informaHuntington Society of Canada and several research hospition will provide CBRE with a better understanding of our tals. Our giving strategy throughout Canada involved employees’ passions and where they allocate their volunsupporting the causes and initiatives most important to— teer time, allowing us, as a company, to strategically deploy and spearheaded by—employees and our clients. resources to the philanthropic projects and organizations our employees value most. Additionally, a weekly column LATIN AMERICA that highlights charitable initiatives by offices across the CBRE’s social responsibility program in Latin America is led by our offices in Mexico, which support the John Langdon Down (JLD) Foundation’s 33 Mexican School of Down Art and its Visiting the JLD Foundation was an programs that foster creativity among extraordinary experience. It gave us a people with Down syndrome. CBRE provided approximately $14,000 greater appreciation of how people with (MX$182,873) to the school in 2013 Down syndrome can live better lives for student artwork, which supports the care and education students receive. The art was then given to clients—creatthrough art. Delivering their paintings to ing greater awareness about the school and its programs. our clients not only educates them about In addition, CBRE employees visited the facilities of the the Mexican School of Down Art, but it JLD Foundation’s program to gain a greater understanding of the cause. creates a chain of social awareness too. Employees from CBRE’s Mexico offices also developed a donaMARIA ELENA BRAVO tion campaign to support Casa de la Amistad, a children’s Finance Director, Latin America cancer association. CBRE employees collected 538 food and cleaning products and 143 toys. A group of employees visited Casa de la Amistad’s facilities as part of the campaign. JUVENILE DIABETES RESEARCH FOUNDATION RIDE 2013 Every fall, CBRE employees in offices across Canada raise money with the help of clients, family and friends to support juvenile diabetes research. The event itself is a stationary bike ride competition which pits commercial real estate companies against each other, giving participants additional incentive to ride fast and raise funds for a great cause. In 2013, more than US$28,182 (CA$30,000) was raised by CBRE employees, including a corporate donation and exceeding the 2013 campaign goal. A record number of CBRE teams participated, allowing our Canadian employees to reach a new high-water mark for fundraising in this event. COMMUNITIES & GIVING EMEA CBRE’s “Building a Better Future for Children” program across Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) was brought about to harness the significant energy and commitment of 27 countries across the business, under a shared cause to help inspire far greater action. The program incorporates local country and regional community engagement and support, and has contributed more than US$1.3 million (€1 million) to charity since established in 2011. One of our flagship programs in EMEA has been a three-year partnership with UNICEF to build cyclone-proof schools in Madagascar, helping to save the lives of some of the world’s most vulnerable children. This partnership concluded in December 2013 with CBRE CBRE & UNICEF THANK YOU VIDEO EMEA successfully exceeding fundraising targets and achieving more Through our three-year partnership with UNICEF, than US$911,464 (€660,000), including company and employee CBRE has given thousands of children in the EMEA region a chance to survive and thrive. donations, across the three-year program. This was US$172,625 (€125,000) more than our fundraising target with UNICEF. The money is being used to fund at least 16 cyclone-proof schools that will give hundreds of Malagasy children a better chance of survival. CBRE funds will continue to be used by UNICEF until 2015, representing a five-year investment in protecting children’s rights in Madagascar (see “CBRE & UNICEF: Thank You Video”). 34 UNICEF is incredibly proud of our work with CBRE – a company that has the foresight to invest in cyclone-proof schools making the difference to children now and for generations to come. “As the bitter conflict in Syria continues, conditions there are worsening for children DAVID BULL on the ground. Thanks to the generous Executive Director, UNICEF U.K. support of CBRE, Médecins Sans Frontières can continue to ensure the safe delivery of babies for pregnant women, provide urgent medical care to children and prevent sickness through vaccinations. We would like to thank CBRE for supporting our lifesaving work; our capacity to respond During 2013, our program was supplemented with support for effectively is dramatically increased by such humanitarian and environmental crisis, which included fundraising in generous donations.” excess of US$172,625 (€125,000) to support children devastated by — Christopher Stokes, the Syrian crisis, and to help the victims of the Typhoon Haiyan disasGeneral Director, ter in the Philippines. CBRE funds were spent on protecting children’s Médecins Sans Frontières rights with donations to UNICEF and Médicins Sans Frontières (Doctors Without Borders). COMMUNITIES & GIVING Our crisis support efforts included our annual synchronized fundraising campaign—C-Blue Day—which in 2013 saw more than 80 EMEA offices turn blue for the day in aid of UNICEF’s Philippines crisis appeal. More than US$66,288 (€48,000) was raised across EMEA, which was included in the total donations committed by CBRE’s Global Disaster Relief Foundation. In addition to our regional partnerships, our local offices in EMEA supported hundreds of local charitable initiatives during the year. CBRE’s annual EMEA charity bike ride, held in CBRE in EMEA was recognized at the Managing May 2013, raised more than Partners’ Forum Management Excellence Awards, in the Best Community Engagement category. The US$83,000 for UNICEF and three honor follows the conclusion of the EMEA-wide other charity partners. A team of 90 CBRE employees, colleagues, three-year partnership with UNICEF, which raised clients, family members and friends participated in the grueling significant funds exceediing CBRE’s targeted goal and engaged colleagues across the region. Click 190-kilometer-a-day ride, which started in Munich, Germany, and here to read the story. ended in Trieste, Italy. In the U.K., CBRE donations for 2013 totaled £350,000. This figure encompasses employee and corporate donations, which also includes funds from the CBRE U.K. Charitable Trust. 35 The floods in Prague have The Trust is an independently registered brought much devastation to charity that supports CBRE’s U.K. local communities. They have employee fundraising activities. During 2013, CBRE employees in the U.K. supported 120 national and international charitable organizaalso seen people come together tions through both individual efforts and office-wide fundraising and contribute time, effort activities. This included a company-wide initiative which raised more and resources to help with the than £80,000 through employee fundraising activities supporting 30 separate charities in October 2013 alone. recovery, and community spirit at its best. I am proud of the Sixty CBRE colleagues from Prague took part in an effort to clean up the Prague contribution made by CBRE’s Zoo following the devastating floods teams from Prague and we wish during the summer of 2013. CBRE colleagues volunteered all day at the the Prague Zoo every success zoo and the company donated approxwith its continued good work. imately US$5,524 (€4,000) to support relief efforts. The zoo is a popular tourist destination, so in addition to RICHARD CURRAN the animal welfare concerns from the floods, the local economy was Managing Director, also suffering from the closure. CBRE Czech Republic COMMUNITIES & GIVING ASIA PACIFIC Across APAC, CBRE and our employees gave generously to a broad range of charitable causes in 2013. Through a host of philanthropic endeavors, more than US$416,000 was donated to charitable organizations throughout the region. ASIA As planned, CBRE formally adopted the CBRE Cares brand in Asia in 2013, enabling the company to support communities and charitable causes in the region under one unified umbrella. In addition, and true to our goal, Asia successfully launched the signature Walk For A Wish program, which originated in our Pacific offices (see “Asia Takes Big Step for Walk For A Wish”). This was a significant initiative that garnered tremendous support from employees, leadership and clients in key markets. Our professionals throughout Asia made philanthropic engagement a priority, serving a wide range of local organizations and actively engaging with the community to promote CBRE’s commitment to service. Specific activities throughout the region included: China In 2013, our offices in China concluded the seventh year of their Save a Child’s Life campaign in conjunction with Operation Blessing China. Through this program, CBRE has funded heart surgeries for more 36 than 70 children from impoverished families in six Chinese provinces through donations of approximately US$225,800. CBRE also made a US$28,000 (CN¥170,000) donation to the victims of the Sichuan Ya’an earthquake. Besides the monetary support, which was used to buy fertilizer for the disaster-stricken area, CBRE staff from Western China volunteered to help affected families in person. Hong Kong CBRE Hong Kong’s Charity & Sponsorship Committee, established in 2010, continued to fuel support for a number of charitable ventures, with a focus on four designated charities: Enlighten Action for Epilepsy, The Salvation Army, Operation Santa Claus and Po Leung Kuk Children’s Learning and Development Center. The committee’s philosophy is to support organizations that value active involvement over pure financial contribution, and in doing so, driving participation from For the eighth consecutive year, the Hong Kong employees in the Hong Kong office. In addition to these four key charCouncil of Social Service has awarded CBRE ities, the Hong Kong office helped with fundraising at 10 charities and the Caring Company logo in recognition of events throughout the year, including Rat Race and Moontrekker, raiscommunity involvement and commitment to being a responsible corporate citizen. ing a total of US$167,600 (HK$1.3 million). India CBRE contributed more than US$4,000 (Rs.250,000) to Save the Children Fund for its work in the region of Uttarakhand, which was ravaged by flash floods. COMMUNITIES & GIVING Japan In its third year, CBRE’s Special Paid Volunteer program continued to encourage employee participation in community service during the work week. Japan introduced a new program with the Financial Industry in Tokyo (FIT) For Charity organization, involving nearly 60 CBRE employees, family and friends taking part in runs of various distances. Eight charities benefited from the record-breaking US$676,000 (JP¥71 million) raised in the FIT event, with CBRE providing US$8,000 in support of the cause. Our Japanese office also raised US$2,000 for cancer treatment and research in the Run for the Cure/Walk for Life and US$3,500 for the Pink Ball. Singapore CBRE’s Singapore office donated US$26,000 (SG$33,000) to charitable causes in 2013. Among the groups receiving donations were Ren Ci, the Down Syndrome Association (Singapore) and the Asian Women’s Welfare Association. Employees also participated in SGX’s The Bull Charge charity run. Thailand To commemorate their 25th anniversary, our affiliate office hosted several charitable events, including a week-long, hands-on project to support the construction of a water system for a community in Northern Thailand, alongside total donations of US$2,200 (THB72,000). 37 Vietnam Our offices throughout the country worked with a number of charities, including Operation Smile, Red River Runners and BBGV. In addition to CBRE’s fundraising efforts across Asia, Rob Blain—CEO & Chairman, CBRE Asia Pacific, and a perennial champion of good works—helped raise US$260,000 in 2013 through auctions that benefited Operation Smile Vietnam, the Po Leung Kuk Children’s Learning and Development Center in Hong Kong, and Enlighten Action for Epilepsy. CBRE continued to promote employees’ good works and engender enthusiasm through CBRE Today, the region’s monthly internal newsletter, and CBRE Hong Kong’s CBRE Cares newsletter. ASIA TAKES BIG STEP FOR WALK FOR A WISH Four Asia offices took part in Walk For A Wish in November 2013—marking the first time that employees in the region participated in the signature program, which originated in CBRE’s Australia offices. More than 500 staff across Hong Kong, Singapore, Shenzhen and Tokyo walked, many up to 10 km., and raised more than US$80,000. Shenzhen’s chosen charity was Operation Blessing, helping to buy books for impoverished children in China, while in Hong Kong, staff walked for Enlighten, which raises epilepsy awareness. The Singapore staff walked for Assisi Hospice, which helps more than 1,000 patients each year receive care for life-limiting illnesses. The Tokyo staff walked for Make-A-Wish, which grants wishes to children with life-threatening conditions. In the weeks preceding Walk For A Wish, CBRE produced a broad social media campaign via the new @cbreasia Twitter account. Almost 20 tweets were issued on Walk For A Wish, with the social media buzz helping to raise awareness of the offices’ chosen charity causes and driving traffic to their donation sites. COMMUNITIES & GIVING AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND In the Pacific region, which includes CBRE offices in Australia and New Zealand, employees contributed US$328,519 (AU$368,303) to charities in 2013. This unprecedented amount of charitable giving topped last year’s total and included a donation of US$160,557 (AU$180,000) to the Starlight Children’s Foundation in Australia and Make-A-Wish New Zealand. CBRE also sponsored the Corporate Rugby Sevens tournament in Sydney, and in addition to fielding a strong team and winning the tournament, donated US$26,759 (AU$30,000) to the Spinal Cord Injury Network. WALK ON! PACIFIC’S WALK FOR In 2013, CBRE’s Pacific offices nearly A WISH MARKS FOURTH YEAR doubled the size of their Helping Hands Close to 1,000 CBRE and Mirvac employees across volunteer program, with more than 200 Australia and New Zealand braved sun, rain, wind and thunder for CBRE’s fourth annual charity event, employees across Australia taking part Walk For A Wish. Through this event, which is a in a variety of hands-on, community series of 10-km. walks held concurrently throughout projects. The company’s long-standing Australia and New Zealand’s major cities, CBRE policy of providing each staff member raised nearly US$160,557 (AU$180,000) for the Starlight Children’s Foundation and Make-A-Wish the opportunity to take two days of paid New Zealand. leave each year to volunteer with a charity or non-profit organization has contributed to Helping Hands’ success and significantly increased New research by PricewaterhouseCoopers for Starlight shows that for every dollar raised for participation in the program during the past two years. Organizations Starlight’s in-hospital programs, more than involved in the 2013 program included Shine for Kids, the Cancer 38 US$3.50 (AU$4) in value is returned to the Council, Australian Animal Protection Society, St. Mary’s House of community. This would effectively increase CBRE’s contribution to US$642,226 (AU$720,000), and Welcome, Foodbank NSW, Guide Dogs Queensland, The Salvation provide Starlight with more funding to support Army, Bushlink, Property Industry Foundation and the Sydney Dogs and seriously ill children and young people, their Cats Home. families, and the communities in which they live. “It is really important that industry-leading companies CBRE continued to expand its signature charity event—Walk For A such as CBRE support these initiatives. Not only does Wish—with close to 1,000 CBRE and Mirvac employees taking part it build a great sense of community within the CBRE in the 2013 program. The success of this Australian-based initiative team but also means that the size of the company saw it extended to various countries across Asia in 2013, and in 2014, can make a real difference within the community. Walk For A Wish is an event I am happy to support Walk For A Wish will be hosted by all CBRE’s Asia offices. While fundyear after year.” raising fell just short of the US$178,396 (AU$200,000) target set for 2013, Walk For A Wish garnered widespread support across Australia — James King, Senior Property Manager and New Zealand, which helped raise invaluable awareness about two important charities, the Starlight Children’s Foundation and Make-AWish (see “Walk On! Pacific’s Walk for a Wish Marks Fourth Year”). COMMUNITIES & GIVING WHAT LIES AHEAD While much was accomplished with our Disaster Relief program in 2013, including developing a global response strategy that proved successful in providing relief to victims of Typhoon Haiyan, a global network of local and regional committees is still needed to unite our disaster relief efforts around the world. In 2014, through the Foundation, we will put people in place around the globe and establish regional and local disaster relief committees that will vet local charitable partners in advance of a disaster, so that we are prepared to act rapidly in the event of another natural disaster. In addition, in the event a disaster strikes their area, these committees will focus on identifying the most important needs and direct our relief funds to those areas. AMERICAS It’s our employees who really In the U.S., CBRE will continue the expansion of our Shelter Program, drive CBRE Cares and our working alongside Rebuilding Together, HomeAid, Habitat for Humancompany’s philanthropic efforts ity and other non-profits, to add more local rebuilding projects and corporate-conference builds to our annual schedule. Our goal is a worldwide—through their 20% increase, which equates to 36 projects in 2014. In addition, CBRE monetary donations as well as will continue to pursue its 2011 goal, and increase office participation their gifts of time and talent. in BuildMonth events by 10% annually. Notably, CBRE increased office participation in 2013 by 15%. They are passionate about making a difference not only While we did not expand the Birthday Cakes and More for Homeless 39 Children Program in 2013, it will remain a high priority for 2014. in their local communities, but To ensure its growth, a national Birthday Cakes and More committee also in communities around chairman will be appointed to take the lead in recruiting new office participation and launch a nationwide campaign to help local CBRE the world. It’s not about us offices set up and implement the program in their communities. With [CBRE], it’s about our neighbors this key CBRE Cares team member in place, our goal is to expand the and people we may never know Birthday Cakes and More Program by 15% in 2014. in a far off location on the other Planning will begin in 2014 for a U.S.-based Walk For Shelter. Similar side of the globe. Wherever they to CBRE’s Walk For A Wish in APAC, the U.S. Walk For Shelter will be held on the same day in cities across the country. The money raised are, if they need our help, CBRE by our offices from the event will be matched by the Foundation to Cares endeavors to be there. support Shelter Program BuildMonth projects. A detailed plan outlining the program’s goals and objectives will be developed and presented CBRE Cares brings people to the Foundation Board for approval in 2014 and, if approved, a together in a spirit of friendship national Walk For Shelter committee chairman will be appointed. The and community that cannot be first walk is planned for 2015. measured. In Latin America, our offices in Mexico will continue to build on their existing relationship with the John Langdon Down Foundation by KATHLEEN THOMPSON promoting its cause through the purchase of art, as well as through Director, CBRE Cares participation in different projects to increase support of the organization. Opportunities to visit the school will be available for those CBRE employees interested in becoming involved in the project and determining other ways that CBRE can contribute to the Mexican School of Down Art. COMMUNITIES & GIVING EMEA their area that will take on additional responsibility for In January 2014, following a selection process, CBRE’s driving our philanthropic efforts. EMEA region entered into a new three-year partnership Following the success of the 2013 program, CBRE will with Plan International, a leading international children’s expand Walk For A Wish to more offices across Asia, charity. Plan International helped 78 million children in increasing the number of charitable organizations benefit50 of the world’s poorest countries last year alone. CBRE ting from the program, as local countries each select their will work with Plan International as the corporate partner own charities. on a high profile US$10.2 million (€7.4 million) project to provide education to poverty stricken children in Sierra At a local country level, CBRE employees in Japan will Leone, with a focus on girls. Educating girls is of particcontinue to support Walk For A Wish, the Special Paid ular significance because it protects them from violence, Volunteer Program and the Run for the Cure Foundation. forced marriage and early childbirth, and helps break the In addition, the Japan office plans to increase involvement cycle of poverty. in the FIT program, with more employees participating in a greater number of events. CBRE’s Singapore office will Globally, this is our biggest and most ambitious CBRE continue to support Walk For A Wish and other charities, charity program yet—our EMEA business has committed to where opportunity arises. In China, CBRE will continue to contribute US$1.1 million (€830,000) during the next three sponsor the Save a Child’s Life program. Our Vietnam years (2014-16). Our project with Plan International is a office will support the Newborns Vietnam initiative for the truly unique opportunity for CBRE to affect real change in first time in 2014, via its Cycle a Difference fundraiser. the EMEA region. Of significance, the project is supported by U.K. Government aid funds so that for every donation In the Pacific region, Walk For A Wish has raised nearly raised for this project in Sierra Leone, the U.K. Government US$615,467 (AU$690,000) for children’s charities in will multiply it by nine, helping CBRE’s funds go nine times Australia and New Zealand in the past four years. The 40 further (see “CBRE and Plan: A Different Story”). ongoing success of this initiative will have an ambitious fundraising target of US$222,995 (AU$250,000) in 2014, aided in part by an expanded platform covering all countries in Asia. Yet to further build on the Pacific region’s philanthropic endeavors, Walk For A Wish will also undertake a new format in 2014, where employees can raise money for a range of charities through a to-be-established CBRE Foundation. Additionally, CBRE will continue to expand our Helping Hands initiative in 2014 by involving more staff from across Australia and New Zealand in the program. Helping Hands has doubled in size, growing from approximately 100 participants in 2012 to more than 200 in 2013. Our CBRE AND PLAN: A DIFFERENT STORY goal is to exceed that figure in 2014. CBRE supports Plan International to help girls in Sierra Leone build a brighter future through education, and escape the cycle of violence and poverty. SUMMARY At CBRE, our core values of Respect, Integrity, Service and ASIA PACIFIC Excellence are the guiding principles in all that we do. In Asia, CBRE will continue to create opportunities for And we approach our commitment to philanthropy with our employees to serve their communities and to raise the same enthusiasm and creativity as we approach our awareness for causes they feel strongly about. In addition business, every day. Our professionals are dedicated to to fundraising for our select charities, CBRE will involve bettering the communities where they live and work, and these charities in our philanthropic campaigns to increase we will continue, as a firm, to build on that compassion the impact of their message among our employees and for the good of those in need—all over the world—for the community. CBRE will also encourage countries in the years to come. region to formalize a CBRE Cares Charity Committee in COMMUNITIES & GIVING SELECTION OF ORGANIZATIONS SUPPORTED BY CBRE AND OUR U.S. EMPLOYEES IN 2013 3rd Precinct Fellowship Angela Hospice Home Care, Inc. Bishop O’Dowd High School Catholic Eldercare Community Blue Hill Troup, LTD. Foundation Inc. A Child’s Place of Charlotte, Inc. Ann & Robert H. Lurie Children’s Hospital of Chicago Foundation Borough of Manhattan CommuCatholic Youth Organization Abilis, Inc. nity College (CYO) Academy of Holy Angels Anne Frank House, Inc. Boy Scouts of America Greater Center for Disability Services ACSI Children’s Tuition Fund-SO Anti-Defamation League New York Councils Center for Security Policy Ada S. McKinley Community Appleseed Boys & Girls Clubs of America Central Atlanta Progress, Inc. Services, Inc. Archdiocese of New York Boys & Girls Clubs of Greater Central Philadelphia DevelopAdirondack Health Foundation Arete Youth Foundation Washington ment Corporation Adopt a Highway Maintenance Art Omi, Inc. Boys’ & Girls’ Towns of Italy Cerebral Palsy of Westchester, Corp. Assistance League of Southern Boys Hope Girls Hope of Detroit Inc. Agahozo-Shalom Youth Village California Bright Pink Charcot-Marie-Tooth Association Agros International Association for a Better Long Brooklyn Children’s Museum Charlie’s Champions Foundation AHRC NYC Foundation Island Brother Bill’s Helping Hand Charlotte Chamber of Commerce AIA New York Chapter Association of Legal Administrators Brunswick School Charlotte Regional Partnership AIDS Foundation of Chicago 41 Association of Real Estate Women Bucket List Foundation Chicago Children’s Museum AIDS Project Los Angeles (AREW) Buckhead Christian Ministry Children at Heart AJ Linville Foundation Athletes for a Better World, Inc. California State University, Children at the Crossroads All Service Academies Ball Atlanta History Center Foundation Calvary Christian School All Stars Project, Inc. Atlantic Theater Company Children First Fund: The Chicago Camp Blue Skies Foundation Public Schools Foundation Alpha Chi Rho Educational FounAudubon dation Inc. Camp John Marc Children’s Hospital Foundation Austin Habitat for Humanity Alzheimer’s Association Camp Mary Orton Children’s Miracle Network Avenue of the Americas American Brain Tumor Association CanCareChildren’s Bureau China Institute Association Cancer Services Avon Foundation for Women Christ the King Preparatory American Campus Charities Candlelighters for Childhood School Foundation Avon Walk for Breast Cancer Cancer Christopher House American Cancer Society Back on My Feet Canonsburg General Hospital Citizens Budget Commission American Diabetes Association Baltimore Leadership School for Young Women Cape Eleuthera Foundation Citizens for Responsibility and American Friends of Rabin MediCapital Charities Inc. Ethics in Washington (CREW) cal Center Bedford Stuyvesant Restoration Corp. Capuchin Soup Kitchen Citrus Valley Health Foundation American Heart Association Bellevue College Foundation Caribbean Cultural Center AfriCity Harvest American Irish Historical Society can Diaspora Institute (CCCADI) Benjamin H. Wilson Senior Clark County School District American Jewish University Community Center CaringBridge Cleveland State University American Psychological Best Buddies International, Inc. Carleton College Foundation Foundation Big Brothers Big Sisters of Metro Carnegie Mellon University Colin’s Kids, Inc. American Red Cross Atlanta Catholic Charities of the ArchdioCollege is Real, Inc. America’s VetDogs The VeterBig Brothers Big Sisters of Tucson cese of New York College of the Holy Cross an’s K-9 Corps Big Sticks Foundation Inc. Catholic Charities of the Colony South Brooklyn Houses Amethyst, Inc. Archdiocese of Saint Paul and Bishop England High School Colorado Concern Andrew Glover Youth Program Minneapolis COMMUNITIES & GIVING Colorado Open Golf Eagle Brook Church-White Bear Friends of Hudson River Park Human Society of Broward Foundation Lake Friends of the High Line County Columbus Board of Realtors Easter Seals Michigan Futures and Options Hunter College Foundation Foundation Fund EcoHealth Alliance I.M Sulzbacher Shelter George Sheehan Classic Common Ground Community Edward J. III Excellence in MediImerman Angels George West Mental Health Community Access, Inc. cine Foundation Foundation In the City for Good Community of the Cross Encino Little League Getting Out and Staying Out inMotion Inc. Lutheran Church Endure to Cure Pediatric Cancer Girl Scouts of Nassau County Inner-City Scholarship Fund Community Volunteers in Foundation Medicine Girls Inc. Innovations For Learning Epilepsy Foundation of Georgia Compasio Girls on the Run International Institute for Corporate Counsel Epilepsy Foundation of Connecting & Bonding, Inc. Minnesota Gleaners Community Food Bank Insurance Industry Charitable of Southeast Michigan Foundation Constitutional Rights Foundation Epiphany Community Health Outreach Services (ECHOS) Good Samaritan Foundation Interfaith Hospitality Network of Convent of the Sacred Heart Washtenaw County Eva’s Village Goodwill Industries InternaCool Girls, Inc. tional, Inc. Interior Design Services, Inc. CoreNet Global, Inc. EvergreenHealth GovDocs International Justice Mission Cornell Hotel Society Executive Service Corps of Chicago Grace Centers of Hope Iona Gaels Capital ImproveCouncil on Domestic Violence Greater Chicago Food ments Fund Expesite, LLC Courage Center Depository Iris S. and Bert L. Wolstein Extera Public Schools Research Building Courage Kenny Foundation Grossmont Hospital Foundation Fair Haven Foundation, Inc. Jack Martin Fund Covenant Preparatory School Group Health Community Families First Parenting Foundation Jacob’s Light Foundation Creative Arts Workshops for Kids Programs, Inc. Habitat for Humanity James Lenox House Association, Cristo Rey Jesuit High School/ Families First, Inc. 42 Habitat for Humanity of Greater Inc. Chicago Family and Child Treatment Cincinatti Jazz at Lincoln Center Cristo Rey Philadelphia High School Family Services of Westchester Hailey’s Hope Foundation JDRF Crohn’s & Colitis Foundation of Farmingdale College Hands on Nashville Jewish Big Brothers Big Sisters America (CCFA) Foundation Harvard Business School Club Jewish Community Relations Crossroads of Michigan Fashion Delivers Charitable Council of New York Foundation, Inc. Health Care Executives of SouthCrossroads School ern California Jewish United Fund Federal Drug Agents Foundation Cuyahoga Community College Hearing Loss Association of Jill’s House Feeding the Homeless Project, America Cystic Fibrosis Institute Inc. Joan’s Legacy Hedge Funds Care Jobs for Youth/Chicago Cystinosis Research Foundation Fellowship Housing Helping Hearts Helping Hands John P. Craine House, Inc. Dallas Citizens Council Fellowship of Christian Athletes Hendrix College John V. Lindsay Wildcat AcadDamon Runyon Cancer First Church in Marlborough Research Foundation Here to Help Foundation emy Charter School First Love Ministries Dana-Farber Cancer Institute Hilltop Artists in Residence Journey 4 A Cure First Presbyterian Church of San Dana-Farber Marathon Pedro Hirshberg Foundation for Jumpstart Challenge Pancreatic Junior Achievement Food Bank for New York City Daytop New Jersey Hoag Hospital FoundaJunior Achievement of Greater Food for the Poor tion-Toshiba Classic Democracy Prep Charter Washington Schools Foreign Policy Association, Inc. Holy Innocents’ Episcopal Junior Achievement of Utah Forgotten Harvest School Detroit RiverFront Conservancy Junior League of Ann Arbor, Inc. Forward Atlanta HomeAid Diabetes Research Institute Keep a Child Alive Fred Hutchinson Cancer Hope 4 Hanna Discovery Place Inc. Kevin from Heaven Foundation Research Center Hope for the Warriors Downtown Jimmie Hale Mission, Kidworks Inc. Freedom 14 Camp Houston Food Bank Freedoms Foundation at Valley kidz2leaders, inc. Downtown Madison, Inc. Hubbard Street Dance Chicago Forge (Utah Chapter) Kiva Dysautonomia Foundation Human Services Council Friars Foundation COMMUNITIES & GIVING LA Conversation Corps Mercy Medical Airlift New York City Police Foundation Pencil Lakeland Bank Meritus Healthcare Foundation, New York Junior Tennis & Pepperdine University Inc Learning Performance Space 122 Lakeview Pantry Messiah Lutheran Church New York Moves, LLC Phipps Community Development Land of the Free Foundation Metropolitan Club of New York New York Police and Fire Corporation Lawyers Alliance for New York Metropolitan Family Services Widows’ and Children’s Benefit Plymouth Canton Community Leah’s Pantry Fund Schools Learning Rights Law Center Michael Farrell Memorial Fund New York Private Equity Network Police Athletic League Lester & Rosalie Anixter Center Michael’s Mission New York Restoration Project Pontiac Area Vicariate Leukemia & Lymphoma Society Michigan Chapter New York Ski Educational Port Chester Carver Center LifeCare Alliance Michigan Humane Society Foundation Pretend City Children’s Museum Lifesteps’ Family Caring Fund Midway Sports & Entertainment New York University Prevent Child Abuse America Lighthouse of Oakland County Misericordia Newark Beth Israel Medical Center Prize4Life, Inc. Lincoln Center for the PerformMission: USA Newark Beth Israel Medical Pro Bono Net ing Arts Monmouth Council, Boy Scouts of America Center Foundation Progeria Research Foundation, Locks of Love Monmouth University Newasurion Compassion Fund Project Kindle, Inc. Lone Survivor Foundation Montour Soccer Boosters Niagara University Rainbows Long Island Association Motor City Sports Nontraditional Employment for Randall’s Island Sports Long Island Cares Inc. Women Foundation Long Island City Partnership Motor City Youth Theatre North Texas Food Bank Reach Incorporated LUNGevity Foundation Mt. Paran Christain School, Inc. Northwestern Memorial Hospital Real Estate Associate Program Lutheran Social Service of Mulliganeers, Inc. NuHealth Foundation Real Estate Takes Heart Minnesota MultiCare Health Foundation Mabel Hoggard Elementary Multiple Myeloma Research Oak Park Education Foundation Rebuilding Together 43 School, Foundation (MMRF) Oak Park River Forest Food Reelin’ for Research, Inc. Pantry Macy’s Glamorama Muscular Dystrrophy Association Rescue: Freedom International Oakland County, Michigan Madison Square Park National Academy Foundation Right to Dream Conservancy Oakwood Healthcare National Eating Disorders River City Food Bank Foundation Maimonides Academy Association Rod Dedeaux Foundation Off The Street Club Make-A-Wish Foundation National Executive Service Corps Rofeh Cholim Cancer Society One Heartland Mary Bridge Children’s National Hispanic Business Ronald McDonald House Foundation Group Opportunity International Inc. Charities Marymount School of New York National Italian American Opportunity Partners Royal Canadian Golf Massachusetts Hugh O’Brian Foundation Oregon Health & Science Association Youth Leadership National Jewish Health University Foundation Safe Shores The DC Children’s Massachusetts Iraq & AfghanNational Marfan Foundation Out & Equal Workplace Advocacy Center istan Fallen Heroes Memorial Advocates National Media Partners, Ltd. Saint Patrick Parish Labels are Fund P.S.226/Nadia J. Pagan Gymnafor Jars National Multiple Sclerosis Matrix Human Services sium Fund Society Salvadori Center MD Anderson Cancer Center Pace School National September 11 MemoSammy’s House Memorial Hermann Foundation rial & Museum Pancreatic Cancer Action San Francisco AIDS Foundation Network Memorial Sloan-Kettering Natural Resources Defense Sanctuary for Families Cancer Center Council, Inc. Pangea World Theatre Santa Monica Rotary Club Memphis Child Advocacy Center Nevada Development Authority Parish of St. Joachim & Foundation Shakopee Mental Health Association of New Covenant Fellowship Save-A-Pet New York City Park East Synagogue New Jersey Future Saved by a Whisker Rescue Mercy Children’s Hospital Pediatric Cancer Research New York Angels Saving Tiny Hearts Society Foundation Mercy Education Project New York Blood Center Pelotonia SCSD Foundatin COMMUNITIES & GIVING Second Chance Rescue Inc. Texas Scottish Rite Hospital for The Jamie & Paige Malone United States Golf Association Children Foundation Inc. United Way Second Hand Hounds The Advocate The Jewish Foundation for the Uniting Against Lung Cancer Second Harvest Food Bank The Alfred E. Smith Memorial Righteous Second Harvest Heartland University of Colorado Foundation The Jimmy Hersh Family Fund Sheilah A. Doyle Foundation University of Los Angeles The ALS Association, Minnesota The Legal Aid Society Shepherd’s Call Ministry Chapter University of Nevada, Las Vegas The Life Raft Group Foundation Shepherds of Youth The American Foundation for The Metropolitan Museum of Art University of Wisconsin Society of St.Vincent de Paul AIDS Research (amfAR) The Metropolitan Opera Guild Foundation Sojourner Center The American Himalayan Foundation The Michael J. Foundation for USO of Metropolitan New York Soles4Souls Parkinson’s Research The American Ireland Fund USS Michael Murphy DDG-112 Sound Mental Health The Miracle League of Orange Commissioning Committee The American Israel Public County, California South Street Seaport Museum Val Skinner Foundation Affairs Committee Southampton Cultural Center The Nature Generation Vanderbuilt University The The Andrew Jay-Hoon Kim Southbrook Community Church Memorial Foundation The New York Stem Cel College of Arts & Science c/o Foundation Gift Processing Spanish Education Development The Arthritis Foundation Center The Noguchi Museum Venice Lutheran School The BiNA Farm Spirit of America The Ohio State University Villanova University The Bowery Mission and Kids Foundation St. Ann’s Warehouse with a Promise Volunteers of America The Partnership at Drugfree.org Wakeman Boys & Girls Club St. Francis Food Pantries and The Brooklyn Hospital Shelters Foundation The Rise School Washington Area Women’s St. John the Baptist Greek The Buoniconti Fund to Cure The Salvation Army Foundation Orthodox Church Paralysis The Sandbox Washington Jesuit Academy St. Luke’s and Roosevelt The Catalog for Giving of New The Scholarship Fund for InnerWATCH 44 Hospitals York City City Children Wellspring Trust St. Marks School The Center for Courageous Kids The Sean Reilly TBI Fund West Suburban Community St. Nicholas Albanian Orthodox The Center for Enriched Living The Skyscraper Museum Pantry Church The Children’s Village The Southampton Business Westhampton Beach Performing St. Paul the Apostle School Alliance Arts Center The Chino Hills Community St. Pius V Church & School Foundation The Team Julian Foundation Wheeler Mission Ministries St. Thomas Academy The Church in Anaheim The Women’s Centers of White Plains St. Patrick’s Day St. Vincent’s Services The Cleveland Clinic Greater Chicago William Paterson University Stanford University The Community Foundation of The Woodruff Arts Center Winthrop-University Hospital Starlight Children’s Foundation Utah Town Hall Los Angeles World Resources Institute Stichting Cultuur Inventarisatie The Cooke Center for Learning Travelers Championship Wounded Warrior Project and Development Straight from the Heart Trustees of Purdue University WX, Inc. The Denis Theatre Foundation Straydog U.S. Green Building Council Yaddo The Educational Alliance Sunrise Day Camp UC Irvine Foundation Yeshiva Darchei Torah The First Tee of Metropolitan Susan G. Komen for the Cure UJA-Federation Yeshiva Schools New York Sutter Medical Center UNICEF YMCA The Flea Theater Foundation Union Rescue Mission The Fletcher School Young Americans for Liberty Swim Across America, Inc. United Cerebral Palsy Foundation The Foundation for Reed Talbert House Schools United Family Services, Inc. Young Israel of Hewlett Talmudical Academy of Norfolk The Hotchkiss School United Hospital Fund Young Life T-Bird Booster Club The Innovation Foundation United Nations Foundation Zen Life & Meditation Center Teach for America, Inc. United Neighborhood Houses of Chicago The Intrepid Foundation Technoserve, Inc. The James L. Eichberg Foundation United States Fund for UNICEF PEOPLE & CULTURE 45 PEOPLE & CULTURE Our people are much like the clients we serve—unique, dynamic and invaluable. There is no ‘typical’ CBRE employee; each person has their own story, their own impact, their own way of working. But the common thread between the female broker in Amsterdam, the seasoned maintenance technician in Japan, and the telecommuting communications specialist in New York, is a passionate commitment to our RISE values. Respect, Integrity, Service and Excellence are at the heart of our business at every level and in every corner of the organization. As a company, this drives us to offer a workplace that meets the high standards the RISE values demand. One that meets the needs of all of our people. A workplace of diversity, fairness, opportunity and choice. PEOPLE & CULTURE OVERVIEW A key aspect of creating a workplace for all employees is welcoming candid feedback on our organization to learn what is working and where we need to improve. In late 2013, McKinsey & Company administered an Organizational Health Index survey to our global population. This was our first time to gather feedback from all of our employees on one standard survey. The results were not surprising— our employees see our leadership practices as strong, they are heavily invested in our company and its values, and they want opportunities for professional growth. Overall, we ranked in the top quartile of benchmark organizations. Our 2013 efforts aligned significantly with these findings, as we continued to uphold the RISE culture and focused on the development of our employees. We also made progress on our goals for globalization of HR, expansion of talent management and greater inclusiveness. 2013 marks the seventh year in which CBRE has reported on our labor practices and workplace environment. While we continue to move significantly closer to full global integration of our human resources information systems (HRIS), we are currently unable to compile, compare and report information on our global workforce demographics and statistics. Unless otherwise specified, most of this report section reflects U.S. information, which is applicable to more than half of our employee population. 46 “As CBRE’s General Counsel, I had some initial apprehension about the new ways of working in our corporate headquarters office. The idea of asking the legal team to give up their assigned offices and paper files was daunting—but after experiencing Workplace360, we will never look back or yearn for the old way of working again. With more than 15 different ways of working in our new office, we now have a choice when it comes to how we work each day – whether as a team in collaborative space, in a private focus room or an “Office for a Day” when dealing with confidential or high-concentration projects, or in the Heart of our office, a central place to meet and collaborate with people from other departments we might not otherwise interact with. I sometimes bring a document for review out to the Heart, sit on a sofa and it is like working at home… only with better snacks. I also don’t have many paper documents CBRE WORKPLACE360 anymore—going digital is liberating and, as the Executive Sponsor of CBRE’s sustainability program, I am leading by example. This new way of working breaks down barriers, silos and hierarchies. Regardless of title or status in the company, everyone is approachable, and with the office being more open, transparent and collaborative, it is easy to feel a part of the larger CBRE team.” — Larry Midler PEOPLE & CULTURE DIVERSITY As an employer of more than 44,000 people in 42 countries, diversity is an inherent and valued aspect of the organization. Our diversity on 44,000 18% any dimension, such as beliefs, color, backgrounds, religions, sexual orientation, gender, and the like, makes our workplace a more engaging environment. While diversity remains an industry-wide challenge, EXCLUDING AFFILIATE OFFICES WORKFORCE GROWTH we continue to make strides in creating an inclusive workplace, thereby TOTAL WORKFORCE increasing our appeal to diverse candidates. 349OFFICES 42COUNTRIES 6,100 SALES AND LEASING With the addition of Martha Bayer as our Global Director of Talent Strategy and Diversity, we are beginning to strategically approach the broader global challenges of diversity. Bayer has worked to increase awareness 6CONTINENTS among leadership of the value diversity provides from a business perspec8,580 tive. 2014 will be an active year for increasing diversity efforts, which will OFFICES be bolstered by the addition of a Diversity and Inclusion Specialist, Platform Director and Enterprise Learning Manager to Bayer’s team. 12,000 ASSET SERVICES EMPLOYEES AFFINITY GROUPS Each one of our Affinity Groups enjoyed meaningful, measurable 2,550 FACILITIES MANAGERS PROJECT MANAGERS growth and achievement in 2013. MAINTENANCE & ENGINEERING African-American Network Group (AANG) 341 members SHARED SERVICES (IT, PROFESSIONALS HUMAN RESOURCES, AANG’s 2013 annual conference drew a record 90 attendees who LEGAL, FINANCE, networked and heard from top speakers including CEO Bob Sulentic 34% COMMUNICATIONS/ and John Rogers, the CEO & Chief Investment Officer of the largest 47 MARKETING, minority-run investment firm in the U.S. AANG began the process of RESEARCH, ETC.) FEMALE (U.S.) PROFESSIONALS selecting markets to create local AANG chapters to allow for greater grassroots networking and outreach. 1,073 VETERANS (U.S.) 99% REGULAR U.S. AANG will mark its 10th anniversary in 2014, and a strategic planning session was held early in the year to ensure AANG’s continued success and value to its members and to the company. EMPLOYEES 1% Hispanic Network Group (HNG) 60 members In late 2013, HNG gained a new executive sponsor based in our Miami “TEMPORARY” 99% FULL TIME market. This new leader brings a renewed commitment to understandEMPLOYEES ing and growing our Hispanic employee population. HNG surveyed all U.S. self-identifying Hispanic professionals to gain insight on how 98% FEMALES ARE to best serve our Hispanic population, and plans to expand the group FULL TIME beyond sales professionals and beyond the U.S. with concentrated efforts to incorporate membership in Canada and Latin America. PEOPLE & CULTURE LGBT Network Group (LGBTNG) 100 members The LGBT Network Group was instrumental in advocating key changes to CBRE benefits policies. As a result of these efforts, CBRE became the first and only commercial real estate company to score a perfect 100 on the Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index. This distinction also placed CBRE on the 2014 list of Best Places to Work for LGBT Equality. Veterans Engagement Team (VET) 389 Veteran Connections VET continues to engage prospective and newly hired veterans to help them see the connection between their military experience and our operCBRE NAMED BEST PLACE TO WORK ations. CBRE was named a GI Jobs 2014 Military Friendly Employer and FOR LGBT EQUALITY a Civilianjobs.com 2014 Most Valuable Employer for Military. CBRE is the first and only commercial real estate services firm to achieve a perfect score of 100% on Women’s Network (WNG) 1,877 members the Human Rights Campaign’s 2014 Corporate The Women’s Network flourished in 2013 with an incredible growth in Equality Index (CEI) and receive designation as a membership. Approximately 25% of the women in our company are Best Place to Work for LGBT Equality. The CEI survey evaluates LGBT-related policies and practices that now WNG members. WNG also added more than 70 local chapters, help differentiate a company as an employer of run by field delegates who lead in-person meetings and organize local choice for LGBT employees. events. On a national level, the U.S. WNG also offered professional CBRE’s LGBT Network Group was instrumental in development through quarterly calls. advocating policy changes that helped improve our previous score of 85 and provided more equal GLOBAL EFFORTS treatment for our LGBT employees. Asia Pacific 48 • CBRE provided tax equalization on benefits As part of our CBRE’s continued commitment to networking and female for same-sex domestic partners prior to any leadership, the CBRE Women’s Network Asia Pacific LinkedIn Group government mandates regarding tax treatment. CBRE’s equalization policy is further reaching launched in September 2013. This private group was created for than the government requirement, as taxes are current employees of CBRE to provide female leaders with an insightful equalized for same-sex domestic partners in forum to enhance skills, gain knowledge, and engage in meaningful states where same-sex marriages are not legal. discussions on leadership topics. CBRE launched Women’s Networks in • CBRE added transgender benefit offerings to both China and Tokyo in 2013. some of the medical plans available for 2014. Additionally, a diversity program was launched in the Pacific region to increase Indigenous cultural awareness. A cadet recruitment program was also implemented to promote the positive aspects of the Aboriginal culture and drive increased placement of Indigenous community members into professional roles. “As a drilling Navy reservist, balancing work, family and military can be a struggle. CBRE has supported me in this area by creating a work schedule that allows for drill time and supports me on extended training periods. CBRE is a great company to work for because the company actively supports veterans, Guard and Reserve members.” —William Chance, Building Engineer PEOPLE & CULTURE EMEA Capital Markets Executive Director, Sue Clayton, who was “CBRE immediately jumped into action when approached about a possible partnership with the Posse Foundation. They did not recently named to the Financial Times Top 50 UK Part limit their involvement to just hiring interns, as the company Time Business Leaders Power List, represented CBRE at recently hosted a group of Scholars at their Downtown Los the inaugural UK Duke of Edinburgh Awards’ Women’s Angeles offices for an informative discussion. CBRE has Networks Forum in late January 2014. Sue and 14 other truly shown its commitment to developing our Scholars professionally.” prominent businesswomen were invited to Buckingham Palace to share experiences from their companies’ inter— Tamara Craver, Director Posse Los Angeles nal women’s networks and discuss how to encourage and inspire young women in business. PROMOTION AND GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL DIVERSITY EFFORTS We continue to strive for diversity in Governance. Our CBRE continued its 20-year relationship with the CommerBoard of Directors has 10% gender diversity. In 2014, we cial Real Estate Women’s (CREW) Network as a corporate has adopted a succession planning and recruiting initiasponsor in 2013. This valuable collaboration highlights a tive for our Board of Directors that we expect will increase shared commitment to advancing women in the real estate diversity in the near future. Our internal Operations board industry. CBRE sponsored two CREW interns for 10-week has 7% gender diversity. We also maintained efforts to internships over the summer to gain exposure to our emphasize diversity through standard talent management business and the industry as a whole. To date, CBRE has processes such as succession planning. Our collegiate hosted 39 CREW interns. Additionally, one of our female recruiting efforts once again included visits to historically managing directors participates in CREW’s mentoring African-American colleges and universities, diversity-reprogram, “Bridging the C-Suite Gap,” for high-potential lated college organizations, and universities with broad female employees. 49 international representation. CBRE’s Wheel program is designed for recent graduates, We were pleased, too, with the efforts to incorporate diverat both the undergraduate and master’s levels, seeking sity in our promotional and hiring decisions. In 2013, 41% a career in commercial real estate. Participants gain a of executive and first level managers were women and well-rounded knowledge of the industry and valuable nearly half of our promotions in all positions were women. skills learned by working alongside talented professionHowever, we remain challenged by our overall diversity als. Twenty-six ”Wheelies” were chosen out of more than representation in management and sales positions. This 2,500 applicants to gain experience in areas such as echoes the challenges faced by commercial real estate brokerage services, project management and investment companies as a whole—the August 2013 Commercial management across seven markets. More than 65% of Real Estate Diversity Report indicated that white males Wheel participants in 2013 were diverse. dominated the Senior Executive, Mid-Level Manager, Professional and Technician EEOC job categories. We In 2013, CBRE partnered with the Posse Foundation, an also fall in line with industry averages for comparative organization that helps prepare high-potential, multiculsalary and remuneration for men and women. tural high school students for college. Three Posse Scholars interned with CBRE during the summer, and late last year, Downtown LA hosted a large group of Posse Scholars who “CBRE’s commitment to diversity is reflected in recent industry toured our headquarters, learned about CBRE and prac‘firsts’ such as achieving a score of 100 on the Human Rights ticed corporate interviewing. These experiences offered Campaign Corporate Equality Index and attendance at the inaugural UK Duke of Edinburgh Awards’ Women’s Networks potential future employees a glimpse into our industry and Forum. CBRE’s goals for 2014 include focusing on diverse the opportunities available to them at CBRE. succession planning, publishing executive briefings on CBRE’s diversity wins and marketplace diversity news, and advancing more women into senior leadership roles to fuel our growth.” — Martha Bayer, Global Director, Talent Strategy & Diversity PEOPLE & CULTURE FAIRNESS The CBRE workplace culture is grounded in policies and practices that promote fair treatment of our employees. By complying with workplace regulatory standards and providing additional guidance and LEADERSHIP IN training on ethical conduct, we aim to ensure all of our employees feel ACTION: LAURA respected when they come to work each day. O’BRIEN, GLOBAL DIRECTOR, HR AND WORKPLACE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE STRATEGY CBRE only employs individuals 18 years of age and over; we do not Q. What is the most exciting aspect tolerate or engage in forced or compulsory labor; and we offer a of Workplace360 for you, personally competitive compensation and benefits package consistent with (and and for our company? in many cases significantly more generous than) local standards. Our Three things. First, bringing excitement preference is to hire candidates from within the country the position is into our offices. I just returned from the opening of our new Tokyo Workplace360 located, and a majority of our hires are considered local. Because we office and the energy level in that office is are committed to bringing in top talent, we occasionally hire outside so high, it made me smile with joy. Second, of the local area. We often create flexible location options for top posileading from the front with our own office portfolio—none of our competitors have tions to enable us the latitude to find the best candidates regardless of the lead in alternative workplace strategy where they reside. like we do because we’ve been a bold, first mover, which makes us a natural advisor to The nature of our business does not create human rights challenges clients who want to explore new workplace found in other industries such as manufacturing; we have no issues strategies. This gets my competitive juices flowing because I want us to win! And with child labor; and we offer desirable working conditions in all localast, giving our people great workplace tions. Although we conduct employee training on non-discrimination, technology—including follow-me printing, preventing harassment and business conduct, there is not a business follow-me phones, dual-screen monitors 50 at all workstations, and Wi-Fi throughout need to conduct human rights training in our organization. the space. Our IT department has been a phenomenal partner in enabling our new We support the right to exercise freedom of association and collective Workplace360 offices to leapfrog to the bargaining, and 4.6% of our U.S. employee population operates under forefront. It has been very gratifying to collective bargaining agreements. In our global operations, there are know we are redeploying dollars that were previously wasted on unused office space no areas where these rights are at risk. We have seen the number of into an investment in better technology so employees covered by collective bargaining agreements continue to our people can work smarter. increase in the U.S. as our business grows. Q. Where do great ideas come from Treating our people with dignity and respect is a priority—when in our company? practical, we provide impacted employees advanced notice of staff From everyone, everywhere. It behooves those with the responsibility of leading this reductions and significant operational changes in excess of the regucompany to listen for these ideas, especially latory requirements. We complied with the notice requirements of when they come from our younger talent, relevant labor and employment laws and collective bargaining agreeand then channel them into the right vehicle ments, as applicable. In instances where we could not provide advance in our company where we are able to create the most value. notice, employees received pay in lieu of notice, consistent with our severance plan. In 2013, 403 employees received severance pay. Our severance plan, benchmarked to industry standards, offers benefits to qualified fulland part-time employees, including separation pay, a health care stipend and access to outplacement services. The outplacement services offer assistance with job-ending transitions, skills training for job seeking, identification of transferrable skills and consideration of alternate careers. In 2013, the overall voluntary and involuntary turnover rate was 18%, and the turnover rate for new hires was 14%. PEOPLE & CULTURE CBRE acts in accordance with all laws regarding miniWOMEN’S COMPACT mum and/or living wages. The company also abides CBRE shares the goal of the U.N. Women’s Compact to by all national and local requirements regarding overglobally advance women in the workplace. As part of our time pay, timekeeping, and rest and meal periods. If any commitment to the compact, we began our analysis in the compliance issue is brought to our attention, it is promptly U.S. in 2012 on the seven principle elements and 31 stanresearched and remedied as appropriate. dards of demonstration for the U.N. Women’s Compact. CBRE is also vigilant in complying with regional regulaWe are most successful in the areas of high-level support, tions, both in the U.S. and on a global level. For instance, company culture, related policies and equal access to in 2013 we sent out the New Jersey Gender Equity benefits, leave programs, and counseling. During 2013 Notice in compliance with the recently added New Jersey we increased our talent management efforts, which helped law and pay equity notices to employees with the newly us achieve additional demonstration with the standards. enacted California regulation. CBRE was deemed to be These enhancements included employee transparency to fully compliant in all eight local Office of Federal Contract job descriptions, qualifications, competencies and career Compliance Programs (OFCCP) audits in closed 2013. paths, which assist in making a broader array of career In Australia, we submitted our annual compliance report options more visible to our employees. We implemented and were confirmed as compliant with the Workplace a formal, nine-month mentoring program for 40 diverse Gender Equity Act of 2012. professionals and rolled out a flexible work arrangement WOMEN’S NETWORK FIELD DELEGATE tripled the South Florida membership. Going forward, we will host local quarterly meetings, promote organizing and networking as Deborah Fink, Vice President a group in conference rooms to dial into the national Women’s Brokerage Services, Field Delegate, Network quarterly calls, and collaborate on a daily basis with the 51 South Florida membership. Why is the Women’s Network Can you describe some of the events you’ve had so far? important to you? Our Kickoff meeting was held in December 2013. “Connect” The brokerage side of this industry is was the theme, and more than 45 CBRE men and women still predominately populated by men came to mix and mingle, meet new people, connect across all and a part of my success has certainly business lines, and learn what other CBRE women are doing occurred through the support of my and about opportunities for career advancement. Our keynote male colleagues. With that said, I have speaker was fellow Women’s Network member Mary Jo Eaton, been a participant and member of the local Commercial Real Executive Managing Director of CBRE Florida. In her impassioned Estate Women’s (CREW) Network chapter and been inspired by presentation, she discussed making difficult career choices, the many females in this industry throughout my 14-year career in importance of mentorship, taking risks and going beyond your this business. The opportunity to participate in the CBRE Women’s comfort zone, and CBRE’s commitment to growing and developing Network has opened the occasion to not only interact with other its professionals. female brokers but with women from across all business lines at CBRE. Participating in the Women’s Network is a terrific opportunity What are the benefits of having a local chapter? to let your voice be heard, and to share, learn and grow. The tremendous support from local leadership and the enthusiasm Please share a little bit about your chapter. of our members will help us continue to bring quality programs and events to CBRE women throughout South Florida. The I was selected as the local Field Delegate for the South Florida local programs will not only provide members with valuable market in September 2013. Our unique market includes three local resources and learning opportunities, but also provide them with offices and spans over 50 miles between offices. The precursor opportunities to interact with peers, which I believe will encourage to our initial kick-off meeting included in-office presentations, more participation and provide a sense of camaraderie. We will reaching out via email to all staff personnel—men and women— also partner with Mary Jo Eaton to support CBRE’s efforts to recruit and initiating personal phone calls to “rainmakers” to help drive and retain the best female talent in our market. membership. By our kickoff meeting in December 2013, we had PEOPLE & CULTURE • Incorporates our RISE values and SOBC LEGAL PRO-BONO EFFORT • Uses the recommendations of leading legal experts The CBRE Legal team has partnered with Goodwill Southern and follows the best practices of top companies California over the past two years to provide nearly 200 hours of attorney time and access to preferred external counsel In 2013, we provided harassment prevention training to resources such as Sheppard Mullin. Chief Compliance Office Larry Midler and his team assist Goodwill with projects all global employees for the first time, which helps us take including vendor contracts, in-person training, and corporate a role in leading our industry to create collegial, haraspolicies. The experience helps CBRE’s legal team brush up in sent-free workplaces. areas of law they don’t often practice internally, as well as easily lend experience in areas where they do have expertise. In turn, Goodwill’s one-woman legal team gains assistance with the Regrettably, as in all large organizations, allegations of volume of work she faces in an organization of Goodwill’s size. harassment or discrimination occasionally occur. Once reported, our internal investigations teams act swiftly to Midler fondly recounts his own personal work with Goodwill: “I negotiated an intellectual property license agreement. It had uncover and evaluate the facts, take remedial action if been a while since I had done one, so I had to go to school on warranted, and eliminate the root causes of the problemthe issues. But it was a very rewarding feeling to have rolled up atic behavior. Most investigations of harassment claims the sleeves and helped a worthy organization.” are initiated immediately (within a day) and are completed within 30 days. CBRE handles allegations of harassment policy, which includes telecommuting. Our plan to expand or discrimination with the utmost care and attention. our purchasing for female-owned businesses and assess Our employee investigation process was executed globour two other regions against the compact standards was ally, with training conducted on a quarterly basis. RISE deferred until 2014. values were also prominently displayed throughout our STANDARDS OF BUSINESS CONDUCT (SOBC) offices and referenced in all relevant communications with employees. 52 The SOBC defines our ethical values relative to—among other things—hiring; termination of employment; workBENEFITS AND TOTAL COMPENSATION place behavior; severance benefits; and employee conduct We recognize and appreciate that employee benefits toward each other, our clients, our business partners and participation is an important part of the employment relaour global communities. Last year, SOBC certification was tionship. CBRE offers all full-time U.S. employees a benefits administered to all employees globally. package generally made up of the following components: HARASSMENT PREVENTION • Health benefits, including medical, dental and vision Unlawful harassment, in any form and regardless of • Income continuity benefits such as disability and life intent, is a form of discrimination and interferes with our insurance, and severance/redundancy programs commitment to equal employment opportunity. It contradicts our RISE values and has no place at CBRE. Our • 401(k) matching Harassment-Free Workplace policy reflects the strongest • Ancillary benefits, such as time off with pay, an possible statement in support of CBRE’s commitment to employee assistance program, and a wellness program the prevention of unlawful harassment or retaliation. We strive to be inclusive of all employees. For example, The policy: in the U.S., an employee working at least 30 hours per week is defined as a full-time employee. This definition • Defines examples so employees can identify cases of results in the eligibility of more than 92% of our employharassment ees for our entire benefits package. The company pays • Describes our expectations of all employees and the the majority of the cost of our employee medical benespecial responsibilities of managers fits, and we also provide company-paid supplemental PEOPLE & CULTURE life, short-term disability and long-term disability insurance (partial coverage). Part-time employees have a more STEP IT UP! WALKING limited benefits package, which includes paid time off and CHALLENGE WINNER CONTINUES TO ENJOY eligibility to participate in the 401(k) retirement savings THE BENEFITS OF HEALTHY and investment program. CBRE does not have a defined LIVING benefits plan. We also closely monitor the benefits market In July 2013, the myHealth Wellness and our corporate peers to ensure our benefits offerings program hosted a four-week and polices are in line with best practices. As a result, we walking challenge. More than 900 employees participated, including increased our 401(k) company match effective January 1, challenge winner Tom Cochran. 2014. What activities did you do to log the equivalent of 749 LEAVE miles of stepping? During 2013, about 5% of our U.S. workforce availed I walked five miles early every morning or evening and cycled at the gym between 90-120 minutes a day. Weekends were filled with Boy themselves of our leave policies, most frequently for Scout-related activities, as I have been involved in Scouting for more maternity/parental leave. In nearly 100% of the cases, than 30 years as a kid and now as an adult leader. Activities on the employees who wanted to return to work had the same weekends included yard work at my house and my father in-law’s house, a deep sea fishing trip, a week-long summer camp with or a comparable position waiting for them. We do not the Scouts, Scout clean-up service projects, road cycling whenever maintain comparative retention statistics on employees possible, and hiking with the Scouts. My daughter comes home on who return from leave versus employees who were not weekends from the University of California, Irvine and walks with me as much as she can. on leave. CBRE provides flexible workplace practices that facilitate a parental employee’s return to work with What was your favorite part of the walking challenge? reduced full-time schedules, alternative work arrangeI would have to say that my favorite part of the walking challenge ments and new mothers’ rooms where possible. was seeing how many employees were participating in the program 53 and logging their daily activities. Exercise is a wonderful thing and I hope I can continue for a long, long time. I would say the best part of the walking challenge is seeing the benefits it has given me and my family and hopefully the extra years in my life due to the exercise. I would like to see my kids graduate from college and have families of their own. Tell me a little bit about what healthy activities you’ve been doing since the walking challenge? Since the walking challenge, I have continued walking five or more miles (over 10,000 steps) every day, seven days a week. Since I received my Fitbit in August, I have walked a total of 2,110,533 steps—about the distance from Corona, California, to Seattle, Washington. My eating habits are better and I just recently stopped drinking soda. Come to think about it, I have not been sick since I started the exercise program and the walking challenge, and I think it is all due to the exercise. I’ve continued as a leader for the Boy Scout Troop in Corona even though my son has aged out. I continue to hike, fish, camp and exercise as much as possible. My health coach has been wonderful. PEOPLE & CULTURE OPPORTUNITY While we are proud of our position atop our industry, we have no intention of resting on the status quo and neither do our people. They have a strong desire to learn and grow, and we embrace our responsibility RECOGNITION PROGRAMS to be the conduit of their growth. We aspire to foster the professional • The RISE Award development of every employee through regular evaluation, talent • President’s Performance Award management programs and learning opportunities. • Chairman’s Excellence Award PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT AND RECOGNITION • Trammell Crow Master Builder Award • Edward S. Gordon Award A key opportunity for us to evaluate employees, measure progress and • Benjamin Arthur Banker Learning Award offer constructive feedback is through annual performance reviews. Eighty percent of our U.S.-based, non-commissioned employees receive • Gary J. Beban Teamwork Award a formal annual performance review, and managers are also encour• The William H. McCarthy Award aged to have regular performance discussions with their employees. • McAdam Cup We are now able to monitor roughly 80% of completions rates and • Turnaround Award performance levels through our online performance evaluation tool. • Manager Innovation Award Outside the U.S., our progress toward this goal is subject to local law, • Rookie of the Year Award customs and the building of our global HR information system. Addi• CBRE Ambassador Award tionally, our commission-based sales professionals receive ongoing • Women’s Network Endurance of Spirit Award feedback and coaching. The formal review incorporates discussion • MORE (Marketing, Operations & Research about the employee’s proficiency in the competencies assigned to their Excellence) Awards job. This provides a more refined picture of an employee’s areas of • Colbert Coldwell Circle strength and growth potential. As a meritocracy, we empower and • Rock Star Award encourage our employees to achieve the level of success their skills 54 and desire allow. • Einstein Award • Mission Impossible Award We also make it a point to recognize top performance and extraor• Leasing Performance Award dinary character within the organization, both through formal and • Greatest Contribution by an Engineering informal recognition. The company honors our employees with more Professional than 200 individual or group awards for leadership, commitment, • Greatest Contribution by an Accounting ethics, financial performance, community involvement, philanthropy Professional and more. • Sustainability Leader of the Year • Top Accounting Leader Award TALENT MANAGEMENT • HR Recognition Program CBRE University, now in its third year, continues to advance the skills • Circle of Excellence (Pacific region) and capabilities of new and high-potential, market-facing profes• State Achievement Awards (Pacific region) sionals through customized training. During 2013, 621 professionals attended CBRE University, including several attendees from other • Building Excellence Awards (Pacific region) countries. • Account Excellence Award Additionally, a group of approximately 30 top leaders is invited each year to join the High Potential Leadership Program, which is designed to offer an executive-level education with exposure to our key businesses, geographies and global priorities. This global network provides the opportunity for these professionals to forge relationships with their peers in an environment that encourages professional development and personal growth. Participants have unique access to valuable opportunities, such as presenting at major company functions, managing special projects to challenge their skills, and interacting with our senior leadership and Board of Directors. PEOPLE & CULTURE CBRE University was the catalyst that really jump started my career at CBRE. It was here that I not only made connections throughout the company, but I also learned about the various service lines I now utilize to better serve my clients. This was also a great, non-hostile proving ground to hone presentation skills. CBRE University is a program all new employees should attend as soon as they can and go there with their ears open, ready to work. WILLIAM PADON Brokerage Services Associate Ensuring our managers are well equipped to navigate variety of professional and personal topics ranging from management responsibilities is also a priority. In 2013, health to finances. In addition to the 23 annual hours approximately 725 managers attended Management of programming available, an online resource library is Practices training. We launched a monthly New Manager accessible at any time. Our myHealth – Invest in You WellOrientation in early 2014 to acclimate newly hired or ness program is another resource for our U.S. employees newly promoted managers to the expectations and enrolled in a CBRE benefit plan to gain information about responsibilities of CBRE managers. Managers also have their health and well-being. Through biometric screenings, 55 access to specific training sessions on hiring practices and Well-Being Assessments, and access to health coaching, business line-specific information. prize challenges and countless health resources on the wellness portal, our employees gain valuable information Newly hired employees also have a wealth of training about their health and we learn more about how to help and resources available to start them on a successful our employees through our benefits. path at CBRE. HR conducts weekly New Hire Orientations to inform attendees about CBRE policies, benefits and As referenced earlier, EMPOWER is a new mentoring and more. The WelcomeU page was added to the company’s professional development program CBRE began pilotintranet, and serves as a one-stop shop for the informaing in 2013 with our affinity groups. Mentees are paired tion a new employee might need or want to access. with senior-level mentors and executive sponsors, who offer guidance through monthly meetings and ongoing We continue to invest in distance learning initiatives for all professional support. Participants also engage in monthly employees, allowing our geographically distributed workprofessional development seminars that focus on topics force to access more than 500 prescriptive and optional such as Building Your Personal Brand, Having Diffitraining programs. Employees and managers often use cult Conversations and Asking for Stretch Assignments. the WebEx system to facilitate online, globally accessible This opportunity for employee growth and personalized trainings. We are working toward incorporating a Learnsupport marks a key step forward in our talent manageing Management System (LMS) that will help us implement ment strategy, and we look to expand this program to and track our development programs more effectively. more of our employees in the future. Through our Employee Assistance Program, we offer resources for employees and their family members on a PEOPLE & CULTURE EMPOWER MENTOR/MENTEE PAIR MENTOR MENTEE Jeff Hipschman, Senior Managing Director Robyn Munson, Senior Project Manager What is your role with CBRE? Please share a little bit about your role at CBRE. I am the Senior Managing Director responsible I started as an Assistant Project Manager with for the New Jersey Local Market Area. I oversee CBRE seven years ago. I am now a Senior Project more than 90 sales professionals in the office Manager on the Group Health account, leading and industrial brokerage vertical, as well as manage all lines of a team of eight Implementation Project Managers. We do all real business including Capital Markets, Debt & Structured Finance, estate projects for Group Health, including infrastructure upgrades, Asset Services, Project Management and all Shared Services groups. strategic initiatives, medical equipment and new buildings. I have been with CBRE for 12 years. Why did you decide to join EMPOWER as a mentee? What made you decide to become a mentor? I am always looking for ways to ‘up my game’ by broadening my I was looking for the opportunity to provide guidance and support experience and knowledge base. When I heard about EMPOWER, to a colleague, in a similar way that is was provided to me when I I was very impressed with the training that was offered and the was earlier in my career. It is a very rewarding experience to help opportunity to spend a couple of days away from my desk learning others with their professional development. about how to work smarter. That, combined with the opportunity to work with a mentor, was reason enough to spend the time applying Please share a little bit about your mentoring relationship. for the program. Robyn is truly a rising star in our company. Our business Please share a little bit about the professional relationship includes regular monthly calls (I am in New Jersey and she is in Washington) to review her business plan, activities and development sessions. challenges. We also have ad-hoc calls whenever needed to address Once a month, we meet for a one-hour webinar to discuss issues that are more time sensitive. In addition, Robyn and I have a professional development topics such as Sustaining Long-Term biannual status call with our executive sponsor, Chris Ludeman. Career Success at CBRE and Asking for Feedback. We take away valuable strategies that help us in our daily work, and we’re often 56 What has been the highlight of your EMPOWER assigned ‘homework’ to help us continue to grow in the month experience? before the next meeting. The highlight has been a very energized exchange of ideas and What have been the highlights of your EMPOWER feedback (both ways) between Robyn and me. Her questions and experiences have been valuable as I look to continually grow experience? my skills and capabilities in managing and motivating those I While the training has been great, the undisputed highlight of directly manage. EMPOWER has been working with my mentor, Jeff Hipschman. I have benefitted greatly from Jeff’s advice on guiding my team and What have you gained through your involvement in working with my boss. Jeff has been particularly helpful in adapting EMPOWER? my leadership style from my years in the Army to fit a career in the civilian world. My senior sponsor, Chris Ludeman, has also been I have gained the insight and perspective of a colleague in a a source of insight into things like leading by example and setting different line of business, geography and stage of her career. reasonable expectations of what team members can do. Having this insight has been invaluable in helping me learn more about our company, and the issues and challenges facing What have you gained through your involvement in younger professionals in our company. This has allowed me to better understand and manage issues and colleagues in the EMPOWER? offices that I oversee. Besides working with Jeff and Chris, the best part of EMPOWER has been the opportunity to meet and work with people all across the country. I’m forming bonds with my colleagues that make each day more rewarding. I’m also learning about our company’s platform, making me a more educated and credible leader to my team. I have recommended the program repeatedly and hope it continues for years to come. PEOPLE & CULTURE CHOICE The one-size-fits-all career path and the cookie-cutter us attract and retain the best talent. It’s about understandworkspace are no longer sufficient. To be considered an ing how people really work and how creating a great employer of choice, we have to provide an environment space can make a difference. This includes implementaof choice and lead workplace evolution in both business tion of features such as office-for-a-day setups, paperless and practice. That’s why our employees have the freedom operations and open floor plans. Workplace360 gives to design the moves they want to make and the ways they employees a great deal of autonomy and flexibility in the want to work. way they work. Instead of being confined to one, static work location, employees have options for telecommutCAREER PLANNING ing, collaboration areas and more. The career planning page serves as a valuable resource for employees who are looking to advance in their career Our new Downtown Los Angeles office—now our global path or look for new opportunities among the variety headquarters—was designed under the Workplace360 of job functions that comprise our business. The page guidelines and showcases the benefits and amenities of provides a high level of transparency around job families this exciting strategy. This office features personal lockand competencies associated with most jobs. The site also ers, standing work stations, treadmill stations, healthy features internal and external links to professional develsnacks, and working ‘neighborhoods’ where employees opment and networking opportunities, internal transfer working on related projects can interact. This showcase documents, and a direct link to the Career Path Planning office illustrates how we are able to do more with less; module. The module allows the employee to view the with lower square footage, we have increased occupancy, specific career path within the job family for their current have three times as many meeting spaces as before, and role. In 2013, the page received 16,000 visits. offer 100% mobility for employees in the space. The office is WELL™ certified and features circadian lighting, healthy 57 FLEXIBLE WORKPLACE AND WORKPLACE360 food options and other top amenities. This state-of-the art space is also beneficial to our employees from a business Though CBRE has long supported work flexibility for our standpoint. We are currently averaging 15 tours a day in employees, we formalized this practice in 2013 by adding the Downtown L.A. office, and are in the process of trackspecific policies for flexible work arrangements and teleing business won because of our ability to demonstrate commuting. These policies make it easier for employees to the viability of Workplace360. find a work situation that best suits their working style, and they facilitate the conversations employees and managers For offices that undergo Workplace360, we assess the should have to come to an agreement on a work schedinitial impact at 30 days after implementation and six ule. Our flexible work arrangements allow employees a months after implementation. Results are indicating that number of options, such as four 10-hour days, or general employees like the change; for example, when asked in the flextime. The telecommuting policy provides guidelines for 30-day assessment if they would go back to the pre-Workemployees working offsite three or more days per week place360 workspace, all of Kansas City’s employees and on a regular basis. We also have many employees who 90% of Minneapolis’ employees said they would not. Both telecommute infrequently, and their arrangements are the 30-day and 6-month assessments have indicated that worked out with their managers outside of the policy. employees enjoy the new ways of interacting with coworkCurrently, more than 750 employees telecommute under ers, the new meeting spaces, and upgrades to technology. the formal arrangement. The assessments also allow us to aggregate feedback on pain points, such as the need for headsets in the office for Our Workplace360 work strategy, which we continue to a day and focus room spaces. We are then able to make roll out to CBRE offices worldwide, is a more collaborative improvements on these points for that office, and apply environment that is designed to support and encourage lessons learned to future and current Workplace360 projteam-based work. Workplace360 optimizes the use of ects. The Workplace360 initiative has touched more than office space; is a more energetic, inspirational workplace 30 offices globally, and was built from the three pillars of that helps our employees connect to our organizational generating business, improving the way we work and opticulture; reinforces our brand philosophy; is reflective of mizing our assets. our leadership in our industry; and serves as a tool to help PEOPLE & CULTURE WHAT LIES AHEAD CONTINUED GLOBALIZATION • Implement data reporting system in EMEA and LAC • Globalize learning and development systems (2015) • Increase focus on diversity in all regions • Continue to align HR organization structure to better serve the needs of the business TALENT DEVELOPMENT • Expand EMPOWER mentoring program • Increase use of succession planning to identify future leaders for top tiers within the organization POSITIONING CBRE AS WORLD-CLASS EMPLOYER OF CHOICE • Create and formalize employment brand • Use Organization Health Index survey results and comparison benchmarks to develop strategy 58 ETHICS & COMPLIANCE 59 ETHICS & COMPLIANCE CBRE continues to be the market leader in commercial real estate services, and our Ethics and Compliance program matches this excellence by maintaining a culture of values as a cornerstone of our business philosophy. As global markets continue their shaky recovery, the corporate focus of our Ethics and Compliance program remains strong and we continue to mature and continuously improve our integrated, global platform. ETHICS & COMPLIANCE CBRE is dedicated to our RISE values and the underlying Ethics and Compliance program that reinforces our commitment to achieving success the right way. Our leaders understand that maintaining a culture of ethics and compliance is essential to assuring and preserving our clients’ valuable trust. We have continued to implement our values 1 CLEAR POLICIES AND CONSISTENT PROCEDURES around the globe, establishing a global culture and minimizing the types of poor decisions that can ultimately put individual offices and 2 REGULAR COMMUNICATIONS CBRE at risk. With a focus on continuous and incremental improvement, our global compliance team built upon the successes of the past 3 PROACTIVE EMPLOYEE TRAINING while operating as an integrated unit, thereby focusing and orienting on common compliance risk and ensuring that appropriate controls 4 INTEGRATION INTO BUSINESS UNITS and processes are evenly distributed across our regions. 5 AGGRESSIVE RISK IDENTIFICATION With these goals in mind, our Ethics and Compliance program reinforces CBRE’s RISE values and ensures compliance with company policies and the laws and regulations that apply to us globally. This is accomplished through the execution of five general tenets of our 60 program, including: • clear policies on ethical wrong-doing and consistent procedures related to follow-up and remediation; 2014 WORLD’S • regular communications and outreach from senior management MOST ETHICAL focused on practical examples of how employees can identify, avoid or report inappropriate behavior in all regions of the globe in which COMPANIES we have business operations; • proactive distance learning and employee training programs that reinforce our culture and commitment to identifying and resolving CBRE is proud to announce that it was harassment, fraud, conflicts of interest, bribery and other material selected as a 2014 World’s Most Ethical Company by Ethisphere magazine. ethical issues; CBRE was honored with this award for its • ownership of ethics outcomes in our business units; and strong corporate culture focused on deep commitments to ethical leadership and • aggressive risk identification, audit and compliance monitoring corporate behavior. This is the first time that includes a proactive country-by-country annual risk assessment CBRE has received such a distinction, and we are excited to be associated with other process, globalized whistleblower hotline, internal investigations ethically-minded companies. program and strict non-retaliation policy. ETHICS & COMPLIANCE PROGRAMS ble for ethics and compliance. The Ethics and Compliance A detailed description of our programs can be found in Program is now led by a Chief Ethics and Compliance our previous reports. That said, the following incorporates Officer (CECO), with separate, direct reporting responsiexciting improvements and initiatives within the Ethics and bilities to the Chairperson of the Audit Committee. Each Compliance Program. region within CBRE has a Regional Compliance Officer responsible to the CECO. Within every country in which Infrastructure CBRE has an office, there is a Country Compliance OffiFor a program to be effective, have a lasting impact, and cer that reports to the Regional Compliance Officer. The be driven by a set of uniform global standards, the appronumber of professionals committed to the program stayed priate people and resources are critical. Therefore, every consistent in 2013 and there are no plans to reduce country where CBRE operates has a staff member responsipersonnel in the future. GLOBAL COMPLIANCE GENERAL COUNSEL AUDIT COMMITTEE CHIEF ETHICS & 61 GLOBAL STAFF COMPLIANCE OFFICER ANTI-CORRUPTION DATA PRIVACY DEPUTY CHIEF DATA PRIVACY E&C OFFICER OFFICER APAC EMEA AMERICAS GLOBAL INVESTORS REGIONAL REGIONAL REGIONAL CHIEF COMPLIANCE OFFICER COMPLIANCE OFFICER COMPLIANCE OFFICER COMPLIANCE OFFICER COUNTRY COUNTRY COUNTRY COUNTRY COMPLIANCE OFFICERS COMPLIANCE OFFICERS COMPLIANCE OFFICERS COMPLIANCE OFFICERS ETHICS & COMPLIANCE Policies, Training and Communications Specialized Training Based on Risk Assessments: AddiCBRE has instituted a comprehensive menu of policies, tional specialized programs were rolled out focusing on education and communications programs to underscore various aspects of ethics and compliance issues. Similar the critical nature of ethics and compliance in our business to years past, the programs were targeted to relevant operations. These training programs, communications, employee audiences based on topic or need – in some and new policy examples include: cases reflecting issues identified in our country risk assessments. Annual Certification: Through our annual global certification process, our employees reaffirm their commitment to Anti-Corruption Programs the RISE values and several specific policies (e.g., harassRegardless of our success in recent years in discouragment-prevention, anti-bribery/corruption, confidentiality, ing and preventing inappropriate payments or gifts and etc.). Employees are also required to affirmatively report gratuities to Government Officials, CBRE has continued to any suspected material wrongdoing of which they might tailor and improve its anti-corruption program. In 2013, be aware. For the fourth year in a row, virtually our entire ethics and compliance compiled a toolkit, designed to employee population of more than 44,000 completed the augment our Anti-Corruption Manual, for use by Councertification within the 45-day compliance period. try Compliance Officers to assist in the implementation of a consistent, effective program. The toolkit includes >98% GLOBAL EMPLOYEES examples of best-in-class policies, communications, and COMPLETING ANNUAL trainings on all aspects of anti-corruption, and IS tailored ETHICS CERTIFICATION for country-level compliance and programmatics. In addition, in 2013, CBRE initiated a new program Tone from the Top Communications: Regular monthly to better identify and actively monitor transactions for and quarterly publications set the tone at the top, including corruption concerns or red flags. The program will bolster 62 “Compliance Corner” and “Ethics Examiner” circulated current monitoring activities by 1) actively coaching Counto all CBRE employees by the Chief Ethics and Complitry Compliance Officers in best-in-class techniques in ance Officer and other highly visible senior executives in transaction testing and 2) developing data analytics to the company. The reports highlight critical risks to CBRE, detect transactions that require further investigation. material employee investigations and disciplinary actions, and inform employees on the wide range of aggressive EMPLOYEES TO systems CBRE has in-place to detect wrongdoing, regardWHOM GLOBAL less of who is involved. ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICY APPLIES Core Legal, Ethics, and Compliance Training: In 2013, CBRE continued to roll out programs based on core prinIn previous editions of this report we have further described ciples of distance learning. We facilitated anti-corruption our commitment to building aggressive policies, controls, training in all regions, harassment training to all 20,000 audit systems and training programs to prevent violations employees in the United States, and continued to ensure in this area. Additional implemented examples include but all new employees complete several required training are not limited to: programs within 30 days of hire (SOBC, Harassment Prevention/People and Culture Behavior, the Employee • the Global Anti-Corruption Policy, which is translated Handbook with into at least 30 languages and is applicable to all LANGUAGE RISE values, and in CBRE employees globally; TRANSLATIONS targeted countries, • mandatory anti-corruption training programs for OF STANDARD OF BUSINESS Anti-Corruption employees in several targeted countries of operation, CONDUCT Training). including new employees within the first 30 days of employment; ETHICS & COMPLIANCE ZERO • new employee requirements to provide a written sign-off to comply with the company’s ethics and anti-corruption policies; all-employee, mandatory, annual re-affirmations of their personal commitment to adhering to our anti-corruption policy in their daily activities; ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR CLAIMS • proactive anti-corruption risk assessments conducted in selected HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS countries with the purpose of continuously strengthening and improving controls; PRIVACY OR DATA LOSS CLAIMS • quarterly review and sign-off on anti-corruption financial controls; and, • periodic audits of the country-level anti-corruption controls and DATA PRIVACY activities. CBRE is committed to ensuring that all 90% personal or sensitive data within our possession or control, whether that of our NON-U.S. EMPLOYEES employees or clients, is handled correctly RECEIVING TARGETED ANTIthroughout its entire life cycle. Due to CORRUPTION TRAINING this commitment and in response to the ever dynamic and constantly changing Human Rights regulatory landscape of data privacy Consistent with our values and global nature, CBRE is dedicated to requirements throughout the global, we launched an enterprise-wide Data complying with the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Privacy Program. In 2013, CBRE began to Rights, and has developed and implemented a global Human Rights implement a global, cost-effective solution Compliance Program. The cornerstone of the program is our Human that addresses commonality amongst Rights policy, in which CBRE recognizes that it has a responsibility to 63 privacy regulations and substantially address our requirements in this important respect human rights in its operations, to promote an appropriate area. As a first step, CBRE certified with the example, and to make a positive global impact, which includes such U.S. Department of Commerce as adhering to the U.S./European Union Safe Harbor important topics as combating child labor and human trafficking. We Framework. The Framework helps ensure further commit to maintain a safe, secure, and inclusive workplace, free that companies, like CBRE, are providing from prejudice and discrimination, provide fair work hours and wages, adequate protection for personal data from and respect the rights of employees to associate freely. In 2013, CBRE the EU as required by the European Union’s Directive on Data Protection. conducted a risk assessment to assess the effectiveness of our Human Rights program and to ensure that all offices internationally are adhering to these standards. In 2013, there were no human rights violations or claims against CBRE. 45 STANDARD NEW-HIRE Whistleblower Hotline, Internal Investigations and ETHICS AND Non-retaliation Policy COMPLIANCE CBRE continues to focus significant energy and resources on sustainDAYS TRAINING TIMELINE ing our internal avenues for reporting and investigating suspected unethical or illegal activities. This includes a worldwide anonymous reporting system that is available online and through country specific toll-free phone numbers. Once an allegation of serious misconduct is logged into the system, internal investigators are required to conduct a prompt, thorough, consistent and unbiased investigation. Uniformity of process and outcomes in an investigation is achieved by requiring our investigators to attend annual training and regular case peer-review meetings. ETHICS & COMPLIANCE emissions). This is a position we have taken since 2007 U.S. BUSINESS RECORDS RETENTION and in 2013 we continued to participate in support of Building upon the successful initiative in 2012, CBRE Environmental Sustainability. implemented an effective, web-based business document retention process throughout offices in the United States. Second, CBRE continued to provide thought leadership in The program greatly reduces the legal risk and storage costs support of several federal and state government agenassociated with archiving unnecessary records, and has been simplified to ensure better consistency and retention in all cies in the U.S. with direct applicability to the business offices throughout the U.S. practices of the commercial real estate industry. In keeping with our commitment to transparency, all incidences of our participation were publicly disclosed and submitThe number of whistleblower reports we receive remains ted. We anticipate our interest in participating in similar steady year-over-year, which means our employees are proceedings will continue in 2014, and we will maintain comfortable bringing issues forward and is a sign that our commitment to participate in policy debate in a transour program is working. We believe that our success in parent, informed, respectful and responsible manner. this program is attributable to our zero-tolerance policy on retaliation and to the numerous communications and Internal Audit Programs, Risk Identification and Assessment training programs that highlight this channel for reportOur Internal Audit group conducts planned and random ing misconduct. The percentage of people self-identifying reviews of many of our business units to augment our when reporting concerns, as opposed to remaining anoncompliance programs. Internal Audit dedicates more than ymous, has remained steady and at, or above, industry 10,000 hours each year to financial internal control and norms. To us, this signals that our program continues to management assessment related to Sarbanes-Oxley. be robust and our employees feel safe and empowered to report misconduct. HOURS DEDICATED TO 64 Public Policy and Political Participation SARBANES-OXLEY CBRE encourages our employees to be knowledgeable AUDITING and active in civic life, charitable endeavors and political affairs. We are proud to support the many employees who serve on countless local and regional boards of organizaAnnual country-level legal and compliance risk assesstions working on public policy issues of importance to our ments were originally launched in 2009 and have business and the communities in which we live and work. continued annually ever since. The risk assessment process It has long been our practice, however, that the company is embedded in annual business plans, and owned and generally does not lobby (or fund lobbying of) governimplemented by local and regional business leaders. In ment officials, or make financial or in-kind contributions to addition, risk assessment activities inform our allocation candidates, campaigns, ballot measures, political parties of resources to target and minimize identified compliance or political activities of any kind in any country. risk while improving the quality of service we provide our clients, employees and other stakeholders. $0 COMPANY CONTRIBUTION TO POLITICAL CANDIDATES, CAMPAIGNS OR OTHER POLITICAL ENTITIES SIGNIFICANT FINES AND LEGAL ACTIONS FOR While generally we have not taken positions on public NON-COMPLIANCE OR ANTI-COMPETITIVE policy in the past, in 2013 we continued involvement in BEHAVIOR two notable areas. First, we monitored and participated in CBRE was not subjected to significant fines or sanctions for the policy debate regarding effective solutions to climate non-compliance with the law in any country. No claims of anticompetitive behavior were filed against the company in 2013, change; particularly those that will facilitate the reduction nor were there any privacy or data loss claims. of greenhouse gas emissions from buildings (which make up a substantial portion of the worlds’ greenhouse gas ETHICS & COMPLIANCE WHAT LIES AHEAD In 2014, we will continue to develop and improve upon our Anti-Corruption Monitoring Program, which includes country-by-country training of compliance and finance staff and implementation of data analytics to better identify “red flags” in operations of highest risk. In response to the ever dynamic and constantly changing area of data privacy, we will expand the scope of our enterprise Data Privacy Program beyond the U.S. and EU to include areas such as Asia Pacific and Latin America. In this multi-year project, we will assess our current, local data privacy programs in these regions and expand our enterprise program to better comply with and archive our efforts adhering to the multiple types of data privacy regulations throughout the globe. We will continue to facilitate all annual Ethics and Compliance activities which include the SOBC, Global Communications and Trainings, and legal and compliance Risk Assessments in every country in which we do business. CBRE invites the cooperation and feedback of all of our stakeholders in continually improving our Ethics and Compliance program. Our Ethics Helpline is available to all stakeholders 24/7. 65 GOVERNANCE 66 GOVERNANCE A business governed by a strictly transactional mindset will realize only short-term and irregular success. At CBRE, we believe that we have held our industry-leading position over the long-run because our clients recognize and appreciate our rigorous governance practices and the ethical principles permeating all aspects of our global operations. GOVERNANCE MISSION, VALUES, PRINCIPLES AND CODES OF CONDUCT CBRE has established a mission and corporate values that, together with our governance structure and ethical practices, allow us to effectively serve our clients, shareholders and employees with integrity. The guidelines for ethical behavior in our business operations are outlined in our Standards of Business Conduct (SOBC), which include policies and codes related to appropriate behavior and good governance. Every new employee is given a copy of the SOBC, and the document is posted electronically to our intranet and public website and is available in 26 languages. WE HAVE ALSO ADOPTED: • A comprehensive Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers that is intended to promote honest and ethical conduct and compliance with the law, particularly as related to the company’s financial record-keeping and 67 the preparation of financial statements. • A global Anti-Corruption Policy to help avoid violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar CBRE’S RISE VALUES non-U.S. laws. Our non-U.S. employees receive a copy of this policy, which is also posted electronically to our intranet and public website. • A rigorous Whistleblower Policy and anonymous reporting system for our employees, vendors, consultants and other third parties to report suspected wrongdoing, with every report subject to investigation. • A compensation clawback policy applicable to our current and former executive officers. This policy requires disgorgement of certain incentive compensation received by those officers in the event of a restatement of the Company’s financial results in certain circumstances. GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW & STRUCTURE 100% BOARD OF DIRECTORS AUDIT COMMITTEE MEMBERS CBRE has a 10-member Board of Directors, nine of whom QUALIFYING AS FINANCIAL our Board deems independent, and the tenth is our PresEXPERTS UNDER SEC RULES ident and Chief Executive Officer, Robert E. Sulentic. This The Audit, Compensation and Governance committees independence level exceeds the majority standard estabare considered key governance committees, and each lished by our Corporate Governance Guidelines and the member is independent under the standards and guidelisting standards of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). lines referenced above, as well as in the case of our Audit Under NYSE listing standards, no director qualifies as Committee, under relevant rules of the U.S. Securities and “independent” unless the Board affirmatively determines Exchange Commission (SEC). At least one member of the that the director has no material relationship with CBRE or Board serving on the Audit Committee should have the any of its subsidiaries. We have also separated the roles of qualifications and skills necessary to be considered an Chief Executive Officer and Chair of the Board since 2001 “Audit Committee Financial Expert” under relevant SEC in recognition of the differences between the two roles. rules, and we have determined that all four of our Audit Our Board Chair, who is independent of management, Committee members qualify as “Audit Committee Finanprovides oversight and guidance to the Chief Executive cial Experts.” Each year, our Board and its key governance Officer. The Chair is also responsible for, among other committees conduct annual performance self-assessthings, establishing the agendas for and conducting ments with the purpose of increasing the effectiveness of Board meetings. the Board and its committees. More information on the roles of our Board and Board committees can be found 68 Board candidates are selected on the basis of outstanding achievement in their professional careers, experience, in the Investor Relations section of our website and in our personal and professional integrity, their ability to make annual proxy statements filed with the SEC. independent and analytical inquiries, financial literacy, The Board plays an active role, as a whole and also at the mature judgment, high performance standards, familiarcommittee level, in overseeing our risk management. The ity with our business and industry, and an ability to work Board engages with management to ensure that the Board collegially. In addition, our Board is interested in adding understands the material risks associated with our strategy candidates who are acting operating executives (particuand operations, including business segment, reputational, larly chief executives of large public companies), or who credit, liquidity and compensation issues. The Board also have a strong technology background, and in all cases, a looks to its key governance committees to identify, report passion for building a transformative business on a global on and manage and oversee risks relevant to their areas basis. Other factors include having members with interof competency. Our Board’s Compensation Committee is national experience, including knowledge of emerging responsible for overseeing the management of risks relatmarkets and/or management of business operations and ing to our compensation plans and arrangements. The resources that are dispersed across a global platform, as Board’s Audit Committee oversees management of risks well as various and relevant career experience and technirelated to our financial reports and record-keeping and cal skills, and having a Board that is, as a whole, diverse. potential conflicts of interest, as well as risks associated Our Board is assisted by its committees: the Audit, with our strategy and operations generally. The GoverCompensation, Corporate Governance and Nominating nance Committee manages risks associated with the (Governance), Acquisition and Executive Committees. independence and corporate governance practices of the Board of Directors and the composition of our Board and its committees. The Board also receives regular reports 9 OF 10 BOARD from our internal Executive Risk Committee (ERC) (further MEMBERS DEEMED discussed below) as to key risks for our company, as well INDEPENDENT as reports from our General Counsel regarding litigation, GOVERNANCE corporate governance and compliance matters. Through first by conducting our business with the highest ethical Board committee and management reports, the Board standards and in compliance with all of our legal and determines whether management is adequately focused regulatory obligations. on identifying and managing risks, and assesses the Board’s own oversight of risks associated with its goverOur directors and executives must report to us any potennance and delegation decisions. tial material conflicts of interest or corporate opportunities that they wish to undertake, prior to undertaking the Our Board retains responsibility for the corporate transaction. When such a potential conflict of interest or responsibility initiatives outlined in this report. Two key corporate opportunity situation arises, it is reviewed and management-level task forces have been set up to advance then approved or rejected by our Audit Committee. Our our goals in this area, one for corporate responsibility Policy Regarding Related Party Transactions and Corpogenerally, and the other specifically for environmental rate Opportunities can be found in the Investor Relations sustainability. Both task forces are led by a member of section of our website. For more information on our executive management who reports to our Chief Executive conflict management system at the employee level, see Officer, and this executive periodically updates the Board the “Ethics & Compliance” section of this report. on the progress being made by the task forces. ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT We have adopted an Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) CBRE employs executives who share our vision of sustainprocess to identify, assess, respond to and monitor signifable performance and our corporate RISE (Respect, icant strategic, operational, financial and legal and Integrity, Service and Excellence) values. Aligning our compliance risks to our organization. Annually, senior leadexecutives’ short-term goals and long-term vision with ers across the organization are interviewed by our Chief those of our shareholders is a top priority. To achieve that Risk Officer and/or head of our Internal Audit department 69 goal, we reward executives for annual and long-term regarding these risks based on a standard Business Risk business performance, based on and/or global line-ofInventory developed and maintained by our Global Risk business financial performance as well as performance Management group. These items, which are developed in against non-financial strategic measures. We use strateconsultation with both internal and external resources, are gic measures as an element of compensation in order to then “risk mapped,” and our ERC assesses them against influence these executive’s performance against stratecommonly accepted prioritization criteria (i.e., magnitude gies that are not necessarily tied to near-term financial of impact, likelihood of occurrence, etc.). The ERC reports measures, but rather to the quality of earnings and posito our Chief Executive Officer and includes Chief Finantioning of our business for the future while also mitigating cial Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Administrative risk. Our executive compensation programs are more fully Officer, General Counsel, Chief Risk Officer, and Senior described in our annual proxy statements. Vice President–Corporate Strategy. In addition our Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer and Head of Internal Audit MANAGING CONFLICTS OF INTEREST attend our meetings. For the most significant risks, “risk CBRE is the largest commercial real estate services and owners” are assigned and are responsible for implementinvestment firm in the world (based on 2013 revenues). ing CBRE’s risk analysis, response and reporting tools for As a result, given the breadth of our business and diverrisk. Quarterly updates for each of these significant risks sity of clients, there may be times when potential conflicts are provided to the ERC. We believe that this process is of interest arise. Through the firm’s policies, employee a best practice and enhances our ability to identify and education and oversight efforts, we proactively manage manage risk for our company. such conflicts in full accordance with the law, our Stan8 dards of Business Conduct and our RISE values. We have NUMBER OF CBRE SENIOR implemented a comprehensive global conflicts-of-interest framework that guides our employees through conflict EXECUTIVES SERVING ON OUR issues that may come up in their business activities. This EXECUTIVE RISK COMMITTEE framework evidences our commitment to put our clients GOVERNANCE In addition, as part of the ERM process, we have a policy as more generalized feedCBRE Partners with 3BL to address when and how our formal risk management back from these and other Media. Click process and ERC should be triggered for new, expanded shareholders. In addition, here to follow or challenged business opportunities or significant transongoing dialogue with our our CBRE actions. Under the policy, certain events and business shareholders relative to news feed. activities trigger the escalation of risk information to the their specific policy interests is an important manner in ERC so that it may take appropriate action (e.g., risk mitiwhich calibrate our values and activities. gation, further diligence and enhanced management approvals). For example, this policy would be triggered We also regularly solicit input from our employees on if the Company were exploring a new line of business or how we can improve company communications and learn operations in new and higher risk geographies. more about types of communications that they prefer. We periodically conduct surveys of our employees on GOVERNANCE METRICS AND STAKEHOLDER work conditions, overall health and well-being and job ENGAGEMENT satisfaction. In 2011, we surveyed our employees globCBRE seeks a high level of transparency in its public ally to assess the efficacy of our ethics and compliance disclosures and strives to demonstrate a strong standard programs. The survey was designed to help both CBRE of governance relative to our industry. ISS, a major instileadership and employees better understand key areas of tutional proxy advisor, rates public companies on their our culture such as openness of communication, execucorporate governance practices. The ISS ranking format tive tone and employee comfort in voicing concerns. In (called ISS Quickscore 2.0) uses an overall scale of 1 to 10 2013, we offered significant incentives to our employees (with higher risk associated with higher numbers), based on to encourage them to partake in new wellness programs sub-component scores in the following categories: Board designed to proactively manage their overall physical and Structure, Audit, Compensation and Shareholder Rights. mental health. We earned an overall score of 3 as of August 2014, which Except for Works Councils in certain European countries, is above average relative to our ISS-designated peers. We 70 we generally do not otherwise have organized employee believe that this ranking reflects our continued emphasis councils. We encourage our employees to communicate on strong governance practices. When formulating goverdirectly and both informally and formally with managenance policies, the Board monitors the analysis of ISS, ment, and our employees are given multiple avenues to given its role as a prominent governance-activist advisor do so without fear of retaliation, including by filing anonto numerous institutional shareholder interests, as well ymous reports through the CBRE Ethics HelpLine, which is as other shareholder advisory firms and our significant managed by an independent third-party provider. shareholders. We believe that our shareholders are very satisfied with the CBRE has not implemented a formalized process for performance of our Board in governing our company. All systematically gathering the views of outside stakeholders standing directors have been re-elected each year since on governance matters. However, in addition to consider2007 by at least 93.0% of votes cast from shareholders ation of the ISS ratings noted above, we regularly engage present and entitled to vote at our annual shareholder in dialogue with current and potential investors, creditors, meetings. In addition, our shareholders are given an adviclients, peer companies and other stakeholders to gather sory opportunity each year to indicate their approval or feedback regarding our governance practices and other disapproval of our named executive officer compensation, issues of importance to these constituents. For example, and at our annual shareholders meeting in May 2014, our Chief Financial Officer meets with various instituover 99% of shareholder votes cast were in favor of that tional investors to discuss our financial performance and compensation for 2013. any concerns that these 3 CBRE’S ISS investors would like to Shareholders, employees and other interested stakeQUICKSCORE address. We have found holders with concerns or recommendations regarding 2.0 RANKING this to be a meaningful our governance are encouraged to contact our Board or As of August, 2014 method to address issues any of its committees. Information on how to contact our of immediate concern directors is provided in our annual proxy statements. to our investors as well GOVERNANCE WHAT LIES AHEAD In 2014, we continue our efforts to develop a comprehensive, global stakeholder engagement program. We expect to work through business lines and shared staff globally to provide strategic, coordinated engagement with shareholders, employees, labor groups, trade organizations, NGOs, advocacy groups and others to ensure we are considering their concerns and issues appropriately. In a company with CBRE’s scale and complexity, a careful approach to this process is critical, and we will continue to report on progress in the coming years. CBRE has flourished by attempting to adhere to the highest ethical standards and to reinforce those standards across our business. We intend to continue this path while remaining open to ways in which we can refine and improve our policies and practices. We know that our industry leadership can only be maintained by keeping our corporate RISE values—respect, integrity, service and excellence—at the heart of our governance practices. 71 HEALTH & SAFETY 72 HEALTH & SAFETY CBRE is proud of the health and safety culture we have grown through years of commitment by our employees; the results indicate that health and safety is a priority for the protection it provides and for the value it creates. 2013 was a year of growth, challenge, and change for the health and safety process within CBRE; more so than any of the years prior. Our program capabilities and health and safety talent have allowed us to achieve and exceed some very challenging goals and commitments. HEALTH & SAFETY In 2013, CBRE again amassed more employee work hours than in any MORE THAN of the previous years, and again our rate of incidents decreased. As 14,000+ we build new client relationships and move into industries that are new to CBRE, it remains imperative that we use our longstanding health and safety culture to meet new challenges and achieve the next level of excellence. In 2013 we reduced our rate of injury to a new low, particularly in the GLOBAL EMPLOYEES RECEIVING ONLINE HEALTH AND SAFETY TRAINING Unites States where the majority of our self-perform services reside and our occupational exposures are the greatest. In EMEA CBRE stepped closer to achieving OHSAS 18001 certification, with the final audit and >100% certification to be completed before mid-year 2014. Our ability to exceed client expectations and bring the value of our services is hinged on the ability of our employees to deliver excellent results in a sustainable fashion; our health and safety process plays a crucial role in enabling those results. We cannot create or deliver full INCREASE IN ONLINE HEALTH & SAFETY EMPLOYEE TRAINING ENROLLMENT value unless we do so without incident, and we cannot prevent incident if we don’t have the commitment of our leadership to set the expectation and enable the process. 5.7 INJURY-FREE WORKER HOURS CBRE’s global health and safety results are indicative of a high level ACROSS 52% of management engagement and leadership throughout the organiOF ACCOUNTS zation, supported by a global team of over 120 health and safety 73 AND MANAGED MILLION LOCATIONS professionals. The deliberate approach we take to refining our processes, procedures and systems helps position us for a future where the health and safety requirements 9 and expectations of our clients, CONSECUTIVE regulators and employees will YEARS ROSPA HAS encourage constant improvement. RECOGNIZED CBRE Creating a health and safety program is easy; implementing the program and delivering health and safety excellence is much more challenging. It takes leadership, commitment, and a shared belief in its value and importance by all members. Once that happens, a culture emerges. NOTICES OF NON-COMPLIANCE In 2013, there were four instances where D. TIM CARTER a regulatory inspection was conducted, but none resulted in any findings or the issuance Vice President, Global HSE of any citations. HEALTH & SAFETY 49% INJURY AND ILLNESS PERFORMANCE ACCOUNTS AND MANAGED LOCATIONS WITHOUT RECORDABLE Health and safety are part of the greater commitment INJURY IN 2013 to responsible, ethical and compliant business practices at CBRE – the commitment to a world-class program in to seek solutions that were not immediately known. Our which a deliberate approach complements and enables emphasis on ladder safety, electrical safety, incidents our company priorities. The upstream indicators of our related to falls, and vehicle safety (fleet drivers) continued culture and commitment are visible in key programs and to be top priority issues in 2013, and the results were posiprocesses; we have seen increases in both the numbers tive in all categories. We are successfully finding ways to of employees participating in training programs and better control the most significant risks that we face. participants in our health and safety network program, The number of accounts and managed locations that are A key industry standard for measuring safety performance maintaining a current and active plan has increased to an is the Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR). In the U.S., all-time high as well. where the vast majority of our self-delivery outsourced services are provided, and where the majority of occupaWhile health and safety performance is generally focused tional hazard exposure is the greatest, CBRE experienced on injury and illness rates, our performance measurement a lower (better) rate of injury 0.72 recordable injuries process is more robust since we also include a variety of per 200,00 worker hours outperforming both our 2013 leading indicators. Measuring the safety results associated performance goal and our performance in this category with certain activities has been enlightening and challengover the previous three years. We believe that this indi$0 ing, exposing issues cates that our purposeful and deliberate approach to TOTAL that weren’t readily injury prevention is effective. In the U.S. alone, 52% of our 2013 recognizable, and PENALTIES accounts and managed locations did not have a recordISSUED has compelled us able injury during the past year, for a combined total of 74 CBRE INJURY PERFORMANCE COMPARED TO U.S. BLS DATA 3.70 3.00 2.80 TRIR 1.10 1.10 0.90 0.72 0.78 0.53 0.35 U. S. AN EA AP LA BA EN AG E EN TA ES E C AD EM AC C L T T TE C N BR A BR LO EM KE PM ES RV I AN E BR E E G R EL SE C C E BR C E AN O O AL NTE BRE C C BR AG BR EV RE AS T AI C C M BL D IAL SE M T S BL C C S ER BL S ITY JE M IL O M FA PR O C S C S BL BL BLS National Averages Source: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (US-BLS) HEALTH & SAFETY #1 CBRE’S SAFETY RANKING HEALTH AND SAFETY AWARDS AND RECOGNITION AGAINST OTHER U.S. COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE FIRMS CBRE was once again the proud recipient of several awards from the prestigious Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents For CBRE, it is even more notable that our global injury (RoSPA), in the UK. In 2013, CBRE was awarded a total of 29 awards from RoSPA nearly three times more than CBRE rate was lower in 2013 at a time when the number of received in 2012. Five of those awards were the prestigious Gold exposure hours increased significantly; there were 15% Medal Award, given to companies who achieve Gold Medals for more exposure hours in 2013, but the overall rate of at least five consecutive years. This was CBRE’s ninth consecutive injury was nearly 2% lower. year receiving this distinction and its first to receive five Gold Medal Awards in one year. CBRE also received nine Gold Awards, 13 Silver Awards, and 2 Bronze Awards in 2013. RoSPA HEALTH AND SAFETY TRAINING Awards recognize companies for developing a strong safety Training is a priority activity of our health and safety culture and demonstrating a socially responsible attitude. platform; our ability to continually improve cannot be realized without it. As we do each year, our health and 22.9 5,667,098 work hours withsafety training approach was enhanced in content and out a recordable injury event. addressed specific subject matter relative to incidents and Throughout our U.S. office trends identified and monitored through our performance locations, CBRE employmeasurement process and employee feedback. In the MILLION HOURS ees worked a combined U.S. alone, where most of our self-delivery services are total of 22,951,113 hours provided, over 14,000 employees utilized CBRE’s online COMBINED HOURS (48.7% of all hours) without training platform, more than twice the 2012 enrollment WORKED WITHOUT A a recordable injury event. of 6,200 users. We also deliver significant hours of trainRECORDABLE INJURY ing related to siteand client-specific health and safety AMONG ACCOUNTS & MANAGED LOCATIONS While the frequency rate requirements, or related to a particular task or location, 75 of lost workday cases and training on topics resulting from lessons learned from increased slightly during 2013 (from 0.30 to 0.34), 71% incident or near-miss events. We also provide general of all accounts and managed locations did not experience safety training programs, employee safety orientation, a lost workday case, for a total of 9,665,421 combined hazard recognition training, weekly and monthly safety work hours without a lost-time injury case. meetings, safe work planning and instruction, and formal training on more complex issues. These are performed The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) provides the best routinely, involving thousands of employees and thouavailable benchmark for a comparative average with sands of hours in training. which to assess our global performance based on the TRIR. CBRE continues to outperform the commercial real 29 2013 ROYAL SOCIETY estate industry in general by a wide margin. The safety FOR THE PREVENTION OF performance of our Facilities Management (FM) group in ACCIDENTS AWARDS the U.S. has improved and is now over three times better than the U.S. national average for FM and our Asset By way of transparent reporting, CBRE does not have Services (AS) group is nearly three times better than the a formal joint management-worker health and safety U.S. national average for AS. Collectively, CBRE in the committee, nor do we have any formal trade union agreeU.S. was 3.9 times better than the U.S. national average ments that cover health and safety topics. for commercial real estate companies, and globally we were more than five and a half times better than the U.S. national average. HEALTH & SAFETY WHAT LIES AHEAD 2014 will feature a combination of new challenges, some related to the exposures directly attributed to our growth as a company, and others related to the new challenges we are creating as we make our health and safety process more rigorous and our performance expectations more demanding. Our fleet safety program initiative will expand as the size of our fleet grows, and we are expanding our emphasis on driver safety to include drivers who may not be counted among our fleet population but occasionally drive on company business. Our approach to contractor safety and health is changing as we begin to implement and improve our contractor selection program structure and performance expectations, including updated requirements and selection criteria. In 2014, we will research health and safety management systems to determine which systems and providers may have the best tools and solutions for CBRE globally. This effort began in 2013 in EMEA, where we implemented a health and safety management system to provide a more effective method of managing regulatory compliance, the results of which currently are being monitored closely. In addition to this, CBRE is looking into other solutions and providers that can offer more than just compliance management. Such solutions might include incident and injury performance tracking tools, claims and incident reporting and management tools, recordkeeping, and others tools that make the process easier 76 to access and manage at the account, office or managed-property level. Our desire to improve our service support and delivery through technology will also feature a new approach to managing ergonomic training, self-assessment and technical support. While our rates of injury do not suggest this to be an area of significant concern, we recognize that there is a hazard exposure that we can significantly reduce before the injury trends indicate that we missed an opportunity. Our EMEA Health & Safety team will achieve OHSAS 18001 accreditation by mid-year 2014. This accomplishment will provide a template for success for use in other global regions. Not only will CBRE possess the accreditation, but we will also be willing mentors for others seeking to achieve this important and challenging program validation. Our global health and safety team members are pursuing initiatives relevant to their regions and their risk exposures as well. As a result, we expect to see more platform development, growth in health and safety resources and overall refinement of programs. We are a safer company today than ever before; the evidence of this can be found in our rates of injury, the health and safety program we have continually refined, and the health and safety tools and resources we have accumulated and enhanced over the years. The health and safety program and platform are positioned to keep pace with our growing company and the expanding portfolio of clients with which we partner and serve. 77 GLOBAL INVESTORS Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) practices are fundamental to the business strategy of CBRE Global Investors, our investor clients, our tenants and the key stakeholders in the communities, properties and funds in which we invest. Because we believe that positive ESG practices can enhance returns and preserve value for our investors, we not only observe our parent company’s ESG policies but also have developed a complementary Corporate Responsibility program to incorporate these considerations throughout the investment process, with a specific emphasis on environmental sustainability. GLOBAL INVESTORS In 2013 we continued to build on the environmental initiatives begun by our Global Green Team, which was established in 2012 to harness best practices in environmental sustainability, enhance knowledge sharing, and expand our sustainable investment approach worldwide by looking for tomorrow’s innovations. The year began with the publication of our Global Sustainability Policy in January, which described our environmental commitment to all employees, outlined clear guidelines to be implemented across our global investment programs, and provided a solid foundation to execute our future initiatives. This Global Sustainability Policy promotes transparency and disclosure on environmental issues, while also recognizing that business requirements vary across regions and investment programs. Through this policy, we will strive to meet goals that are: • client driven by institutional investors who increasingly require measurable and meaningful sustainability initiatives from investment managers; • market driven by tenants required to meet sustainability targets for buildings they occupy; • regulatory driven by local governments that continue to establish 78 regulations for building development and operations that mandate minimum sustainability standards; • competition driven by investment managers who seek to differentiate themselves through meaningful sustainability practices and achieve high rankings in industry-led benchmarks and, • risk driven by the need to mitigate the potential impact of such future external factors as rising energy prices, increased governmental regulation, and owner/tenant sustainability requirements. With buildings generating over 40% of the emissions of CO2, CBRE Global Investors recognizes that, through our investment and asset management activities, we can make a tangible impact on improving energy efficiency, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and slowing climate change. Another way we advanced sustainability in 2013 included participation in CBRE’s Corporate Responsibility Report to demonstrate our commitment to the UN Principles of Responsible Investment (UN PRI), which is one of the key global ESG initiatives required by our investors. A signatory since 2009, we also began working on responding to the UN PRI Reporting Framework as part of UN PRI’s largest disclosure initiative. We also advanced sustainability through significantly In the case of separate accounts, the portfolio managers increased participation in the annual Global Real Estate advise clients on the benefits of sustainable improvements Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) survey. on property operational costs, tenant retention, rental income and transaction costs. Portfolio management The company also shares a global ESG knowledge pool teams, in consultation with the client and in respect of with CBRE and is committed to developing tools and client sustainability requirements and benchmarks, pursue collecting best practices that will provide clients with the environmental certification and/or the highest environfull integration of ESG principles in every investment. For mental standards applicable to the region and asset class. example, as real estate investment managers look to quantify the return on investment of their sustainability initiatives, Factors considered for direct investments include: CBRE Global Investors began working with the EURO Institute of Real Estate Management in 2013 on the devel• Location opment of the CBRE Green Alpha Index as part of CBRE’s • Energy savings Real Green Research Challenge. This comprehensive • Building environmental characteristics (orientation, economic analysis tool measures the value implications of facades, landscape, etc.) green building practices on large institutional real estate portfolios. The index will show where enhanced sustain• The presence of harmful materials or contamination ability pays off in enhanced financial performance and the • Access to public transportation performance gaps of an asset in a portfolio relative to its • Environmental characteristics impacting tenants (lumimarket. With this analysis, managers can effectively focus nosity, olfactory comfort, etc.) their resources on the most viable opportunities for the sustainable management of each individual asset. In looking at our indirect investment programs, the CBRE Global Multi Manager (GMM) team has implemented a Investors are increasingly asking about our commitment to policy to invest in real estate funds where: ESG. In certain fund placement documents, we increasingly refer to responsible investment aspects of our company, • There is a clearly defined investment strategy that takes 79 such as our policy and commitment to responsible investaccount of environmental, social and governance ment. The Company also makes formal commitments in issues in order to deliver superior returns to investors some fund formation contracts, Limited Partnership Agree• There is no intention to encourage or engage in socially ments or in side letters relating to responsible investment irresponsible activities when requested by clients. • The corporate governance provisions meet best pracPRE-INVESTMENT PROCESS tice standards, developed in conjunction with our legal Our policy recommends that investment teams consider team, and the reporting process meets our transparincorporating ESG factors into their investment analysis ency requirements. and decision-making. For direct investments, the due diliGMM uses the annual GRESB survey as a framework to gence checklist includes measurable sustainability factors compare ESG performance across different fund investappropriate to each asset class and the market. Opporments. GMM leverages these results to report on portfolio tunities for green improvements are determined and performance to clients as well as to engage with managers outlined in the investment strategy and capital expenditure to improve their scores, either from a policy or impleprogram on a case-by-case basis. mentation perspective. GRESB results are also used when In the case of funds, we have been educating investment evaluating new investment opportunities. teams to understand the link between the sustainability of Another unit focused on indirect investment programs, a building and its economic returns, encouraging investCBRE Clarion Securities (Clarion), began to formalize its ment managers to pursue environmental certification and/ focus on sustainability issues during the year, including or the highest environmental standards applicable to each adoption of a sustainability policy focused on investments region and asset class. Some funds have even established in publicly traded real estate companies. Clarion believes their own sustainability committees to set strategy and that management teams that measure and act upon improve sustainability performance. sustainability issues are more likely to make superior busiand water reduction solutions within the portfolios. ness decisions in general, reflecting an ability to make decisions that add to shareholder value over time. ThereAs part of our sustainability policy, we are starting to fore Clarion’s policy focuses on corporate governance provide copies of the policy to our vendors, and are workand the commitment by corporate management teams ing toward including provisions in their contracts regarding to sustainability initiatives. This management assessment regarding implementation and reporting of sustainability is an important element of Clarion’s securities selection factors, such as resource consumption data so that we can process. track efficiency during the hold period. We often include green credentials and track record when appointing our GRESB survey results can provide a useful data point to vendors, and we recommend our fund teams monitor and compare ESG performance among companies, and Clarmeasure their green performance and give incentives for ion has taken steps to integrate this type of information outstanding improvements. into its investment process. Participation in the survey by public companies is increasing, and Clarion encourages We encourage tenant engagement by conducting sustaincompanies to participate. As of December 31, 2013, 45% ability awareness training and providing useful feedback of the companies included in Clarion’s flagship global real on tenant consumption. On a limited basis, we have also estate securities strategy (covering 52% of the market capiimplemented a tenant survey and have given certain talization of the investments) had participated in GRESB. tenants the opportunity to participate in a sustainability This compares favorably to the strategy’s benchmark, memorandum of understanding to align the landlord and the FTSE EPRA/NAREIT Developed Index. Only 29% of tenant sustainability commitment. the companies included in the index had participated in Our capital expenditure programs evaluate the possibility GRESB. As the number of participating companies grows, of improving the sustainability level of assets. the GRESB results will become an even more useful tool. For dispositions, hold-sell analyses include sustainability The Green Team, which is led by Pieter Hendrikse, Chief improvements made to each asset and measurable results, Executive Officer EMEA, and includes representatives such as rent growth and tenant retention, appropriate to 80 from various functional teams across each region, advises the asset class and market. investment teams on ESG, and the due diligence team ensures compliance with the company’s ESG policies We also strive to support and educate our joint venture during the acquisition process. Teams also seek input on partners on sustainability issues as applicable and work ESG factors from external environmental, regulatory and to develop and implement measurable sustainable asset legal advisers as part of the acquisition process. management initiatives. POST-INVESTMENT PROCESS As an investor in publicly-traded securities, Clarion can CBRE Global Investors’ commitment to sustainability dispose of investments relatively easily, which makes it easier continues post-acquisition as we understand the importo react to poor performance in relation to sustainability tance of sustainable operations and driving improvement issues. Clarion’s focus on public company management throughout an investment’s lifecycle. Performance is moniteams continues during the time it maintains an investtored and benchmarked using accepted industry standards. ment. Clarion takes seriously its rights as a shareholder and devotes significant attention to corporate governance Investment teams often adopt Environmental Management issues. We treat proxy voting as a fundamental responsiSystems (EMS), Data Management Systems (DMS) and bility, one which can work to affect positive management Waste Management Policy to measure portfolio perforbehavior over time and therefore ultimately contribute to mance, energy and water consumption, waste production, generating economic value to shareholders. We therefore greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and to set long-term exercise voting rights using a disciplined process. In 2013 reduction targets. Teams usually perform technical buildClarion voted on 97% of all ballot items; our voting record ing assessments to identify energy efficiency opportunities is available to clients upon request. 2013 ACCOMPLISHMENTS on par with the benchmark score with equivalent exposure. GMM is keen to increase the GRESB participation In 2013, CBRE Global Investors, CBRE Clarion Securities rate, and GMM’s standard provisions require all new fund and GMM joined GRESB and expanded adoption of the investments to participate in the annual GRESB survey. GRESB survey to benchmark sustainability performance of our portfolios. We also acquired two seats on the Advisory Across the company’s investment programs, our assets Board and Benchmark Committee. The membership gives have been awarded with most of the main Green Buildus an opportunity to share expertise in sustainability, and ing certifications, including BOMA360, BREEAM, CASBEE, it provides more in-depth analysis on the sustainability DGNB, Energy Star, Green Rating, Green Rating, HQE, performance of our portfolios. ISO 14001, LEED and BBC certifications. As part of our enhanced involvement with GRESB, 30 direct Other 2013 successes included: funds participated in its survey in 2013, which represented a significant increase over 2012. Five of these funds were • The Property Fund Central Europe and Property Fund awarded Green Stars, which recognize active implemenCentral and Eastern Europe became the first green tation of sustainability policies throughout an investment real estate investment funds in the CEE region, with program. Other GRESB highlights included: more than 80% of the properties earning a BREEAM In-Use certification, thanks to collaboration with CBRE’s • The CBRE Dutch Residential Fund was ranked as the Sustainability Services EMEA. most sustainable residential fund globally and the • 86% of the Strategic Partners U.S. portfolio is leader in its peer group LEED-certified • The CBRE Dutch Office Fund was ranked the most • 80% of one of our U.S. separate account client portsustainable office fund in its peer group, third overall folios is LEED-certified, while 95% of that portfolio is fund in Europe and the eighth most sustainable fund Energy Star rated. out of the 543 participating globally • The CBRE Dutch Retail Fund ranked first in its peer CORPORATE OPERATIONS 81 group and 23 out of 292 in the region As part of our commitment to sustainability we need to • The CBRE Retail Property Fund Ibérica ranked third in its ensure that the offices we occupy meet the same high stanpeer group and 12TH overall in Europe dards that we aim to achieve in our portfolios. Therefore, we have put initiatives in place to reduce our energy, water • The CBRE Strategic Partners US Value 5 fund ranked and other resource consumption, reduce waste, and use eighth in its peer group and 20 out of 115 in its region renewable or recyclable materials. During 2013 we continued to implement and advance procurement standards Of the CBRE Global Investors funds participating for a that incorporate sustainable best practices for furniture, second year, almost half made improvements in Managepaper, office supplies, computer equipment, printing ment and Policy, and more than half improved their scores devices and other relevant items. One particularly notafor Implementation and Measures as well as their overble example of reducing consumption in our operations all score. And based on these GRESB results, with a 27% was an agreement with Dutch airline KLM that supports its improvement over 2012 and as the highest scoring Dutch sustainable biofuel program. participant, our Dutch business won the Green Brick award as the most sustainable real estate investment manager in Additionally, we are implementing CBRE’s Towards a the Netherlands. Greener Tomorrow office certification program for all CBRE Global Investors offices. This program looks at how On the indirect side, of the 196 fund investments that GMM we use our offices, what type of sustainable initiatives are manages, 116 participated in the GRESB Survey in 2013, in place, and what can be worked towards. The results will reflecting a 59% response rate, with 12 of these funds be benchmarked against the CBRE certification program awarded the top-rated Green Star. Based on a weighted and each office will be given feedback about strong average of the results, GMM’s overall portfolio score was performance as well as areas of improvement. We also expanded our efforts to educate employees about In 2013, CBRE Global Investors employees in the U.S. our environmental commitment and their role in helping actively supported two key philanthropic and community achieve our goals. One of the highlights was the launch initiatives sponsored by the CBRE Foundation: of our first Global Green Week, an event that enabled colleagues to learn more about sustainable property, • Build Month – The Los Angeles office and the CBRE the environmental issues impacting our clients and how Clarion office in Radnor, Pennsylvania raised money we can build a greener approach into the way we live to benefit Habitat for Humanity, with employees in and work. During Global Green Week, we encouraged Los Angeles also rolling up their sleeves to help with employees to take such simple steps as: construction of a home. • Birthday Cakes for Homeless Employees in Los Ange• Avoid printing by using laptops or other technology les made birthdays brighter for more than 30 homeless during meetings and proofreading electronically children in a nearby homeless shelter in 2013 by deliv• Eliminate paper invitations and other print memos by ering personalized cakes on their special day. using email In addition, Clarion employees participated in their • Set copier and printer drivers to print double-sided two annual holiday charity drive, this year collecting $1,000 in • Use reusable water bottles or coffee cups cash and several bins of clothing and household items for • Turn off lights when leaving a conference room or the Bethesda Project, which benefits the homeless in the unused space Philadelphia area. Clarion employees also led their own individual charitable efforts in the office via denim days • Turn off devices that are not in use before leaving the throughout the year, raising money for Children’s Hospital office of Philadelphia, Susan G. Komen Foundation, The PancreSOCIAL ISSUES atic Cancer Action Network, St. Christopher’s Hospital and Educate Liberia. Social responsibility practices are essential to the company’s business strategy as we seek to invest with responsibility and Employees in EMEA participated in charitable activities, 82 integrity. One of CBRE Global Investors’ keystones is our including the following: reliability and our relentless pursuit of performance, integrity and value on behalf of our investors. Each employee • A team of eight employees cycled from London to is equipped and expected to deliver this Culture of PerforCannes as part of the Cycle 2 Cannes Challenge and mance by living out our Corporate Values every day. raised £26,300 for charities, including UK children’s charity Coram. Our objective is to create and sustain a work environment • The UK Social Committee organized activities raising defined by collaboration, communication, diversity, trainaround £8,000 to support charities including Comic ing and development. As part of creating such a work Relief and The Trussell Trust. environment, we developed a global job architecture framework to give employees a clear picture of various • Seven employees from the Prague office ran the Hervis career paths within the company. Additionally we particHalf Marathon and raised €890 for a charity for chilipated in CBRE’s Organizational Health Index survey to dren with genetic metabolic diseases capture employees’ opinions globally about our leadership, the company’s direction, and how we are performing as both a business and an employer and are now using those results to guide future strategies. GOVERNANCE ISSUES out the consent of senior management and the Global The Company’s corporate and investment operations Chief Compliance Officer. In addition, all investment are overseen by a Global Executive Committee, Global professionals must disclose to senior management and Investment Committee, Global Risk Committee and three the Compliance Department any personal investments in Regional Investment Committees. These committees work third-party funds, partnerships, joint ventures, individual together to ensure the proper execution of our investment commercial real estate assets, or otherwise that may have strategies, to consistently apply our investment manageoverlapping investment objectives with any CBRE Global ment processes at the global and regional levels, and to Investors investment programs. ensure compliance with regulatory requirements in each On the indirect side, GMM seeks to implement strong region in which the Company invests. governance provisions in fund documentation and requires The Regional Investment Committees review new fund and managers to not participate in socially irresponsible or illeclient proposals, fund and portfolio investment strategies, gal activities as part of its commitments to the UNPRI. investment structuring, and all major acquisitions, financINDUSTRY INVOLVEMENT ing, asset management and disposition activities for direct property investments in the applicable region. To enhance CBRE Global Investors has commitments to of the following the decision-making process, each committee engages an organizations to help promote acceptance and implemenindependent member who is not employed by the Firm. tation of sustainable practices: Being autonomous from the organization and investment • United Nations Principle for Responsible Investment teams allows the independent member to provide a neutral, yet direct, assessment of potential investments. This forum • Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change is created to elicit discussions about potential investments • Sustainable Building Alliance that may not have occurred without an independent opin• Green Rating Alliance ion and to improve the quality of the Investment Committee meetings and the analysis of transactions. • International Sustainability Alliance 83 • Urban Land Institute CBRE Global Investors holds our personnel to a high standard of integrity and business practice. In serving our • Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark investors and clients, we strive to avoid conflicts of inter• SIRE: Sustainable Investment in Real Estate est and the appearance of conflicts in connection with • BOMA Building Owners and Managers Association our investment activities and our personnel. We have the responsibility to render professional, continuous, and unbi• Dutch Green Building Council (including the BREEAM in ased investment advice, and therefore adopted a code of Use Advisory Council) ethics that is designed to emphasize and implement these • Association of Dutch Investors in Real Estate Sustainabilfundamental principles to mitigate such conflicts of interity Taskforce est and avoid any potential incentive to direct business to CBRE on behalf of client accounts. The Company is proactive in collaborating with other industry colleagues through these organizations and For example, CBRE Global Investors has a policy prohibin highlighting our partnerships in company marketing iting employees from being financially rewarded in any materials, industry publications and conferences to further way for fees paid to affiliates and owning CBRE stock withadvance environmental and social activities. 84 TRAMMELL CROW COMPANY TRAMMELL CROW COMPANY GREEN FROM THE GROUND UP DANIEL QUEENAN fits for our financial partners and Chief Executive Officer meet the long-term objectives of our Trammell Crow Company tenants, employees and the commubelieves green buildings make Well before “environmenmore efficient use of various nities in which we live. tal sustainability” became resources, including energy, a catch phrase, Trammell TCC is committed to the continued water and materials, while reducCrow Company (TCC) expansion of its expertise in enviing the impacts on human health had recognized that ronmental sustainability, to making and the environment. Choosing prudent environmental stewardship sustainability an important part of the best approach to achievwas a fundamental social and ethical our business, and to ensuring that ing these efficiencies, such as corporate responsibility. As a leader our clients and financial partners optimal site selection, design, in commercial real estate develophave access to TCC’s best practices construction, operation, mainment, TCC uniquely understood the in sustainable planning, design and tenance and removal, will help impact of the built environment on construction for each project. Our create value for our clients our communities. goal is to build value with comprehensive, integrated building solutions For over eight years, TCC has been to corporate responsibility, with envithat are attentive to the environment, incorporating sustainability guideronmental stewardship central to our 85 the health of the occupants and the lines and practices into numerous brands. Our knowledge leadership needs of our investors. projects in all product types that in new development directly complecomprise our core business, as well as Trammell Crow Company, founded ments CBRE’s initiatives to advance formally establishing a sustainability in 1948, is one of the nation’s the performance of existing buildinitiative and making environmental leading developers and invesings in the built environment. As a stewardship integral to our brand. tors in commercial real estate. The commercial developer on the cutting Today we have completed 20 million Company has developed or acquired edge of new technologies, we bring square feet of LEED certified/sustainnearly 2,600 buildings valued at direct insight into how the design able projects across a broad spectrum nearly $60 billion comprising over and use of commercial buildings can of product and geographies, and 540 million square feet. TCC’s teams dramatically reduce impacts on the are currently working on or actively are dedicated to building value for its environment as compared to past pursuing over 20 million square feet clients with professionals in 16 major designs and practices. As an industry of projects targeted for LEED certificities throughout the United States. leader, we make it our responsibility cation or with significant sustainable The company serves users of and to inform our clients of best pracdesign considerations. investors in, office, industrial, retail, tices gleaned from our experience, healthcare, multi-family residential the options available to them and Knowledge leadership is central to and mixed-use projects. For those the benefits gained through intelliour brand and business model. We who occupy real estate, TCC can gent building design practices. Our pursue environmentally responsiexecute the development or acquiemployees share the same passion to ble building solutions because they sition of facilities tailored to meet its insure improved quality of life in our generate long-term economic beneclients’ needs. For investor clients, communities for generations to come. 20MSF the company offers large strategic joint ventures, opportunity funds, and As climate change continues to other targeted investment options. be a public issue and client and investor demands for sustainable CBRE’s acquisition of TCC 2006 was development continue to rise, TCC is SUSTAINABLE PROJECTS a perfect fit of two firms committed proactively responding to this trend and need. Through state-of-the-art design and construcECONOMIC PERFORMANCE tion, active engagement with suppliers and benchmarking • Limit development burden on land our performance, we continue our drive to be the industry leader in environmental best practices. • Develop and promote sustainable buildings & practices • Contribute to social, economic and physical benefits of Central to our business strategy is leveraging our knowlour clients, partners, tenants and communities edge base and advancing the skills sets and education of our employees. We have in place: ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS • A national task force comprised of senior development • Enhance & protect ecosystems & biodiversity managers representing and supporting the market area • Improve air & water quality of each group president • Reduce solid waste • Management reporting and tracking via our in-house • Conserve natural resources information platform providing a comprehensive database of the scope and scale of our sustainable projects TENANT BENEFITS • A focus on the continuing education of our employees • Increase employee productivity • An initiative to document best practices to further lever• Improve employee satisfaction age our knowledge base ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS • Representation on CBRE’s Global Sustainability Steering Committee, ensuring we leverage our collective • Reduce operating costs company knowledge leadership • Enhance asset value and profits ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY • Optimize life-cycle economic performance • Respect and preserve the environment HEALTH AND COMMUNITY BENEFITS 86 • Conserve energy, water & non-renewable natural • Improve thermal & acoustic environments resources • Enhance occupant comfort & health • Create healthy indoor environments • Minimize strain on local infrastructure • Contribute to quality of life PROJECT SQ. FT. TYPE LOCATION LEED CERTIFICATION FMC Technologies, Inc. 1,763,926 Industrial Houston Gold I-215 Logistics Center 1,254,000 Industrial SoCal-Newport Beach Silver Knox Logistics Center 1,210,291 Industrial SoCal-Newport Beach Certified Energy Center Three and Four 1,146,313 Office Houston Gold Brickyard Commerce 1,008,000 Industrial SoCal-Los Angeles Silver Denver Union Station 1,000,000 Civic Denver Certified Noble Energy Center One and Two 967,000 Office Houston Gold Interstate 20 887,810 Industrial DFW Silver Hess Tower 844,763 Office Houston Platinum TCC-Penn Distribution Center 823,379 Industrial DFW Registered Mountain Creek Distribution Center 700,000 Industrial NE Metro Certified 161 @ Pioneer Phase 1, 161 @ Pioneer Phase 2 603,354 Industrial DFW Silver Ralph L. Carr Colorado Judicial Center 600,000 Civic Denver Gold Green Water, Block 1 507,855 Residential Austin Silver Shops at Dakota Crossing 430,000 Retail MidAtlantic Silver Cleantech Manufacturing Center 368,468 Industrial SoCal-Los Angeles Silver SUSTAINABILITY PROJECT SUMMARY INNOVATIONVILLAGE INNOVATION VILLAGE RESEARCH RESEARCH PARK: PARK: PHASE 4 4 PHASE 3 INNOVATION 3 INNOVATIONWAY, WAY,PONOMA, PONOMA, CACA 123,000 SF 12 123,000 SF––33STORIES STORIES || C CLASS LASS “A”“A” –– O FFICE BBUILDING OFFICE BUILD-TO-SUIT UILDING BUILD -TO-SUIT CHALLENGE In mid-2009, Trammell Crow Company’s Southern California CHALLENGE Business Unit was selected as the developer to design, entitle, and In mid-2009, Trammell Crow Company’s Southern California Business Unit construct was selected a state-of-the-art as the Developer office building to design, toand entitle, house Southern construct Califora state of the nia Edison’s (SCE) Transmission Business Unit. art office building to house Southern California Edison’s (SCE) Transmission The project is part two Business Unit. The project is part two of a of a two-phase development constructed by TCC for SCE at Innovatwo-phase development constructed tion VillagebyResearch TCC for SCEPark.at Innovation Village Research Park. GOAL GOAL To develop a highly sustainable, LEED Gold project that would conserve To develop a highly sustainable, LEED Gold project that would energy, water, and non-renewable natural resources. QUICK QUICKFACTSFACTS conserve energy, water, and non-renewable natural resources. LOCATION: LOCATION: Los Angeles County, CA Los Angeles County, CA STRATEGY STRATEGY • Implement some form of onsite renewable energy. SITE: 6.5 Acres Implement • Control storm waterform some runoff on-site ofwhile renewable recharging localenergy. ground water. SITE: 6.5 acres OWNER/TENANT: Southern California Edison • Reduce on site water consumption by at least 20%. • Control storm water runoff while recharging local ground water. • Reduce the building’s overall energy consumption by 20%. OWNER/TENANT: Southern California Edison PROJECT START: 1/2010 • • Improve Reduce on the site comfort waterand well-being ofby consumption theatbuilding’s least 20%. occupants through the use of enhanced indoor air quality practices. PROJECT COMPLETE: START: 2010 6/2011 • Reduce • Install a high the building’s overallsystem efficiency glazing energy would yieldbyan20%. consumption which increased “R” 87 value for the building’s exterior wall, thus • Improve the comfort and well-being of the building’s occupants improving performance of the COMPLETE: ARCHITECT: 2011 MacDavid Aubort & Associates building’s HVAC system. through the use of enhanced indoor air quality practices. CONTRACTOR: ARCHITECT: Severson, Millie andAubort MacDavid Inc. & Associates RESULT • Install a high efficiency glazing system which would yield an • Utilized increased various LEED EcoCharrettes “R” value for the building’s and conducted a Renewable exterior wall, Energy thus improving SURFACE PARKING: CONTRACTOR: 452 and Millie 4/1000 Inc. carsSeverson, on usf Study leading to the selection of a thin film panel roof top photo voltaic performance (PV) system. of the building’s HVAC system. SUSTAINABILITY: LEED® Gold Certified (NC v2.2) SURFACE PARKING: 452 cars 4/1000 on usf o System provides 122,000 kWh of energy per year, or RESULT approximately 10% of the building’s estimated yearly electrical ESTIMATED ADDITIONAL +/$800k or $6.50/GSF SUSTAINABILITY: COST: LEED Gold Certified (NC v2.2) • Utilizedusage, various andLEED EcoCharrettes results and conducted in an annual energy cost savings a Renewable of Energyapproximately Study leading$62,000 to the selection per year. of a thin film panel rooftop ESTIMATED +/$800K or $6.50/GSF • Controlled photo voltaic storm(PV)water runoff while recharging the local ground water by system. ADDITIONAL COST: PV SYSTEM ROI ANALYSIS – 25 YEARS installing infiltration swales. • System provides 122,000 kWh of energy per year, or approxi• Installed low flow landscape irrigation systems and plumbing fixtures Estimated PV System SYSTEM Installed ROI Cost $ – 25 YEARS ANALYSIS $490,000 mately 10% of the building’s estimated yearly electrical usage, resulting in a facility that utilizes 30% less water. Estimated Federal Tax Credit (30%) (147,000) and results in an annual energy cost savings of approximately • Installed highly efficient roof top HVAC units and a roof top PV system Estimated System Installed Estimated Accelerated Cost $ Depreciation $490,000 (137,200) $62,000 per year.energy consumption by over 35%. (28%) reducing the building’s Estimated Federal Tax Credit Estimated Performance Based (30%) -147,0000 Controlled • Increased storm water ventilation runoff while by installing rechargingand CO2 monitoring local ground theutilizing low-VOC Incentive Estimated water by installing materials. infiltration swales. EstimatedAccelerated Net SystemDepreciation Cost $ (28%) -137,200 $205,800 • Increased occupant comfort through the use of individual and multi-mode Estimated Performance-based Incentive 0 • Installed low flow landscape irrigation systems and plumbing lighting controls and a design that allows optimal natural light penetration. Estimated 25 Year Energy Savings $ ($746,465) fixtures resulting in a facility that utilizes 30% less water. Estimated Net System Cost $ Estimated 25 Year Operational Costs $205,800 $68,065 $ • Installed highly efficient rooftop HVAC units and a rooftop PV Estimated 25 Year Energy Savings $ ($746,465) Estimated 25 Year Net System ($678,400) system reducing the building’s energy consumption by over 35%. Savings $25 Year Operational Costs $ Estimated $68,065 • Increased ventilation by installing CO2 monitoring and utilizing Estimated Estimated2525Year YearNet System Return onSavings Net $ ($678,400) 229.6% low-VOC materials. System Cost Estimated 25 Year Return on Net System Cost 229.60% • Increased occupant comfort through the use of individual and multi-mode lighting controls and a design that allows optimal natural light penetration. CONTINUING EDUCATION TCC employees are actively involved in various community TCC’s commitment to knowledge leadership in sustainable and charitable organizations throughout the U.S., including: design and development is core to our principles, respon• Alexandria Seaport Foundation sibilities and brand. The growth of our pipeline with our • American Heart Association recovering economy underscores our need to have train• American Red Cross ing and capabilities at the forefront of our strategic focus to best serve our clients and investors, and to maintain • Boys & Girls Club of Metro Phoenix our commitment to our employees. The company currently • Big Brothers & Sisters has 25 LEED APs and recently completed its most recent • Brighter Day Care, Inc. Sustainable Education Initiative. • Center for Hearing and Speech • Center for Innovative School Facilities • Charles C. Gates Center for Regenerative Medicine and Stem Cell Biology It is our goal to have ALL active development • Child Advocates Volunteer managers or development management • Children’s Hospital Foundation supervisors LEED Accredited to advance our • Chrysalis Shelter for Domestic Violence • City for Good knowledge leadership, and to assure the best • Colorado Children’s Hospital guidance to future projects. • Colorado Outward Bound School • Elevate Oregon BOB ABBERGER • Facilitating Leadership in Youth Senior Managing Director and • Food and Friends Chief Sustainability Officer • First Tee of Washington DC 88 • Griese Foundation’s Judi’s House • Habitat for Humanity • Horses for Heroes COMMUNITIES AND GIVING • Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation At Trammell Crow Company, we approach our commit• Kids on the Block ment to community service and philanthropy with the same • Lake Oswego School Foundation enthusiasm and creativity as we approach our business. Our professionals are dedicated to bettering the commu• Make-A-Wish Foundation nities where they live and work, and we continue, as a firm, • Maryland Therapeutic Riding to build on that passion for assisting those in need. • Military Family Lifestyle Charitable Foundation, Inc. • Moorestown CASA Inherent in our position as one of the nation’s largest devel• Moorestown Safe Ride Program opers, is the responsibility to engage our resources and professionals to better our communities. As such, commu• National Down Syndrome Congress nity service and volunteerism remains at the forefront of • Orange County Children’s Theatre our corporate accountability agenda. We recognize that • PACE supporting the personal charitable endeavors of our • Parent Project Muscular Dystrophy employees increases morale, aids talent retention, contrib• Philadelphia Futures utes to overall job satisfaction and, most importantly, • Portland Public Schools Long Range Plan fosters a healthy work-life balance. Advisory Committee TCC • Portland Schools Real Estate Trust KNOWLEDGE • Ronald McDonald Charities MANAGEMENT • Salvation Army • Social Venture Partners Dallas • University of Georgia Mentor • Via Colori • Violence Prevention Program 89 REPORTING INDEX REPORTING INDEX STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: PROFILE DISCLOSURES STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Profile Level of Location of Disclosure Disclosure Reporting disclosure 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. Fully 3 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Fully 3,4-6 ORGANIZATION PROFILE Profile Level of Location of Disclosure Disclosure Reporting disclosure 2.1 Name of the organization. Fully 4 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Fully 4-5 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, Fully 4-5 subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. Fully 4 90 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major Fully 4-5 operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully 4 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/ Fully 4 beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Fully 4-5 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. Fully 5 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Fully 7 REPORT PARAMETERS Profile Level of Location of Disclosure Disclosure Reporting disclosure 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. Fully 6 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Fully 5 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Fully 5 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Fully 6 * This indicator has been partially addressed. Data and/or other resources needed to fully address this indicator are not currently available. As our data systems and other resources evolve, we plan to provide additional detail and work toward fully addressing the indicator. REPORTING INDEX STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: PROFILE DISCLOSURES REPORT PARAMETERS Profile Level of Location of Disclosure Disclosure Reporting disclosure 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully 5 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, Fully 6 suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness principle Fully 6-May for explanation of scope). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and Fully 6 other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and Fully 5, 6 techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the Fully 5 reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature 91 of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement Fully 5 methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. Fully 90 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Fully 5 GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS, AND ENGAGEMENT Profile Level of Location of Disclosure Disclosure Reporting disclosure 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance Fully 5, 66-71 body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. Fully 68 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members Fully 47, 68 of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the Fully 70 highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, Fully 69 and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Fully 69 REPORTING INDEX STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: PROFILE DISCLOSURES GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS, AND ENGAGEMENT Profile Level of Disclosure Disclosure Reporting Location of disclosure 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and Fully 68-69 expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, Fully 60, 67 codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing Fully 68-69 the organization's identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's Fully 69 92 own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary Fully 69 approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and Fully GRI and UNGC Principles 5, Office social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the certification programs 12, Client services organization subscribes or endorses. based on external programs 15-19, UNPRI 79, Charitable initiatives supported 41-44, Diversity programs supported 47-48, Women's Compact 49 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) Fully LEED advocacy in client service 15, and/or national/international advocacy organizations in Environmental membership and advocacy which the organization: * Has positions in governance 21-24, Charitable engagements, bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides memberships and sponsorships 41-44, CREW substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * 49 Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Fully 5, 70 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with Fully 5, 70 whom to engage. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including Fully 5, 70 frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through Partially 70 stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. REPORTING INDEX STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH (DMAS) CRESS DMAs Disclosure Level of Reporting Location of disclosure DMA EC DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH EC Aspects Economic Performance Fully 4 Market presence Fully 4-5 Indirect Economic Impacts Fully 4-5 DMA EN Aspects Materials Fully 9-14 Energy Fully 9-14, 25 Water Partially 25 Biodiversity Fully 26 Emissions, effluents and waste Fully 26 Land Degradation, Contamination and Remediation Fully 26 Products and Services Fully 26 93 Compliance Fully 25-26 Transport Fully 14 Overall Fully 8-26 DMA LA DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH LA Aspects EmploymentCOMM Fully 45-58 Labor/management relations Fully 45-58 Occupational Health and SafetyCOMM Fully 72-75 Training and EducationCOMM Fully 20, 54-56, 62 Diversity and equal opportunityCOMM Fully 47-49 Equal remuneration for women and men Not REPORTING INDEX STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH (DMAS) CRESS DMAs Disclosure Level of Reporting Location of disclosure DMA HR DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH HR Aspects Investment and procurement practices Fully 13-14, 77-81 Non-discrimination Fully 50 Freedom of association and collective bargaining Fully 50 Child Labor Fully 50 Prevention of forced and compulsory labor Fully 50 Security Practices Fully 72-76 Indigenous rights Not Assessment Not Remediation Not DMA SO DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH SO Aspects Local communitiesCOMM Fully 27-44 94 CorruptionCOMM Fully 62-63 Public policy Fully 64 Anti-competitive behaviorCOMM Fully 63 Compliance Fully 59-65 DMA PR DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH PR Aspects Customer health and safetyCOMM Partially 72-74 Product and service labellingCOMM Partially 4-5 Marketing communications Not Customer privacy Fully 62 Compliance Fully 58-64 REPORTING INDEX STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Indicator Disclosure Level of Reporting Location of disclosure ECONOMIC ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, Fully • operating costs including employee including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation: CBRE Group, Inc. 2013 Annual compensation, donations and other community Report, Selected Financial Data, page 36, investments, retained earnings, and payments to downloadable at ir.cbre.com capital providers and governments. • donations and other community investments: 55 • payments to capital providers and governments: CBRE Group, Inc. 2013 Annual Report, Selected Financial Data, page 36, downloadable at ir.cbre.com • retained earnings (EBITDA): CBRE Group, Inc. 2013 Annual Report, Selected Financial Data, page 36, downloadable at ir.cbre.com EC2 Financial implications and other risks and Fully Financial commitment to Academic Collaboration opportunities for the organization's activities due 25, Opportunities through service provision to climate change and other sustainability issues. 15-19, Opportunities to impact climate change discourse and policy, 21-24 95 EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit Not Information not available plan obligations. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from Not Information not available government. ECONOMIC MARKET PRESENCE EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by Fully 50-51 gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on Not Information not available locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of Partially 49 senior management and all direct employees, contractors and sub-contractors hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. ECONOMIC INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure Fully 25, 27-44 investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect Fully 27-44 economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. REPORTING INDEX STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Level of Location of Indicator Disclosure Reporting disclosure ENVIRONMENTAL MATERIALS EN1 Materials used by weight, value or volume. Partially 25-26, Not material to CBRE's operations EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled and reused input materials. Partially 26 ENVIRONMENTAL ENERGY EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Fully 26 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Partially 26 CRE1 Building energy intensity. Not EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Fully 13 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, Fully 15-19 and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. 96 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. Fully 15-17, 19 ENVIRONMENTAL WATER EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Partially 26 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Fully 26 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Fully 26 CRE2 Building water intensity. Not Information not available ENVIRONMENTAL BIODIVERSITY EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and Fully 26 areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in Fully 26 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Fully 26 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. Fully 26 EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in Fully 26 areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. REPORTING INDEX STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Level of Location of Indicator Disclosure Reporting disclosure ENVIRONMENTAL EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS AND WASTE EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Fully 26 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Fully 26 CRE3 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from buildings. Partially 26, Reported in CDP CRE4 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from new construction and redevelopment activity. Partially 26, Reported in CDP EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. Fully 13 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Fully 26 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Fully 26 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Fully 26 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Partially 26 97 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Fully 26 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under Fully 26 the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats Fully 26 significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. ENVIRONMENTAL LAND DEGRADATION, CONTAMINATION AND REMEDIATION CRE5 Land and other assets remediated and in need of remediation for the existing or intended Partially 26 land use according to applicable legal designations. ENVIRONMENTAL PRODUCTS AND SERVICES EN26 Initiatives to enhance efficiency and mitigate environmental impacts of products and Fully 9, 10-11, 12, services, and extent of impact mitigation. 13-14, 15-19 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. Fully 26 ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for Fully 26 non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. ENVIRONMENTAL TRANSPORT EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials Fully 26 used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. ENVIRONMENTAL OVERALL EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. Fully 25 REPORTING INDEX STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Level of Location of Indicator Disclosure Reporting disclosure SOCIAL: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK EMPLOYMENT LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by Partially 47 gender. LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, Partially 49 gender, and region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time Fully 52-53 employees, by major operations. LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. Partially 53 SOCIAL: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Fully 50 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it Partially 50 is specified in collective agreements. SOCIAL: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 98 LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and Fully 75 safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of workFully 73-75 related fatalities by region and by gender. CRE6 Percentage of the organization operating in verified compliance with an internationally Partially recognized health and safety management system. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist Fully 73 workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Fully 74 SOCIAL: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK TRAINING AND EDUCATION LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. Partially 73 LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued Fully 50 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, Fully 54 by gender. SOCIAL: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category Partially 47-48 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. SOCIAL: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by Not Information significant locations of operation. not tracked REPORTING INDEX STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Indicator Disclosure Level of Reporting Location of disclosure SOCIAL: HUMAN RIGHTS INVESTMENT AND PROCUREMENT PRACTICES HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and Not Information not contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that tracked have undergone human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that Not Information not have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. tracked HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning Partially 62 aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. SOCIAL: HUMAN RIGHTS NON-DISCRIMINATION HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. Partially 63 SOCIAL: HUMAN RIGHTS FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise Fully 50 freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. 99 SOCIAL: HUMAN RIGHTS CHILD LABOR HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for Fully 50 incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. SOCIAL: HUMAN RIGHTS PREVENTION OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOR HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for Fully 50 incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. SOCIAL: HUMAN RIGHTS SECURITY PRACTICES HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or Fully 50 procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. SOCIAL: HUMAN RIGHTS INDIGENOUS RIGHTS HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people Not Not material to and actions taken. CBRE's operations SOCIAL: HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human Not Not material to rights reviews and/or impact assessments. CBRE's operations SOCIAL: HUMAN RIGHTS REMEDIATION HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved Fully 63 through formal REPORTING INDEX STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Indicator Disclosure Level of Reporting Location of disclosure SOCIAL: SOCIETY LOCAL COMMUNITIES SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, Not Not material to impact assessments, and development programs. CBRE's operations SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative and positive impacts on Not Not material to local communities. CBRE's operations SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant Not Not material to potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. CBRE's operations CRE7 Number of persons voluntarily and involuntarily displaced and/or resettled by Not Not material to development, broken down by project. CBRE's operations SOCIAL: SOCIETY CORRUPTION SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to Partially 62-63 corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and Fully 62 procedures. 100 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Fully 63 SOCIAL: SOCIETY PUBLIC POLICY SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and Fully 64 lobbying. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, Fully 64 and related institutions by country. SOCIAL: SOCIETY ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and Fully 63 monopoly practices and their outcomes. SOCIAL: SOCIETY COMPLIANCE SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary Fully 64 sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. REPORTING INDEX STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Indicator Disclosure Level of Reporting Location of disclosure SOCIAL: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services Fully 72-76 are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Fully 63 codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. SOCIAL: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELLING PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and Not Not material to percentage of significant products and services subject to such information CBRE's operations requirements. CRE8 Type and number of sustainability certification, rating and labeling schemes for Fully Occupancy 10-11, new construction, management, occupation and redevelopment. Services 15-19, CBREGI 81, TCC 85 PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Not Not material to 101 codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of CBRE's operations outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys Not Information not measuring customer satisfaction. tracked SOCIAL: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related Not Information not to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and available sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Not Information not codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, available promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. SOCIAL: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY CUSTOMER PRIVACY PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer Fully 63 privacy and losses of customer data. SOCIAL: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY COMPLIANCE PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and Fully 63 regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. REPORTING INDEX UN GLOBAL COMPACT TEN PRINCIPLES Principle Location of disclosure HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed 50, 62, 63 human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 63 LABOUR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the 50 right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 50 Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and 50 Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 47-48, 50, 63 ENVIRONMENT 102 Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 9-26 Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9-26 Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 15-19, 25 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion 62-64 and bribery. 103 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT WWW.CBRE.COM/RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY@CBRE.COM
