 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer  Statement of the company's chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles.  To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Blue Public Relations reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Carlos Alberto Silva Human Rights  Assessment, policy and goals  Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights.  Written company policy on respecting Human Rights and preventing potential abuses (e.g. in code of conduct) this has been concluded and shared with employees Policy encouraging business partners, clients and suppliers to adhere to the Global Compact principles on Human Rights Assessment of Human Rights related risks in the activities the company deals with (press relations, corporate communications strategies and services, and media monitoring clipping and reports) Last year goals in the area of Human Rights were: to reserve an area on our website to provide information on all Global Compact issues, including Human Rights; to include news about communication campaigns in Human Rights in our blog and newsletter sent to stakeholders.  Implementation  Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations.  There is a suggestion box in the office and every employee is encouraged to raise Global Compact issues whenever they feel it is necessary. Bi-monthly staff meetings have a room for discussion of Global Compact issues.  Measurement of outcomes  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance.  We have already included some pieces of news on Human Rights campaigns (focussing on their communication angle) in our weekly electronic newsletter, which continues to be sent to around 1,800 contacts. The same newsletter is posted in our blog, where the monthly number of views varies from 900 to 1,100. This shows that our newsletter is a good channel to promote the Global Compact, as well as our website. The latter now brings the Global Compact logo and link to its portal on the home page. We have also encouraged clients to include a Human Rights perspective in some of the articles we write for their internal and external media vehicles. As a result, we have had specific articles approaching Women's Rights and Diversity both in companies in the private sector and NGOs published. Labour  Assessment, policy and goals  Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights.  The company had committed itself to streamline communications on labour issues and rights, clarifying hiring procedures and benefits to all, including professionals hired on a project basis and outsourced services.  Implementation  Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations.  All employees continue to be entitled to medical insurance. All employees continue to be encouraged to practice exercise and get reimbursed for payment of gym and sports services they use. A six-month paid maternity leave is offered to employees, regardless of their occupation as required by law.  There are no restrictions on time needed for treatment of physical and mental health and well-being. Employees can go to doctors, dentists, psychologists, hospitals and clinics whenever they have to and are not required to compensate the hours needed for such activities.  All employees continue to be encouraged to practice volunteer work outside of office hours to contribute to the social development.  All thirty employees continue getting day off on birthday.  Measurement of outcomes  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance.  Productivity has raised by 20% and staff has learned new skills. Environment  Assessment, policy and goals  Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection.  The company goals towards sustainability involved not only the promotion of internal initiatives in the subject, but also the inclusion of events and communication actions for clients with a focus in the environment. Institutional communications include sustainability messages.  Implementation  Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents.  The company has also encouraged international counterparts to engage in the planning process of environmental-friendly events in communications, such as a press and business tour to Germany, to learn more about green buildings and set up partnership with local companies in the area of sustainable construction.  Measurement of outcomes  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance.  A raise in awareness of ecological/ sustainable issues by clients and stakeholders, who have been asking us to provide them with information on the Global Compact and similar initiatives. Anti-Corruption  Assessment, policy and goals  Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption.  The company has a zero-tolerance for corruption, bribery and extortion since its foundation, which took place before adherence to the Global Compact The risk of corruption and bribery is almost null because any possible concerns are dealt with as soon as they arise. On no account does the company either works or establishes relationships with companies which do not follow ethical practices in their business.  Implementation  Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents.  There have been no incidents so far and staff is fully aware that they should talk to their line managers immediately in case there are causes for concern. The company's CEO and staff are fully committed to following the principles of ethics in business and the principles that guide the Global Compact.  Measurement of outcomes  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance.  All financial transactions, due to law requirements and to avoid biased reporting, are checked by external accountants.
