CLIFFE DEKKER HOFMEYR INC. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 'COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS' SEPTEMBER 2014 TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 2 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES 3 LABOUR PRINCIPLES 4 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES 5 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES UN GLOBAL COMPACT TABLE OF CONTENTS | 1 Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr Inc STATEMENT OF CONTINUED strategic and operational business (CDH) reiterates our commitment SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF practices, flows through to the high quality legal advice across the full as expressed in our letter of EXECUTIVE OFFICER range of legal services, and even 16 September 2011 to support CDH is proud to be an active encompasses the various alliances the 10 principles of the Global we have established with African and participant in the largest corporate international clients and partners. Compact with respect to human responsibility initiative in the world. rights, labour, the environment This is our second Communication We have implemented wideon Progress (COP) which describes ranging initiatives to achieve our and anti-corruption. our firm's efforts to implement the 10 aspirations concerning employment principles of the UN Global Compact. equity and transformation, corporate social responsibility, environmental Commitment to the implementation, preservation and anti-corruption disclosure and promotion of the measures. ten universal principles At CDH we believe that everything matters when it comes to the way we service and interact with our clients, our people, communities and the Brent Williams, Chief Executive Officer, environment. Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr Inc Our firm is sensitive to the broader socio-economic and environmental context within which CDH conducts its business, and strives to make a positive contribution to South Africa's developmental challenges. This starts with the implementation of our UN GLOBAL COMPACT STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER | 2 CDH has adopted a Corporate HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Social Investment Policy, a Pro Bono Policy, and a Human Human Rights Statement We confirm our commitment to respecting the ten principles of the Rights Statement. CDH has In 2013 we adopted a Human Rights Statement as a manifestation of our United Nations Global Compact. also established a Social and firm's commitment to human rights. In We communicate our commitments Ethics Committee in terms of that statement we record as follows: as set out in this Human Rights the Companies Act, No 71 of We are cognisant of the social Statement to our clients, employees 2008 (The Companies Act). and other stakeholders. context within which we operate as a law firm, and we are committed Our Work in Promoting Human to respecting the rights entrenched Rights in the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, and in particular We strive on a continued basis to the Bill of Rights. realise our human rights commitments in various ways. First, we try always We confirm that we support to ensure in our everyday conduct upholding the rights entrenched that we promote and respect the in the United Nations Universal rights and interests of all of our Declaration of Human Rights, the employees by means of adherence to African Charter on Human and the precepts of our Constitution and Peoples' Rights, the International our domestic labour, employment Covenant on Civil and Political equity, occupational health and Rights, the International Covenant safety and other relevant legislation. on Economic, Social and Cultural In this regard we recognise the need Rights and the core conventions to continuously work at promoting of the International Labour a more inclusive and diverse work Organisation (ILO). culture in which the equal rights of UN GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES | 3 all are advanced and employees are and enforcing various rights in the encouraged to raise any grievances in Constitution, with a particular emphasis accordance with our grievance policy. over the relevant period, on the right to Our ongoing progress in this regard access to information and the rights of is outlined in more detail below. refugees. More details of our efforts in this regard are dealt with below. Second, through the implementation, as described below, of the pro bono Third, through the firm's ongoing policy that our firm has committed commitment to corporate social itself to. Our dedicated Pro Bono investment. We continue to dedicate and Human Rights Practice continues significant financial and human to provide thousands of hours of resources to various social investment pro bono assistance each year in projects, vehicles and causes. A the implementation of this policy, to summary of our corporate social numerous people and organisations investment projects and activities for the who are unable to afford to pay for period under review is provided below. these services. Other members of the firm are actively encouraged to do pro bono and human rights related work and also commit numerous hours on an annual basis to this type of work. As part of our commitment to human rights and the Constitution the firm has dedicated significant resources to a number of court cases aimed at promoting the rule of law UN GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES | 4 PRO BONO POLICY During the period June 2013 to August 2014 the firm donated in excess of R10 million in pro bono legal services and was involved in a number of important high profile rule of law and human rights related court cases. Some of the cases that deserve special mention include: The matter of Freedom Under the case, in which some ground are empowered and/or obliged Law v National Director of breaking findings concerning the to investigate and prosecute Public Prosecutions in which we court's powers to review decisions allegations of torture committed successfully assisted Freedom of the prosecution authorities in in Zimbabwe irrespective of Under Law (FUL), a non-profit accordance with the rule of law whether the alleged perpetrators organisation whose mandate is principle were made, the NDPP are present within the territory of to promote democracy under law has recently advised that it will be the Republic, in accordance with and advance the understanding reinstituting some of the criminal its international law obligations. of and respect for the rule of law charges against LieutenantThe matter was ultimately decided and the principle of legality in General Mdluli and the National by the Constitutional Court and Southern Africa, to review a very Commissioner has communicated CDH acted for the PJI which was controversial decision by various a decision to reinstitute disciplinary admitted as an amicus curiae in the role players including the National proceedings against him. Constitutional Court proceedings. Director of Public Prosecutions (the NDPP) and the National The matter of National The matter of MandG Centre for Commissioner of Police (National Commissioner South African Police Investigative Journalism NPC Commissioner) to drop criminal Service (SAPS) v Southern African & Another v The Minister of and disciplinary charges against Human Rights Litigation Centre Public Works and Another which Lieutenant-General Richard Mdluli, & Another (Peace and Justice concerns a request for access the suspended Inspector General Initiative (PJI) and Six Others as to information from the State of intelligence, which charges Amicus Curiae) which concerned (made in terms of our access to included charges of murder, fraud the question whether the SAPS and information legislation) relating and corruption. As a result of the National Prosecuting Authority to the controversial use of over UN GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES | 5 R210 million of public funds to The Inner City Housing Clinic Appeal Board (the RAB). The Pro Bono make improvements to the President Practice is also currently assisting with of the Republic of South Africa's Access to adequate housing remains court proceedings to review decisions (President Zuma's) Nkandla estate. arguably the biggest socio economic of the RAB refusing to grant refugee The State denied the request rights challenge in South Africa, and status to would be applicants. for access to the information millions of people continue to live in concerned and the matter was deplorable conditions both inside The SASLAW Labour Clinic heard in the North Gauteng High cities and on their outskirts, as well Court. CDH was acting for the as in rural areas. Our involvement CDH attorneys help to staff the South South African History Archive in the Inner City Housing Clinic (in African Society for Labour Law Trust (SAHA) and the Democratic Johannesburg) enables our Real Estate (SASLAW) Advice Centre in both Governance and Rights Unit, both practice to assist poor and indigent Gauteng and Cape Town. The Labour of which were admitted as amici clients with the provision, inter alia, Clinic assists people with labour law curiae and made submissions in of general legal advice regarding issues who would not otherwise have favour of the granting of access to housing related matters and assisting access to justice by providing advice, the information requested. with eviction and spoliation matters. drafting legal papers and by making The firm also spent many hours court appearances. providing free legal services to poor The Refugee Law Clinic Our Goals and vulnerable people through At the Refugee Clinic our attorneys various law clinics which the firm assist refugees and people seeking Our goals for the future year are to assists in staffing, including an Inner refugee status from all parts of the continue to provide access to justice City Housing Clinic, a Refugee Law to poor and vulnerable people and African continent with a range of legal Clinic, a labour law advice centre to continue to promote and protect assistance, including the provision (the SASLAW Labour Clinic), Master's human rights and the values of Office Helpdesk and a Corporate of advice, assistance with obtaining our Constitution through litigation, Governance Clinic. Partners of our refugee permits and the prosecution training and involvement in other key firm also regularly act as Acting of appeals against decisions refusing initiatives. Judges in the Labour Court on a pro refugee status before the Refugee bono basis. UN GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES | 6 Corporate Social Investment CDH remains committed to discharging its corporate social investment obligations through the continued enforcement of its corporate social investment policy, as overseen by the Social and Ethics Committee (SEC). It is actively involved in a number of corporate social investment initiatives and projects and also continues each year to make significant donations to various charitable causes which donations are recorded in its donations register. Some of the main projects and initiatives with which CDH was involved over the reporting period include: Ikamva Labantu Our Cape Town office provides Ikamva need of special care are also brought Labantu with ongoing pro bono legal on to the property and cared for until We continue to provide support to assistance, including providing advice they can go back into their community. Ikamva Labantu, a well-respected nonon various legal and governance Weekends are special occasions when profit organisation whose primary matters. all the children, whether orphans or not, objectives are to redress the damaging 'come together' at the property, and effects of South Africa's apartheid past. Come Together Children's Home special activities are arranged for them. Established in 1963, Ikamva Labantu In 2005, CDH sponsored the The home has opened its facilities helps build communities by connecting acquisition and ongoing maintenance to the wider community, as the with leaders, teachers and guardians of a nine-hectare property on which two foster homes for predominantly community feels the need. It provides who are already committed to a three class room crèche, and the supporting and uplifting those around AIDS orphans from the former township of Sebokeng have been space and training for a sewing them. This is achieved through providing group and market gardeners. These established. training, teaching and support. Ikamva grass-roots nodes of development will Labantu works with seniors, orphans The property also serves as the base increase and change, in response to and vulnerable children; in the fields from which the caregivers go out on the community's calls from time to time. of early childhood development and a daily basis into the townships to primary healthcare and also runs and feed, clothe and generally care for We continue to support the home facilitates projects in townships across and assist orphans in child, relative regularly with major capital Cape Town. or friend-headed families. Children in acquisitions (for example we recently UN GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES | 7 purchased a vehicle for the home) and setting up a trust through which she employment advice to corporate and our staff continue to support the home can operate the crèche and raise commercial assistance. regularly with monetary donations, funds to continue her good work. We gifts of food, clothing, books, toys and further assisted the Bulelani crèche in Training Initiatives other items that are of use to it. its successful registration as a Public CDH has organised, financed and/or Benefit Organisation. participated in numerous community Bulelani Ku Yehova Crèche CDH has purchased and donated training initiatives. Some of the main We continue to provide support to the initiatives we were involved in over furniture and fittings for the new Bulelani Ku Yehova crèche located in crèche. Our employees also donate the reporting period include the Cape Town which looks after over 100 children aged between six months and groceries and other necessities to the following: six years. When CDH initially started crèche on an ongoing basis. CDH employees also visit the crèche and On Human Rights Day volunteers supporting the crèche, its premises from CDH headed up by the consisted of two temporary structures often arrange celebratory events for the children. Pro Bono and Human Rights that housed the children in all weather Practice spent the day teaching conditions. They had no running water, Vodacom Change the World one hundred and eighty scholars toilets or electricity. Programme from disadvantaged backgrounds The state of Bulelani crèche has The Vodacom Change the World about their human rights in an undergone miraculous changes, Programme is a project which was annual training initiative set up by owing mostly to the passionate work developed in 2011 which provides the Constitutional Hill Trust. of Maria Ndlezana, a woman of individuals with an opportunity to great warmth and strength. With the volunteer their time and skills to work CDH actively supported and help of the local authorities, Maria at a Non-Profit Organisation (NPO). assisted the National Moot Court has been able to move the crèche into Competition (the NMCC) which CDH has been involved with the new permanent buildings. is a non-profit initiative that aims Programme since its inception and CDH's first official contribution was continues to provide participating to foster practical skills in aspirant assisting Maria through committing NPOs with various types of pro lawyers. To this end the NMCC our legal skills and knowledge in bono legal assistance ranging from facilitates a nationwide high school UN GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES | 8 level moot court competition on an Degree on International Trade and CDH is involved, together with annual basis. CDH recently hosted Investment Law in Africa targeted DLA Piper and ProBono.Org, in the two workshops for participating at graduate level students from planning of a series of workshops learners and their educators across Africa. The course was for paralegals in the Limpopo aimed at providing participants first offered in 2011 and CDH province designed to facilitate with the practical skills required to has been involved in all three the transfer of essential skills and succeed in a mooting environment years of the teaching project. It knowledge of various legal and as well as offering a glimpse into will be participating in the course rights based topics of identified the culture and feel of a large law scheduled to be taught later this relevance to the communities they firm. Professional staff from CDH month. service. will also be assisting by acting In March 2013 the Pro Bono and The firm runs a myriad of internal as judges at various levels of the Human Rights Practice was invited training sessions during any given Competition. to speak in Sao Paulo, Brazil by the year, which includes training Directors from CDH's Pro Bono Direito GV Law School and DLA related to substantive law issues and Human Rights Practice and Piper. The weeklong event was titled such as commercial drafting, its Corporate and Commercial Doing Pro Bono in Brazil: Practices, case law updates, and coaching Practice assisted an international incentives and perspectives and sessions on topical legal issues team of attorneys in planning and such as the Protection of Personal was attended by law students from delivering a week long course Information Act, 2014 and recent on the use of special economic various countries. Speakers from around the world were invited to amendments to the body of labour zones as a tool for attracting direct investment and increasing speak at the event and CDH provided legislation. development. The module forms a unique perspective on pro bono in part of Africa's first Master's South Africa. UN GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES | 9 Our firm is accredited by the Law and seminar calendar for clients. Cape Town offices. A list of some of Society of South Africa's Legal During 2014 to date our firm has the other presentations, seminars and Education and Development provided training and presentations to conferences appears below: division (LEAD) to provide in-house over 1,100 individuals representing Employment SeminarPractical Legal Training (PLT) to our clients. Notable presentations Retrenchments candidate attorneys. As part of our have included an Equal Pay seminar agreement with LEAD we provide at which experts in our Employment Anti-bribery and anti-bribery department presented on the training this training free of charge to a number of candidate attorneys importance of adhering to equal pay Immigration Seminar for equal work (or work of equal from other law firms who are Gauteng Women in Insurance value) principle in light of recent from historically disadvantaged Conference amendments to labour legislation. groups. This PLT training includes At our jointly hosted annual Budget training on ethical issues facing The SEC continues to report on an Breakfast the Minister of Finance's annual basis to the Shareholders at attorneys, Constitutional law budget speech, and its implications and jurisprudence, gender law CDH's annual general meeting. for development and business, were issues, court procedure, as well unpacked by a leading professor Our Goals as providing training on practical in the field of Tax. Our own Tax In the upcoming year CDH intends administrative issues (attorneys' practice presented on the practical to reconsider how it can optimally bookkeeping and the like). issues surrounding preference shares dedicate resources to social from a tax point of view to 164 These internal training initiatives investment projects and initiatives and delegates in July. In February this year are managed and facilitated by our if necessary, to consider, realigning its members of the firms Data Protection dedicated Knowledge Management group presented to clients on the social investment focus accordingly. It function. implications for and responsibilities also hopes to put in place mechanisms In addition to internal training, over of businesses brought about by the to ensure better management of and time we have developed a dynamic Protection of Personal Information report back to the SEC concerning and extensive value-add presentation Act, in both our Johannesburg and CDH's social investment initiatives. UN GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES | 10 LABOUR PRINCIPLES Assessment, Policy and Goals ILO Conventions have been adopted by the South African Parliament and subsequently enacted in domestic law. As a firm we are both within the letter of domestic legislation and live the spirit of such legislation. As an example, we are fully compliant with all employment equity related legislation and are firmly focused on maintaining our industry leader position in equity outcomes, through mechanisms such as our Transformation Committee (Exco level) our Employment Equity (EE) Committee (all levels of employees) and our Transformation Policy. Implementation We have a team of Human Resources (HR) professionals who ensure that the principles of our labour legislation are always upheld. The HR, Management and EE Committee regularly review our labour policies and procedures to ensure that they are aligned to legislation. Our grievance policy and procedures allow employees to raise dissatisfaction with individuals or processes. We train staff on awareness of discrimination including sexual harassment, as well as internal and external remedies at their disposal. Employees are further given ready access to the firm's policies and procedures, and receive regular electronic communications on equality issues. We have posters displayed across the firm with the Basic Conditions of Employment Act, the Labour Relations Act, the Employment Equity Act, and Occupational Health and Safety provisions in all pause areas, and in a variety of languages. UN GLOBAL COMPACT LABOUR PRINCIPLES | 11 Measurement of outcomes – EE Stats Internally, we manage labour violations protection and privacy policy. CDH through our disciplinary and grievance also reports annually to the Department procedures. We are pleased to confirm of Labour regarding its Employment that the firm has had no disputes in Equity, as well as to the Law Societies the Commission for Conciliation, on an ongoing basis. Mediation and Arbitration since CDH was formed in 2008, or at the Labour Court. CDH has not had any complaints lodged against it in terms of the Promotion of Equality and Prevention of Unfair Discrimination Act. During the last year, we have reviewed and updated the following labour policies: internal and external bursaries, study leave, maternity and paternity leave, electronic communications and flexible working hours policies amongst others. We are further in the process of reviewing and updating policies on use of social media, an anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy and a data UN GLOBAL COMPACT LABOUR PRINCIPLES | 12 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES Relevance of environmental protection for CDH The legal sector has a relatively small environmental footprint. However CDH acknowledges that it has a responsibility to ensure its environmental impacts are minimised. We maintain that the greatest impact we can have on environmental sustainability is using our expertise in providing legal advice to our clients to help them understand and comply with environmental legislation and implement environmentally sound management, so as to respond to the environmental challenges facing the world. CDH's Environmental Policy At CDH we continue to recognise the critical importance natural resources have on economic growth and sustainable development, particularly in Africa. We still strive to reduce our environmental impact in all areas of our business and contribute to projects that support positive environmental outcomes. Our commitment to operate in a responsible way remains focused on the following areas: Reduction and efficient use of water, energy and paper. Reduction, re-use and recycling of waste. Creating environmental awareness among staff, clients and business partners. Providing pro bono legal support to non-profit organisations (NPOs) and working with companies and local communities to implement projects aimed at fostering environmental sustainability. Furnishing environmental legal services to clients. UN GLOBAL COMPACT ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES | 13 Implementation in the previous financial year and Reduction, re-use and recycling of being disproportionately high in waste Reduction and efficient use of water the Cape Town Office, our CEO and energy and a Director in the Environmental We remain committed to reducing Department had several discussions paper use and recycling paper, The design of CDH's Johannesburg plastics and other waste. CDH Office ensures the efficient use of and meetings with the Carbon Neutral Group regarding energy efficiency continues to utilise an accredited water and energy. Solar panels recycling company at its Johannesburg on the roof generate hot water and audits of the Cape Town Office and proposals were submitted by the and Cape Town Offices. As with most evaporative cooling in the atrium law firms, paper constitutes the bulk of controls the air temperature. The Carbon Neutral Group. CDH's waste stream. glass used extensively on the Office Given that the Cape Town Office's facades is a low e-glass, which emits electricity usage still constitutes a large An employee of the recycling low levels of radiant energy. The top portion of the carbon footprint during company is based permanently at the basement levels are designed to allow the 2013 financial year, CDH will be Johannesburg Office to separate waste for natural ventilation and the Office conducting an energy efficiency audit streams for recycling purposes. In windows are designed to allow as on it. It is considering either conducting addition, recycling boxes are present much light in as possible. Doublea visual audit by a specialist to obtain in prominent positions in both the Cape glazing on vision panels and roof recommendations or an energy audit Town and Johannesburg Offices. insulation allows for the conservation based on actual data collected, of natural energy. During 2013 CDH strove actively to conducted over a period of 2 4 ensure its employees recycled paper, Electrical energy consumption is weeks. A full electricity profile would with, 22,392kg being recycled. This reduced at the Johannesburg Office be obtained, with information on, is almost a 10% improvement on through movement sensors and for example, which times of the day the amount recycled during 2012. timers for lighting systems and the electricity consumption peaks. It equates to a saving of 228 trees installation of new energy efficient Carbon Neutral Group and CDH and 605, 936 litres of water for PCs and laptops. the equivalent amount to produce have also had on-going discussion Due to the large portion of the carbon regarding carbon offset projects and 'new' paper. footprint constituting electricity usage CDH is investigating this option. UN GLOBAL COMPACT ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES | 14 Providing Pro Bono legal support to of these documents to bring its attendance at the EWT's Annual environmental NPOS Trustees’ roles and responsibilities' General Meeting in October sections in line with those of 2013, to name but a few. Endangered Wildlife Trust directors, in accordance with EWT stated the following in a letter CDH has provided a wide range the Companies Act 2008 and of support to ProBono.Org for the of legal services to the Endangered King III Standards. This entailed Annual Pro Bono Awards Ceremony Wildlife Trust (EWT) during 2013, many hours of research and 2014. equating to approximately 300 hours discussions with EWT's Executive free legal services. This includes EWT would like to pay tribute Management to determine where various litigious and non-litigious to the Pro Bono and Human changes, improvements and more matters. The firm received EWT's most Rights Department of CDH for stringent terms and conditions prestige award, the Cheetah award, the invaluable legal assistance were required. In conjunction with and advice provided to our during the course of 2012. this review, CDH redrafted the organization over many years and Examples include: operating Charter for EWT's Board in particular in the year 2013. Providing ongoing environmental and the various sub-committees of Funding is incredibly tight in a and regulatory advice to EWT's the Board; and depressed economy and yet the Operation Oxpecker (forming a Many other pressing issues such EWT operates in an increasingly part of its Birds of Prey Programme); as submission of a request for complex and legally fraught amended Letters of Authority environment where expert, and Representing EWT in two complex often costly, advice is needed more and lengthy matters involving from the Master, scrutiny of press and more often. unauthorised uses of its intellectual releases for legal correctness, property; dealing with a potential defamation If it were not for the pro bono action against a staff member of expertise provided by CDH, the Assisting with an in-depth review the EWT, providing verification of EWT would in effect be unable of EWT's corporate secretarial EWT's legal standing in respect to access justice and fair legal documentation and a revision of internet security measures and recourse UN GLOBAL COMPACT ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES | 15 Community Led Animal Welfare (CLAW) amongst employees on challenges facing the environment and steps that can be CLAW is a welfare organisation, taken to reduce environmental impacts. renowned as the pioneer of community based primary animal healthcare in The Environmental Law Practice South Africa. It provides veterinary provides seminars to other services to impoverished communities departments, candidate attorneys where conventional care is often and clients on various aspects of unavailable. environmental law. It also frequently publishes articles on developments in Funding is an obstacle for CLAW. In environmental law and environmental 2013 CDH organized a fundraising rights in Africa, aimed inter alia at event for CLAW. increasing awareness amongst its Creating environmental awareness clients and the general public. among staff, clients and business Furnishing environmental legal partners services to clients CDH has continued with its CDH continues to represent several environmental awareness campaign. clients with significant environmental Environmental awareness articles are impacts due to the nature of their posted on CDH's intranet. The focus operations, such as mining, industry this year has been on water saving, and coal power generation. Through as South Africa is facing an imminent our Environmental Law Practice we water crisis. The articles have also advise our clients on all environmental been aimed at conservation and aspects of their business, from climate energy efficiency awareness. change, carbon trading and regulation An environmental seminar is planned to environmental compliance and for March 2015, to create awareness strategic environmental planning. UN GLOBAL COMPACT ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES | 16 In conjunction with our Projects and its business in a responsible manner large difference in electricity use Infrastructure and Energy practice, it is it instructed an independent expert, per employee in each office: also currently acting for several project the Carbon Neutral Group to compile 2,519kWh per employee at bidders or lenders for South Africa's a carbon footprint assessment of its Sandton's green building office multi-billion dollar independent Power operations for 2012 and again for compared to Cape Town's 11,541 Producer Procurement Programme. 2013. The 2013 carbon footprint kWh per employee. On completion it is expected to assessment is attached. Air travel comprises the second be the leading renewable energy We are pleased to report that in highest portion with 19%, or programme in the world and aims to the last financial year we reduced 1,549tCO2e, a marked decrease generate 42% of all new electricity our footprint by 12%, with a 27% from last year. However this figure from renewable energy sources in reduction in emissions from business excludes the additional carbon the next 20 years using solar, wind, travel and 6% reduction in emissions emissions from business class hydro, biomass and biogas projects. from electricity use. The Carbon flights, as data was unavailable Travel Neutral Group noted that the following from the travel agents. The Carbon can be concluded: Neutral Group estimates the real Our virtual meeting technology, value to lie closer to 1,800tCO2, installed in both our Cape Town and CDH emitted 4,972 tons of which is still less than last year's Johannesburg Offices provides an CO2e during 2013/2014. The emissions. effective alternative to travel and is emissions per employee are increasingly used. 8.5tCO2e, down from 9.2tCO2e Commuting with a private car in the previous financial year. is the third highest source of Assessment of CDH's emissions with 9% or 427tCO2e. environmental footprint and impact Electricity use comprises the largest portion of the footprint Unfortunately emissions from car To integrate principles 7, 8 and 9 with 58% or 2871.6tCO2e. travel have increased by 30% into our strategies and operations Overall we reduced our electricity however this could probably be means understanding and managing consumption by 6%, with the attributed to a more accurate our own environmental impact. Due Sandton office reducing it by employee commuting survey carried to CDH's commitment to reduce its 10% and Cape Town office out this year, as significantly more environmental impact and conduct by 3%. However there is still a employees completed the survey. UN GLOBAL COMPACT ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES | 17 Monitoring Goals CDH's Social and Ethics Committee CDH is committed to further reducing We are considering the further has an environmental representative, our environmental impact in the three recommendations provided by who is a Director in the Environmental key areas identified in the carbon Climate Neutral Group and are in the Law Practice. She continues to report footprint assessment namely: energy process of finalising our environmental back on the extent and effectiveness efficiency, air travel and car travel. strategy in order to reduce our carbon of environmental strategies within the Firm and presents proposals on further reduction/mitigation strategies to reduce CDH's environmental impact. Through the carbon footprint's outcome and data accumulated on our waste stream, we have a measurable baseline to set annual targets and objectives, enabling us to accurately track and report our progress and determine if our strategies are effective. Management regularly assesses the effectiveness of strategies that have been implemented and whether they successfully reduce the negative impact in the three key areas. UN GLOBAL COMPACT ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES | 18 footprint and environmental impacts arising from our operations. The energy audit will determine where and how the Cape Town Office can become more energy efficient, thereby reducing our carbon footprint even further. For business air travel we are formulating an appropriate travel policy and are considering possibly becoming involved in a carbon offset project. Regarding private car travel we are actively encouraging lift-sharing and the use of public transport. Lastly, in order to have an accurate carbon footprint, we will be implementing the necessary data management processes. UN GLOBAL COMPACT ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES | 19 As a large business law firm, CDH ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES functions within a framework of Introduction high legal, professional and ethical standards. As such, the firm is Various local laws provide a framework for anti-corruption enforcement in South Africa including, for example, the following legislation: committed to the fight against corruption and bribery. Prevention of Organised Crime This legislation has a significant Act, 1998 impact on the way we conduct business and interact with our clients, Protected Disclosures Act, 2000 associates and suppliers. We take our Financial Intelligence Centre Act, obligations in this regard seriously. 2001 Compliance Prevention and Combating of The Financial Intelligence Centre Corrupt Activities Act, 2004 Act, 2001 (FICA) and the Financial Public Services Act, 1994 Intelligence Centre Amendment Act, 2008, are geared towards combatting Protection of Constitutional money laundering. The firm, as a Democracy against Terrorist and registered 'accountable institution' Related Activities Act, 2004 under FICA introduced comprehensive policies and procedures to comply Companies Act, 2008 with our obligations in respect of, In addition, companies are required to for example, verifying the identify of adopt the Organisation for Economic clients, keeping records of business Cooperation and Development (OECD) relationships and transactions and Recommendations on Combating reporting cash transactions as well Bribery, Bribe Solicitation and as suspicious transactions to the Extortion, 2011. Financial Intelligence Centre. We UN GLOBAL COMPACT ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES | 20 have comprehensive internal rules In addition, we are in the process in this regard, which are made of rolling out awareness-raising available to all employees as part initiatives as well as additional of compulsory training on our FICA training and information sessions on policies and procedures. the firm's bribery prevention policies In addition to local obligations, CDH and procedures for all employees. realises that foreign legislation such During 2014, experts from the UK as the US Foreign Corrupt Practices and USA conducted workshops Act and the UK Bribery Act, 2010 for CDH attorneys and associate as well as international treaties and attorneys from firms in other African conventions (ie the UN Convention jurisdictions on the impact of the UK against Corruption and the African Bribery Act and the US FCPA on local Union Convention Against Corruption) jurisdictions. will impact the firm and its clients. We have undertaken an anti-corruption Regulation and anti-bribery programme which Ethical conduct remains a cornerstone has, to date, included: of the legal profession and a A policy of zero-tolerance for fundamental part of CDH culture. corruption, bribery and extortion; In terms of the Attorneys Act, 1979, our attorneys are registered with Assessment of the bribery and the relevant provincial law societies corruption risk; where they practice and comply with Focussed anti-bribery and the rules in regard to professional corruption training as part of conduct and ethics. formal career academies for professionals; and Training sessions and seminars for staff and clients of the firm. UN GLOBAL COMPACT ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES | 21 Training Other initiatives and policies Focussed anti-bribery and corruption The firm is in the process of finalising training is a key part of formal its anti-bribery and corruption policy, career academies for professionals. which requires rigid adherence to the In addition, the intention is to roll local and foreign legal landscape. out awareness-raising initiatives and information sessions with all Other initiatives and policies include, staff. In addition and as part of the for example: client conflict checks, firm’s in-house training programme, billing procedures and charging newly appointed candidate attorneys guidelines, tender and business are required, in preparation for development guidelines, a disclosure their admission examinations, to policy and a gifts and benefits policy. attend various training sessions on professional conduct and ethics, which includes, for example, a discussion of risk management, fraud, bribery and corruption as well as attorney-client privilege. As part of the new practice management course for new directors which has been introduced by the Law Society of South Africa, new directors attend in-house training sessions on professional conduct, ethics and risk management. UN GLOBAL COMPACT ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES | 22
