Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) Time period: Dec 2013 – Dec 2014 Prepared By : Mohd Nazri Bin Mohd Nordin Statement of Continued Support HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Business should support and respect the protection of international human rights within their sphere of influence PRINCIPLE 2 Make sure that their own corporations are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, policy and goals WISB actively supports the International Declaration of Human Rights. We will not carry out business with any countries where flagrant human rights abuses are known as torture, politically motivated disappearances etc. WISB has a dignity at Work Policy and is committed to ensuring that all employees are treated fairly with respect with multi races. WISB goal is to maintain the zero abuse record we have until current. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Business should support and respect the protection of international human rights within their sphere of influence PRINCIPLE 2 Make sure that their own corporations are not complicit in human rights abuses Actions implemented & Measurable Results / Outcomes WISB yearly make donation for MAJLIS KEBANGSAAN BAGI ORANG BUTA MALAYSIA. LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining PRINCIPLE 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour PRINCIPLE 5 The effective abolition of child labour PRINCIPLE 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, policy and goals WISB recognizes the importance to provide an organizational culture based on respect and trust. WISB aims to incorporate in its compensation packages a wider range of employee’s benefits and foster a greater sense of ownership within the organization. LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining PRINCIPLE 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor PRINCIPLE 5 The effective abolition of child labour PRINCIPLE 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Actions implemented & Measurable Results / Outcomes WISB joining with neighborhood donate blood. ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges PRINCIPLE 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility PRINCIPLE 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, policy and goals WISB aims to reduce utilities consumption by 25% in the next year. WISB did change from hydraulic to hybrid machine to achieve above target. Hydraulic ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges PRINCIPLE 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility PRINCIPLE 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Actions implemented & Measurable Results / Outcomes WISB clearly stated in the company’s vision, “Go Green for earth , for better environmental” for saving energy consumption such as: Hybrid HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 10 Business should work against corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, policy and goals WISB have continuously committed and agree with this principle and will not tolerate any kind of corruption in all employees personal life as well as business activity. Conducted internal training to aware all employees the seriousness company policy to fight give or receive bribe of any kind things or money. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 10 Business should work against corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery. Actions implemented & Measurable Results / Outcomes WISB socialized the company’s regulation regarding the corruption policies to the all employees and vendor. Internal and external audit conducted 3rd parties to ensure audit process fairly. There have been no such incident involved employees and related vendors so far. Updating to COP Website
