Global Compact Action Taken Principle 1: Business should support and respect the B-BOVID stands for Building Business On Values Integrity and Dignity protection of and as a company the support and respect of human rights reflects in internationally the company’s philosophy. It has in place as part of its Corporate proclaimed human policy, policies requiring that its employees, business partners and rights; suppliers adhere to the principles on human rights. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFTY B-BOVID is committed to the protection of all staff and visitors from injury and occupational disease and is committed to following all relevant governmental legislation. The Company’s commitment to OH&ES includes: a) Preventing injury or illness to all staff members and visitors by providing a safe and healthy work environment b) Ensuring the work environment as well as work practices are safe and hazard free c) Providing staff with all necessary training and access to information to achieve a safe and healthy workplace d) Providing worker’s compensation insurance as required by law e) Providing a rehabilitation program to assist staff returning to work after a work injury f) Ensuring that all workstations are equipped with high-quality ergonomically designed furniture to minimize health risks to staff. It is the policy of B-BOVID to do all that is reasonably practicable to establish and maintain high standards of occupational health, safety and environmental protection at work, in order to prevent personal injury or illness, property damage, fires, security loss and environmental pollution. To achieve the above objectives, management continues to implement the following policies: 1. Promoting employee training awareness in safety/health and environmental issue. 2. Providing suitable protective equipment to its employees. 3. Providing adequate firefighting/preventive equipment and training. 4. Applying consultative procedures to facilitate the active involvement and commitment of all employees to fulfill their roles and responsibilities under the policy. The company continued with its provision of safe working environment for its employees and communities within which it operates. The company also maintained its good relationship with the staff, local government and other stakeholders by not implicating itself in any human rights abuses. 2: and make sure that The company persisted with its measures and checks in regard with they are not complicit human rights abuses. The company does not in any way tolerate in human rights abuses. human rights abuses in its operations and extends same conditions to all out sourced suppliers and contractors. Within the reporting year there were no records of human rights abuse. 3: Business should It is the policy at B-BOVID to abide by the employment conditions as uphold the freedom of described in the relevant labour laws of Ghana and terms of their association and the employment contract. All staffs are issued with a statement of duties effective recognition of outlining the responsibilities and tasks related to their position on the right to collective commencement. It is the Policy to include a probationary period for bargaining. each new appointment. The probationary period is for three months from the date of starting. At the end of this period there will be a performance appraisal and if successful the status of the probationer will be formalized. As a small company, employees do not have unions but have staff associations where there is room for bargaining and mechanism for addressing all grievances. 4: The elimination of The company does not encourage forced labour and ensures that all forms of forced and suppliers do not engage in that. When operational duties demand for compulsory labour. overtime work , the staff members working overtime as authorized by their direct supervisor are entitled to compensatory payment or time-in-lieu. The overtime rate is paid on hourly basis and calculated on the basis of the basic salary. 5: The effective B-BOVID’s policy on abolition of child labour is clearly spelt out in its abolition of child operations. The company does not employ minors and acts in strict labour. compliance with the National Labour Law. Age verification is carried out during recruitment processes. 6: and the elimination B-BOVID is an equal employment opportunity employer and is of discrimination in committed to ensuring that job opportunities are available to all staff respect of employment and advancement is based on merit. The policy of the Company and occupation prohibits discrimination in the workplace due to gender, race, marital challenges: status, pregnancy, disability, race, place of origin, religion or political conviction. In the event that an employee perceives there to be an equal employment opportunity issue, they will: • Try to resolve the matter with their Manager first, keeping dated and signed documentation of the discussion • If within five working days the problem is not resolved to their satisfaction, they will then put the complaint in writing and discuss the matter with the Human Resources Manager who will refer it to senior management if deemed necessary. 7: Business should As a company focused on general farming, agro-processing, ecosupport a tourism, import and export of agricultural goods and equipment, the precautionary care of the environment is at the core of our operations. The approach to company engages in organic farming and produces and supply high environmental quality biodiversity products such as palm oil, palm kernel oil, and challenge: other vegetable oils to the domestic and export markets. To provide the raw material base, the company demonstrates best practices in farming on organic farming biodiversity & conservation on its own plantations, has established an out-grower scheme and provides members of the scheme with high quality planting material, and trains them in modern farming techniques. 8: Undertake initiatives B-BOVID as a business is organic based and provides organic to promote greater fertilizers to farmers , provides organic animal feed for fish farming environmental and livestock , has developed and provides high yielding pest resistant responsibility seedlings to small scale farmers. The company introduces and supports farmers to practice sustainable agriculture, with a focus on biodiversity and organic methods of production. It believes that this is integral to promoting food security in the region, while producing healthy and nutritious foods, high yields and productivity, conserving soil health, and protecting the natural environment 9: and encourage the The company shares its knowledge on organic farming with small development and scale farmers and has established a school promoting environmental diffusion of and climate change adaptation. environmentally It uses modern, science-based agricultural methods to assist rural friendly technologies farmers to increase their productivity. The organisation runs an ICT centre for agriculture where farmers are supported to learn to use technology to empower themselves to seek out agricultural solutions. 10: Business should Per its name the company is built on Building Business On Values work against all forms Integrity and Dignity and it thus ensures that its operations do not corruption, including condone corrupt practices. extortion and bribery Employees are encouraged to report suspected corrupt or fraudulent practices of others and are protected from reprisal by the Whistle Blower Act.
