Sustainability Report 2012 / 2013 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines Application Level B Table of Contents 4 Message from the President & CEO 5 External Endorsement by HR PSOR Part 1 6 Agrokor and Socially Responsible Business Practices 7 Group Profile 7 Mission 7 Vision 7 Corporate values 8 Organizational Profile 8 Organization name and headquarters Countries and markets in which the organization operates Shareholder structure 10 Operating organizational structure Primary companies Primary brands Awards Part 2 14 Report Parameters 14 Reporting period and cycle 14 Contact person for questions regarding the report and its contents 15 Report scope and boundary 16 Governance, Commitments and Engagement 17 Governance Structure Mechanisms for providing recommendations to the Supervisory Board 18 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Part 3 20 Performance Indicators 22 Economic Performance Indicators 28 Social Performance Indicators Labor Community investments Product responsibility Public policy 52 Environmental Performance Indicators 219 Implementation of the UN Global Compact Communication on Progress principles in the Republic of Croatia APPENDICES Appendix 1 Shareholders Appendix 2 List of Unions Appendix 3 Governance System Overview Appendix 4 Employees Involved in Report Preparation Appendix 5 GRI Indicators Message from the President & CEO Agrokor and Socially Responsible Business Practices Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, I am proud to present the third SustaiStrategically speaking, 2013 was also nability Report prepared by Agrokor. It marked by the process of acquiring a covers the 2012-2013 period and was precontrolling interest in Mercator, whose pared according to the Global Reporting merger with Agrokor’s retail group would Initiative (GRI), Version 3.0. It also incluresult in the largest retail chain in the des additional sector-specific indicators region. Such retail consolidation in the for the food processing industry. region would ensure support to regional economies. It would also result in the We continue to present our information creation of a power extremely relevant in on a consolidated basis for the entire groterms of the support it would provide to up, including the economic, labor, human the development of small and medium-sirights, community and product responzed enterprises. Also, after Croatia joined sibility indicators. The environmental the European Union in July of 2013, marindicators are provided in a separate part ket positions of our companies changed of the Report, which allows us to moniboth in the case of the common market tor their values in the course of each year of the European Union and in the case of in each company presented in the Report each regional market. The investments and gives us the possibility to compare we made in our competitive strength them against similar companies. and employees in the preceding period are now paying off, which obligates us to The circumstances in which we conducted continue to provide opportunities to all our business during this reporting period stakeholders that we interact with on a continued to be challenging. The econodaily basis. mic growth forecasts were not met, so we As a member of business and trade assohad to adjust our strategy to the actual The social responsibility of our comciations that have defined sustainability market circumstances. Thus, profitabilipanies is reflected in the manner we as the cornerstone of their business opety was set as the primary objective of our conduct our daily activities. We invest rations and as a member of the UN Global system, without compromising the shares in renewable energy sources, use biogas Compact, the fundamental principles of of our companies in their core markets. facilities to dispose of the by-products which we accept and promote, the release Our intensive growth in the years preceproduced by our factories, apply enerof this Report is yet another confirmation ding the crisis left us room for optimizagy-efficient technologies and purchase of our commitment to achieving longtion and improvement of the efficiency of energy-efficient vehicles. The fact that term sustainability of our business opeour business operations, which has helped the management systems of as many as rations. As the largest private business us retain our leading position in almost 18 of our companies have been certified group in the region, we are aware of our all of our core activities and key maraccording to the ISO 14000 standards inresponsibility to promote lasting values kets across the region. Albeit slight, the dicates the extent to which the corporate and believe that our practices affect the growth achieved in the past period has social responsibility approach is actually conduct of other enterprises. Therefore, proved Agrokor’s strategy a successful applied in practice. In 2012 Jamnica receiwe invite you to inform us of any suggeone, ensuring long-term sustainability of ved a CSR award in the Large Enterprises stions or comments you might have conour business model. category, Konzum entered a project in the cerning the present Report. competition for the European CSR award, By investing in new technologies, innoand Ledo received a CSR award in 2013 vativeness and knowledge of our emin the Responsible Environmental Policy ployees, opening the Group to accept the and Practice category. Also, the manaknowledge available outside our compagement structures of the Group and the nies through implementation of an open companies belonging to the same have innovation project and using the so-acquimproved the applied standards of conired knowledge in local market circumduct by adopting the Mandatory Instrustances, we have created companies that ctions for the Application of Competition apply the best global practices in their Regulations. We are currently working on everyday operations, which is confirmed our internal anti-corruption rules that we by our results. plan to adopt in the next period. Ivica Todorić President, The Agrokor Group 4 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 External Endorsement by HR PSOR Opinion on Agrokor 2012-2013 Sustainability Report The Commission of the Steering Board of producing a complex set of available indiproactive and results in an active contrithe Croatian Business Council for Sustacators presented in the same manner for bution to minimizing the impacts of induinable Development (HR PSOR) establieach company covered by the Report. In strial production. shed that the content scope of Agrokor order to ensure a higher level of clarity 2012-2013 Sustainability Report was in and facilitate reading, since the Report Some activities and projects could have compliance with the Global Reporting Iniprovides a large amount of information, it been presented in more detail, however. tiative, Application Level 3. The Commiswould be useful to include environmenFor example, a certain number of Agrokor sion reviewed the Report in order to tal information for a period of several subsidiaries reported their involvement check whether all impact indicators were years, which would facilitate monitoring in an initiative to collect bottle caps for included as well as to assess the level of of environmental trends. This would also the Leukemia Patients Association. The clarity, detail and balance of the Report be useful in the case of Human Resources Report should have included data conin terms of its boundary. The Commission trend monitoring. It would be desirable, cerning the number of caps collected and concluded that Agrokor 2012-2013 Sustaifor the purpose of increasing the level the funds raised for the benefit of the nability Report was prepared in complianof clarity, to convert some of the enviAssociation for the purpose of evaluating ce with the G3 GRI Guidelines and the ronmental indicators provided in textual the scope and success of the initiative. application level declared by Agrokor. format into tabular format. Since theOther examples include the CarbonFree se highly valuable information and data certificate obtained for Jana and the Low This Report and Agrokor previous Sustaiwill, due to the manner in which they are Carbon Technologies project. It is not nability Reports represent by far the most presented, remain unavailable to most clearly stated according to which critecomplex reports any Croatian company of the stakeholders they are intended for, ria and on account of which activities the has ever prepared, which is due to the and since, in this way, Agrokor itself will CarbonFree certificate was awarded or very comprehensive and complex strunot be able to use the entire potential of what makes Jana so different from other cture of the Group that it presents. The such information, we suggest considering similar waters in the market. As far as Report can be divided in two parts, i.e. the the possibility of publishing a Summary the Low Carbon Technologies project is part presenting aggregate economic and Report that would cover the most imporconcerned, it remains unexplained which social indicators and governance approatant social and environmental indicators activities are being carried out and are ches at the level of the Group and the part by graphically presenting the aggregate planned under the project. Both examples presenting a set of environmental indicaenvironmental impact for all subsidiaries have caught our attention, but the Report tors separately for each of the 19 compaby particular indicators. We believe that did not provide sufficient information nies belonging to the Group. These indisuch document would represent a unique about the same. cators are presented in such a manner so and pioneering step forward in non-finanas to allow comparison of the impacts of cial reporting, both in Croatia and wider. In conclusion, this is yet another very the subsidiaries located in four countries complex, comprehensive and informative of the region. If we look at particular information, there Report prepared by Agrokor. It represents are certainly some cases worth highlia model example of how large systems Because of the mentioned structure of the ghting. Tisak’s initiative for collecting old too can ensure transparent and detailed Report, this was unquestionably a very textile is truly commendable because it reporting. This is also a motivation for large and demanding project and its autaims to draw public attention to collethe company to keep providing more and hors, who manage to increase the number ction of a special waste category, which more information and presenting positive of indicators included in the report year is very important, through an organized trends in each report. We would partiafter year, certainly deserve commendatiprocess. However, Croatia has so far not cularly like to commend Agrokor for the on. The entire document is very compreestablished an organized textile collelevel of transparency that it ensures, i.e. hensive and provides plenty of informaction and processing system, which is the negative trends are also clearly destion, but represents a difficult reading recommended. cribed and explained in detail, without material due to its extensive content any attempt to conceal possible unfavoscope. We suggest that, for the purpose of It is nice to see that it is possible to orrable information and data by presenting aggregating data and ensuring clarity of ganize industrial production in such a them in an ambiguous way or avoiding presentation, Agrokor tries to present its manner so as to ensure preservation of to present them all together. We consocial impact indicators for both reporbiodiversity (e.g. nesting of the endangegratulate Agrokor for producing such an ting years together in tabular or chart forred bird species Kentish plover in Solana excellent material that, we believe, will mat in the future, which would facilitate Pag’s facilities, a determining factor in be primarily useful to the company itself reading and trend monitoring. the process of deciding to include Solana and certainly justifies the efforts put into in the Natura 2000 network). Solana Pag producing it. We have already underscored the very provided yet another notable example of thorough and informative environmengood practice by replacing the crude oil tal data provided for each subsidiary. used in salt production by wood chips The quality of information as well as the harvested through sustainable forestry manner of presenting the same are the practices. Both these examples are more Commission, Steering Board, results of years of effort put into establisthan just usual “end-of-pipe” solutions beCroatian Business Council for hing a measuring and monitoring system cause the approach used is innovative and Sustainable Development Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 5 part 1 Agrokor and Socially Responsible Business Practices The Agrokor Group employed a total of 35,838 persons in all countries of the region where it operates. Our strategy of investing into a vertical value chain, which integrates “farm to fork” production, represents one of the key factors of success and competitive strength of Agrokor companies. By performing our operations in these and other neighboring markets, we are able to serve over 30 million customers. 6 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Mission, Vision and Corporate Values of Agrokor Companies The mission of the The Agrokor Group is to ensure compliance with the highest quality standards for production and distribution of food and agricultural products and to provide the customers with the best value for money through our retail network by always staying The vision ahead of our competitors and remaining true to the of The Agrokor Group is principles of corporate social responsibility. to be an internationally relevant company setting new standards of excellence in all areas of activity. Corporate Values We will accomplish our goals by focusing on sustainable development to drive our growth and staying committed to our corporate values in all aspects of our activity: Portfolio stimulating working environment waste management and We manufacture healthy and and the opportunity to achieve wastewater treatment, as well innovative quality products for their professional goals in as on the conservation and our customers, respecting traa corporate culture that sustainable use of biodiversity dition and customer needs and recognizes and properly values in accordance with our socially preferences. By using vertical dedication and commitment. responsible business practices. integration from agriculture to manufacture of end products, Partners Community we offer our customers an extenThe success of our corporate Our activities in the communities sive range of fresh and healthy members is closely related in which we operate facilitate domestic products. We offer to fruitful partnerships with the creation of transparent and professional and friendly service, suppliers and customers. Our stimulating environments. We a pleasant shopping atmosphere common goal is to increase help communities with donations and reasonable prices in our own added value in a sustainable and sponsorships in an effort to network of modern and functiomanner. support charitable organizations, nally equipped retail stores. sporting and cultural events, Environment preservation of cultural heritage, Employees We choose energy-efficient scientific and educational instituWe believe our employees are technologies to minimize tions, and activities focused on the foundation of our success. our environmental footprint. children and youth. We provide them a safe and We put great emphasis on The Agrokor Group (hereinafter referred equally dependent on the wellbeing and (available at www.agrokor.hr), and to as: Group or Agrokor) comprises development of the community in which we have additionally confirmed our members whose activities are governed we operate as it is on the conservation of commitment by joining the community by the same values and principles that the environment. The sustainability of of companies in the Republic of Croatia have been driving Agrokor’s growth and our business model is based on the values that have accepted corporate social development since its beginnings. We and principles presented in our Corporate responsibility as their guiding principle. are aware that our business progress is Principles of Social Responsibility 7 Organizational Profile Organization name Strategy and headquarters According to the sales Our strategy of investing into a vertical revenue criterion, The Agrokor d.d. is a stock company having value chain, which integrates “farm to its registered office at Trg Dražena Pefork” production, represents one of the Agrokor Group is the largest key factors of success and competitive trovića 3, Zagreb. Its majority shareholder is Ivica Todorić, the founder of the strength of Agrokor companies, which company in the Adria company, who holds a share of 91.67%. has proved particularly significant afRegion. The Group includes The remaining shares are held by the ter Croatia joined the European Union European Bank for Reconstruction and on July 1, 2013. As a vertically inteleading food and beverage Development. Agrokor is registered grated system, the Group’s activities include production of raw materials, manufacturers as well as as a concern for the management of companies and agricultural production food processing, retail trade, and other leading retail and wholesale and product trade. Information on its related activities. shareholder structure and registration entities from Central and of the company is available in the court The Group’s commitment to apply staEastern Europe. Croatia, registry of the Commercial Court in Zate-of-the-art technology in its produgreb under Reg. No. (MBS) 080020970. ction and sales activities is reflected Serbia, and Bosnia and The development of Agrokor into the in the continued investments in our corporation it is today is presented in business activities during the reporHerzegovina are our primary the figure below. ting period, provision of opportunities markets. By performing our for professional advancement of employees through field-specific training, operations in these and other On December 31, 2013, The Agroas well as continued certification of our kor Group employed a total of 35,838 systems and standards, confirming that neighboring markets, we are persons in all countries of the region our objectives have been achieved. Our able to serve over 30 million where it operates, the majority of which impact on the environment we opera(25,548) was employed in the Republic te in has been extraordinary, which is customers of Croatia. why the business standards adopted by the Group affect our business partners as well. The changes and improveAppendix 1 ments in their practices are, to a cerAgrokor’s Operating tain extent, a result of the patterns of Structure conduct promoted by Agrokor through own example. Entering 1976 1993Integration of acquired 2000 Serbian market Ice cream & Ivica Todorić registers 1994 businesses and focus on frozen food Agrokor d.d. organic growth (Frikom) Ivica Todorić Entering New Starting regional founded private Businesses: expansion (BiH) company Water and Beverages 1995Ice cream&frozen food 1989 2003 (Jamnica), Ice cream&frozen 2000. (Leo Čitluk), Water and food (Ledo), Retail and Beverages (Sarajevski Wholesale (Konzum), kiseljak) Edible Oils and Margarines (Zvijezda) 8 Total Revenues of The Agrokor Group in 000 HRK 2011 2012 2013 Total revenues 29,362,179 30,440,358 30,730,523 Total Liabilities structure broken down according to internal and external sources in 000 HRK Dec, 31, 2011 Dec, 31, 2012 Dec, 31, 2013 Total liabilities 29,164,204 30,754,070 33,084,027 Liabilities 22,549,170 25,627,383 28,558,866 Capital 6,615,034 5,126,687 4,525,161 Source: Consolidated Income Statement as of December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013 Further expansion SERBIA: Retail and Wholesale (IDEA), Edible Oil and Margarine (Dijamant), 2004 CROATIA: Agriculture 2006 Further food retail 2009Consolidation business expansion and balance sheet (Belje) and Meat Processing in primary markets 2011 strenghtening (PIK Vrbovec) Entering EU market Capital structure Focus on efficiency, core HUNGARY: strengthening businesses and capital Ice cream&frozen food EBRD 8.33% equity stake 2007optimization 20122005 (Baldauf), Water and 2008 2013 Beverages (Fonyodi); Retail expansion (Konzum BiH) 9 Operating Structure Agrokor Ownership in Subsidiary Companies BUSINESS GROUP BUSINESS GROUP OTHER FOOD RETAIL BUSINESS Agrokor Zagreb d.o.o. 100.00% Angropromet a.d. 96.86% Acro d.o.o. 100.00% Agrolaguna d.d. 85.22% Euroviba d.o.o. 91.50% Agrokor AG 100.00% Belje d.d. 67.92% Idea d.o.o. 96.86% Agrokor Energija d.o.o. 100.00% Dijamant a.d. 73.08% Jamnica d.o.o. Beograd 80.44% Agrokor kft. 100.00% Dijamant Agrar a.d. 70.03% Jamnica d.o.o. Maribor 80.44% Agrokor trgovina d.d. 100.00% Frikom d.o.o. 55.30% Konzum d.d. 96.86% eLog d.o.o. 96.86% Fonyodi kft. 80.44% Konzum d.o.o. Sarajevo 96.86% L.G. Moslavina d.o.o. 100.00% Irida d.o.o. 55.30% Kor Neretva d.o.o. 96.86% M-profil SPV d.o.o. 100.00% Jamnica d.d. 80.44% Krka d.o.o. 79.82% mStart d.o.o. 100.00% Kikindski mlin a.d. 66.07% Ledo d.o.o. Kosovo 55.30% Ledo d.d. 55.30% Ledo d.o.o. Ljubljana 55.30% Ledo d.o.o. Čitluk 55.30% Libertus usluge d.o.o. 100.00% Ledo kft. 55.30% Multiplus card d.o.o. 72.65% Ledo d.o.o. Podgorica 55.30% PIK BH d.o.o. Laktaši 99.99% Mladina d.d. 48.98% Roto dinamic d.o.o. 100.00% Nova Sloga d.o.o. 55.30% Roto ulaganja d.o.o. 100.00% PIK Vinkovci d.d. 70.87% Super Kartica d.o.o. 96.86% PIK Vrbovec d.d. 99.99% Tisak d.d. 67.35% Sarajevski kiseljak d.d. 80.98% TPDC Sarajevo d.d. 51.00% Sojara d.o.o. 51.84% Zvijezda d.o.o. Ljubljana 51.84% 40% Retail Solana Pag d.d. 96.68% Zvijezda d.o.o. Sarajevo 51.84% 25% Food and drink Vupik d.d. 55.76% Žitnjak d.d. 86.62% 18% Agriculture Zvijezda d.d. 51.84% 17% Other Business 10 Our brands Our most important brands and products presented according to the relevant groups of companies: Bottled Waters, Juices and Soft Drinks Ice Cream and Frozen Food Products Flour and Salt Meat and Meat Products Oil, Margarine and Mayonnaise Products, Cheese salt flower Retail Winegrowing and Winemaking Awards and Recognitions In 2012 and 2013, Jamnica Zvijezda PIKO Wurst Qudal 2012, 2013; Povenjak 2013, award and QUDAL 2013 for the highest Agrokor companies Superior Taste Award 2012 recognition for off-the-shelf level of quality; 2013 Novi Sad received numerous Zvijezda Extra Virgin Olive Oil, Food Fair, gold medal Jana Best Buy Award, General Survey awards and Qudal 2012, 2013; – Croatia 2014-2015 for the best PIK Fresh recognitions for their Best Buy Award 2013 quality and price ratio in the Packaged Meat Margarine and Mayonnaise QUDAL 2012 for the highest products. Listed Ice Tea category level of quality; QUDAL 2013 for Qudal 2013 the highest level of quality below are the most Ol Istria important ones. Sarajevski kiseljak Vodnjan 2012, gold medal for PIK Mortadella Superbrands Award 2012 and Ol Istria Ascolana, gold medal QUDAL 2012 for the highest 2013, iTQi Award 2012 and for Ol Istria Istarska bjelica; level of quality; QUDAL 2013 for 2013, Best Buy Award 2013 VINISTRA, gold medal for the highest level of quality, 2013 Ol Istria Ascolana; TERRA Novi Sad Food Fair, gold medal Sky Cola OLIVO 2012 – International iTQi Award 2012 and 2013 Extra Virgin Olive Oil Panona Competition, gold medal for 2013 Novi Sad Food Fair, Sky Orange Ol Istria Selection; 2013 Los gold medal iTQi Award 2013 Angeles Extra Virgin Olive Oil Competition, gold medal PIK Ham Sky Lemon for Ol Istria Blends; New QUDAL 2012 for the highest iTQi Award 2013 York International Olive Oil level of quality Competition, gold medal for Ol Mivela Istria Blends; Olivinus 2013, PIK Boiled Ham 2013 Gold Medal for Quality Argentina, gold medal for Ol 2013 Novi Sad Food Fair, at the Novi Sad Fair; 2013 Istria Blends gold medal Certificate of Medicinality awarded by the Ministry of Dijamant PIK Wrapped Ham Health of the Russian Federation Moj izbor (My Choice) 2012, 2013 Novi Sad Food Fair, gold Serbian customer choice medal Ledo award received for Dobro Qudal 2012 for the highest jutro margarine; Novi Sad PIK Smoked Pork Neck level of quality; IICC 2012 for Agricultural Fair 2012: large 2013 Novi Sad Food Fair, gold Vruća ljubav (Hot Love), the gold medal for Dobro jutro medal world’s most innovative ice Junior, gold medals for Dobro cream product; IICC 2013 for the jutro Mlečni, Dobro jutro Dijet, PIK Prosciutto Blueberry and White Chocolate Classic and Dijavit margarines, QUDAL 2012 for the highest Cake, the world’s best ice cream and Mediteran mixed edible level of quality product; Ledonardo Concept, the vegetable oil; Champion of Quality title for Dijamant edible best commercial concept PIK Kranj Sausage refined oil; large champion QUDAL 2013 for the highest Frikom trophy for Dijamant Company; level of quality 2012 Novi Sad Agricultural Best of Vojvodina award for Dijamant oil in 2012 and 2013; Fair, gold medals for quality Baranja Kulen received for: Breaded Salmon Moj izbor (My Choice) 2013, 2012 Kulenijada (competition Sticks, Pastry with Pizza Filling, Serbian customer choice award for the best red-pepper Zu-Zu Pastry with Cheese; large for Dijamant oil and Dijamant flavored salami) in Jagodnjak, gold medal for quality received Company as the favorite gold medal; 2013 Novi Sad for: Buckwheat Cheese Spread; domestic producer; Novi Sad International Agricultural Fair, Serbian Corporate Superbrands Agricultural Fair 2013: large gold medal Award 2012-2013; Moj izbor champion trophy for Dijamant (My Choice) 2012-2013, Serbian Company; the title of Champion customer choice award (in the of Quality for Dijamant Favorite Fruit and Vegetable edible refined sunflower oil; category) gold medals for Classic table margarine, Junior mayonnaise enriched with vitamins, Mediteran mayonnaise with herbs, Omegol mixed edible refined vegetable oil, Omegol spread, and Dobro jutro junior medium-fat margarine; Superbrands Award 2013 12 abc cheese Cabernet Sauvignon, silver Malvazija; Vinistra Poreč 51st International AGRA medal for 2012 Vina Laguna 2012, gold medals for 2009 Fair in Slovenia (2013), three Malvazija, recommendation for Festigia Castello, 2011 Festigia gold medals; 2013 Novi Sad 2011 Festigia Riserva Malvazija; Chardonnay, 2009 Festigia International Agricultural Fair, Decanter London 2013, bronze Cabernet Sauvignon and 2011 six large gold medals and the medal for 2012 Festigia Festigia Malvazija, silver medals champion title for abc cheese Malvazija, bronze medal for 2011 Vina Laguna Cabernet with vegetables; QUDAL 2013 for 2010 Festigia Cabernet Sauvignon Rose, 2011 Vina for the highest level of quality; Sauvignon, recommendation Laguna Muškat žuti, 2011 Best Buy Award 2012; 10th for 2011 Festigia Merlot, silver Vina Laguna Muškat ruža, Grubišno Polje Business Fair medal for 2012 Vina Laguna 2099 Festigia Merlot, 2009 (2012), gold medal; Superbrands Muškat ruža, bronze medal for Festigia Cabernet Sauvignon Choice BiH 2011-2012, 2010 Festigia Riserva Cabernet Riserva, 2011 Vina Laguna recognition; 50th International Sauvignon, bronze medal for Malvazija, bronze medals for AGRA Fair in Slovenia (2012), 2011 Festigia Riserva Malvazija; 2011 Vina Laguna Grey Pinot, two gold medals, 2012 Novi Sad Monde Selection Bruxelles 2013, White Pinot, Chardonnay International Agricultural Fair, gold medal for 2010 Festigia and Borgonja; IWC London two gold medals Cabernet Sauvignon, gold medal 2012, bronze medal for 2011 for 2011 Festigia Castello blend; Vina Laguna Malvazija and Vina Belje Vinistra Poreč 2013, gold medal recognition for 2009 Festigia Emozioni dal Mondo, Merlot for 2010 Festigia Cabernet Cabernet Sauvignon; Decanter e Cabernet Insieme 2013, Sauvignon, gold medal for 2011 London 2012, bronze medal for gold medal for 2011 Cabernet Festigia Merlot, silver medal 2011 Festigia Malvazija and Sauvignon Merlot and 2009 for 2012 Vina Laguna Muškat recognition for 2009 Festigia Cabernet Sauvignon; Merlot žuti, bronze diploma for 2013 Cabernet Sauvignon; Finger e Cabernet Insieme 2012, Vina Laguna Muškat ruža, Lakes Wine Competition USA gold medal for 2009 Cabernet silver medal for 2012 Festigia 2012, gold medal for 2011 Vina Sauvignon Merlot; Selection Malvazija, gold medal for Laguna Malvazija, silver medal Mondiales des Vins Canada 2009 Festigia Riserva Cabernet for 2010 Festigia Malvazija, 2013, gold medal for 2011 Sauvignon, silver medal for bronze medals for 2009 Vina Belje Graševina; Selection 2011 Festigia Chardonnay, Festigia Cabernet Sauvignon Mondiales des Vins Canada silver diploma for 2012 Vina and Festigia Castello; Bacchus 2012, gold medal for 2009 Vina Laguna Chardonnay, Brozne Madrid 2012, silver medals Belje Black Pinot; Decanter Diploma for 2011 Vina Laguna for 2009 Festigia Castello and World Wine Awards London Borgonja, silver diploma for Festigia Cabernet Sauvignon. 2013, bronze medal for 2011 2012 Vina Laguna Cabernet Vina Belje Goldberg Graševina; Sauvignon Rose, silver diploma Podrum Mladina Decanter World Wine Awards for 2011 Vina Laguna Teran; Monde Selection, Brussels 2012, London 2012, bronze medal for Sauvignon Forum Czech 2010 Rajnski rizling Gaj, gold 2009 Vina Belje Graševina; The Republic 2012, large gold medal medal; 2012 Sv. Ivan Zelina Balkans International Wine for 2009 Festigia Riserva Continental Croatia Wine Competition Sofia, gold medal Cabernet Sauvignon, gold medal Exhibition, 2010 Rajnski rizling for 2011 Vina Belje Chardonnay for 2011 Festigia Chardonnay; Gaj, gold medal; 2013 Sv. Ivan and Vina Belje Goldberg Vinagora Hungary 2012, Zelina Continental Croatia Wine Graševina; 2012 Mundus Vini, silver medal for 2009 Festigia Exhibition, 2012 Sauvignon Gaj, Germany, gold medal for 2011 Castello, silver medal for 2009 gold medal. Vina Belje Graševina and Vina Festigia Cabernet Sauvignon; Belje Goldberg Graševina; IWC San Francisco IWC 2012, Idea London 2012, bronze medal silver medal for 2011 Festigia Superbrands Award for 2012for 2009 Vina Belje Merlot and Malvazija and bronze medal 2013; Best Buy Award in the Vina Belje Frankovka; Vinalies for 2011 Festigia Malvazija International Retail Chains Internationales Paris 2012, Riserva; Selections Mondiales category silver medal for 2008 Goldberg des vins Canada 2012, silver Chardonnay Ice Harvest; Beo medal for 2009 Festigia Konzum Wine Challenge Cup 2012, Cabernet Sauvignon; Citadelle Best Buy Award for the K Plus gold medal for 2007 Goldberg du vin France 2012, gold medal store brand offering the best Cabernet Sauvignon for 2011 Festigia Malvazija, price and quality ratio; Best Buy gold medal for 2009 Festigia Award for a retail chain offering Vina Laguna Cabernet Sauvignon; Femmes de most favorable prices Emozioni dal Mondo 2013: vins du Monde, Monaco 2012, gold medal for 2010 Festigia silver medals for 2009 Festigia Cabernet Sauvignon; IWC Cabernet Sauvignon, 2011 Vina London 2013, silver medal Laguna Cabernet Sauvignon for 2012 Festigia Malvazija, Rose, 2011 Vina Laguna bronze medal for 2010 Festigia White Pinot, 2011 Festigia 13 part 2 Report Parameters Reporting Period and Cycle This is the third Sustainability Report prepared by Agrokor. It presents our activities carried out in 2012 and 2013 in accordance with the reporting schedule that we chose at the time of writing our first report of this type. Since, in our case, a calendar year also represents our fiscal year, the next report will cover the 2014-2015 period. Contact Person In case you have any questions regarding this Report, please contact: Marta Bogdanić Agrokor d.d. Trg Dražena Petrovića 3 10000 Zagreb Hrvatska marta.bogdanic@agrokor.hr 14 Report Scope and Boundary We defined the contents of the Report Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, already collected and analyzed, accorin consultation with the most relevant Version 3.0. However, the Report also ding to specific requirements for each stakeholder groups of The Agrokor Groincludes additional sector-specific inindicator, within our complex business up, according to our sustainable devedicators prescribed by GRI Guidelines, system during the past two years. Our lopment strategy and key aspects of the Version 3.1. We determined that, for next Report will be prepared according same. As the previous two reports, this the purpose of publishing this Report to GRI Sustainability Reporting GuideReport was also prepared according to in the shortest period possible, it would lines, Version 4.0. the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) be best to use the information and data Report C C+ B B+ A A+ Application Level GRI 3 A report for A report for all the criteria The same criteria External verification of the report ensured. External verification of the report ensured. External verification of the report ensured. Profile Overview 1.1 specified for Level C plus as for Level B 2.1-2.10 1.2 3.1-3.8,3.10-3.12 3.9, 3.13 4.1-4.4,4.14-4.15 4.5-4.13,4.16-4.17 GRI 3 Not required An overview of the governance An overview of the governance Governance approach for each of the approach for each of the Approach Overview specified categories specified categories GRI 3 A report covering A report covering at least 20 A report for all key GRI 3 Impact Indicators at least 10 impact impact indicators, including indicators and additional and Additional indicators, including at least one from each of the sector-specific indicators with Sector-specific at least one of the following groups: economy, an overview of the principle Impact Indicators following: social, environment, human rights, of relevance by: a) reporting economic and labor, community, product by particular indicator or environmental responsibility b) explaining the reason exclusion of the same Our Sustainability Report provides This Report is based on the information and data collected information for the entire Group, i.e. from the following companies: consolidated data for the economic, la• agriculture: Belje, Kor Neretva, PIK Vinkovci, Vupik, Solana Pag, Kikindski mlin bor, employee, human rights, commu• ice cream and frozen food products: Ledo, Irida, Frikom, Ledo Čitluk, Ledo Kft nity and product responsibility sets of • oil, margarine and mayonnaise products: Zvijezda, Dijamant, Sojara Zadar indicators. We continue to present our • bottled waters and beverages: Jamnica, Sarajevski kiseljak, Fonyodi, environmental indicators separately Nova sloga, Mladina, Agrolaguna for each company, thus allowing for the • meat and meat products: PIK Vrbovec possibility of comparing the same with • retail sales: Konzum, Idea, Konzum BiH and Tisak the data reported for previous periods, • other activities: Agrokor trgovina, Agrokor Energija and retaining their material value and As in our previous Reports, we classified the companies engaged in several areas relevance. In this manner, monitoring of activity in one of the above-mentioned groups on the basis of the scope of their of the environmental impacts of each most important activity. Thus, for example, Belje is classified under agriculture, presented company belonging to the since agricultural production is the company’s main financial performance driver, Group was ensured during this reporalthough it also engages in meat and milk processing, flour, wine and cattle feed ting period as well. production, and other activities. This Sustainability Report is based on Application Level B of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Framework. The next Report will be prepared in compliance with GRI Guidelines, Version 4. According to 2002 C C+ B B+ A A+ Required Selfdeclaration YES External verification External verification External verification Verified by a third party YES of the report ensured of the report ensured of the report ensured Optional Verified by GRI Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 15 Agrokor 2013 Management Board Ivica Todorić President of the Management Board Ljerka Puljić Senior Executive Vice President Strategic Business Groups and Marketing, Agriculture Business Group Damir Kuštrak Executive Vice President Export Markets Mislav Galić Executive Vice President Food Business Group Ante Todorić Executive Vice President Retailing Business Group Piruška Canjuga Executive Vice President Business Development Tomislav Lučić Senior Executive Vice President Finance and Control Ivan Crnjac Executive Vice President Strategy and Capital Markets Gordan Radin Executive Vice President Human Resources, Legal and General Affairs Hrvoje Balent Executive Vice President Central Purchasing and Services 16 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines 2012/2013 Agrokor Governance Structure The Supervisory Board It is prescribed by Agrokor Articles of Considering the size of Agrokor SuperAssociation and the Articles of Associavisory Board, no other committees are The Supervisory Board of Agrokor d.d. tion of the companies belonging to The formed. All Members of the Supervicomprises five members, three of whom Agrokor Group that the Supervisory sory Board are responsible for superwere elected at the General Meeting Board, as one of the Company’s govervising strategy implementation, orgaby a simple majority of present votes, ning bodies, is responsible for electing nizational monitoring and controlling one was appointed by the European and removing the Members of the Mathe level of sustainability of business Bank for Reconstruction and Developnagement Board. operations, as well as all other areas rement (EBRD), and one by the Comlevant to the operation of the Company. pany’s employees in accordance with In Agrokor companies in which minorithe provisions of the Labor Act. The ty shareholders hold more than 10 perMembers of the Supervisory Board are cent of total shares, the shareholders Agrokor appointed for a term of four years. The refer their recommendations and propoManagement Board Members of the Supervisory Board elese guidelines to the Supervisory Board ct the Chairman and Vice Chairman of through their representative appointed According to the Articles of Associatithe Supervisory Board among themas Member of the Supervisory Board on, Agrokor Management Board may selves. In 2012 and 2013, Ivan Todoafter the General Meeting approves consist of up to eleven members. The rić was Chairman of the Supervisory nomination proposed by the relevant Members of the Management Board Board and Branko Mikša served as Vice shareholders. In Agrokor companies in are appointed (for a term of five years) Chairman. which the shareholders hold less than and removed by the Supervisory Board 10 percent of total shares, the shareholand they may be reappointed without The Articles of Association of Agrokor ders exercise their rights at the General limitation. Within the scope of its riaffiliates also prescribe that Members Meeting in accordance with the Comghts and obligations regarding the maof the Supervisory Board be elected and panies Act and constituting documents nagement of the Company’s affairs, the removed by the General Meeting and of such companies. Management Board is authorized and that one member be appointed by the required to undertake all measures and employees in accordance with the proMost companies within the Group emactivities as well as make all decisions visions of the Labor Act. ploy more than twenty people who are, necessary to ensure successful operapursuant to the Labor Act, entitled to tion of the Company. The Management The Supervisory Board is responsible participate in decision-making which Board regularly reports to the Supervifor supervising the management of concerns their economic, worker’s and sory Board, particularly with regards company’s affairs. The Supervisory Bosocial rights and interests. For this to issues such as business policy and ard is authorized to review and examipurpose, employees are free to elect strategy, profitability and current opene corporate accounts and documents, a Workers’ Council, which appoints rations of The Agrokor Group, as well treasury, securities, etc. For that puran employee representative to the Suas any extraordinary issues relevant to pose, the Board may appoint its mempervisory Board. The Member of the its business operations. bers or experts. The Supervisory Board Supervisory Board who represents the issues an order to the auditor to review employees is responsible for protecting the annual financial statements of each the interests of employees at Supervicompany and the Group. The Supervisory Board meetings and he/she promosory Board submits a written report on tes proposals and guidelines presented the supervision of the company’s affaat employee meetings. Agrokor has not irs and review of financial statements established a Worker’s Council, so that to the General Meeting. The Superthe employee representative is appoinvisory Board is authorized to conveted to and removed from the Supervine a General Meeting and it proposes, sory Board by employees through free independently or in consultation with and direct voting by secret ballot in the Management Board, decisions to be accordance with the Labor Act. passed at the General Meeting. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 17 Stakeholders List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization In their mission and vision statements, Agrokor companies define the stakeholder groups that they deal with on a daily basis and consider relevant for their business operations and success. In each business location and environment, there are individuals and groups with specific interests or demands towards the Company, and considering how closely related such companies are with the environments they operate in, such requests are usually acknowledged. To ensure continued mutual interest and understanding, we regularly communicate with the stakeholder groups identified below. Customers working at different levels, actively The first business participate in the process of proposing Customers represent an extremely imand creating improved solutions. Their group that portant stakeholder group of all compaworking environment ensures them the signed collective nies within the Group. Their comments opportunity for continuing professional collected in various surveys are used agreements and personal development. as the basis for improvement of our already in 1996. existing products and development of Unions new ones. Our products and services are continuously adjusted to customer needs We are proud to be able to say that the and changes in their habits and lifestyle Croatian companies belonging to the trends. Special attention is dedicated to Group are the first private companies product quality. All the Group compato incorporate collective bargaining nies provide toll free customer lines as in their employee and union relations well as the possibility for the customers business models. We follow the same to submit their suggestions and compractice in other countries of the regiments via e-mail or through our web on, in accordance with local laws and interface. In addition, individual custoregulations. Through workers’ councils, mer habits and needs are followed on the unions participate in the process of the basis of customer loyalty cards. On passing decisions by the Management the basis of the information collected in Boards and the supervision of business this way, we organize specific promotioperations through their membership ons for the customers, as well as provide in the Supervisory Boards of the relediscounts and benefits for the same in vant companies. The Agrokor Group our retail chains. supports and finances charity, educational and sporting activities based on Employees union initiatives. Agrokor companies never stop emphaSuppliers and partners sizing and demonstrating that the employees are the most valuable asset of We work closely with our suppliers and the Group. By providing them with conpartners to create values adjusted to tinuing advancement and additional trathe needs of our customers and other ining opportunities and assisting them stakeholders. Mutual commitment to in career development planning, we sustainable development and applicatistrive to motivate our employees as well on of the highest quality standards are as increase their satisfaction and perthe basic requirements which must be formance. At the same time, we expect met by Agrokor companies. The same from them to comply with the highest requirements apply to the business parstandards of excellence. Our employees, tners we cooperate with. We create and 18 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines 2012/2013 By building a noise barrier next to the onion warehouse and processing facility in Lipovac, PIK Vinkovci successfully responded to the needs of the people living in the surrounding area. improve business relations through inwe operate and provide the necessary tensive cooperation, thus contributing professional assistance and business to the achievement of not only our buexpertise in accordance with the requsiness results, but also of our long-term irements and needs of particular state sustainable development goals. institutions. Through interaction with the local and central authorities, we Shareholders and help create business conditions benefifinancial institutions ting all interest groups. The long-term management strategy applied by Agrokor companies is focuCommunity sed on increasing the value of share The Agrokor Group is closely associacapital. We have been putting efforts ted with the communities in which in operation. The fans are installed on into earning the trust of our shareholwe create new economic value, whithe exterior wall of the warehouse and ders, investors and financial instituch is why our corporate culture incluare used in the technological process tions for years confirming our focus des participation in local initiatives. for air dehumidification and creation of on creating new value by our results. By carrying out various activities our proper climatic conditions for storing Through regular reporting, provision employees help the development and onions and potatoes. After the releof access to information about our buincrease the quality of life in their revant measuring, the increase in noise siness operations and interaction with levant environments. They also propolevel was confirmed. As a result, PIK the above-mentioned stakeholders, we se financing of activities they consiVinkovci prepared a noise reduction fulfill our mutual needs and demands, der very important. We are referring plan in cooperation with the competent thus creating trust that our business to activities falling within the scope institutions. The noise barrier construrelationships rest on. of charity, preservation of cultural hection project was completed at the end ritage, conservation of environmental of 2013. The actual noise level reacLocal and resources, art and culture, and projehed when the facility is in full operacentral government cts associated with children and youth. tion will be measured during the next By actively participating in activities loading of onions into the warehouse Each company which belongs to the carried out by their local communities, (planned in summer of 2014), as that is Group is closely associated with the our employees and companies contriwhen the fans are most frequently used. environment in which it operates bebute to further development at all levels Regardless of the future measuring cause it participates in developing and and in all areas where deemed neceplans, our neighbors in Lipovac expreraising the quality of life by employing ssary, thus creating a positive and sustassed their satisfaction after the noise local population and paying local levies inable business and living environment. barrier was built, saying it had helped and taxes. On the other hand, as one raise the quality of life in the village. of the largest business entities in the One of the examples of the manner in region, The Agrokor Group has an addiwhich we interact with our stakeholtional responsibility for creating a tranders is our cooperation with the peosparent, fair and stimulating business ple living near the onion and potato environment. Our employees and comwarehouse and the onion processing panies continuously cooperate with all facility in Lipovac. More precisely, afinstitutions in the countries in which ter our Lipovac-based onion and potato warehouse had been built, the people living in the immediate vicinity of the warehouse complained of higher noise levels during the periods when fans are We accept our responsibility for creating a transparent, fair and stimulating business environment. 19 part 3 Impact Indicators The Agrokor Group is the largest vertically integrated producer, distributor, retail and wholesale chain in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia and one of the leading companies in Southeast Europe. The Group’s operations are organized in two basic business segments: i) Retail and Wholesale Business Group and ii) Food and Beverage Production and Distribution Group, including four main segments: Ice Cream and Frozen Food Products; Bottled Water and Soft Drinks; Oil, Margarine and Mayonnaise Products; and Agriculture and Meat and Meat Products. 20 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 3.1 Economic Impact Indicators 3.2 Social Impact Indicators 3.3 Environmental Impact Indicators Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 21 part 3.1 Economic Impact Indicators The Agrokor Group is the largest vertically integrated producer, distributor, retail and wholesale chain in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia and one of the leading companies in Southeast Europe. The Group’s operations are organized in two basic business segments: i) Retail and Wholesale Business Group and ii) Food and Beverage Production and Distribution Group, including four main segments: Ice Cream and Frozen Food Products; Bottled Water and Soft Drinks; Oil, Margarine and Mayonnaise Products; and Agriculture and Meat and Meat Products. 22 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Economic Impact Despite the fact that Agrokor’s primary 3,053 million and resulting in an increaoptimizing costs and business processes, markets are still facing adverse mase in EBITDA margin from 9.2 percent to increasing efficiency and profitability, croeconomic trends, including decrea10.1 percent. In 2012 and 2013, Agrowhile continuing the systematization sed consumption and increased unemkor companies continued to pursue their and reorganization process, and maxiployment, Agrokor continued to record strategy focused on increasing and/or mizing the synergies within the Group. growth in this reporting period as well, retaining their shares and undertaking Agrokor performance in 2013 shows both regarding its revenue and its proproactive measures, such as effective that our companies managed to retain fitability levels. On the consolidated marketing and promotional campaigns, or even increase their market shares, imbasis, the total sales revenues were HRK price investments, ongoing innovation, prove their competitiveness and strengt30,144.8 million, which is an increase product range expansion, and offering hen their market positions, thus creating of 1.3 percent, while EBITDA increased private labels. In addition, the manageadded value for all stakeholders and a by as much as 12 percent, reaching HRK ment continued to be highly focused on strong platform for future growth. 2011 2012 2013 2013/2012 (HRK 000) (HRK 000) (HRK 000) % Direct economic value generated 29,362,179 30,290,200 30,641,428 a) Revenues 29,362,179 30,290,200 30,641,428 1.2% Economic value distributed 28,359,231 29,362,866 29,675,925 1.1% b) Operating costs 23,996,150 24,819,647 24,941,379 0.5% c) Employee salaries and benefits 2,977,329 2,905,140 2,696,341 -7.2% d) Payments to capital providers 1,148,521 1,422,073 1,785,775 25.6% e) Payments to the government 222,914 197,233 234,173 18.7% f ) Investments in the community 14,317 18,773 18,257 -2.7% Retained economic value (calculated as economic value generated 1,002,948 927,334 965,503 4.1% minus economic value distributed) Source: Capital Strategy and Markets Agrokor Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 23 The revenues include sales revenue, zation of the advanDistribution Busiother revenue, interest revenue, net retages provided by the Our pricing and ness Group. venue from selling tangible assets and Customer-Centric Reproduct range subsidiaries, Group’s share in the profit tailing concept that policies are adjusted Operating costs or loss of its affiliated companies, diviallows us to adjust include material to the demographic dend revenue, and fair value of acquired our pricing and procosts, service costs, assets in excess of the acquisition cost duct range policies conditions of the other costs (exclusiless goodwill written off. In 2013, direct not only to the store micro-locations in ve of salaries, taxes economic value generated increased by size, but also to the which stores are and contributions HRK 321 million or 1.2 percent compademographic chaon salaries and debased. red to 2012. Such increase achieved desracteristics of each preciation costs), pite the unfavorable macroeconomic instore’s micro-locatiinvestments value dicators recorded in our environment is on, focus on customer care by offering adjustment, and net foreign exchange a result of our strategic focus on increbest-buy products, and personalized losses. Material costs increased by 0.5 asing revenues and improving profitapromotions for loyal customers. Such percent compared to 2012, but remaibility, as well as the timely undertaken increase in revenue was accompanied ned at the same level in terms of their measures to adjust to the unfavorable by an increase in profitability. This Bushare of total sales revenues – 80.5 market and macroeconomic conditions. siness Group’s EBITDA margin increapercent. The increase in operating costs It is also a reflection of a very good toused from 5.2 percent to 5.4 percent. is a result of a higher level of business rist season in Croatia. activity and is consistent with the sales The Food Production and Distribution revenue increase. The costs of salaThe Retail Business Group accounts for Business Group accounts for 20.5 perries and employee benefits decreased 75.8 percent of total consolidated recent of the consolidated revenues recorby 7.2 percent as a result of continuing venues recorded in 2013. Compared to ded in 2013. The consolidated sales rebusiness process optimization, but also the figures recorded in the same period venues increased by 1.2 percent compaas a result of changes in the employee the year before, the Business Group red to the same period the year before, structure. achieved a growth of 1 percent in 2013 i.e. from HRK 6,118.2 million to HRK and its sales revenues increased from 6,194.2. The Business Group’s profitabiPayments to the government include HRK 22,625.1 million to HRK 22,854.9 lity also grew, resulting in an increase income tax, which was, in 2013, higher million. Such increase achieved desin EBITDA margin from 13.4 to 15.9 compared to the same period the year pite the unfavorable macroeconomic percent. The increase in profitability before due to a higher taxable income circumstances in Croatia, Bosnia and is a result of our efforts put into imlevel. Payments to capital providers Herzegovina and Serbia is a result of proving the efficiency of our business include interest accrued and dividends the combined effects of several factors, processes and cost structure, as well as distributed. As a result of these factors, including strong marketing and promointo the restructuring of this Business Agrokor managed to increase its retaitional activities, constant investments Group’s portfolio. The Meat and Meat ned economic value by as many as 4.1 in prices and price perception, redesign Products and Bottled Water and Soft percent compared to the value achieved of our existing retail network with an Drinks segments were the most signifithe year before despite the unfavorable emphasis on small stores, adjustment cant contributors to the performance of economic and financial conditions in of our private label range, further utilithe Food and Beverage Production and the market in 2013. The Risks and Opportunities Concerning Climatic Changes We have lately been witnessing signirectly, on the basis of the prices of input on the existence of public irrigation inficant climatic changes in our region. that we purchase from our suppliers, frastructure like any other farmer, we Extreme heat, abundant rain, floods the effects of disruptions in the produinitiated and were one of the founders and violent storms, which were until ction of raw materials that we purcof the Croatian Irrigation Association recently not so common in this part hase in the market also reflect on (HUZN). The Association made it poof the world, have a substantial our business operations. ssible to articulate the needs of farmers impact on the operation of the from all farming areas in the Republic companies which belong to Agrokor As far as agricultural of Croatia, based on which the public the Group because of the production is concersector will be able to channel its own is the effect they have on our ned, we intensified investments into a public irrigation crops grown outdoinitiator and one system. our activities to ors. First of all, the of the founders of prepare for the companies engathe Croatian Irrigation major irrigation The effects of climatic changes may be ged in agricultuinvestments we reduced by minimizing the use of fossil Association (HUZN) which ral production are expect to make fuels and ensuring proper disposal of directly affected ensures that irrigation needs in the next reall types of farming and food productiby such climatic of farmers from all farming porting period. on by-products and waste. In August changes and indiareas in the Republic of As we depend 2012, Agrokor energija opened its first Croatia are articulated. 24 biogas plant near Vrbovec, the Gradec Besides pig manure, various by-produThe raw biogas plant. The plant’s installed pocts and waste from different food promaterial which wer capacity is 1 MW and it generates cessing facilities are also used in the is predominantly over 8000 MWh of electricity every plant. After the Gradec plant, we also used in our biogas plants year, which is then distributed to the put into operation our 2 MW Mitrovac national grid, and approximately 9000 biogas plant and are in the process of is pig manure, although MWh of thermal energy used to heat building the Popovac, Ovčara and PIK various other by-products the fermenters, the enclosures on the Vinkovci biogas plants, each with an and waste from different Gradec I and Gradec II pig farms locainstalled power capacity of 2 MW. Affood processing ted in the immediate vicinity of the biter their completion and increasing the ogas plant, and to dry the digester used capacity of the Gradec plant to 2 MW, facilities are also as organic fertilizer and a high-quality the total installed power capacity of all used. supplement to mineral fertilizers. The our biogas plants will be 9.8 MW. The material which is predominantly used new biogas plants are expected to be to run this biogas plant is pig manure. put into operation in 2014 and 2015. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 25 Pension Plan All our employees are registered and According to the provisions of the relevice with the employer in the duration of included in the state pension fund in vant collective bargaining agreements 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35 and 40 years. The accordance with the relevant regulatiand general documents, each employee requirements for receiving and the amoons. In the Republic of Croatia, the penis entitled to a bonus in addition to theunt of such jubilee benefits are defined sion contribution rate is still 20 percent ir base salary for each effective year of under the relevant collective bargaining and is divided, depending on employee insurance. agreements and the amount payable age, into the compulsory 1st pension equals the maximum non-taxable amoinsurance pillar of 15 percent and the At retirement, each employee becomes unt determined in the relevant Ordinanoptional 2nd pension insurance pillar entitled to severance pay in accordance issued by the Ministry of Finance. equaling five percent of the contribution ce with the law, collective bargaining calculation base. Pension contributions agreements and general documents. An are paid by the employer in the name employee is entitled to a jubilee benefit and at the expense of the employee. on the basis of his/her uninterrupted serFinancial Aid Received from the Government In this period as well, the Croatian to Agrokor companies were received Government continued to financially for activities in the field of agricultustimulate certain economic activities ral production and cattle farming. It is of all business entities in their respevery important to note that the governctive segments. Most of the subsidies ment is not a direct shareholder in any provided by the Republic of Croatia of Agrokor companies. 2011 2012 2013 Total financial aid (000 HRK) 173,789 175,353 136,051 Tax benefits/tax credits 429 621 0 Subsidies 146,669 141,982 120,688 Cattle feeding 67,831 54,405 49,414 Agricultural production (harvesting, orchards and vineyards) 78,838 87,577 71,274 Aid for investment, research and development 0 254 2,420 Rewards 0 0 0 Exemptions from paying license fees or royalties 0 0 0 Financial aid from export credit agencies 0 0 0 Financial incentives 26,691 32,496 12,943 Other financial benefits 0 0 0 Source: Capital Strategy and Markets Agrokor 26 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Funding Policy and Practice and Share of Funds Used to Purchase Products and Services from Local Suppliers in Important Markets The Agrokor Group and its members are market or they do not meet our quality Mutual partnerships between Agrokor present in the markets of several counand price criteria. For example, Agroand local suppliers guarantee job setries in the region. However, their prikor strives to comply with high qualicurity and contribute to the stability of mary markets, where most of their buty standards with regards to industrial the local economy. We thus uphold the siness is conducted, are Croatia, Serbia equipment. Therefore, such equipment sustainability of our own business opeand Bosnia and Herzegovina. Each of is purchased from large international rations and positively affect the entire these markets is considered by Agrokor suppliers in 80 percent of the cases. local community. For the purpose of fora local market and all suppliers of raw However, local companies are engaged mally presenting what we expect from materials, products or services having for installing and maintenance of such the suppliers we cooperate with, we their registered office in the local marequipment whenever possible. began to develop a manual containing ket are considered local suppliers. guidelines for suppliers. The supplier In addition to the price and quality of manual will be published in the next reBecause of its size, Agrokor has a sitheir products and services, there are porting period. gnificant impact on the local economy. other criteria relevant to the selection This impact is also a reflection of of a supplier. Good vertical integratiAgrokor choice of suppliers. More preon of local suppliers with their sales cisely, Agrokor prefers local suppliers, and aftersales networks, their stratethus ensuring them direct support and gic focus on long-term presence in the helping them grow and develop, which market, professionalism and a positive By choosing indirectly spurs the growth of the local impact on the community are just as local suppliers, we economy. There are, however, certain important when selecting a supplier. limitations in the process of selecting At present, the Group spends over 70 contribute to the local suppliers – a number of specific percent of all its funds allocated for the stability of local products or services cannot be purpurchase of raw materials, products and economy. chased from local suppliers because services under agreements with local such suppliers do not exist in the local suppliers. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 27 3. 2 Social Impact Indicators The Agrokor Group is the largest vertically integrated producer, distributor, retail and wholesale chain in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia and one of the leading companies in Southeast Europe. The Group’s operations are organized in two basic business segments: i) Retail and Wholesale Business Group and ii) Food and Beverage Production and Distribution Group, including four main segments: Ice Cream and Frozen Food Products; Bottled Water and Soft Drinks; Oil, Margarine and Mayonnaise Products; and Agriculture and Meat and Meat Products. The Group achieves most of its revenues, over 70 percent, in the Croatian market, where it also employs most of its people, thus significantly contributing primarily to the economy of Croatia, but also to other markets served. By continuously investing in business development, employee training and product quality improvement, the Group works on creating an even greater value for all its employees and investors and therefore successfully exists in this highly competitive business environment. 28 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Social Impact Human Resources As people are the most valuable asBy coordinating our operating standof particular HR management proceset and a competitive advantage of any ards and policies, improving the organsses. The role, importance and scope company, human resources management izational system and organizational of knowledge, competences and tools is one of the most important business development, our business processes, of the Human Resources Department, functions, essential for Agrokor success. employee competence development along with continuing synergies, conAs a socially responsible company, we system, and human resources and taltributed to the achievement of Group’s continued implementing our long-term ent management system, as well as strategic business objectives. Improvedevelopment strategy even during the by intensively promoting innovation ment of operations and business process global and regional crisis, we intensified and proactivity, we significantly raised optimization were some of the most our activities aimed at improving our our operating efficiency and employimportant tasks and each company was working environment and ensuring emee satisfaction levels in 2012 and 2013. required to be adaptable and open to ployee protection and improvement of In addition, considering the economchanges in the current circumstances. their occupational health and safety. We ic environment, we performed numerThe HR Department played a key role in also provided various opportunities for ous activities providing short-term and designing and implementing our busiemployee development. long-term strategic support to business ness strategy and its resulting impact processes at the level of each compaon our HR management programs. In this Report as well, we ny and the Group, all for the purpose of achieving the defined business goals. More precisely, in our efforts to increwish to emphasize once ase competitiveness and business exagain the key message from In this reporting period as well, the cellence by systematically directing and Group’s strategic focus on overall guiding our human resources towards the President of The Agrokor excellence once again brought befoachieving the Group’s goals and objeGroup and the fundamental re us new challenges and tasks since ctives, we must constantly analyze our postulate of Agrokor human the existing and new markets as well efficiency as well as adjust, redesign as new quality products and serviand develop our organization in order to resources management ces and, of course, the most qualified, stay ahead of others in the performance strategy: “We consider our highly-motivated and satisfied emof defined activities. Therefore, analyemployees the most valuable ployees, are the key factors that all zing our organizational structure, work activities performed by the companies tasks, communication lines, business asset of the company. They and the Group are focused on daily. The process efficiency, capacity utilization represent our lasting and central human resources department and costs was and remains a continuous comparative advantage was responsible for planning, developrocess and task. ping and improving HR management in market competition and development tools, procedures To use a sporting metaphor, and a driving force for our and standards, as well as for enabling the management to apply the same for we are running the race for further accomplishment”. the purpose of achieving the planned the best time in the field of Therefore, such clear business goals. As HR departments of organizational improvement, strategic orientation and individual companies belonging to the Group have highly developed systems which race must never end, the reputation of Agrokor and programs, coordination of the imif we wish to remain compeas a socially responsible plementation of best practices and imtitive, but go on continuously company, which has been provement of business performance of individual companies and the Group as and dynamically. confirmed in practice, a whole was made possible through conadditionally motivates and tinuing mutual cooperation. commits us all. Pursuant to the 2012-2015 Strategic Plan of the Human Resources Department and the goals and priorities set for 2012 and 2013, we introduced important novelties in the implementation Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 29 Aspect: Employment Agrokor Employees from 2000 until 2013, as of December 31 40000 35000 30000 25000 20000 15000 10000 5000 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Agrokor Employees from 2000 until 2013, as of December 31 Permanent Temporary Temporary and Employment Employment Occasional Total The structure of employees by the type Country Contract Contract Employees* Employees of employment contract, age, level of qualification and gender, and the shares Croatia 20,454 5,094 649 26,197 of employees by the type of business operations and countries did not signiSerbia 5,053 1,175 702 6,930 ficantly change compared to the previoBosnia and us report. Herzegovina 2,860 650 31 3,541 In 2012 and 2013, approximately 70% of Other Countries 442 110 28 580 all employees were employed in the Republic of Croatia, 19% in the Republic of Total 28,809 7,029 1,410 37,248 Serbia, 9% in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and 2% in other countries of operation. * Temporary employment agencies, student services, vouchers and specific service agreements Agrokor Employees, Shares by the Country of Operation, 2013 Croatia ............................................... 70% Serbia................................................. 19% Bosnia and Herzegovina........................ 9% Other countries...................................... 2% 30 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Agrokor Employees by Type of Business Operations, 2013 Retail .......................................... 54% Most of our employees work in retail (54%), followed by food and beverage proFood ........................................... 21% duction and distribution (21%), agriculture (11%) and other areas of Agrokor’s Sales and Services ..................... 14% business operations (14%), including Agriculture................................... 11% companies in the Sales and Services Business Group, which recorded a significant growth during the reporting period. Agrokor Employees by Type of Business Operations, 2012 Retail .......................................... 53% Food............................................ 20% Sales and Services...................... 15% Agriculture................................... 12% Agrokor Employees by Type of Employment Contract, 2013 On the last day of the reporting period, employees with permanent employment contracts accounted for 77%, employees with temporary contracts accounted for Permanent Employment Contract........ 77% 19%, while our temporary and occasioTemporary Employment Contract......... 19% nal employees accounted for 4% (agencies, cooperatives (Serbia), vouchers (Croatia), Temporary and Occasional Employees.... 4% student service contracts, specific service agreements) of total employees. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 31 The economic objective The required number and structure of among male employees was 25.11% and employees regardless of the type of em17.10% among female employees. The of the Human Resources ployment contract (permanent or tememployee turnover rate in the Republic Department is to provide an porary contract, temporary or occasioof Croatia was 5.01%, 8.76% in the Reoptimal number of required nal employment) is planned at the level public of Serbia, and 16.35% in Bosnia of the Group on an annual and monthly and Herzegovina. employees with appropriate basis in order to ensure optimal use of qualities at the right time the existing human resources, as well In addition, the turnover rates recoras the number of people potentially ded in the Group reflect our continuoand in the right place, as leaving (for retirement purposes). The us commitment to employing young well as use their potential job includes regular reporting, whihighly educated persons as well as for the purpose of achieving ch allows us to use our “internal labor specialists and experts of all profiles market” and fulfill our staffing needs and ages and are, especially in the last organizational objectives, in a timely manner. reporting period, a result of: new invethus creating competitive stments, reorganization and optimizastrength and ensuring In the past period, additional efforts tion of particular business segments, were put into analyzing our employimplementation of new technologies success. ment model for the purpose of maxiand products, and overall improvement mizing the use of our own resources of business processes. and selecting the most efficient form of workforce engagement according to the The Group actively participates in putypes of business operations performed blic policy projects and measures aimed and countries of operation. at employing young people and helping their transition from the educational During the reporting period, there were system into the labor market by prono instances of forced, compulsory or viding them with practical skills and child labor in the Group, or any other experience. In this reporting period, we violations of the International Labor strengthened our cooperation with the Organization’s (ILO) convention. competent ministry, employment services, local and regional self-government The Group’s employee turnover rates units, business centers and incubators, are directly associated with the type schools, faculties, secondary and uniof business operations that a partiversity student associations, and many cular company is engaged in, which other institutions associated with the is particularly evident in companies labor market. We also continued provithat employ seasonal workforce. The ding opportunities for participation in average annual number of seasonal practical training, traineeships, apprenemployees is 2554, most of whom are ticeships and practical work intended needed during the summer season, for young people with vocational schoseasonal agricultural activities, and ol degrees and highly educated young different holidays across the region. people of different profiles. Consequently, most departures refer to employees with temporary employment The size of our Group and its constant contracts (65.52% in 2012 and 74.82% growth and development allow us to in 2013), while the turnover rate among offer new employment opportunities our permanent employees was 6.84% through new investments and business in 2012 and 8.23% in 2013. The menexpansion. We plan to pursue this prationed percentages include the retictice in the next period as well. rement-based departures as well. The employees leaving Agrokor companies During the reporting period, our comare always properly informed about all panies employed on average 303 disatheir rights and options in connection bled persons, which is 0.84 percent of with employment termination and are all our employees. Zvijezda d.d. contiprovided professional support in their nues to actively implement its project respective companies, in accordance for employing and mentoring disabled with all applicable laws, each compersons in cooperation with the Inklupany’s corporate documents, and collezija association. Ten seriously mentally ctive bargaining agreements. Accorchallenged persons presently work theding to the overall turnover trends at re as assistants. the level of the Group, the turnover rate 32 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Agrokor Employees by Gender 54% 46% (2012, 2013; 2000-2013 trend) 60 As far as gender is concerned, 54% of all Agrokor employees are women. As 50 far as qualifications are concerned, most employees have secondary and 40 post-secondary non-university educati30 on (63%). In terms of the age, the greatest number of employees fall in the 20 groups of employees aged 20-34 (33%) and 35-44 (30%). 10 0 2000. 2004. 2007. 2008. 2009. 2010. 2011. 2012. 2013. Agrokor Employees by Agrokor Employees by Age, Level of Qualification, 2013 2013 Secondary .................................. 53% 20 34 ....................................... 33% Elementary.................................. 20% 35 44........................................ 30% BA, MA, PhD............................... 15% 45 54........................................ 27% 55 66........................................... 9% < 19............................................... 1% Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 33 Employment and Internships Intended for Secondary School and University Students Employment, students................. 97% Internship, secondary school........ 95% Employment, pupils........................ 3% Internship, students......................... 5% Total Annual Employee Turnover within the Agrokor Group 1.800 1.600 1.400 1.200 1.000 800 600 400 Arrival 200 0 Departure 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Seasonal Employment within the Agrokor Group, Structure of Seasonal Employees, 2013 2013 4.000 3.500 3.000 2.500 2.000 1.500 < 30 1.000 30-50 500 > 50 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Total 34 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Employee Departures and Turnover Rates, 2013 1200 4,00% 3,50% 1000 3,00% 800 2,50% 600 2,00% 1,50% 400 1,00% 200 0,50% 0 0,00% 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Men Temporary Employment Contract Total Turnover Rate Women Permanent Employment Contract Employee Departures and Turnover Rates, 2012 1200 4,00% 3,50% 1000 3,00% 800 2,50% 600 2,00% 1,50% 400 1,00% 200 0,50% 0 0,00% 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Men Temporary Employment Contract Total Turnover Rate Women Permanent Employment Contract Employee Turnover Rate by Gender, Age and Type of Employment Contract 2013 Gender Type of Contract Male Female Temporary Permanent Parametar Turnover Rate Turnover Rate Turnover Rate Turnover Rate < 30 52.12% 38.54% 82.22% 8.96% 30 50 18.23% 16.47% 67.72% 6.40% > 50 19.27% 18.08% 94.36% 12.89% 26.39% 20.10% 85.67% 10.23% 2012 Gender Type of Contract Male Female Temporary Permanent Parametar Turnover Rate Turnover Rate Turnover Rate Turnover Rate < 30 56.10% 40.71% 89.31% 6.65% 30 50 19.07% 16.67% 78.18% 4.58% > 50 18.72% 18.23% 96.23% 11.44% 26.68% 20.85% 84.21% 9.48% Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 35 Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity In the governance structure of Agrokor companies, i.e. lines of management, most employees belong to the group aged 30-50 (73.54%), a significant number of employees is aged 50+ (18.95%), while women account for 38% of the management. Management Structure by Gender in 2013 3% 7% 11% 18% 24% 37% Top Management Middle Management Line Management Share of Women in the Management Structure of Agrokor Companies, 2013 Top Management ................. 25,20% Middle Management ............ 37,96% Line Management ................ 39,59% Share of Women in the Management Structure of Agrokor Companies, 2012 Top Management ................. 24,74% Middle Management ............ 34,92% Line Management ................... 37,6% 36 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Ljerka Puljić Senior Executive Vice President, Agrokor Structure of Management Positions, 2013 Top Management Middle Management Line Management Structure of Management Positions, 2012 Top Management Middle Management Line Management < 30 30-50 > 50 Total Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 37 Employee Evaluation In an effort to ensure achieving successful business results based on the clearly defined individual and common targets, through regular monitoring and evaluation of key employee performance indicators and application of an adequate remuneration system, we increase employee motivation, productivity and efficiency. The salaries paid to employees of the the reporting period were higher than a whole, the average monthly gross companies belonging to the Group are the respective national average: by salary paid to women in 2012 was on consistent with the market trends in 34.72% in the Republic of Croatia, by average 2.71% higher than the average the region, types of business operati55.94% in the Republic of Serbia, and monthly gross salary paid to men, but ons performed, regulations in different by 34.19% in Bosnia and Herzegovina. this difference was reduced to 0.56% in countries of operation, as well as colle2013. As far as management is concerctive bargaining agreements. However, There are no differences between men ned, in the past reporting period men as one of the largest and leading emand women with respect to their enreceived an average monthly gross ployers in the region, the monthly gross titlements and base salary amounts. salary which was 16.15% higher than salaries paid to our employees during However, if we look at the Group as that received by women. Salaries Received by Men and Women by Employee Category in 2013 Top management Middle management Line management Other employee Other employee temporary permanent < 30 30-50 > 50 Salaries Received by Men and Women by Employee Category in 2012 Top management Middle management Line management Other employee Other employee temporary permanent < 30 30-50 > 50 38 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety Since safe and healthy working conditions are considered a factor ensuring greater care to employees, we have established intensive cooperation and coordination in the area of occupational health and safety among the related professionals and departments operating within Agrokor companies for the purpose of exchanging experiences and practices, implementation of standards, active participation in the preparation of relevant regulations, development of training programs, and cooperation with the relevant institutions. During this reporting period, we ortheir respective Occupational Safety ganized regular work and coordinaCommittees. Such committees compriting meetings on the topic of occuse the employer or its authorized repational health and safety in order presentative, an expert in occupational to provide our companies engaged in safety, a coordinator of occupational different types of business operations safety commissioners, and an expert with opportunities to exchange their in occupational medicine. The Comfield-specific practical experiences (remittees meet at least once every three tail, manufacturing, agriculture). months or more frequently, if necessary. At such meetings, the employer At the global level, health and safety and employee representatives review All stakeholders issues are regulated by relevant laws the situation and undertake measures share the responsibiand subordinate regulations. At the to ensure efficient implementation and lity and are very much micro-level, these issues are regulated organization of occupational health and on the basis of collective bargaining safety activities to prevent and minimiaware of the importanagreements containing provisions reze all types of injuries, and particularly ce of ensuring healthy, levant for employees. In this manner, the workplace injuries considered most safe and humane Agrokor confirms mutual responsisevere. The Committees plan and subility and a high level of awareness working condipervise the application of occupational among all stakeholders of the imporsafety rules and the related informing tions. tance of ensuring healthy, safe and peoand training activities, propose meaple-friendly working conditions. sures aimed at prevention of workplace injuries and occupational illnesses, as Among other things, the collective barwell as promote continuous improvegaining agreements define in detail the ment in the field of occupational safety. issues such as protection of employee In practice, all occupational health and Rates of Injury, Occupational privacy and dignity, occupational healsafety issues are resolved through coth and safety, election and appointment Illness and Days Lost operation between the Management of occupational safety coordinators, Board or its authorized representative training in safe working practices, parand the occupational safety commissio2012 2013 ticipation in hazard assessments, selener (appointed by the union). IR 3.82 3.69 ction and provision of personal protective equipment, periodic medical exaODR 0 0.003 Regular occupational safety activities minations of employees working under are performed by one or more occupaLDR 87.13 89.32 special conditions, protection of certain tional safety experts. Such activities AR 6,835.96 8,037.87 employee categories, the right to refuse include standard occupational safety to work in case an employee’s life is in activities, keeping of required records, IR Injury rate danger, proposing measures for improinspection of working tools and the ODR Occupational disease rate ving occupational safety, continuing working environment, preparation of LDR Lost day rate cooperation with employer’s authorized AR Absentee rate working instructions, referral of emrepresentatives and occupational safety ployees to medical examinations acexperts, etc. cording to the occupational safety and sanitary regulations, and supervision According to the regulations of the coand coordination of activities of all reuntry of operation of individual Agropresentatives of the Management Bokor companies and the provisions of the ard and employees participating in the respective collective bargaining agreeimplementation of health and safety ments, all companies have established measures. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 39 The Personal Protective Equipment namely ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. nal and more favorable health insurance Regulations define the equipment to The purpose is to ensure application of terms. In addition, general and speciabe used for each position. The Training the highest standards in ensuring a safe list medical examinations in health care Plan and Program defines the specific and healthy working environment, ideninstitutions are also provided for the occupational safety training requiretify and control health and safety risks, employees and their family members. ments for each position and the occuminimize the risk of accidents, comply pational safety commissioner represenwith legal regulations, and generally During the relevant reporting period, ting the interests of the employees may improve our business operations. we received three reports of age disrequest a visit by a labor inspector if crimination and five reports of verbal he/she suspects there are any failures Pursuant to statutory obligations presabuse. These cases were investigated the employer is unwilling to rectify. cribed for employers and taking into by authorized professionals, witnesses account all aspects required to provide and other persons involved. The facts of The coordinator of occupational safety proper working conditions for the pureach particular case were established commissioners participates in inspepose of ensuring a higher level of preand appropriate solutions found. Discictions performed in case of serious vention, we organized consultations for plinary measures were applied in only workplace injuries, the employees parpersons authorized by the employer to one case. ticipate in hazard assessments (or asprotect employee dignity in all compasessment updates), and responsible pernies within the Group. As most room for improvement of prosons are appointed for testing high-risk ductivity is found in mobilizing emmachines and devices used for a partiBy providing additional training and ployees according to the strategic goals cular type of activity. opportunities to raise the employees’ of the organization, open doors and conawareness through educational workstinuous, sincere and cooperative comDuring this reporting period, we conhops and work meetings, Agrokor sumunication are the best way to promote tinued to undertake activities at the pports the promotion and preservation creativity and make an actual contribulevel of individual companies aimed at of health of its employees, their famition to achieving the organization’s goimplementing the international occuly members and the wider community. als and objectives by ensuring optimal pational health and safety standards, Agrokor employees also enjoy additioinvolvement of all human resources. 40 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Aspect: Training and Education Development of new technologies, improvement of business processes and market expansion for the purpose of satisfying customer expectations, result in additional workload and new tasks for our employees, which requires acquisition of new and improvement of their existing knowledge and skills. Thanks to our lifelong employee education programs, we manage to preserve jobs and raise the level of competitiveness of our employees by offering them a chance to work at different positions and within different companies belonging to the Group. Investing in New Knowledge and Continuing Education Talent management and career development, provision of opportunities for employee advancement, theoretical and practical training and application of succession maps are integral parts of the process of planning systematic development, safe future, further progress and development of our companies. We are committed to searching for young talents, helping them develop and directing their progress, thus creating possible substitutes for each key position within our system. Depending on our ning of employees as well as developassessments, we strive to find the best ment of their competences, which is workforce the labor market has to offer. why the company established the Idea Academy which started operating in The business The education and training system June 2013. The Academy includes five strategies of Agrokor established, the increasing interest different training rooms, a conference companies place an in learning, the results achieved and and interview room, and offices equithe development of particular acadepped with state-of-the-art technology. emphasis on investing mies within the Group as places where The Academy’s further development is in employee education knowledge, skills and experiences are the company’s long-term investment and training as well as created and exchanged within our orgathe purpose of which is to create a renization and investments in employee development of their gional training center for professional training guarantee sure return of the development of Idea’s employees and competences. funds invested, successful business reemployees of Agrokor companies based sults and satisfaction of our business in Serbia, and ultimately a place which partners and customers. promotes lifelong learning and development in the Serbian business market. According to our longtime practice, in this reporting period as well we adjuIn 2012, different types of training and sted the curricula and study materials development programs were attended used in Agrokor internal academies to by 44,693 employees (68.40% interour business and employee development nally) and in 2013 the number of parneeds in all key areas of activity: retail ticipants increased to 54,078 (55.62% and wholesale, food and beverage prointernally). Only 1% of the top manaduction, agriculture, and other services. gement participated in the training programs, while middle management The business strategy of Idea focuses accounted for 2%, line management for on investing in education and trai5%, and other employees for 96%. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 41 Average Number of Hours Shares of Employees in Training and of Training by Employee Development Programs by Category 2012/2013 25.00 20.00 15.00 10.00 5.00 0.00 Top Middle Line Other menagement menagement menagement employees Number of Hours of Training by Employee Top management Middle management Category and Type of Business Operations Line management Other employees Performed (shares in %) Food and Beverages Retail and Wholesale Agriculture As we are one of the largest employers rance, Pension Insurance Institute, Stamentation of specific regulations and in the region and there are many comte Inspectorate, Fund for Professional learn how to better apply the provisions mon issues requiring cooperation and Rehabilitation and Employment of Diof such regulations as well as propose appropriate solutions, we established an sabled Persons, Institute for Occupatiopossible improvements. open dialog with several external instinal Health and Safety, Gender Equality tutions such as: Ministry of Education, Ombudsman, etc. In addition to these In addition to all our activities carried Science and Sport, Ministry of Labor institutions in the Republic of Croatia, out for the purpose of ensuring emand Pension System, Croatian Employwe cooperated with the competent inployee rights, protection, education and ment Service, Institute for Health Insustitutions in the Republic of Serbia and development, in the next period we will Bosnia and Herzegovina as well. We focus on: promoting innovation and mostly took part in discussions preceinnovation culture in Agrokor comding the drafting of new regulations or panies with the aim of improving and amendments to the existing ones. upgrading our business processes and We are open to discussiintroducing new products and services on and cooperation with For the purpose of supporting our HR designed by our employees; improving departments, we organized, internally internal communication and promoting all public institutions baand in cooperation with external instikey values at all corporate levels; cosed in the countries we tutions, various work conferences and ordination of further activities conceroperate in if they believe consultations on the topic of proper ning the implementation of the OHSAS application of valid regulations from 18001 standards through mutual coopethat, with our expertithe field of labor and social legislation ration between companies and transfer se, we can contribute to of the Republic of Croatia, Republic of of the existing knowledge; as well as creating stimulating puSerbia and the Federation of Bosnia and participation in local and national iniblic policies. Herzegovina. The aim of such meetings tiatives and projects pertaining to eduwas to exchange experiences, discuss cation and employment of young people practical issues concerning the impleand occupations in demand. 42 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Employee Care Program and Cooperation with the Unions The Agrokor Group continues to provirespected and accurate information de an intensive employee care program, and data were presented as arguments including immaterial rights such as supporting particular views, since both Social dialogue safety at work, protection, protection parties were aware of the economic siwithin the Group against all forms of discrimination and tuation and the need to reach a comprois based on social harassment, occupational health, and mise. It should be emphasized that the professional training and education unions understood the necessity to give partnership. at the expense of the employer. These up on certain of their interests in order areas are regulated under special seto maintain the partnership with the ctions of the new collective bargaining employer, which has been developing agreements signed in 2012 and 2013. and improving for a long time. Social The employers perform the obligations dialog processes performed by the Gropositively discriminated in the sense assumed in their respective companies. up may be informal and institutionalithat they are entitled to an extra day In addition to being supervised by unized. A combination of these two menof paid leave for medical examinations on representatives, the implementation tioned approaches may be applied for and that an employment contract siof and compliance with the obligations social dialog purposes at the level of gned with a female employee aged 55+ assumed under the collective bargaithe Group or at the level of a particular cannot be terminated, and severance ning agreements are also supervised company as well. The process includes pay payable to retiring employees equby elected representatives of employees all types of negotiations, consultatials three average salaries. (workers’ councils). Workers’ councils ons or simple exchange of information have been established in all companies between the employer and union repreThe rights of our employees, other than in the Republic of Croatia. In the Repusentatives or selected representatives of managers, are protected under collectiblic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegoemployees regarding issues of common ve bargaining agreements (if signed). vina, the implementation of collective interest in connection with each comCollective bargaining agreements are bargaining agreements is supervised pany’s economic and social policies. signed in all Agrokor companies except by the unions. those with only a few employees and Social dialog within the Group is based without an organized union. on social partnership. We believe that The Agrokor Group In 2012, Serbian companies Kikindski we work together in order to achieve continues to provide the goals and find solutions to the samlin, Dijamant Agrar, Frikom and Nova an intensive employee tisfaction of both parties. This strategy Sloga renewed their collective bargaiis both assertive and cooperative. Both ning agreements maintaining the same care program, including parties have opted for the above-mentilevel of rights, while Dijamant signed immaterial rights such as oned cooperation model which ensures a new collective bargaining agreement safety at work, protection, a non-hierarchical relationship between in 2013. In the Federation of Bosnia the parties to the negotiations. and Herzegovina, Konzum and Saraprotection against all forms jevski kiseljak renewed their collective of discrimination and Under the new collective bargaining bargaining agreements for a term of one year in 2013. At the end of 2013, harassment, occupational agreements entered into in 2013, employee salaries, meal benefits and bothe following companies had collectihealth, and professional nuses provided by the Croatian comve bargaining agreements in place: training and education. panies did not change. The employers Agrolaguna, Ledo, Jamnica, Zvijezda, based their negotiations on the demand PIK Vrbovec, Belje, Solana Pag, Sojara, In 2012, we maintained the existing to “maintain the level of employee salaMladina, Irida, PIK Vinkovci, Konrelationships and retained the rights ries” and to adjust other material rights zum, Tisak, Vupik, Konzum Sarajevo, and obligations from earlier years. In to the maximum annual non-taxable Sarajevski kiseljak, Frikom, Dijamant, 2013, we entered into negotiations amounts according to the Personal InDijamant Agrar, Nova Sloga, Kikindski that lasted throughout the first half of come Tax Ordinance: Christmas bonus, mlin, and Idea. the year and resulted in new collective Easter bonus, annual leave benefit, chibargaining agreements signed for all ldren’s gift, jubilee benefits, mutual aid. our production companies in Croatia Despite the challenging business condi(Agrolaguna, Irida, Belje, Ledo, Jamnitions, our employees enjoy more mateca, Mladina, PIK Vrbovec, PIK Vinkovrial rights than guaranteed by law. ci, Zvijezda, Sojara, Solana, VUPIK) and amendments to the collective bargaiOur employees retained their right to ning agreements signed for Tisak and uninterrupted service in case of chanKonzum. The negotiating process was ging employers within the Group. EmAppendix 2 both formal and informal. The intereployees with impaired working ability List of major unions in sts of both contracting parties were are protected, female employees are The Agrokor Group Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 43 Investments in the Community Agrokor considers Furthermore, Jamnica launched its Jana Agrokor has been a significant sponsor – Water with a Message (Jana – voda of Croatian sport associations and clubs its investments in the s porukom) campaign with the aim to for years. In this period, Agrokor conticommunities it operates help the needy segments of the society. nued its partnership with the Croatian in and its contribution to The Jana – Water with a Message camOlympic Committee and sponsored many paign contributes to a number of chaother sport clubs in Croatia: Basketball different segments of the rity activities across Croatia, including Club Zagreb, Handball Club Split, Wosociety a significant part of helping the Zagreb Diabetes Associatimen’s Basketball Club Jolly, Women’s on to raise money to buy insulin pumps Volleyball Club Vukovar, and Water Polo its overall operations. for diabetic children, providing support Club Jug, and supported the organizatithe Children’s Happiness (Dječja sreća) on of sporting events such as the world association, the Us (Mi) association famous ATP tennis tournament in Umag Our activities in the communities in from Split, the Ladimirevci SOS Villaand the Fiumanka sailing event. which we operate facilitate the creation ge, the Imagine (Zamisli) association of transparent and stimulating envithat helps disabled young people, etc. Agrokor considers its investments in ronments. We help communities with Charity activities under this valuable the communities it operates in and donations and sponsorships in an effort Jana campaign will continue to be perits contribution to different segments to support charitable organizations, formed in 2014 as well. of the society a significant part of its sporting and cultural events, preservaoverall operations. Therefore the Grotion of cultural heritage, scientific and Sponsorships concerning the protectiup wishes to provide support through educational institutions, and activities on of human rights and preservation sponsorships and donations to such focused on children and youth. of social values are some of the most projects, institutions and organizations significant sponsorships provided by which are relevant for the development In 2012 and 2013, pursuant to its sponAgrokor. Agrokor thus continued to suof the society as a whole and ensure a sorship and donation policy, Agrokor support the Croatian Helsinki Committee better future. pported many important projects in the for Human Rights in 2013 as well. communities in which it operates. A lot of attention was focused on projects the purpose of which is to promote and preserve the cultural heritage of Croatia. In the past two years, through its sponsorships, Agrokor supported numerous cultural projects, such as the Rijeka Summer Nights event, the Ulysses Theater program, the traditional Neretva Boat Race, and the International Rijeka Carnival. We keep supporting the Croatian Village Singing Association Šestine through our program of donations. Just like in the previous years, Agrokor and the companies belonging to the Group supported many projects the purpose of which is protection and improvement of the lives of children and young people, and operation of associations providing care to disabled persons and other endangered social segments. In 2012 and 2013, Konzum continued carrying out activities under the Let’s Put Children Back on the Playgrounds (Vratimo djecu na igrališta) project. Under the mentioned project, Konzum builds and equips children’s playgrounds in cities across Croatia. Konzum also made donations to support the renovation of kindergartens and donated toys to pediatric hospital departments in several cities in Croatia. 44 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Product Responsibility Indicators FOOD – Quality and Information As one of the fundamental human Our corporate mission is We always strive to offer tasty food needs, food also plays one of the most with high nutritional value and we also important roles in health preservation. to comply with the highest offer plenty of information in order to An unbalanced diet will result in malquality standards in the help the customers choose the products nutrition and disease due to deficiency production and distribution in accordance with dietary needs, healof essential nutrients or obesity, health th condition and lifestyle. problems associated with obesity and of food and agricultural excessive intake of nutrients. Diffeproducts and we are able Research & Development is a central rent external impacts, such as lifestyle, department which provides product to provide the best value climate, economic aspects and level of development guidelines as described education, play an important role and for money to our customers above. In 2012 and 2013, development directly or indirectly affect the qualithrough our retail network, activities were aimed at ensuring a ty of one’s diet and health. The role of higher level of compliance of the entire the food industry certainly plays one of while respecting the product range with nutritional princithe most significant roles in the moprinciples of fair market ples and guidelines required to ensure dern world we live in and influences the competition and social a balanced diet: reduction of the caloric dietary habits of consumers. In many value of products primarily by reducing areas, the industry is setting standards, responsibility. the fat content, improvement of the nuparticipates in the promulgation and entritional fat profile, reduction of sugar forcement of regulations and laws, and and salt content, and enriching produaffects customer choices and behaviors cts with vitamins, minerals and other through its offer of products and provisifunctional ingredients. on of information. We Offer a Healthier Choice Reduction in Caloric Value Improvement of Nutritional Fat Profile Vegetable oil and fat are the produIn the production of 80% of our Ledo cts whose caloric value was reduced frozen puff pastry product range we by reducing the fat content. Zvijezda now use margarine which does not conlaunched a new fat baking product for tain trans fatty acids, thus also reduindustrial use where fat content was recing the use of margarine with trans duced from 80% to 70%. The company fats by 382 tons per year. also reduced the fat content in the Klasik baking spread to 60%. In addition, Reduction in the Amount of Sugar Zvijezda launched the Margo aero spreThe amount of sugar contained in part ad, a new product ensuring better spreof Jamnica’s product range, namely in adability, greater volume and improved Juicy Fruits Orange, Juicy Fruits Nectatexture achieved through the process of rine and Juicy Fruits Red Orange Juices aeration. Dijamant launched its Dobro and the To Apple Juice was reduced by jutro FIT, a semi-soft type of margarine approximately 40%. with a total fat content of 40%. Frikom launched its Light popsicle that has 43% less calories (from 168 kcal to 95) and is now also suitable for diabetics due to improvement of its nutritional content. Frikom’s ice cream Sarajevski kiseljak product Light has Sensation Lime-Kiwano A significant reduction in calories only 95 calories now has 30% less (by 30%) was achieved in the case of and is suitable calories. the Sarajevski kiseljak Sensation Lifor diabetics. me-Kiwano beverage as well. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 45 Salt Reduction means that it makes products according The amount of salt was significantly Added value for to Jewish food laws. reduced in the product range of PIK our customers – Vrbovec. The absolute salt content was We also aim to bring our products cloreduced by 10% in the case of Round information concerser to special customer groups that Ham, Mortadella and Mortadella with ning the intake of choose specific products for medical Olives. We also launched a project for nutrients ensuring a reasons. This particularly applies to reducing the salt content in all PIK customers that are allergic or intolebalanced diet. branded products (durable sausages, rant to certain food ingredients. This durable and semi-durable cured meats, is why products supplied by different semi-durable sausages, ham). companies indicate soy free, gluten free, etc. The packaging of each product also Adding Functional Ingredients choose the products as easy as possible provides various other information reZvijezda launched its new Omegol 4 by providing them easily accessible, clear levant to our customers, such as no preplus functional oil rich in omega 3 fatty and comprehensive information. Improservatives, natural aromas, no artificial acids, which also contains extra virgin vement of our services aimed at inforcolors, no sugar added, etc. olive oil, Omegol dressing with omega ming the customers about the nutritional 3 fatty acids suitable for vegetarians, content of our products is one of the top One of the aspects of optional produand the spreadable margarine Margo priorities in all our food companies. ct labeling is indicating the content of Balance enriched with magnesium. As certain nutrients in the recommended far as adding functional ingredients for As product quality and safety are the amount required to be consumed for the purpose of raising product quality key factors for gaining and maintaithe purpose of achieving a balanced is concerned, Dijamant improved the ning customer trust, we systematically diet. The entire Frikom ice cream range following products: Dijamant Junior invest in knowledge, equipment, techincludes optional product labeling in mayonnaise enriched with vitamins nical skills, services, marketing and the form of GDA (Guideline Daily AmoE, A and D3, folic acid, B12 and B6, Dicustomer communication in an effort to unt), stating the number of calories in jamant Junior ketchup enriched with provide high quality products and thus the recommended serving amount. An vitamin C, and Dobro jutro Fit enriched gain customer trust and ensure custoextended nutritional table indicating with vitamins E, A and D3, and calcium. mer satisfaction. By addressing specithe number of calories was also added fic customer demands, four of Agrokor to the entire range of frozen fruits, seaProvision of More Information companies (Belje, Dijamant, Ledo BiH food and most vegetable products. 20% Today, customers face a difficult task of and PIK Vrbovec) have satisfied the Haof Ledo’s product range includes GDA choosing from a rich and diverse offer lal standard requirements for a specific labeling and 10% of the company’s proof products. The products are very often group of products that meet the quality ducts also contain nutritional claims, changed, new products are launched, and attributes and may be consumed by the such as ‘rich in omega 3’ in part of the the industry strives to be dynamic and followers of Islamic religion. In 2013, seafood (fish) product range. Jamnica innovative. In such circumstances, it is PIK Vrbovec became one of Agrokor’s included the information about calories very important to help our customers ten Kosher certified companies, which in its range of Jana flavored waters. Both Zvijezda and Dijamant have produced Jamnica has also included the caloric functional products whose recipes meet the value information on its range of Jana expectations of their respective customers. flavored water products. 46 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Life Cycle Phases in which Product and Service Impact on Health and Safety are Assessed and the Percentage of Important Product and Service Categories subject to such Assessment Agrokor companies have embraced quaThe sustainability of product and serAs product quality and safety are the lity as their guiding principle and convice quality levels reflects a high level key factors in gaining and maintaining sider the establishing of a management of motivation among our employees in customer trust, we systematically insystem platform a priority ensuring general, as well as at particular levels vest in knowledge, equipment, techfood safety, compliance with statutory of operation. Homogeneity in undernical skills, services, marketing and requirements and internationally recostanding and managing risks is achiecustomer communication in an effort to gnized standards, as well as exceptioved by using numerous available tools ensure unquestionable safety and high nal value for the customers. and knowledge acquired on the basis of quality of our products, thus ensuring targeted and well-designed training tecustomer trust and satisfaction. AgroWe consider assurance of chniques and materials. By using such kor companies possess a large databamethodology, cooperating with renowse on the basis of which they analyze the quality of our products, ned local and international institutions customer satisfaction and their responprocesses and services an across the world (Faculty of Food Techses, as well as include the customers in nology and Biotechnology, Croatian Vethe mutual communication and interaimperative. terinary Institute, Campden BRI, NSF ction system. We occasionally use the International, etc.) and monitoring the services provided by third parties that The quality management systems used best practices, we fulfill the key requiperform anonymous customer surveys in Agrokor companies are in comrements for ensuring long-term stabilior we use benchmarking processes to pliance with the relevant international ty, security and viability of all Agrokor compare our products and services in standards (ISO 9001, ISO 14000, ISO production resources. the domestic and international markets. 22000, OHSAS 18001:2007, HACCP, Regaining customer trust and retention GMP+, Global G.A.P., IFS, BRC, etc.) and We expect the same level of quality of customers, their loyalty and level of are regularly audited by renowned cerstandards from our business partners. satisfaction are the most reliable qualitification authorities that provide input The process of selecting and evaluty indicators. and support our efforts aimed at introating suppliers in modern business ducing innovative changes and improconditions, in which globally recogniNo national or European regulatory fravements. A list of certified systems of zed production and operating systems meworks or standards were violated duall companies included in this Report is are applied, is performed in all Agroring this reporting period in the field of provided in Attachment 3. kor companies at a continuous basis. product monitoring, with an emphasis In this way, we often reach long-term on safety and potential health impacts. Systematic assurance of food safety agreements with particular suppliers, is based on HACCP (Hazard Analysis thus establishing completely new leand Critical Control Point) principles vels of trust, openness and partnership. applied to identify, assess and control For that purpose, we design and use potential risks for prevention purposes. appropriate methods for complete evaThis is a systematic code of technoluation according to objective criteria logical process control that serves to specific to a particular product. identify potential risks in any phase of a product’s lifecycle, from input and The evaluation of a selected supplier is product development, production and based on several key requirements such logistic chain, to waste disposal. as: competence, capacity, commitment to product and service quality, consistence, stability, value system compaWe promote tibility, clean operation, and business high quality communications. If they satisfy these requirements, they become company standards as well as associates provided with a long-term share them with our estimate of the demand expected to be suppliers, partners met through their production and distribution systems. and buyers. Appendix 3 A list of certified systems of all companies included in this Report Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 47 Type of Product and Service Information Required in accordance with Organizational Procedures and the Percentage of Important Products and Services subject to such Informing Requirements By accepting all transposed statutory mation. This is very important from market. Along with these activities, we provisions and following Croatia’s acthe aspect of direct impact on health. A conduct numerous media-covered marcession to the EU, all our companies new order of stating nutritional values, keting campaigns, campaigns through fully conformed and adjusted, in terms information about product use, and printed materials, brochures, flyers and of content, their product information other optional labels, as well as moposters, promotional tasting opportunion the packaging, depending on the dern design and packaging materials, ties in stores and at attractive outdoor category and nature of each product. A represent added value to the extenlocations, including interaction with special emphasis is put on the content sive range of our brands, especially visitors and involvement of the entire of information referring to allergens Konzum’s store brands and provide us local community. as well as the accuracy of such inforwith more competitive strength in the Customer Satisfaction Practices, including the Results of Customer Satisfaction Surveys The Agrokor Group and its members using the so-called ‘mystery shopping’ The second major project relates to bupay particular attention to customer method and is implemented several siness to business satisfaction surveys satisfaction. We make a distinction times a year in our retail chains in conducted in our production compabetween corporate customers and conCroatia (Konzum), Bosnia and Herzegonies, measuring the satisfaction of our sumers of our products and services. In vina (Konzum BiH) and Serbia (Idea). wholesale and retail partners, hotels, Agrokor’ system, customer satisfaction The survey is conducted by GfK and restaurants, etc. The survey is condumonitoring as part of market researthe project examines different aspects cted by Ipsos Puls, one of the top five ch is carried out in predefined periods of the service standard: store tidiness market research agencies in the world, using predefined mechanisms, such and cleanliness, staff’s communicathrough CATI (Computer Assisted Teas standard instruments and objective tion with customers, communication lephone Interviewing). The last survey measuring methods. Such standardized between staff members for the purpose round was completed in 2013 covering measuring approach allows us to colleof satisfying customer needs, providing seven companies belonging to the Groct and analyze our results in a systeappropriate feedback to customers, cash up (Dijamant, Frikom, Jamnica, Ledo, matic manner, which provides beneregistry service, etc. The results of the PIK Vrbovec, Sarajevski kiseljak and fits to the Group and its companies in survey are analyzed over time at the Zvijezda) in three markets (Croatia, Botwo significant ways: equal evaluation level of each company and at lower lesnia and Herzegovina and Serbia). practices applied by all our members, vels (regions and business areas), thus allowing us the possibility to compaallowing timely response in terms of The results of the survey conducted re the impacts of individual compaimproving particular elements of our among B2B customers of Agrokor comnies. We are also able to systematically in-store service to increase the satisfapanies indicate high levels of satisfactianalyze our results over time. Objectiction of our end customers. on recorded in the course of a number vity in the data gathering process is a of years, both at the general level and high priority, and is achieved by collein the case of particular aspects of our cting data and interpreting the same products and services. We also identiby established international research fied the key elements that help increainstitutes and agencies. By applying the Mystery se customer loyalty and elements that Shopping and CATI should be considered priorities in the Two major customer satisfaction mo(Computer Assisted process of improving each of the covenitoring projects are currently being red by the survey. Based on the results implemented within the Group: conTelephone Interviewing) and findings of the survey, the comtinuous monitoring of compliance methods, we monitor panies and the Group will continue to with the retail service standards and a and improve customer improve each aspect of their products two-year satisfaction survey involving and services since we consider custolarge customers of our production comsatisfaction mer satisfaction one of the core drivers panies. The first project aims to assess of the Group’s business success. compliance with standards at stores by 48 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Programs Ensuring Compliance with Laws, Standards and Optional Codes Concerning Marketing Communication, including Advertising, Promotion and Sponsorship Agrokor companies conduct most of the on advice and opinion provided by comWe apply the best communication with their customers petent ministries and other competent by including the mandatory declaratigovernment institutions. global practices on and marketing information on the in our marketing packaging, as well as through media The communication principles that we communication and communication (ATL and BTL). Online systematically apply are equally applicacommunications and social networks ble in the Republic of Croatia and other advertising activities are becoming increasingly important. markets in which even more attention is In all the mentioned forms of communidedicated to advertising due to specication, the companies continue to apply fic features of particular markets, such a conservative approach to advertising, as linguistic, cultural and other distinguided by the principles of ethics and ctive features. One of the functions of morals. Special attention is dedicated to the Central Marketing Department is ensuring accuracy and clarity of declato supervise the implementation of all rations on the packaging, which further marketing activities in all member comensures that the customers understand panies and provide advice in case of any all the key information provided. concerns regarding the ethics or morals of any marketing message. Although the Group does not posses a written code of marketing communicaDuring the reporting period, no signifition, we apply the generally accepted cant complaints were made to the comcommunication principles, including the panies belonging to the Group concerbest global practices and advice received ning their compliance with legal regulafrom marketing agencies, professional tions and rules of marketing communiassociations and other institutions encation, including advertising, promotion gaged in marketing. In addition, we rely and sponsorship. Significant Fines for Non-compliance with Laws ad Regulations Concerning the Supply and Use of Products and Services No significant fines for non-compliance customary in the relevant market at the with the laws and regulations concertime, Frikom appealed the decision, but ning the supply and use of products the appeal was not approved. and services were imposed on most of the companies belonging to the Group When placing a product on the market, during the reporting period. However, special attention is dedicated to the use according to a decision passed by the of proper product declarations. Each Competition Commission of the RepuDevelopment Department includes a blic of Serbia from May 2013, Belgraperson responsible for monitoring the de’s frozen food producer Frikom was regulations, obligations and practices fined EUR 3,159,107.80 for its domiconcerning product declaration and nant position in the relevant induplacing products on the market. Our strial ice cream wholesale market. The experts and employees very often partiCommission’s finding pertained to the cipate in teams responsible for drafting 2008-2010 period when standardized new ordinances and laws concerning sales contracts were used, which the the placement of products on the marCommission found to contain several ket established in various institutions terms that prevent effective competitiand ministries. on. Convinced that such practices were Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 49 Open Innovations as Support to Socially Responsible Business Practices An efficient response to the effectively respond to the needs of the tment into such cooperation marks the increasingly demanding market. beginning of a new innovation strategy needs of a highly competitive based on the open innovation concept, market – availability of ideas, In line with the predominant global which we will continuously strengthen knowledge, technologies trend, Agrokor also launched an initiaand use in all our business processes tive to prepare for the introduction of a for the purpose of strengthening our and skills at the global level new innovation concept, i.e. the concept own research and development capaciof open innovations, which relies on ties, integrating new knowledge, extencombining internal and external resoding the product portfolio to include In the past ten years, we have witneurces in order to create innovations in innovative solutions, and successfully ssed significant changes in business a faster and more efficient manner. By responding to challenges put before us conditions in Croatia and the region. investing in the development and imby the competition. As participants in the open and highly plementation of such a model, Agrocompetitive European market, we can kor wishes to ensure greater efficiency NineSigma is working with Agrokor expect similar trends in the upcoming of innovation processes, better flow and its companies in order to precisely period as well. Until recently, it was of knowledge and use of internal and define specific problems and demands enough to rely on one’s own resources external potentials, implementation of in relation to the global innovation in the process of developing innovative new ideas in different areas of innonetwork. The company also actively products and technological solutions to vative product development, solution participate in the process of selecting ensure the required growth. However, of technological problems, increased the best innovative concept offered and despite major investments in internal efficiency, cost minimization and inthe process of defining the best manner research & development activities and ternal process optimization, as well as of cooperation between the innovators human resources, it is clear that the challenge posed by the implementation and Agrokor, including cooperation baformer ‘invent yourself’ model is no of socially responsible business practised on license purchasing, consultancy, longer sufficient. Product market cycces at Agrokor companies. research projects, or any other form of les are becoming shorter and shorter, cooperation. while innovative companies are becoIn early 2013, Agrokor thus signed a ming increasingly important, which is cooperation agreement with NineSiwhy good connections with external gma, one of the leading companies in In early 2013 Agrokor signed partners and customers are now consithe world engaged in the implemena cooperation agreement dered a key requirement. Good connetation of open innovation concepts. ctions ensure the possibility of using Through cooperation with NineSigma, with NineSigma, one of the ideas, knowledge, technologies and skiAgrokor and its companies are allowed leading companies in the lls that exceed our own capacities and access to and use of the world’s largest world engaged in the implea knowledge base that covers different network of innovators and a knowledindustries and technical disciplines, ge base covering different industries mentation of open innovation which is the only way to quickly and and technical disciplines. The invesconcept 50 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Organization’s Views Concerning Particular Public Policies and Participation in the Process of Developing Public Policies and Lobbying Our business environment provides formation based on which the real imaWe are members of various defined boundaries within which our ge of our operating systems is formed, companies conduct their business opeand participate in activities launched by professional and business rations. The representatives of Agrokor ministries, various agencies, counties, associations, through which companies therefore actively monitor educational institutions, scientific inwe initiate business sector all events at the national and European stitutes, etc. After the Republic of Croalevels to timely identify any upcoming tia joined the European Union, the field activities using both national changes that our business processes and of public consultation expanded, so our and European sources procedures need to be harmonized with. employees engaged in different areas As members of professional and busiof activity contribute, if so requested by ness association (Croatian Chamber of relevant entities, their knowledge and Economy, Croatian Employers’ Associaexperience to help design sector-spetion, FoodDrinkEurope, etc.), we exprecific and program documents relevant ss our views and participate in creating to the drafting of regulations and laws platforms for presenting the challenges and important for the possibility of fiwe face in our business operations, we nancing business sector activities from regularly respond to all requests for innational and European sources. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 51 3. 3 Environmental Impact Indicators The general conclusion arising from such independent certification audits and inspections is that we comply with all statutory and other requirements. This reflects the fact that all our companies keep track of environmental legislation and regularly assess their compliance with statutory and other requirements. Such compliance results in full control of all environmental aspects and systematic and actual improvements and continuing minimization of adverse environmental impacts, providing, besides environmental, financial benefits as well. 52 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Environmental Impact In 2012 and 2013, further progress was 18 Agrokor companies (12 in Croatia, Agrokor systems proved an efficient recorded in Agrokor systematic envi3 in Bosnia and Herzegovina and 3 in corporate management tool. According ronmental management. This SustainaSerbia) already held the most valuable to the modern environmental protection bility Report presents the situation in international environmental certificate, concept, EMS is an integral part of all the system covering all 19 key environISO 14001:2004, and established EMS business processes (input – processes – mental indicators in 24 companies in systems. The EMS implementation prooutput) and such systems are not limited four countries (Croatia, Bosnia and Herject continues by relying on the synerto resolving only technical problems, zegovina, Hungary, Serbia). gy of our knowledge. Kikindski mlin but include all impacts of business proa.d. and Nova Sloga a.d. of Trstenik, cesses within and outside the company. Ledo Kft. Hungary suspended its ice Serbia, started to implement their EMS cream production in 2012, which is systems in 2013 and are expected to 14 of our companies prepared Environwhy it is not included in this Report. have them certified by the end of 2014. mental Reports for 2012, eight more Kikindski mlin a.d. was included in our than in 2011, including (in the order of sustainability reporting system for the Numerous inspections were carried out release dates): Belje d.d., PIK Vinkovci first time. Kor Neretva d.o.o. is a new in Agrokor companies (environmental d.d., Ledo d.d., Croatia; Sarajevski kisecompany that continues to engage in protection, water protection, occupatiljak d.d. BiH, Solana Pag d.d., Jamnica repurchase of fruits and vegetables onal safety, fire protection, sanitary ind.d., Vupik d.d., Ledo d.o.o. BiH, PIK Vrin the Neretva Valley. In the past ten spection, etc.). All requested documents bovec d.d., Frikom a.d., Serbia, Konzum years, Konzum DAD, Neretva Fructus and information were made available d.o.o. BiH, Zvijezda d.d., Idea a.d. Serbia, and AgroFructus were also actively into the inspectors. No violations of the and Dijamant a.d., Serbia. volved in the repurchase of fruits and law were recorded, while minor objevegetables, but to different extents. ctions were remedied through effective These reports represent an excellent corrective measures, so that no fines or mechanism for controlling the effectiIn the past two years, Agrokor receinon-monetary sanctions were imposed. veness of EMS systems because they ved three new environmental manageAs regards the relevant environmental identify in a simple, precise and meament system certificates. In 2012, two regulations in Croatia between 2012 surable way all positive and negative of our retail companies had their EMS and 2013, we will highlight the new shifts in a company’s activities that (Environmental Management System) Environmental Protection Act (Official relate to environmental protection, as certified according to the requirements Gazette no. 80/2013), Nature Protection well as other issues. The preparation of of the international ISO 14001:2004 Act (Official Gazette no. 80/2013), and such a report demonstrates progress in standard – Idea d.o.o., Belgrade, Serbia, Sustainable Waste Management Act systematic company management and and Konzum d.o.o., Sarajevo, Bosnia (Official Journal of the Federation of is also a tool for encouraging new imand Herzegovina. Earlier, Konzum d.d. Bosnia and Herzegovina no. 66/2013). provements in the next period. in Croatia, Idea in Serbia and Konzum d.o.o. in Bosnia and Herzegovina became the first and only retail companies in their respective countries that comply with ISO 14001. Furthermore, in early 2013 Vupik d.d., Vukovar, was successfully certified according to ISO 14001, Zvijezda’s EMS was recertified in 2012 and five companies successfully completed their EMS recertification in 2013, namely PIK Vrbovec d.d., Jamnica d.d., Konzum d.d., PIK Vinkovci d.d., and Sojara d.o.o. Regular system audits were conducted by certification companies in our other companies as well. On August 31, 2013, as many as Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 53 Employee training continues driver of sustainable development in Croatia and the entire region. to be a driver of system development at all levels of New investment projects brought posoperation. itive results in terms of minimizing adverse environmental impacts. These projects were mainly related to better It is important to ensure training (in waste management, optimization of environmental protection) to top manenergy and natural resource consumpagement, environmental managers, emtion, rational use of raw materials, etc. ployees in key environmental positions, Wastewater is an environmental aspect internal environmental auditors, new that receives special attention because employees, but also to our customers, the food industry uses large amounts suppliers and partners. of water for washing its facilities and ensuring compliance with high hygienWe continue to take advantage of muic production standards. We use cleaner tual synergies and learn from each production methodologies to minimize other. Four groups of our employees in our water consumption and emissions 2012 and two groups in 2013 received of harmful substances into wastewater. training in, among other things, environmental protection, management We would like to highlight our charity/ systems and sustainable development environmental project the purpose of at Agrokor’s Futura Academy. This prowhich is to collect plastic bottle caps gram is intended for young employees with the aim of raising funds for the of the Group, ensuring them an opporCroatian Association of Leukemia and tunity to acquire new knowledge. Lymphoma Patients. Zvijezda d.d. was the first within the Group to join the In April 2012, an event called Agrokor project in early 2013 to help the AssociEnvironmental Protection Days was ation. The bottle cap collecting project held in Osijek for the first time. 52 emsoon spread across the entire Group. ployees from 24 Agrokor companies Most Agrokor companies in Croatia are from Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovinow involved in the bottle cap collecna and Serbia attended the event. 19 tion initiative: Agrokor Energija d.o.o., presentations were held, 15 of which by Agrokor trgovina d.d., Agrolaguna d.d., different companies belonging to The BELJE d.d., Irida d.o.o., Jamnica d.d., Agrokor Group. Guest lecturers includKonzum d.d., Ledo d.d., mStart d.o.o., ed representatives of the Parliamentary PIK Vinkovci d.d., PIK Vrbovec d.d., Committee for the Protection of Urban Sojara d.d., Solana Pag d.d., Tisak d.d., Environment, the Ministry of EnviVupik d.d., Zvijezda d.d., and We would like to highlight our charity/ ronmental and Nature Protection, the Agrokor d.d.. environmental project the purpose of Town of Beli Manastir, and the Kopački which is to collect plastic bottle caps rit Nature Park. In addition to giving The purpose of the project is to raise with the aim of raising funds for the and attending presentations, socializfunds by selling the collected polyCroatian Association of Leukemia ing with and meeting our colleagues, ethylene bottle caps (which may be and Lymphoma Patients. education and open discussion concernrecycled into a new product) for co-fiing environmental protection, we also nancing of the supply of expensive visited sites in the nearby village of medicines for medical treatment of the Belje that are interesting in the conmembers of the mentioned association. text of environmental protection (new, In addition to the charity aspect of the modern winery in Kamenac and the project, it is also important to note that Čeminac Dairy Farm), as well as exhuge amounts of bottle caps no longer plored the beautiful natural features of end up as waste in nature. We collect the Kopački rit Nature Park. Agrokor’s bottle caps identified as production Environmental Engineering Departscrap (by companies using PE bottle ment concluded that more relevance caps in their business processes) and should be given to issues concerning caps from bottles used within our comthe environmental management system panies, but we also bring in bottle caps and that efforts should be made in order from our households. Entire families of to give more impetus to training proour employees joined the project and cesses, communications and programs are spreading it across kindergartens in the field of environmental protection. and schools. This is an open initiative We wish to ensure that EMS enjoys the and anyone can join. The more contribcredibility it deserves and becomes a utors, the greater success. 54 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 During the reporting period, our companies monitored their environmental impact indicators more efficiently, but also made various improvements in the field of environmental protection. PIK Vrbovec continues to be the number one company regarding the organization and completeness of its EMS. PIK’s management system was established very precisely and its EMS serves as model example in many other companies. By developing an IT application for managing non-conformities found during audits and inspections as well as performance of corrective and preventive measures, we achieved additional progress in improving our non-conformity management system. PIK also made improvements in its waste management activities, i. e. underground diesel fuel tanks were removed from the site and better protection of soil and underground waters was ensured. Agrokor energija carries out intensive activities associated with the use and application of renewable energy sources. Having developed its biogas plants, the company became a national and regional leader in the recovery of waste and by-products of agricultural production. The 1 MW Gradec biogas plant was put into operation in 2012 and the 2 MW Mitrovac biogas plant in 2013. From the environmental aspect, this is best way to dispose of various organic Agrokor completed the construction of a new greenhouse for hydroponic production of inputs (raw materials) that are used for vine tomatoes covering 4.5 hectares. It comprises a farm, biogas plant, solar power plant making the following three products: and a greenhouse that uses part of the energy generated by the biogas plant. organic fertilizer, heat and electricity. What makes these biogas plants special is that they predominantly use pig manure to generate biogas, while the rest of the input is obtained from contractors in different areas of food production, including PIK Vrbovec that is only seven kilometers away. These were only the first of a series of continuing investments in biogas facilities, and we are also working on a project including the installation of new solar power generating equipment in accordance with the initial photovoltaic system project, i.e. installation of solar cells on the roof of the Konzum Maxi store in Sopot. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 55 Sirana Špin installed 630 panels with Agrolaguna has solar panels, leased Vupik, as the last one of our companies a total power capacity of 145 kW, while from Agrokor Energija, installed on all certified according to ISO 14001, recethe winery installed 1260 panels with a its roof surfaces, which allows power ived a special commendation for its eftotal power capacity of 289.8 kW. generation without combustion. Sirana ficient internal audits providing a clear Špin installed 630 panels with a total picture of the opportunities for impropower capacity of 145 kW, while the vement. The EMS immediately accelewinery installed 1260 panels with a torated its project for installing water tal power capacity of 289.8 kW. Agrometers at all sites where we have wells. kor Energija sells its electricity to HEP The development of a study required to at preferred prices, while Agrolaguna obtain concessions for water pumping buys electricity from HEP at regular for technological purposes and a water prices. Agrolaguna receives 5% + VAT license for all our sites was also acceleof the amount received from HEP. Afrated. Following the construction of ter the new Špin Cheese Plant (Sirana new farms within Profit Center (PC) Pig Špin) was put into operation in 2013, Farming (PC Svinjogojstvo) and having our adverse environmental impacts implemented modern production techwere significantly reduced: we replaced nologies and manure disposal methothe heating oil with liquefied petroledologies, positive shifts were made in um gas in the boiler room, installed terms of environmental protection. PC air conditioners using environmentally Agriculture (PC Ratarstvo) purchased acceptable refrigerant, as well as built a agricultural machinery that causes less wastewater treatment plant and a greapollution, while the application of new se trap for removing grease from roads agro-technical measures allows us to and the kitchen of the catering establispend less fuel per hectare. We also put shment. A wastewater treatment plant into operation a new transshipping port is being designed for the Winery and on the Danube, featuring state-of-theOil Mill site, while the Town of Poreč art equipment for environmental proteis working on building a municipal trection and a new energy efficient drying atment plant. kiln. The EMS demonstrated its power in the field on the basis of significant Pik Vinkovci has an exceptionally well improvements achieved concerning organized management system. Full the condition of the environment at all support from the Management Board, sites, especially in the context of better professionals in charge of running the waste management. management systems and their direct daily cooperation are the strong Belje – Its experienced and efficient points of this environmental managemanagement system team coordinated ment system. This is also a result of a the implementation of EMS in Vupik. high level of environmental awareneThe related business processes and ss among the employees. The system immediate vicinity of Belje and Vupik regularly generates new improvements allowed us to complete this task in the at all sites, including the Lipovac site, best possible manner, i.e. autonomously a new environmental warehouse and a and internally. Belje’s experience and new noise barrier that reduced noise by complex management system brought 10 dB, and reconstruction of an underabout new positive shifts: crude oil was ground fuel tank at the Vinkovci site. replaced by environmentally accepta56 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 ble natural gas in the Dairy Factory. In to improve the situation at all its locatithe Darda 1 and Brod Pustara 1 farms ons through specific projects. The amowithin PC Pig Farming, we also switunts of municipal waste were reduced ched to natural gas. A new wastewaby improving our collection of specific ter treatment plant was installed in PC types of waste. We procured numeroWine Cellars (PC Vinski podrumi), the us new containers and ensured areas new winery, in Kamenac. Following the for more efficient and selective waste construction of new farms within PC collection. After the model Eco-Corner Pig Farming and having implemented in Jamnica, Sarajevski kiseljak also bumodern production technologies and ilt an Eco-Corner, a special structure for manure disposal methodologies, we systematic collection, sorting and temmade positive shifts in relation to the porary disposal of all types of waste. environment. The protected area of the Kopački rit Nature Park and some of Mladina laid the foundations for the our activities (agriculture, cow-calf farimplementation of a food safety system ming, Kormoran Restaurant) within Kofor its wine bottling plant at Mladina pački rit directly and practically show d.d. and the Goda spring water bottling and demonstrate in the best possible plant in cooperation with the Jamnica manner what sustainable development team. Particular areas were designated really is. for collecting different types of hazardous waste. We ensured disposal of waSolana Pag put into operation a new ste tractor tires and dedicated attention boiler room using renewable energy i.e. to proper disposal of all types of waste biomass (wood chips from low-quality, resulting from winegrowing and wiunhealthy or old logs), thus replacing nemaking activities. We also provided the formerly used and environmentally designated areas for mixing protective very dubious crude oil. Logs purchased agents in the field (vineyards) to prefrom Hrvatske šume d.o.o. are cut in vent environmental pollution. accordance with sustainable forest management principles. We aimed to reFonyodi also improved its waste manaduce airborne pollutant emissions from gement system by improving the prostationary sources to a minimum i.e. to cess of sorting different types of waste satisfy our technological needs for heat and procuring new containers. from a plant using cheaper and environmentally more acceptable fuel. The Nova sloga began to implement its most important environmental aspect EMS after successful certification of its was thus eliminated. HACCP systems in both plants. The mutual synergy of knowledge and assistanJamnica – Its management system ce among Agrokor companies (Frikom, team receives extraordinary support Jamnica) is demonstrated in this case as from and communicates well with the well. Optimization of the technological Management Board, thus ensuring poprocess at the Refrigeration plant and sitive annual shifts. Our natural minethe Mivela plant resulted in significant ral water Jana received a CarbonFree® savings, while electricity consumption certificate, thus becoming the first proin both plants was reduced through the duct in the region to be awarded such a installation of compensation cells. certificate. The CarbonFree® certificate is an authentic and transparent metLedo Zagreb continued to improve its hod of demonstrating the initiative to technological processes and implement reduce greenhouse gas emissions throeffective programs aimed at reducing ughout product lifecycle. In early 2012, energy consumption. We undertook Jamnica put into operation a newly buspecial measures to reduce our conilt wastewater treatment plant. In 2013, sumption of raw materials and packaging. We continued to reduce our water Jamnica’s natural we recorded a significant reduction in the amount of substances in wastewaconsumption, as well as managed to spring water, Jana, ter below the legally prescribed threreduce our electricity and steam conhas been awarded sholds. We significantly improved our sumption per product unit. Refrigerant waste management activities and thus R-22 was replaced by the environmenCarbonFree® achieved economic benefits. tally acceptable refrigerant R-404a. certificate and became We optimized our transport routes and the first product in the Sarajevski Kiseljak identified waste thus reduced our fuel consumption, and management as the most important enwe installed an ammonia absorbing region to be awarded vironmental aspect and then proceeded system in case of leakage. this certification. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 57 Irida began to reconstruct, expand and ties to reduce the amounts of municipal equip its wastewater treatment plant in waste. We also continued to work on 2012. The plant was put into operation obtaining an IPPC license. This included in 2013, which significantly improved activities related to wastewater and prewastewater quality. In addition, we imparation of documentation demonstraplemented the most important environting integrated environmental protectimental programs related to reducing on required to obtain the license. electricity consumption, water consumption and waste generation. Sojara Zadar, as an entity subject to the IPPC Directive, has already obtaiLedo BiH has an excellently organized ned an IPPC authorization in late 2012. EMS enjoying extraordinary support The existing sewerage system within from the Management Board and ensuthe factory was geodetically surveyed ring exceptional communication. The soand a bid was received for the conversilid foundations allow new improvements on of the existing combined sewerage to be introduced into the EMS system, system into a dividing system and its In cooperation with Henkel, Konzum Croaensure full optimization of costs and use connection to the future public seweratia launched the “Together for our Cleof raw materials and energy: reduced ge system within the Gaženica port an an, Blue Sea” project that will culminawater and energy consumption in produindustrial zone. We cleaned and evacute in 2014 when part of the Kaštela Bay ction compared to the preceding periated our underground hexane tanks. will be cleaned for the purpose of raising od, improved waste management, more public awareness of the pollution of the safety in ammonia handling and better Konzum Croatia provided professioAdriatic Sea. fire protection. nal advisory assistance to the teams of Konzum BiH and Idea (Serbia) concerFrikom established a better waste maning EMS implementation, after the nagement control system placing specompany’s own system had been certicial emphasis on safer hazardous waste fied. Konzum is also the largest buyer management. We also undertook actiof packaging in Croatia that continuovities to better control our water and usly reduces its energy consumption steam consumption, reduced our conlevels by implementing energy efficiensumption of water and energy, and procy programs. Konzum prints most of its vided greater safety in case of potential promotional material on recycled paper. accidents. Each technical task involved Konzum continuously supports envireducing adverse environmental imronmental projects and, as the largest pacts, which resulted in a high-quality chain, actively participates in commuintegrated management system. nication with customers. In cooperation with Henkel, Konzum launched the ToZvijezda also worked intensively on gether for our Clean, Blue Sea (Zajedno optimizing its energy and natural resoza naše čisto, plavo more) project that urce consumption and rational use of will culminate in 2014 when part of the Konzum supported the “Let’s do it – raw materials. Special care was taken Kaštela Bay will be cleaned for the pura Million Seedlings in 1 Day” initiative, to ensure elimination of toxic and hapose of raising public awareness of the a major volunteer effort of planting trees in zardous materials wherever possible pollution of the Adriatic Sea. It is worth Bosnia and Herzegovina. by replacing such materials with those mentioning that Konzum had its OHSAS less harmful to the environment and (occupational health and safety system) human health. We worked on optimisystem certified in late 2013. zing the operation of our new wastewater treatment plant by evaluating and Konzum BiH became more involved in selecting new suppliers of chemicals reducing adverse environmental impa(flocculants and coagulants). The plant cts (reducing electricity consumption, operates with full capacity and achiereducing air emissions, better waste ves good results, i.e. it reduces the inmanagement, installing grease traps, put parameters by 80%. etc.) after implementing its own EMS. Since its retail and wholesale networks Dijamant completed its preparations are spread across the country including for the construction of a wastewater facilities of different sizes, efficient pumping station for the Oil Mill in late maintenance of the system represents 2013. The wastewater treatment plant a complex and demanding task. Konin the Oil Mill was reconstructed, which zum supported the “Let’s Do It – One allowed us to collect additional grease Million Seedlings in 1 Day” initiative, a from wastewater, process it, and possimajor volunteer effort of planting trees bly sell it as energy for biogas plants. in Bosnia and Herzegovina to additioWe continued to undertake our activinally demonstrate its social responsibi58 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 lity to the local community in which it resource optimization and waste are ted projects aimed at electricity saving, operates. Konzum’s employees volungiven the required attention. The first replacement of vehicles with environteered to forest Čavljak, an excursion Global GAP established in Croatia has mentally-friendly ones, and disposal of site near Sarajevo. produced good agricultural practice gubatteries and textile. idelines for responsible natural resourIdea Serbia implemented its EMS and ce management, protection of natural Kikindski mlin plans to be certified thus took a major step forward in the habitats, maintenance of high hygienic according to ISO 14001 in 2014, but is field of security, occupational safety standards during harvest, rational use already intensively working on optimiand fire protection (documentation, driof fertilizers and pesticides, hazardous zing energy and natural resources conlls, equipment). EMS implementation waste disposal, etc. sumption, rational use of input, monitoalso resulted in accelerating our activiring air emissions, and systematic waties aimed at reducing the consumptiTisak started repurchasing old paste management. Management system on of water, energy, waste, refrigerants per from individuals at its repurchase teams from our companies provided and wastewater. Idea complied with the stations across Croatia in 2013, thus advice to their colleagues from Kikindrelevant regulations in all segments, as significantly reducing the amount of ski mlin during EMS implementation. demonstrated by numerous inspections waste disposed at landfills and obtaiDijamant’s team provided advice conresulting in no fines imposed. ning input for producing new paper. In cerning the Serbian legislation, while its efforts to encourage its customers Belje’s team provided advice relating to Kor Neretva is demonstrating its lonto preserve the environment, Tisak business processes since Belje also has gtime efforts ensuring that its produalso introduced eco-bags at affordable mills covered by the EMS system. cts, the environment, energy and water prices. The company also implemenThis is an overview of some of the most important the context of system efficiency and transparency. We consiachievements in the field of environmental protection der our continuing environmental improvements as civilizarecorded in Agrokor companies. More details are tional achievements in relation to our employees, customers, available in each company’s report. business partners, contractors, and the entire community. Properly established EMS systems create the preconditions Agrokor is an active member of the Croatian Business Counfor better, quicker and more efficient solving of specific envicil for Sustainable Development, the Environmental Proteronmental problems. They provide real, mathematically mection Association of the Croatian Chamber of Economy, GIU asurable and effective systems as a useful corporate manaPAK (Economic Interest Grouping for Packaging and Envigement tool and a navigation tool for new environmental imronmental Protection), the Environmental Protection Agency, provements. The management system departments in most EKO Ozra, and other institutions. We hosted the Annual GeAgrokor companies (that include environmental management neral Meeting of the Croatian Business Council for Sustaisystems) are centralized and under direct control of the relenable Development for the second time, this time at Konzum vant CEO. Such systems have proven to be by far the best in Academy’s premises in March of 2013. In this third Sustainability Report prepared by Agrokor, we collected separate information and data for all 19 key environmental performance indicators in 24 companies: EN1 Materials used by weight or volume EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination EN2 Percentage of materials used that are EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method recycled input materials EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source products and services, and extent of impact mitigation EN8 Total water withdrawal by source EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, materials that are reclaimed by category or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number biodiversity value outside protected areas of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, with environmental laws and regulations and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting of high biodiversity value outside protected areas products and other goods and materials used for the EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight organization’s operations, and transporting EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight members of the workforce EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight and investments by type Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 59 Retail Business Group Konzum d.d. Konzum is the largest national retail chain employing public of Croatia to hold this valuable certificate. The comapproximately 12,500 people. Over 650,000 customers shop pany’s Environmental Management System was recertified at more than 700 Konzum stores in retail and wholesale cenby Bureau Veritas in 2013. ters on a daily basis. During the reporting period, eight new Super Konzum stores and two new Velpro centers were opeSo far, HACCP system has been certified in all Super Konzum ned. retail stores, in the entire chain of wholesale centers, and has been implemented across the Konzum network. Konzum Konzum’s business operations are based on a kind and profethus became the only business entity in the region to implessional service and a pleasant shopping experience in retail ment the HACCP system in such a large number of retail and and wholesale centers, a wide range of products, including wholesale facilities. In 2013, Konzum began to implement its store brand products, introduction of innovative services and Food Safety Management System according to the requiregreen technologies, own production of quality products safe ments of the international ISO 22000 standard. The system for consumption intended for fish packaging facilities as well was integrated with the company’s Environmental Manageas meat, fish and gastro departments in the stores, reduction ment System, and a new Food Safety and Environmental Poliof environmental impacts by attending to the company’s fleet cy was drafted as well. as part of its logistic & distribution and wholesale centers and other sources of air emissions, ensuring product and serThe objectives set in the preceding reporting period incluvice quality, and care for the environment, which encourages ded increasing the number of sites from which useful waste the customers to return. is collected by certified waste collection organizations. In 2012, the number of sites from which biodegradable waste As the leading entity in the market, Konzum recognized the is collected increased by 12% and the number of sites from need to acknowledge specific features of the activities the which metal and glass packaging is collected increased by company is engaged in and ensure harmonization of the 15% compared to the preceding period. Changes in warehosame with legal regulations, and has therefore drafted a conuse processes reduced the company’s consumption of foil for cept of its Environmental Management Policy supporting its wrapping products in transport by 10% compared to the premission to ensure continuing attention to all environmenceding period. tal components within its complex scope of activity. In June 2010, Konzum had its Environmental Management System For purposes of this Report, the data provided include all resuccessfully certified according to the requirements of ISO tail and wholesale facilities, logistic & distribution centers, 14001:2004 and thus became the first retail chain in the Rewarehouses and the corporate building. Materials Materials used by weight or volume kg Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Type of material used 2012 2013 Packaging materials 10,880,042 11,974,232 In 2012, recycled polymer materials accounted for 24% of all materials, and 29% in 2013. In the preceding reporting Total 10,880,042 11,974,232 period, the share of recycled polymer material was 9.82% in 2010 and 10.93% in 2011. As regards plastic bags sold in Konzum stores, the share of bags made of recycled material In 2012 and 2013, 11% less reclaimable packaging materials in 2012 was 47%, and 48% in 2013. The share of recycled pawere placed on the market than in the preceding reporting per packaging in 2012 increased compared to the preceding period. reporting period to 0.27%, while its share in 2013 was 0.2% and its share in 2011 was as low as 0.07%. In Konzum stores, recycled paper packaging is offered to customers in the form of paper bags. 60 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 61 Energy Direct energy consumption by primary energy the need to supply new stoves, displays, chambers, and other source (non-renewable energy sources) equipment. Fuel Natural gas Heating oil Year (GJ) (GJ) (GJ) Indirect energy consumption by primary energy 2012 174,537.25 127,221.60 17,598.82 source (indirect energy supplied and used from 2013 172,553.10 140,304.80 12,754.93 non-renewable energy sources) Total 347,090.35 267,526.40 30,353.75 Year Steam (MWh) 2012 6,031,894.20 Konzum’s fuel consumption that totaled 347,090.35 GJ inclu2013 5,497,569.70 des consumption of diesel fuel used to run 54 electricity geTotal 11,529,463.90 nerators and energy used for total transport (passenger cars, commercial vehicles and trucks). In 2012, Konzum used 389 transport vehicles that achieved a mileage of 14,873,012 km Our consumption of steam for heating purposes in 2013 deand consumed 136,485.20 GJ. In 2013, the mentioned vehiccreased by 8.86% compared to 2012 as a result of continuing les achieved a mileage of 15,872,976 km and used 141,290.28 employee training and efficient use of resources. Our newly GJ. The remaining energy was used for the company’s paopened stores have heat meters, so our bills are now consissenger cars and freight vehicles – 37,329 GJ in 2012 and stent with our actual consumption. Our steam consumption 30,696 GJ in 2013. Compared to the preceding period, Konwas 2.5% greater in 2013 than in 2011. zum recorded an increase of 6% in diesel fuel consumption, which is a consequence of the strengthened central distribuKonzum launched its first energy efficiency projects a few tion by logistics, which means that goods ordered from our years ago. We achieved significant savings as a result of the suppliers are delivered to our central warehouses and then projects implemented during the reporting period. In 2012 and delivered in a single shipment after sorting all orders. This 2013, the boiler room project covered our energy inefficient logistic method directly reduces the number of individual deboiler rooms. As a result, four boiler rooms switched to gas as liveries to our sales locations. a cheaper form of energy, while other four boiler rooms were fully reconstructed with more efficient boilers installed. Thus, our heating oil consumption in 2012 and 2013 decreased by 30% compared to the preceding reporting period. 267,572.4 GJ of energy was used to run 242 of our gas boiler rooms, while a total of 30.353,75 GJ of energy was required to In 2013, six of our truck drivers working in the Logistics Derun our heating oil boiler rooms (44 heating oil boiler rooms partment completed an eco-driving course. This course should in 2012 and 39 heating oil boiler rooms in 2013). result in fuel consumption savings and reduced emissions of harmful gases, provided the drivers follow the instructions received and drive as they were trained. In 2013, we did not monitor the effects of such driver training on fuel consumption, A reduction of 30% in heating oil consumption, compared but will analyze the resulting efficiency starting from 2014. to the preceding reporting period, is a result of the fact that nine boiler rooms have, in the meantime, switched to a diffeIn 2012, we started purchasing cooling displays with closed rent form of heating energy (natural gas), which increased sliding or rotating doors with minus or plus operating mode our gas consumption by 13.6% compared to the preceding and such displays were accepted in 2013 as a standard in reporting period. Konzum’s facilities as an efficient measure of saving electricity for cooling systems. They are now installed in all new stores. Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source (indirect energy supplied and used from In 2013, our project for installing motion sensors in public non-renewable energy sources) garages included six public garages in Super Konzum stores. Year Electricity (GJ) By installing motion sensors and light switches in 2013, we expect to save up to 40% of electricity in 2014. We will inclu2012 801,111.20 de the related data in our next Report. 2013 831,693.20 Total 1,632,804.40 Full LED lighting systems were installed in 2013 in two stores, and a partial solution with LED reflectors was installed in two Maxi stores. Savings on electricity and reduOur consumption of electricity in 2013 increased compared ced lighting fixture maintenance cost were soon recorded, so to 2012 by 3.82% and by 8% compared to 2011 as a result of LED lighting was adopted as a standard in late 2013, as an the expansion of our network of stores. Eight new large Suenergy efficient concept installed in all new stores. In 2014, per Konzum stores and two new Velpro centers were opened, we plan to install LED lighting and other efficient lighting while the offer of our existing stores was expanded creating equipment (fluorescent pipes) in 70 more stores as part of the reconstruction process. 62 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Water Total water withdrawal by source (m3) Our water consumption was reduced by 0.55% in 2013 compared to 2012. Compared to 2011, our water consumption in From a public water Total amount of all 2013 was 3% less. This decrease in water consumption is a Year supply system waters withdrawn result of years of training our employees in how to use water 2012 374,644.94 374,644.94 rationally and quickly respond in case of any defect on water supply pipes. Konzum does not use recycled water in its ope2013 372,600.36 372,600.36 rations. Total 747,245.30 747,245.30 Biodiversity Konzum does not own any locations in protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value. Emissions, Effluents and Waste Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions ting equipment was reduced by 21% compared to 2012. The by weight remaining amount of R-22 of 2,851 kg will be removed by the Total air emissions beginning of 2015 in accordance with the applicable regula2012 2013 tions. (t CO2 eq.) Production plants 3,689.3 4,391.9 Fuel for transport 12.53 12.46 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (in tons) Year SO2 NO2 CO Direct emissions of greenhouse gases and other gases are a result of using energy for heating. In 2013, we had 242 gas 2012 1.64 3.67 0.13 boiler rooms and 39 heating oil boiler rooms, and in 2012 we 2013 1.50 5.61 0.48 had 241 gas boiler rooms and 44 heating oil boiler rooms. Our CO₂ emissions increased in 2013. CO₂ emissions from Total 3.14 9.28 0.61 heating devices decreased compared to the preceding reporting period by 15%. In 2012, our indirect air emissions and transport emissions amounted to 12.53 t CO₂, and in 2013 Direct emissions of greenhouse gases and other gases are a they amounted to 12.46 t CO₂. Our CO₂ emissions increased result of using energy for heating. Our average decrease in by 28% compared to the preceding reporting period becauair emissions compared to the preceding reporting period se the preceding report did not include data on air emissions was 13%. from company vehicles. Konzum is not required to obtain a water license for its faciDuring the reporting period, nine of our boiler rooms switclities. All facilities offering food made in deep fat fryers have hed from heating oil to gas. The total number of our gas boiinstalled grease and oil separators that are regularly cleaned ler rooms decreased by 8% compared to the preceding reporand the waste generated by them is disposed of in accordance ting period. The number of our company vehicles in 2012 and with the applicable regulations. Process wastewater is remo2013 decreased by 14% compared to the preceding reporting ved from parking areas by using grease and oil separators. To period as a result of fleet rationalization. minimize our impact on waters, we are making impenetrable paved surfaces and are regularly checking that our sewerage Konzum’s refrigerating equipment uses permitted agents, systems remain watertight. including R-22. In 2013, the amount of R-22 in our refrigeraSustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 63 Waste Total weight of waste by type and disposal method key Type of waste Treatment Collected by 2012 2013 9,906.4 t 11,104.45 t EkoFlorPlus, Metis, Unija Nova, Non-hazardous waste R4, R13 Hamburger ens, Odvodnja, Čistoća 344,396.0 l 480,927.4 l Zagreb, UnijaPapir, Jolly JBS 5,557.4 m3 6,452.0 m3 Non-hazardous waste R3, R4, R5, R12 Ciak, Flora VTC 18.9 t 16.9 t 9,925.42 t 11,121.39 t Total 344,396.0 l 480,927.4 l 5,557.4 m3 6,452.0 m3 Konzum is very committed to finding the best waste disposal gnificantly reduce the amount of packaging used to transport solutions. It thus launched a project the purpose of which is products to stores. We have replaced wooden pallets by metal to dispose of category 3 by-products by outsourcing this operoll containers, thus minimizing the amount of wooden waration in 2013 to Unija Nova. Considering the large territory ste generated. By separating and sorting waste on site, we it covers and impeded collection of all useful categories of provide the possibility of using packaging waste as input for waste, Konzum uses its best efforts to collect and dispose of other companies. The greatest value of the waste sorting proall types of waste. By improving our inventory management cess is continuous communication and training at all levels systems in stores, warehouses and Velpro centers, we reduce and greater awareness among Konzum employees, which ulthe amount of waste by minimizing decommissioning and timately results in less produced waste. breakage. By using reusable plastic containers (RPC), we siSpills In 2013, we recorded a spill of a blend of heating and hepolluted area was attended to, cleaned, the sewerage pipe avy crude oil from a heating tank at our store in Tršće. We was washed, the soil surrounding the sewerage pipe that had immediately called the certified company IND EKO that been porous was completely rehabilitated, as was the waspecializes in handling incidents, so the spill was immediaterway that some oiled water had spilled into. tely stopped by placing barriers and sucking up oil spills. The Products and Services Konzum Academy organizes and conducts high-quality traispecified in the Report. We also installed automated sensors ning programs, workshops and seminars and enables excin our sanitary facilities to minimize water consumption in hange of experience and information among employees. Its sinks and urinals. programs are focused on specific business challenges and daily practices. In 2012 and 2013, Konzum Academy organiUnits of local self-government, city neighborhoods and cized a special training program for our transport employees tizens are involved in all our project activities and invesand conducted the Efficient Driving School program, which tments, which precede the construction and opening of new included introduction to vehicle mechanics. The aim was to stores and creation of new jobs, from the very start. In additiminimize our energy consumption and our greenhouse gas on to exchanging opinions, openly communicating and inteand noise emissions. For our administration employees, we racting, we always reach a consensus regarding our projects, organized a training program in cooperation with the Faculwhich then become part of the daily life of the relevant comty of Mechanical Engineering and Naval Architecture on the munity in which our new store is opened. subject of Refrigerant Management. We continuously provide environmental training opportunities to our employees. In Konzum also joined our plastic bottle cap collection project 2012, a total of 432 employees attended 32 environmental organized for the benefit of the Association of Leukemia and training seminars and in 2013, 147 employees attended 13 Lymphoma Patients. By selling plastic bottle caps, the Assoenvironmental training seminars. ciation raises funds for expensive medicines used to treat malignant diseases. All collected bottle caps are sent to ZviKonzum launched its projects aimed at maximizing energy jezda, and then transported to the Association. efficiency in its processes several years ago. Significant savings were recorded as a result of the projects implemented In 2012, we launched the Power of Cleanliness for Clein 2013 and 2012. Our heating energy savings resulted from an Energy (Snaga čistoće za čistu energiju) project. A speswitching to cheaper energy and installing more energy efcial jury selected 30 kindergartens to be presented with an ficient boilers. We installed motion sensors and light switeco-corner containing the following features a small botaches in six public garages within Super Konzum stores, as nical garden, a wooden train with cars, a wooden inserter of 64 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 different shapes, a blackboard on a stand, thin wooden pastel lieve the decrease in packaging reclaimed from individuals is colors, colored paper and an Oblo puzzle, while free solar a result of lower purchasing power. panel installation was provided for the best rated kindergarten in addition to the eco-corner. In 2013, we launched the Ammount of products sold and their packaging Together for our Clean Blue Sea (Zajedno za naše čisto, plavo materials that are reclaimed by category more) project in cooperation with Henkel. The project will be completed in 2014, and will include an environmental initia2012 2013 Type of waste Treatment (pieces) (pieces) tive for cleaning part of the Kaštela Bay. This project aims to raise people’s awareness of the pollution of the Adriatic Sea Packaging and the need to clean the Kaštela Bay. within the refund R4, R5 117,079,829 109,560,349 system Total 117,079,829 109,560,349 In 2013, we collected 109,530,349 pieces of packaging, which is 6.4% less than in 2012 and 7.6% less than in 2011. We beCompliance The inspections carried out in 2012 and 2013 did not result in any environmental fines or sanctions. Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting The costs of waste transport and disposal, utility equipment products and other goods and materials used for and rehabilitation of heating and heavy crude oil spills in the organization’s operations, and transporting 2012 and 2013 amounted to HRK 36,197,557.47, and HRK members of the workforce 29,879,845.95 in 2010 and 2011. Our costs of emission maTotal CO2 emission nagement and equipment maintenance in 2012 and 2013 Fuel for transport amounted to HRK 1,577,451.47 (measuring air emissions, (tons of CO2 (GJ) equivalent for fuel) refrigerating equipment, boiler room and generator main2012 96,129.53 12.53 tenance), and HRK 1,465,500 in 2010 and 2011. The costs of cleaning areas and snow in 2012 and 2013 amounted to HRK 2013 104,121.08 12.46 7,715,400.72, and HRK 972,424.89 in 2010 and 2011. This Total 200,250.61 24.99 significant difference in the costs of cleaning and maintenance of areas and snow cleaning is a result of different weatIn 2012, 96.129,53 GJ of diesel fuel was used for transporher conditions in the respective analyzed periods. There was ting purposes, which resulted in the air emission of 12.53 t little snow in 2010 and 2011, mostly in mountainous regions. CO₂, of which 2.59 t CO₂ by passenger cars (516) and freight The increase in costs in the other years is a result of abuvehicles (10), 2.94 t CO₂, 3.4 t CO and 0.4 t NO by wholesale ndant precipitation and snow. Such higher costs are also a transport – trucks (220), and 12.53 t CO₂, 5.9 t CO, and 0.7 t result of more maintenance activities performed in areas that NO by our logistic transport – trucks (169). In 2013, we used are not used for commercial purposes, but are also owned by a total of 104.121,08 GJ of diesel fuel, which resulted in the Agrokor. air emission of 12.46 t CO₂, of which 2.18 t CO₂ by passenger cars (418) and freight vehicles (10), 2.7 t CO₂, 0.6 t CO and The costs of employee training amounted to HRK 30,150 in 0.07 t NO by wholesale transport trucks (201), and 7.58 t 2012 and 2013 (internal training), and HRK 274,819.49 in CO₂, 6.8 t CO and 0.8 t NO by our logistic transport trucks 2011 and 2012 (training provided by external instructors and (176). This increase in air emissions from our freight vehicles seminars). and passenger cars is a result of logistic fleet enlargement and stronger central distribution, which increase the covered mileage. Environmental Protection Investments Konzum continues to work intensively on minimizing its in accordance with the applicable regulations. We will also energy and water consumption. By using cleaner technoloinstall LED lighting and other energy efficient lighting equigies and ensuring continuing training to all employees, all pment (fluorescent pipes) in 70 stores during their reconstruprojects launched aim to minimize our environmental imction. Also in 2014, 215 of our logistics and wholesale drivers pacts. By the beginning of 2015, we plan to remove all R-22 will take a course in eco-driving. refrigerants (2,851 kg) from all our refrigerating equipment Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 65 Planned Activities and main Objectives for 2014 and 2015 Konzum continues to work intensively on minimizing its energy and water consumption. By using cleaner technologies and ensuring continuing training to all employees, all projects launched aim to minimize our environmental impacts. By the beginning of 2015, we plan to remove all R-22 refrigerants (2,851 kg) from all our refrigerating equipment in accordance with the applicable regulations. We will also install LED lighting and other energy efficient lighting equipment (fluorescent pipes) in 70 stores during their reconstruction. Also in 2014, 215 of our logistics and wholesale drivers will take a course in eco-driving. 66 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Retail Business Group Konzum d.o.o. Sarajevo Konzum Sarajevo continues to be the leading retail chain in ter and producer to invest in the recycling infrastructure on Bosnia and Herzegovina, employing over 2700 persons. Konthe basis of charges imposed that are equivalent to the amozum Sarajevo’s scope of business includes its retail and whounts of packaging placed on the market of Bosnia and Herzelesale networks. In 2013, the retail network comprised three govina. For the purpose of optimizing our packaging refunds, formats: 109 Small, 43 Maxi and 10 Super stores, as well as 6 we focused on separating useful waste at all company’s miwholesale centers. Konzum Sarajevo builds its success on the cro-locations, which was achieved by continuous education basis of constant communication with its customers, identiof our employees and ensuring the required infrastructure. fication of customer preferences and continuous adjustment During the reporting period, Konzum Sarajevo worked on of its business operations to the latest trends. Its advantacreating the preconditions for establishing systems for manages, coverage, availability and service and product quality ging electronic and electric waste that it generated as part of are confirmed by 35 million customers visiting Konzum each its operations. As far as food safety management is conceryear. ned, we focused on establishing good hygienic practices by investing in the necessary equipment and training of our emIn 2012, Konzum Sarajevo confirmed its compliance with the ployees directly involved in such activities. standards of handling environmental factors in its operations and activities by having its environmental management The presentation of our environmental indicators includes system certified according to ISO 14001:2004. The preceding information received from the entire system comprising our period was marked by efforts put into ensuring compliance of retail and wholesale networks and the corporate building. its business operations with the requirements prescribed by the new environmental and food safety management regulaThe inputs we use to make products that we place on the tions. market for end customers are products made of ground fresh meat at the Meat and Seafood Department and readymade As part of its efforts to comply with the relevant environmenfood at the Gastro Department in each retail facility of Kontal requirements, an emphasis was placed on establishing a zum Sarajevo. product packaging database, as we are required as an imporMaterials The amount of raw material used by the retail division of This obvious growth is a result of opening of nine more stoKonzum Sarajevo in 2013 increased by 14% compared to res which perform production activities. More packaging 2011 and, analogously to the increase in production, we reunits used are a result of different customer habits and purccorded an increase in our consumption of packaging matehasing smaller portions. The packaging materials pertain to rials by 18%. all types of packaging used in retail for packaging products for end customers. Materials used by weight or volume kg The input material used to print catalogues is recycled paper (94.5% of recycled material). In 2012, 17,650,000 catalogs Type of material used 2012 2013 were printed on recycled paper and 31,120,000 in 2013. In Raw material 1,392,526 1,336,937 2011, we printed 18,400,000 catalogs, which is equivalent to 270,692 t of paper, of which 255,803 t was recycled paper. Ancillary process materials 0 0 Packaging materials 494,714 511,718 The number of catalogues distributed in 2013 increased by Total 1,887,240 1,848,655 41% compared to the preceding reporting period. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 67 Energy We use diesel fuel for transport. The fleet comprises passenIndirect energy consumption by primary energy ger cars, light commercial vehicles and freight vehicles. source (indirect energy supplied and used from non-renewable energy sources) In 2012, we had 25 freight vehicles. The number of freight Year Steam/Hot water (GJ) vehicles increased to 45 in 2013. Our fleet now has 17 more freight vehicles, 90% of which have a Euro 5 diesel engine. 2012 12,220.30 The number of passenger cars and light commercial vehicles 2013 14,247.01 varied. The average number was 97 in 2012 and 89 in 2013. Total 26,467.31 The significant 38% decrease in direct energy consumption in 2012 compared to 2011 is a result of the opening of a VelThe hot water and steam used to heat our premises, which are pro Center in Banja Luka, after which our customers in the supplied by the owner of the facility leased by Konzum, are Banja Luka region were no longer supplied from our wholeproduced by the heat of combustion of different types of fuel sale Velpro Center in Sarajevo and the number of distribution (extra light heating oil, coal, gas). rounds was consequently reduced. The 25% increase in fuel consumption in 2013 compared to 2012 is a result of opening The number of facilities that used these types of fuel in 2011 ten more stores. was 22, 21 in 2012, and 23 in 2013. An increase of 25% in 2012 compared to 2011 and 17% in 2013 compared to 2012 is Compared to the preceding period, we recorded a decrease in a result of a longer winter period during the reporting period. fuel consumption by 24% as a result of continuing logistic route optimization, which means we are constantly improPellets are used as an indirect renewable source of energy in ving our vehicle volume and capacity management to ensure 13 of our facilities. The consumption of pellets may only be better utilization of the same. expressed in financial terms as the heating service is provided by the owner of the facility. Our consumption increased Direct energy consumption by primary energy by 5% compared to the preceding reporting period for the source (non-renewable energy sources) same heated area. Regardless of the longer winter period, Fuel Natural gas LPG this increase in consumption is not substantial because the Year prices of biofuel (pellets) in the market often change. (GJ) (GJ) (GJ) 2012 14,567 0 0 It is not possible to express our energy consumption in GJ for 2013 18,238 0 0 the rest of our facilities due to a large number of suppliers, Total 32,805 0 0 absence of precise information about the amounts of energy used, and a different method of accounting for the energy products delivered. The forms of indirect energy we use are electricity and hot water. In 2012, we installed a system of pipe heat exchangers whereby different media deliver energy to each other and heat Indirect energy consumption by primary energy and cool three facilities. This is why water intended for drinsource (indirect energy supplied and used from king is heated by using so-called ‘waste’ energy. Such system non-renewable energy sources) was designed and installed in three of our retail facilities during the reporting period. We save 1,000 kW a month at Year Electricity (GJ) each facility. 2012 141,037 2013 150,253 In the next period, we expect to conduct three energy audits and are now in the process of collecting the relevant bids. We Total 291,290 also selected three stores that will represent all formats included in the retail network owned by Konzum Sarajevo. HeaAs an indirect energy product, electricity is used to operate ting oil should be replaced by gas in one of those facilities. our devices, lighting, cooling and heating systems. In 2012, 78 of our facilities also used electricity for heating. In 2013, Our reduced electricity consumption is a result of redesithe number increased to 83. The number of our facilities gning our processes (different tariff group and different volusing electricity for heating increased by 22% compared to tage network for supply and measuring) and improving our the preceding reporting period. On the basis of such an inequipment (replacement of meters, installation of reactive crease in the number of facilities using electricity for heating power compensators and installation of built-in meters). (18 facilities), we also recorded an increase in the consumption of this energy source by 14% in 2013 compared to 2011. 68 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Water Water is supplied from the city network, both drinking water and sanitary water. Total water withdrawal by source (m3) From From a public Total amount of all Year the wells supply system waters withdrawn 2012 0 99,729.66 99,729.66 2013 0 97,899.62 97,899.62 Total 0 197,629.28 197,629.28 Our water consumption increased by 36% in 2013 compared cantly affected by Konzum Sarajevo’s activities. We do not to 2011 as a result of new facilities added to our retail and have any wastewater recycling system, so we do not use rewholesale networks. However, no water source was significycled water. Biodiversity No locations owned by Konzum Sarajevo are on the property in or adjacent to protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Emissions, Effluents and Waste Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions riod, which is a logical consequence of the above stated fuel by weight consumption reduction. Total air emissions 2012 2013 Considering the size of our network, the number of our em(t CO2 eq.) ployees and the complexity of our commercial activities (a Production plants 0 0 number of lessors and external service providers and suFuel for transport 1.060 1.328 ppliers), no information is available about our other indirect LPG 0 0 air emissions. CO2 equivalent 1.060 1.328 As our logistic and distribution processes are the largest contributors to the generation of greenhouse gases, the manageThis estimate pertains to direct emissions generated by all ment of these processes is considered a major initiative that vehicles in the fleet together, i.e. freight vehicles, light commay result in a decrease in energy consumption and amount mercial vehicles and passenger cars. We reduced our CO₂ of emissions. We are committed to improving the manageemissions by 23% compared to the preceding reporting pement of such processes on a continuous basis. Emissions of ozone depleting substances by weight (kg) Number of devices Added Number of devices Added Year using R 12 R 12 using R 22 R 22 2012 3 0 9 611.40 2013 3 0 8 580 The company has refrigerating equipment using R-12 and Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions R-22. According to the information for 2013, we reduced the by weight (in tons) amount of added R-22 by 18.5% as a result of replacing the refrigerating device. Year SO2 NO2 CO 2012 0.125 1.086 This estimate pertains to direct emissions, including all ve2013 0.157 1.359 hicles in the fleet. We reduced our NO and CO₂ emissions by Total 0.282 2.445 23% compared to the preceding reporting period as a result of the fuel consumption reduction. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 69 Wastewater Konzum Sarajevo discharges its wastewater into the public perform such measuring under the water protection regulatisewerage network, including mechanical treatment at several ons. The amount of wastewater is identical to the already staretail and wholesale locations. Such mechanical treatment ted consumption, since only insignificant amounts of water includes decanting large impurities in chamber separators. are incorporated in products. Water is used as drinking water The quality of wastewater generated through Konzum’s actiand for sanitary purposes. vities is not measured as we are presently not required to Waste We selectively collect cardboard and plastic packaging across part of our internal reverse logistic activities, we periodicaretail and wholesale networks and temporarily store the same lly transport waste from our micro-locations to our regional until it is handed over to organizations engaged in waste wholesale warehouses where it is sorted, measured and collecollection. These types of useful waste are collected at each cted by a certified operator. We did not manage our EE waste micro-location. At the regional level, waste collection is orgain the preceding reporting period, which is why it is impossinized through a network of organizations engaged in waste ble to make a comparison. collection and each micro-location keeps track of the amounts collected. 12% more cardboard and plastic packaging Hazardous waste includes gas bulbs, which are disposed of was collected compared to the preceding reporting period as in an environmentally acceptable manner after replacement. a result of selecting an organization operating a waste colleGas bulbs used in our retail and wholesale networks are rection network that is able to satisfy the needs of the disperplaced by our maintenance staff. We have a procedure in plased sales network of Konzum Sarajevo. Our employees are ce defining how waste bulbs are to be adequately disposed of continuously educated about the importance of effective maat regional wholesale centers and, if necessary, collected by a nagement of this type of useful waste. certified operator. We did not manage this type of waste during the preceding reporting period. Non-hazardous waste includes small household appliances with identified defects that are consequently written off. As Type of waste Treatment Collected by 2012 2013 Alba, Ekosirovina, Non-hazardous waste K/F 921,324 1,149,097 Grand promet, Zeos Hazardous waste K/F Kemokop, Zeos 0 437.20 Total 921,324 1,149,534.20 Waste edible vegetable oil generated by the Gastro Departemporary storage of waste oil, which is collected by regional tments in our retail stores is non-hazardous waste measuoperators. Each micro-location maintains records of the amored in liters. All our facilities are equipped with drums for unts of waste oil collected. Type of waste Treatment Collected by 2012 2013 Alba, Mulalić, Non-hazardous waste K/F 2,852 3,150 Ladanušić Hazardous waste 0 0 Total 2,852 3,150 In 2012 and 2013, we recorded no spill of chemicals, oil or fuel into the ground or any water areas in the case of Konzum Sarajevo. Products and Services Grease traps in Gastro Departments are part of the basic iniOur first training seminars on the subject of environmental tial equipment in our newly opened retail facilities. In 2013, management and impacts were conducted in this reporting we installed six grease traps. We introduced this practice in period. In 2012, we internally trained 415 of our employees, 2013, and it is therefore impossible to make a comparison with an emphasis on our contribution to the environment by against the preceding reporting period. complying with ISO 14001:2004, and 410 employees in 2013. 70 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 According to the new regulations concerning chemicals, each As recommended by the manufacturers of our freight vehicentity should have a person trained in chemicals manageles, we use a liquid agent to reduce our NO exhaust emissiment. In 2013, we trained one employee for the purpose of ons. The amount of such agent used in 2012 was 2500 liters obtaining a Chemicals Expert license and will proceed to and 4400 liters in 2013. We did not record the amounts of establish good practices in chemicals management and intersuch liquid reducing agent in the preceding period. We only nally train our employees at our micro-locations. use diesel fuel that meets the requirements of the Euro 5 standard and lower sulfur content requirements. Compliance The inspections carried out in 2012 and 2013 did not result in any fines for environmental violations. Transport In 2013, a total of 11,388 GJ of direct energy/diesel fuel was year, 0.850 t CO/year, and 0.101 t NOx/year. The significant used to run 45 trucks, compared to 18,525.62 GJ used to run decrease of 40% is a result of the fact that our retail stores 28 trucks in 2011. In 2011, our air emissions from mobile soare now supplied by regional wholesale centers rather than urces (trucks) amounted to 1.351 t CO₂/year, 1.383 t CO/year, centrally, and our requirements for direct delivery from suand 0.165 t NO/year, and in 2013 we recorded 0.830 t CO₂/ ppliers on a case-by-case basis. Environmental Protection Investments In 2011, our waste disposal and treatment costs amounted to for the purpose of adequately disposing of packaging waste KM 362,457, compared to KM 474,917.14 recorded in 2013. generated by using products made and imported by Konzum The 23% increase in the costs of municipal waste disposal Sarajevo. This was also the first year in which such charge is consistent with the increase in the number of our faciliwas imposed as a result of the adoption of new ordinances. ties. Our prevention costs for 2013 increased by 15%, to KM The fee for the use of forests amounted to KM 146,881.71 in 319,025. In 2013, the electrical and electronic waste dispo2012 and KM 297,379.91 in 2013. The water charge for 2012 sal charge was KM 13,967.18, calculated on the basis of the was KM 86,995.75 and KM 86,994.50 for 2013. The costs of number of electrical and electronic equipment items placed environmental and water charges for freight vehicles and paon the market. The year 2013 was the first year in which ssenger cars amounted to KM 7,937 in 2012 and KM 10,439 such charge was imposed on the company. We paid packain 2013. We spent KM 300 on educating our staff in chemiging waste charges in the amount of KM 136,122.09 in 2012 cals management. Planned Activities and main Objectives for 2014 and 2015 As the company’s activities are audited according to the requirements of ISO 14001:2004, it defined clear goals and objectives, including the plans and programs for achieving them for each year. The main objective is to decrease the burden with respect to all elements of the environment. Accordingly, we aim to increase the total amount of useful waste collected by 5% and adequately dispose of other types of waste generated by finding organizations engaged in waste collection. We first need to attend to category 3 materials. In addition to monitoring the generated amounts of hazardous and non-hazardous waste and sorting all types of plastic materials and recycling them through our contractors, we are introducing selective collection of paper and cardboard in the corporate building and Retail and Wholesale administration. In 2014, we intend to establish regular preventive monitoring of our discharge of refrigerants from our Maxi and Super stores and all Velpro Centers, and undertake activities related to chemicals management (create a database of material safety data sheets for all items in the chemicals group that comprise our retail offer). We plan to conduct energy efficiency audits in three of our retail stores and install containers for voluntary disposal of small household appliances (EE waste), batteries and light bulbs by our customers in ten of our retail stores. We plan to install LED lighting in five of our retail stores as well. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 71 Retail Business Group Idea d.o.o. Idea joined The Agrokor Group in 2005. The company is one As regards its objectives set in the preceding reporting periof the leading retail and wholesale entities in the Republic of od, Idea achieved the following results: Serbia. Idea presently has 185 retail stores and eight who•H ACCP system was implemented in each store; lesale facilities. It operates in compliance with sustainable •a n environmental protection system was implemented acdevelopment principles and records a significant progress in cording to ISO 14001:2004 (66 stores were certified by Sepenvironmental protection improvement. This is particularly tember of 2013); reflected in changing the sources of energy used in boiler ro•w ooden packaging was collected, reused for a similar or the oms, purchasing new vehicles with new generation engines, same purpose, and remaining wooden packaging waste was and organized collection of all types of waste resulting from provided to contractors in exchange for new pallets; and Idea’s activities using a network of contractors. Our risks are •w aste batteries were collected from end customers in our thereby minimized, and our product and employee safety leHyper, Super and Maxi stores for a year. However, this inivels increased. tiative did not yield any significant results due to insufficient customer education. Materials The amount of packaging placed on the market depends the market. The amount of plastic bags placed on the maron the amount of goods imported to the territory of Serbia. ket increased by 12% compared to the preceding reporting Idea pays a charge per ton for the packaging it places on the period. market as an importer. In the case of products manufactured in Serbia, this charge is paid by the manufacturer. The Materials used by weight or volume kg following amounts refer to imported goods. Type of material used 2012 2013 In 2013, we used a total of 2,606.92 t of packaging (1,267.74 Input 0 0 t of paper packaging, 678.32 t of wooden packaging, 211.1 t Ancillary process materials 0 0 of metal packaging, 284.36 t of glass packaging, and 165.40 t of plastic packaging). In 2012, we used a total of 2899.73 t Packaging materials 2,899,730 2,597,920 of packaging (1,387 t of paper packaging, 956.71 t of wooTotal 2,899,730 2,597,920 den packaging, 236.73 t of metal packaging, 305.61 t of glass packaging, and 13.68 t of plastic packaging). The amount of packaging used increased by 2% compared to the preceding In 2012, the Idea Online Shop began to operate, using 3355 reporting period. cardboard boxes made of corrugated cardboard. In 2013, Idea used 14,911 such boxes weighing 2982 kg. All its advertising In 2012, Idea placed 55.88 t of recycled shopping bags on the materials are printed (4,000,000 publications a week on aveSerbian market. In 2013, the number increased to 64.99 t on rage). Energy In 2012, gas was used for heating in 20 of our facilities, with In 2012, we used 783.70 GJ of heating oil for our boiler roa total consumption of 12,659.96 GJ, whereas in 2013 gas was oms, and in 2013 we used 321.52 GJ. Our oil consumption in used for heating in 19 facilities, with a total consumption of 2012 and 2013 was 86.66 GJ per year. 12,298.73 GJ, which represents a decrease in consumption of 2.8%. For the purpose of optimizing our gas consumption Our consumption of diesel fuel in 2012 was 92,252.10 GJ, and reducing our gas emissions, we maintain our boilers and compared to 78,631.65 GJ in 2013. adjust our burners twice a year, at the beginning and at the end of each heating season. We also measure the amounts of The number of our vehicles was reduced from 357 passenger our gas emissions. cars and freight vehicles in 2012 to 293 vehicles in 2013. The 72 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 73 decrease in consumption is a result of fleet optimization and In 2013, we used 306,362.12 GJ of electricity, compared to implementation of a SkyTrack vehicle tracking system. We 302,101.11 GJ in 2013. installed 122 Sky Track devices and had our freight vehicles routed, which resulted in the same or higher operating effiThis represents an increase in electricity consumption of ciency with less vehicles. Idea has less vehicles, lower fuel 15.19% compared to 2010, which is a result of opening 50 consumption, and more stores and deliveries. The Sky Track new facilities. In 2010, Idea had 129 stores, compared to 179 system resulted in the optimization of our routes, which are at the end of 2013. now automated, as well ensured monitoring of compliance with the same on the part of drivers. Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source (indirect energy supplied and used from Direct energy consumption by primary energy non-renewable energy sources) source (non-renewable energy sources) Year Electricity (GJ) Fuel Natural gas LPG Year (GJ) (GJ) (GJ) 2012 302,101.11 2012 92,252.10 12,659.96 0 2013 306,362.12 2013 78,631.65 12,298.73 0 Total 608,463.23 Total 170,883.75 24,958.69 0 Water Idea uses water from public water supply system for drinking of 111,853.91 m³ of water. One of the problems regarding our and sanitary purposes. In 2012, Idea used a total of 192,555 water consumption monitoring is that we do not regularly rem³ of water, compared to 226,583 m³ in 2013. Our water conceive our water bills. Some public water supply systems have sumption in m³ increased in proportion to the number of our begun to issue their water bills for a period of two or even facilities. In 2013, Idea recorded an increase in water confour months, which makes our consumption monitoring and sumption of 102.57% compared to 2010, when it used a total optimization very difficult. Total water withdrawal by source (m3) From a public Total amount of all Year From the wells supply system waters withdrawn 2012 0.00 192,555 192,555 2013 0.00 226,583 226,583 Total 0.00 419,138 419,138 Biodiversity Idea continues to lease business premises within the Kopado not have any adverse impacts on the biodiversity of the onik National Park. We are referring to the retail store MP area. An environmental charge regarding the operation of 206 Idea Kopaonik at the address of Sunčani vrhovi lok. 3-5, the mentioned store is paid to the local self-government. Municipality of Raška. The activities performed in this store 74 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Emissions, Effluents and Waste Our greenhouse gas emissions result from the combustion Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions of materials to obtain thermal energy for heating. In 2012, by weight (in tons) we emitted a total of 5,619.85 t CO₂, 1.15 t CO, 0.000009 t SO₂ and 0.57 t NOx, compared to 5,341.26 t CO₂, 1.09 t CO, Year SO2 NO2 CO 0.000009 t SO₂ and 0.551 t NOx in 2013. 2012 9x10 -6 0.57 1.15 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 2013 1x10 -6 0.55 1.09 by weight Total 1x10 -5 1.12 2.24 Total air emissions 2012 2013 (t CO2 eq.) Idea does not use R-12 as refrigerant in its refrigerating equProduction plants 5,612.4 5,335.4 ipment. In 2012, a total of 213.6 kg of R-22 was present in the Fuel for transport 6.6 5.6 system, compared to 108 kg in 2013. In 2013, 22 air conditiLPG 0 0 oners using R-22 were replaced by devices using R-404a. In CO2 equivalent 5,619 5,341 2010, the system contained a total of 173.60 kg of such refrigerant, which is 37.8% more than in 2013. The remaining amount is contained in refrigerating units in 15 facilities. Wastewater Idea has 10 small-format retail stores that discharge their require obtaining water licenses, so we do not measure our wastewater in septic tanks. The total amount of wastewater wastewater flow rates. Wastewater quality is tested three withdrawn from septic tanks in 2012 was 96,628 m³, compatimes a year by the certified laboratory Anahem of Belgrade. red to 96,734 m³ in 2013. In 2010, a total of 4,500 m³ of water Analyses are performed for 22 facilities. was withdrawn, compared to 5,100 m³ in 2011. In 2010 and 2011, Idea did not centrally archive work orders of its serTotal water discharge vice providers and contractors, which may have resulted in computer errors while monitoring these activities. In addition, wastewater management was not clearly defined by law, Year Wastewater (m3) which may have resulted in different approaches used by our 2012 96,628 service providers that withdraw such waters. 2013 96,734 Idea uses mineral and edible fat separators in its Velpro, Total 193,362 Hyper, Super and Maxi stores. Its core business does not Waste In 2012, Idea collected 1,589.62 t of solid waste (paper and 7.72 t of EE waste to organizations engaged in waste collecticardboard packaging waste, category 3 animal-origin waste, on for further treatment or disposal. electronic and electrical waste) and 4,755 liters of waste (waste edible oil) and handed it over to a certified operator. In Wooden packaging and pallets are still used wherever possi2013, Idea collected 472.26 t and 8,355 pieces of solid waste ble or are converted (non-standard fruit pallets are disassemand 3,617 liters of liquid waste. bled and components are used to build standard Euro pallets). The employees working in our wholesale centers are responIn 2012, Idea provided a total of 19.36 t of electronic and sible for this task. Any remaining wooden packaging waste is electrical waste for recycling purposes, i.e. old IT equipment given to the poorest people. and electrical devices that could not be returned to suppliers or repaired, which is 60.12% more than in 2013. That same No fee is received for handing over wooden packaging waste year, Idea provided its cardboard and plastic packaging that to certified operators. could no longer be used and old paper archives from several wholesale centers that belonged to their previous owners for Glass is not collected from our Velpro Centers because therecycling purposes as well. ir activities do not generate this type of waste, while the lessees that made glass packaging terminated their leases In 2012, Idea collected 4,755 of waste edible oil, 1,207.37 t of because their premises within our Velpro Centers have been paper packaging waste, 150.34 t of plastic packaging, 212.57 converted. No fee is received for glass packaging handed over t of category 3 waste, and 19.34 t of EE waste. In 2013, we to certified operators on the territory of the Republic of Serhanded over 3,617 liters of waste edible oil 71.71 t and 8,355 bia. pieces of waste plastic packaging, 171.14 t of paper packaging waste, 221.69 t of category 3 animal-origin waste, and Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 75 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method (kg) Type of waste Treatment Collected by 2012 2013 Papir servis, Set Non-hazardous waste R reciklaža, Dimničar, 1,456,223.6 490,653 Prekon, Napredak Hazardous waste D Set reciklaža 3,450.0 1,861 Total 1,459,673.6 492,514 No spills of oil, chemicals, fuel or wastewater into the ground or water were recorded in 2012 and 2013. Products and Services Idea uses its best efforts to minimize its consumption of We conducted a campaign for collecting waste batteries in energy resources and water, as well as to collect, sort or reuse cooperation with SET Reciklaža and Duracell which lasted for its waste or have it recycled. For the purpose of minimizing a year, beginning in the second half of 2012. The campaign its emissions from mobile and stationary sources, solid fuels was accompanied by a funny poster that invited customers to (coal) are being replaced by natural gas and our new vehicles place their used batteries in a specially designed container in use new generation engines (Euro 5). In 46 of our older facithe shape of a large battery. The results were way below our lities, we replaced our refrigerating equipment using R-22 by expectations because our fellow citizens do not have develoequipment using R-404a during renovation. ped awareness of battery recycling and there are no statutory regulations in place to direct them. Due to additional costs Idea has implemented an environmental system according to and an increased scope of work in our stores (the containers the international ISO 14001 standard in all its facilities. In were used to dispose of municipal waste and similar), the September 2012, the first third of our large-format facilities campaign was terminated in mid-2013. were certified, a total of 25. A year later, the number of our certified facilities increased to 66. Idea does not buy or collect secondary raw materials from end customers and does not resell them. Compliance In 2012 and 2013, Idea was not fined for non-compliance with any environmental laws. Transport Our diesel fuel consumption in 2012 was 92,252.10 GJ, while Our emissions from mobile sources in 2012 were: 5.99 t of the total number of passenger cars and freight vehicles was CO₂, 1.25 t of CO, 0.86 t of NOx, and 0.009 t of PM, compared 357. In 2013, we used 78,631.65 GJ for a total of 297 vehicles. to 5.62 t CO₂, 1.16 t CO, 0.58 t NOx, and 0.009 t of particles in 2013. Our stationary source emissions in 2013 decreased by 65.5% compared to 2010 when they amounted to 21.38 t. Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Fuel for LPG Total CO2 emission transport Year GJ GJ equivalentTons of CO2 Tons of CO2 for fuel equivalent for LPG 2012 92,252 0 6.6 0 2013 78,631 0 5.6 0 Total 170,883 0 12 0 76 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Environmental Protection Investments Our waste disposal costs in 2012 amounted to RSD 2013. In 2013, we spent 42.17% less money on purchasing 35,024,759.01, compared to RSD 51,124,741.35 in 2013. Our equipment, because we entered into contracts with our serviwaste disposal costs in 2010 amounted to RSD 23,155,812.36, ce providers, under which they are required to supply us with which is 54.7% less than in 2013, but this is a result of a larwaste disposal containers. ger number of facilities and lower prices of municipal waste disposal. In 2013, we spent RSD 220,500 on employee environmental training, and in 2012 we spent RSD 467,263 on other enviWe paid RSD 15,775,127 in 2012 and RSD 11,991,669.78 in ronmental costs (special charge for environmental protection 2013 for equipment maintenance, emission-related, chimney and improvement, wastewater quality testing and noise measweeping, and snow, surface and separator cleaning servisuring), compared to RSD 1,249,000 spent in 2013. ces. In 2011, we paid RSD 12,568,452.96 for the mentioned services. In 2012, we paid RSD 44,140,398.70 for all packaging placed on the market, compared to RSD 56,674,214 in 2013. In 2012, we purchased utility equipment worth RSD 473,000, Our revenues obtained from selling sorted waste was RSD compared to RSD 532,000 spent for the same purpose in 9,588,639.69 in 2012 and RSD 6,081,472.65 in 2013. Planned Activities and main Objectives for 2014 and 2015 • to complete the ISO 14001 certification for all our facilities by the end of 2014; • to have our HACCP documentation revised and integrated with our ISO 14001 documentation in order to create a basis for supplements in connection with our ISO 22000 and OHSAS certificates; • to launch the Idea Academy project in 2014, including theme workshops for educating our employees on different aspects of environmental protection and energy; • to switch to another contractor for waste collection to reduce our costs of safe destruction of category 3 waste (we are expecting to save two million RSD). • to increase the revenues from selling secondary raw materials by having all our quantities collected by a single operator. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 77 Retail Business Group Tisak d.d. Tisak is the largest retail chain of newsstands and a leading better control of electricity consumption, waste management Croatian distributer of publications, tobacco, prepaid voucrecords and energy rationalization. hers, telecom start packages and other products. A1 direkt was merged into Tisak in July 2013 and their vehicIn 2012 and 2013, Tisak introduced new services in its retail les and motorcycles resulted in a significant enlargement of network, such as bill paying, currency exchange, parcel deTisak’s fleet. livery, and selling merchandise for which it is an exclusive agent. In addition to its own retail facilities, Tisak distributes During the preceding reporting period, we started to replace such products to other customers, which makes it unique in our old air conditioners at our retail facilities, and replaced the area. 50 of them during 2012 and 2013. Tisak also started to replace its exhaust gas emitting vehicles within its fleet according Tisak’s kiosks are modern, 21st century kiosks that offer, in to environmental standards during the preceding reporting addition to a wide range of products, many unique and innoperiod. 90 vehicles were replaced during the preceding revative services at over 1,200 retail locations across Croatia. porting period and a total of 100 vehicles in the 2012-2013 The Tisak Kiosk thus becomes the first service center in each period. Tisak’s objective defined in the preceding reporting neighborhood, making its customers’ daily lives easier. By period was to improve the quality of its waste management continuously investing in business development and desiactivities, so in 2013 we introduced the old paper buying sergning new and innovative services, Tisak changes the pervice, thus increasing Tisak’s role in raising the environmenception of a kiosk as a retail facility, but also the shopping tal awareness among citizens. experience, which is now quick, simple, safe and available everywhere. In 2013, Tisak joined the Plastic Bottle Caps for Expensive Medicines initiative organized by the Croatian Association In August 2012, Tisak moved its corporate building and of Leukemia and Lymphoma Patients. The project aims to use distribution center to a new modern logistic & distribution the money raised by collecting bottle caps to co-fund expencenter that satisfies all the needs of this leading national dissive medicines to treat Association members, but also to distributor of publications, tobacco, prepaid vouchers, telecom courage our employees from throwing away PET packaging start packages and other products. This relocation resulted in plastic caps. Materials Materials used by weight or volume kg Packaging materials used for imports kg Type of material used 2012 2013 Type of material used 2012 2013 Foil 61,619 62,237 AL – cans 4,171 1,688 Cardboard packaging 24,632 178,816 Paper/cardboard 112,549 143,698 Ribbon 33,406 27,970 Wood (wooden pallets) 36,780 76,454 Paper 48,172 49,783 Other polymer materials 41,868 38,245 Total 167,829 318,806 Total 195,368 260,085 The weight of the materials used in 2012 and 2013 amounted The materials used pertain to imports and are expressed in to 486,635 kg, compared to 171,481 kg in 2010 and 2011. The kg. In 2012 and 2013 the total amount of packaging mateincrease recorded in this reporting period is a result of the rials used for imports was 455,453 kg, compared to 189,339 introduction of the Tisak Parcel service (Tisak paket) in 2013, kg used in 2011 and 2012. During the preceding reporting which led to a significant increase in the volume of cardboperiod, retail business, which is Tisak’s core business, was ard packaging used for the service. In 2013, we decommissinot based on imports, so Tisak was not considered a signifioned our ribbon using machines, which is why the amount of cant importer. In 2012 and 2013, its wholesale activities were this material decreased. developed and its product range consequently expanded, and 78 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Tisak now imports some of its product lines, thus causing an • paper bags made of 100% biodegradable material; and increase in the use of wooden pallets. • cardboard boxes made of 90% recycled paper. In an effort to encourage its customers to preserve the enviIn 2012 and 2013, Tisak used a total of 13,370 kg of paper ronment, Tisak uses recycled materials in its operations: and plastic bags. In 2013, Tisak launched its Tisak Parcel ser• plastic bags made of 100% biodegradable material that vice using recycled material boxes. A total of 286,618 were does not pollute the environment; used in 2013. Energy Direct energy consumption represents total consumption of Our electricity consumption recorded during this reporting energy from primary sources (fuel and natural gas). period was 23,390 GJ, compared to 19,161 GJ in 2010 and 2011, which is an increase of 24%. The increase in electriDirect energy consumption by primary energy city consumption was a result of our relocation to a larger source (non-renewable energy sources) corporate building including a logistic & distribution center. Opening of new retail facilities also results in higher electriFuel Natural gas Year city consumption. (GJ) (GJ) 2012 74,933 6,627 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy 2013 75,145 8,314 source (indirect energy supplied and used from Total 150,078 14,941 non-renewable energy sources) Year Steam (GJ) In 2012 and 2013, our direct energy consumption by primary 2012 1,230 source was 165,019 GJ, compared to 113,682 GJ in 2010 and 2011. Our fuel consumption increased by 45% compared to 2013 880 the preceding reporting period as a result of extended distriTotal 2,110 bution lines and the merger of A1 direkt in 2013 that enlarged Tisak’s fleet. The increase in natural gas consumption is a result of our relocation to a new building including a Our consumption of steam for heating purposes recorded dularge logistic & distribution center that uses large amounts ring the reporting period was 2,110 GJ, compared to 3,864 GJ of energy. in the preceding reporting period. The decrease of 45% was achieved thanks to the Class C energy certificate awarded to Indirect energy is energy generated outside Tisak and, as the building, ensuring better insulation and a modern heasuch, supplied outside the company. ting system. Indirect energy consumption by primary energy Tisak introduced LED lighting at ten of its retail facilities in source (indirect energy supplied and used from 2012 and 2013, thus reducing its electricity consumption. non-renewable energy sources) Year Electricity (GJ) 2012 10,433 2013 13,390 Total 23,823 Water As our retail facilities do not use water, no withdrawal from expressed in financial terms. We paid HRK 535,835 during sources is carried out. Our administration and Management the reporting period. We consequently do not use recycled Board offices are located in a commercial building not owned water and do not discharge any water. by Tisak, so our consumption for 2012 and 2013 may only be Biodiversity Tisak does not have any land owned, leased, managed in protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value, which means that its activities have no impact on any protected areas. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 79 Emissions, Effluents and Waste Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Other relevant greenhouse gas emissions by weight pertaby weight in to our freight vehicles and passenger cars, amounting to Total air emissions 4,112 t for this reporting period, compared to 2,924 t for the 2012 2013 preceding reporting period. The increase recorded in this re(t CO2 eq.) porting period is a result of the acquisition of A1 direkt, wheProduction plants 0.00 0.00 reby we also acquired all their vehicles and motorcycles. Fuel for transport 1,924 2,331 LPG 0.00 0.00 Tisak has gradually replaced its fleet vehicles by new ones CO2 equivalent 1,924 2,331 using Euro 5 engines compliant with the relevant environmental standards for exhaust gases. In 2012 and 2013, we As the sum of direct and indirect emissions expressed in tons replaced 100 vehicles with vehicles using Euro 5 engines. of CO₂ emissions, our total greenhouse gas emissions for the Between 2009 and the end of 2013, we replaced a total of 190 2012-2013 reporting period were 4,255 t, compared to 3,182 t vehicles. in the preceding period. This increase resulted from the merger of A1 direkt with Tisak and the consequent fleet enlarFreon is used as refrigerant in our refrigerating equipment gement. 68 vehicles and 140 motorcycles were then added to (air conditioners). We stopped using R-12 and R-22 and replaour fleet. ced them with environmentally acceptable R-407 and R-410. 50 air conditioners were replaced at our retail facilities in Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions 2012 and 2013. All cooling displays used by Tisak’s retail faby weight cilities are supplied externally and Tisak insists that they use environmentally acceptable gas. t CO2 (freight vehicles and Year passenger cars, motorcycles) As a retail chain and distributor, and due to the nature of its 2012 2,053 business that does not include production or processing, Ti2013 2,059 sak causes no significant air emissions. Total 4,112 Waste Total weight of waste by type and disposal method (kg) Type of waste Collected by 2012 2013 Hazardous waste Ciak 480 2,020 Materials unfit for Ciak 2,480 15,200 consumption or processing Total 2,960 17,220 During the 2010-2011 reporting period, Tisak had a non-hapal waste worth HRK 5,759,248. In 2012 and 2013, we dispozardous waste disposal contract in place with Zagrebački holsed of a total of 20,180 kg of waste. ding, so our waste disposal activities may only be expressed in financial terms. During the period, we disposed of municiTotal weight of waste by type and disposal method (t) Type of waste Collected by 2012 2013 Hartmann d.d. 515.77 4,269,94 Hamburger recycling 487.21 1,520.62 Unijapapir d.d. 510.92 Paper and cardboard Vipap Videm 3,363.88 6,280.81 Slr Steyrermuhl 1,108.98 Bunzl&Biach gmbh 366.14 Waste paper trade 353.38 Hamburger recycling 21.16 111.14 Plastic packaging Waste paper trade 16.32 Paper and cardboard Hamburger recycling 128.62 packaging Unija papir d.d. 88.42 Total 5,388.02 14,755.29 80 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Products and Services In 2013, Tisak launched its initiative for buying old paper nies and collected 8079 t of paper from returns. A total of from individuals. There are 36 buying stations across Croatia, 20,254.45 t of old paper was bought in 2012 and 2013. where 1956 t of printed material was bought from individuals. As a leading national distributor, Tisak warned about the An EE waste management charge of HRK 2.25/kg must be issue of piling up waste and offered the citizens the possibipaid for imported electrical and electronic equipment. A lity of selling old paper for 50 lipa per kilogram. This signiwaste battery management charge of HRK 2.25/kg must be ficantly reduces the amount of waste disposed of at landfills paid for imported batteries. In 2012, we imported a total of and provides input for the production of new paper. Tisak 47,342.46 kg of batteries, for which we paid HRK 397,676.66. buys old newspapers, magazines and catalogues. After colleThe total amount of batteries imported in 2013 was 28,694 cting it, such paper is treated, pressed and baled, so old paper kg and we paid a total of HRK 241,029.60 for them. A cardbodisposed of is sold on the open market to paper processing ard box for collecting paper to be recycled is installed in front companies. This business activity of Tisak ensures multiple of each office in our corporate building. social benefits, reduces the amount of waste disposed of at landfills, enables using paper as input for the production of Tisak introduced environmental reusable paper bags made of new paper, and raises the environmental awareness of indi100% biodegradable material and buys old paper from indivividuals. Tisak bought 4515 t of paper from various compaduals. In 2013, Tisak bought 14.440 t of old paper. Compliance During this reporting period, Tisak was not fined or otherwise sanctioned for non-compliance with any environmental laws or regulations. Transport Tisak does not have organized transport of its workforce beTotal environmental protection expenditures and cause its business units are spread across a large area and not investments by type (additional) all of them are easily accessible. Other environmental impaWaste management costs cts of transport pertain to the transport of goods. In the case 2012 2013 (HRK) of Tisak, this relates to the transport and delivery of mercWaste treatment and disposal 10,144.00 60,834.25 handise and publications to our retail facilities and our customers’ wholesale facilities. This information is provided in our Total 10,144.00 60,834.25 oil consumption calculations and our calculation of greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our distribution activities. Environmental Protection Investments Tisak did not have any significant environmental expendiinvestments made in the 2012-2013 period amounted to HRK tures or investments in the preceding reporting period. The 70,978.25. Planned Activities and main Objectives for 2014 and 2015 • textile collection – with this initiative, Tisak wishes to emphasize the increasing importance of collecting and recycling waste to minimize our pressure on nature and the environment. We plan to buy 3,136 t of textiles in 2014 and 2015; • to increase our old paper buying activities by 25%; • to purchase 145 new vehicles compliant with Euro 6 norm; • to dispose of batteries in the corporate building in an environmental manner by providing boxes in which our employees may place their old batteries. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 81 Oil and Margarine Products Zvijezda d.d. Zvijezda d.d. began to operate back in 1916 as a factory maZvijezda has had a positive attitude towards the environment king pumpkinseed oil and has developed its entire production for years and has launched different projects to minimize from oilseeds to final products. Zvijezda is the regional leader its environment impacts. Training seminars are conducted in the production of vegetable oil and margarine, mayonnaise for the purpose of raising the environmental awareness of and mayonnaise-based delicacies. our employees. The implementation and certification of ISO 14001 environmental management system only confirmed Agrokor became its majority shareholder in 1993 and began our attitude towards the environment and determined our to invest in the existing and new production lines and techposition concerning constant improvements. The areas in nologies. Its present production is based on processing raw which our integrated management systems are used include oil (sunflower, rape and soy) and other oil-based products. development, production, storage and distribution of vegetaZvijezda is also developing in the segment of storing and disble oils, fats, margarine, additives, mayonnaise and mayonnatributing other producers’ products under the same temperaise-based delicacies, and storage and distribution of other ture regimes. food products. Zvijezda distributes its own products and brands by using its The following environmental quality and protection objectiown network of distribution vehicles through three distribuves set for this reporting period were timely met: tion centers (Osijek, Rijeka and Split), including warehouses • we put into operation a new steam boiler in our boiler for the purpose of rationalizing its distribution costs and tiroom; and mes. Its production plants and central finished product ware• we installed and put into operation the second margarihouses are located at Ulica Marijana Čavića 1, Zagreb, within ne line for producing all margarines, including a melting an industrial zone. plant. Zvijezda’s entire production system includes the following We are dedicated to improving our technological processes technological units: and employee education, particularly with respect to environ• storage of raw materials and finished products; ment. Our management systems are improved and upgraded • oil refining plant; on a continuous basis. • oil bottling plant; and • margarine and delicacy production plant. Our products range comprises three brands:: Zvijezda vegetable oil and olive oil, margarine, mayonnaiImportant parts of production also include:: se, salads, dressings, vegetable fats, vegetable ghee, ketchup, • •the boiler room generating steam for production purpognocchi, tortellini, pickled vegetables ses; and Margo spreadable margarine • the WWTP – a wastewater treatment plant. Omegol oil and margarine spread, snack sticks. Zvijezda’s strategic objective is to ensure high quality of its Our business policy and all our development plans and proproducts and its overall operations, which has been attained jects incorporate requirements for the protection of the enviby conforming to the requirements of ISO 9001:2008. The ronment and the living and working surroundings as part of company satisfies the demands and needs of its customers sustainable development. Our attitude towards the environand ensures product safety based on the HACCP system intement includes our compliance with the applicable regulations grated into our management system. Products, raw materials of the European Union and the Republic of Croatia and reguand production processes are tested in Zvijezda’s modernlar monitoring of the same, improvement of our business and ly equipped laboratory and in independent certified food technological processes for the purpose of meeting our envianalysis laboratories, in which way we confirm the quality ronmental and quality targets, defining the relevant environand safety of our products. Zvijezda’s business production mental aspects and impacts and ensuring regular monitoring operations comply with the relevant national regulations, as of the same, and continuing employee training and activities well as European Union’s regulations and standards due to aimed at raising their awareness of the environment by finthe company’s continuing expansion into the European and ding sustainable product quality solutions and ensuring comother markets. Zvijezda holds a Kosher certificate to satisfy pliance with relevant environmental requirements. specific markets and needs. During the 2012-2013 period, Zvijezda’s production volume Continuing employee training provided at all levels ensures decreased by approximately 6% as a result of the difficult the development of new products and constant improvement market situation and reduced sales of its finished products inof existing ones. tended for the consumer market and other food industry. 82 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 83 Materials The direct materials used (materials present in the final proDuring the 2012-2013 reporting period, the amount of mateduct) and non-renewable materials (resources not renewed rials used per ton of product was roughly the same as in the over a short period of time), chemicals and packaging matepreceding reporting period, while the decrease in overall prorials are expressed in kg. The weight of all materials used in duction is a result of a decrease in finished product sales due 2010 and 2011 was 129,377,743 kg, compared to 117,149,439 to market disruptions. kg in 2012 and 2013. By using recycled input packaging materials, we reduce our need for input and contribute to the preservation of resourcMaterials used by weight or volume kg es. Recycled packaging materials are mostly used for secondType of material used 2012 2013 ary/transport packaging (transport boxes made of recycled Input 57,560,301 46,165,750 cardboard) and we also use recycled packaging white glass for some of our packaging. Cardboard boxes and cardboard Ancillary process materials 773,581 830,537 mats are made of 100% recycled cardboard, glass packagPackaging materials 6,257,231 5,562,039 ing contains recycled material (white bottles up to 25% and Total 64,591,113 52,558,326 green bottles up to 60%), while our metal twist-off caps contain about 80% recycled material. Energy Our total energy consumption at our production locations Indirect energy is energy produced outside Zvijezda and supfrom primary sources (natural gas, fuel for transport vehicles plied outside the company. In this case, it is electricity, beand passenger cars) represents our direct energy consumpticause we produce our own thermal and cooling energy. on. For our production purposes, we use natural gas and water to run our boiler room that produces steam for our proIndirect energy consumption by primary energy duction plants and electricity. At the same location, we have source (indirect energy supplied and used from a central warehouse used for storing raw materials and fininon-renewable energy sources) shed products under the required temperature regimes. EleYear Electricity (GJ) ctricity is a type of direct energy produced and supplied outside the company. The amounts of direct and indirect energy 2012 45,930 used for production and transport purposes are presented by 2013 42,254 the Sales Centers (Rijeka, Split, Osijek) in the table below. Total 88,184 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source (non-renewable energy sources) Our electricity consumption in 2010 and 2011 amounted to Fuel Natural gas Total 93,840 GJ, compared to 88,184 GJ in 2012 and 2013. Year During the 2012-2013 reporting period, our electricity con(GJ) (GJ) (GJ) sumption per ton of product increased by 1% compared to 2012 38,001 129,784 167,785 the preceding reporting period as a result of smaller batches, 2013 40,035 128,487 168,522 disruptions in supply of raw materials, and decreased sales in Total 78,036 258,271 the market, but decreased by 6% on an absolute basis. The boiler room produces steam for our production cycle purOur consumption of natural gas for our production plants poses by combusting fuel in a closed system, calculated on is mostly equal all year, except in periods before Easter and the basis of the lower heating value of fuel, which is natural Christmas when we record increased sales volumes. Our total gas in this case. consumption shows that our consumption was roughly the same in 2012 and 2013. In 2013, we slightly increased our Indirect energy consumption by primary energy consumption of fuel for transport because of an increased source (indirect energy supplied and used from number of products distributed but not produced by Zvijezda. non-renewable energy sources) Year Steam(GJ) Our direct energy consumption by primary energy source for 2010-2011 was 274,063 GJ, compared to 258,271 GJ in 2012 2012 114,679 and 2013, which is a decrease of 5.8% on an absolute basis. 2013 104,055 Nevertheless, our energy per ton of product in this reporting Total 218,734 period increased by 1% compared to the preceding reporting period as a result of smaller batches, disruptions in supply of raw materials, and decreased sales in the market. Our steam production in 2010 and 2011 amounted to 239,718 GJ, compared to 218,734 GJ in 2012 and 2013 84 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 During the 2012-2013 reporting period, our consumption As the largest local producer of edible oil and margarine, of energy per product unit increased by 6.2% compared to mayonnaise and mayonnaise-based delicacies, Zvijezda invethe preceding reporting period. Such indicators result from sts in new technologies to retain its leading market position non-continuous production caused by disruptions in raw and provide its customers with high-quality, economically material supply and decreased sales of our products in the more acceptable products. In February 2013, we completed market. our investment projects of installing and putting into operation the second margarine line including a margarine melIn 2013, Zvijezda installed a new boiler with a smaller capating and emulsifying system. Such project allows us to make city (10 t/h) than the existing boiler in the steam producing new products of standardized quality, enlarge our product boiler room. This boiler uses less energy under the same range, use less energy, reduce margarine waste, and increase load, which also results in less emission from combustion. our production efficiency. The expected decrease in gas consumption, air emissions and CO₂ equivalent amounts on an annual basis is about 3%. We All our production companies are involved in the projects will not be able to report the actual effects of this investment implemented at the level of the Group related to transport before the next reporting period. and distribution rationalization. We are working on integrating products that require the same temperature regimes By constantly improving and efficiently planning our produand have the same characteristics, and utilizing our overall ction, we save energy and reduce waste and washing water distribution capacities. We thus save fuel and reduce exhaust consumption. Our planning is therefore based on maximizing gases. Such projects and initiatives have just been launched, our batches and adjusting our production to avoid washing so it will not be possible to analyze and report their effects between two or more products made on the same line. before the next reporting period. Water As a food production company subject to food and process hywell water (for which we hold a concession). Water is used to giene requirements, Zvijezda uses substantial amounts of wamake steam, as input, for cooling in production processes, ter. However, our systematic approach to water management for washing production lines, and as drinking and sanitary used since 2011 has resulted in a significant decrease in water. Water used in our sales centers is public water used water consumption in our facilities. Zvijezda uses two souras sanitary water, drinking water and water for washing our ces of water: water from the public water supply system and warehouses. Total water withdrawal by source (m3) Water from the Well water used Water in Sales Total amount of all Year public water for process Centers waters withdrawn supply system purposes 2012 45,841 82,405 807 129,053 2013 42,694 79,474 431 122,326 Total 88,535 161,879 1,238 251,379 In 2010 and 2011, we used a total of 280,439 m³ of water, Zvijezda has been rationalizing its water consumption for ye116,057 m³ of which was water from the public water supply ars and has performed recirculation whenever possible. The system and 164,382 m³ was water from our own wells. Dunew lines and technologies that we purchase practically alrering the 2012-2013 reporting period, our total water conady contain closed water systems (the new refinery), which sumption was 251,379 m³, 89,773 m³ was water from the keeps our water consumption at a sustainable level. This is public water supply system, and 161,879 m³ was well water. best supported by the fact that we used approximately 2,500 It is clear that we reduced the total amount of all waters witm³ of water in 2007, and our water consumption in 2013 was hdrawn during this reporting period and that water from the reduced to 400 m³. public water supply system is being replaced by well water wherever our technological processes allow it. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 85 Biodiversity The facilities owned or leased by Zvijezda, which the comSales Center Zagreb are located within the Žitnjak industrial pany uses to conduct its operations, are not within or adjazone. Our Sales Centers in Osijek, Split and Rijeka are also cent to any protected areas or areas of high biodiversity valocated within industrial zones. Zvijezda therefore has no silue. The company’s production facilities, corporate building, gnificant impact on biodiversity. warehouse for finished products and raw materials, and its Emissions, Effluents and Waste Natural gas is used in the company’s boiler rooms as the prihouse gas emissions by weight amounted to 1038.2 t in this mary fuel and diesel powered trucks are used to supply the reporting period, compared to 1,120.7 tons in 2010 and 2011. market. Emissions are regularly monitored in accordance with Our emissions were reduced by 7.4% because we use less pathe national regulations and our direct greenhouse gas emisssenger cars. sions include the combustion of natural gas and diesel fuel used by our freight vehicles. To calculate the CO₂ equivalent, Zvijezda had already (during the preceding reporting period) we use the methodology specified in the Guide for Developing switched from diesel fuel to natural gas in its boiler room, as Production Plant Greenhouse Gas Emission Monitoring Plan natural gas is more environmentally acceptable. We are still issued by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Physical working on reducing our greenhouse gas emissions. InstallaPlanning and Construction according to the following formula: tion of a new steam boiler of a smaller capacity in the boiler room and systematic adjustment of combustion on the burners CO₂ (emissions from combustion) = consumption*combuhave contributed to the above-mentioned reduction efforts. stion size*emission factor*oxidation factor According to the Ozone Depleting Substances and Fluorinated Greenhouse Gases Regulation (Official Gazette 92/12), ZvijezTotal direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions da listed all its refrigerating systems, substances and amounts by weightkey and reported them to the Ministry of Environmental ProtectiTotal air emissions on. We outsource the maintenance of our refrigerating equ2012 2013 (t CO2 eq.) ipment to certified organizations, as required by law. All our Production plants 6,719 6,652 refrigerants are legal and the refrigerant used by the air conditioners in the corporate building is HCFC 22 (R 22), which will Fuel for transport 2,265 2,449 be replaced by an acceptable refrigerant by 2016. CO2 equivalent 8,984 9,101 According to the Regulation on the Limits of Pollutant Emissions from Stationary Sources (Official Gazette 117/12) and As the sum of direct and indirect emissions expressed in the Ordinance on the Monitoring Pollutant Air Emissions tons of CO₂ emissions, our total greenhouse gas emissions from Stationary Sources (Official Gazette 129/12), Zvijezda were 18,344 t in the 2010/2011 reporting period, compared measures its pollutant air emissions according to the requito 18,085 t in the 2012-2013 reporting period. The levels of red schedule. The boiler used in the company’s boiler room is emissions for both reporting periods are clearly equal. a medium heating device in terms of its thermal power and the type of fuel it uses. Emissions from the boiler in the boiOther relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions in Zvijezda ler room are measured once a year and, in the case of smaller presented in this Report pertain to emissions resulting from heating locations, measuring is performed every two years. transporting members of our workforce to and from work and The results show that we are within the ELs (Emission Libusiness trips using passenger cars. mits). The results show that comparisons to GVE are within the allowed limits (Regulation on the Limits of Pollutant Emissions from Stationary Sources – the EL Regulation). Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight A certified organization measured our NO and CO emissions during May of 2012 and our emission concentrations for Year t CO2 2013 were determined on the basis of a calculation. 2012 548.6 2013 489.6 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Total 1,038.2 by weight (in tons) Year NO2 CO The amounts of CO₂ emissions were determined by estima2012 7.4 0.04 ting our CO₂ emissions from combustion as defined in Ap2013 6.0 0.37 pendix A (Air Emissions) to the Environmental Pollution Registry Maintenance Manual. Other relevant indirect greenTotal 13.4 0.41 86 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Wastewater After the completion of the major project, i.e. installing a total of 266,417 m³ of water, compared to 237,634 m³ in 2012 wastewater treatment plant (WWTP), all process wastewater and 2013. is treated by the plant. During the construction of the plant, we reconstructed and expanded our sewerage system. We In early 2013, Zvijezda obtained a new water license for a separated our sewerage systems for sanitary and precipitaterm of five years, subject to all terms and conditions of the tion waters. The WWTP’s operating technology is based on Wastewater Emission Limits Ordinance (Official Gazette physical and chemical treatment of wastewater, namely acid 80/13). The quality of our treated process wastewater is checwater, where the contents of sulfates, greasy water, oil, greaked according to the schedule required by the water license se, BOD and COD are reduced. After treatment, all waters are by the certified laboratory Andrija Štampar. discharged through an inspection & measuring shaft (IMS) into the public sewerage system, and then directed to the city Total water discharge wastewater treatment plant. Year Wastewater (m3) The total amount of discharged water is determined on the 2012 121,834 basis of the amount of water supplied from the water supply system and water withdrawn from wells less 5% on acco2013 115,800 unt of water incorporated in products and losses in cooling Total 237,634 towers. In the 2010-2011 reporting period, we discharged a Waste Total weight of waste by type and disposal method (kg) Type of waste Treatment Collected by 2012 2013 Eko flor, Tisak, Zumal, Zg Holding, Gumipex, Sava Non-hazardous waste R 895,585 891,861 promet, Roto trans, Eko mirin, Food Technologies Kemis Termoclean, Hazardous waste D 16,672 13,464 Kemokop, M San Eko Total 912,257 905,325 The waste is sorted at the point of its generation, separately disassembled our hydrogenation plant that ceased to opecollected and temporarily stored in an area designated for rate and rehabilitated all equipment containing dangerous temporary storage of different types of waste. A better waste substances (waste). sorting system increases the amount of non-hazardous waste, which is sold to certified operators as secondary raw mateOur waste management plan and continuing employee trarial. During the reporting period, Zvijezda disposed of 1,787 ining and supervision resulted in a better waste sorting t of non-hazardous waste and 30 t of hazardous waste. The system and an increase in the key waste figures by type of amount of hazardous waste disposed of increased substantiawaste within the relevant period. lly compared to the preceding reporting period because we Products and Services Dangerous chemicals (substances harmful to health and the may have an adverse impact on human health or the environenvironment) used in Zvijezda are supervised and warnings ment. and instructions for first aid in case of an accident are visibly displayed. Our employees handling dangerous chemicals Special attention is dedicated to the issue of waste, because are under constant medical supervision and are included in quick and efficient waste disposal significantly affects our our training cycles for handling dangerous chemicals. Our attitude towards the environment. For the purpose of optiamounts of dangerous chemicals are below the limit set for mizing (reducing) our waste costs and reducing combined dangerous substances in the Regulation for the Prevention packaging waste, we sort waste that may be separated and of Major Accidents Involving Dangerous Substances. All our handed over for recycling as secondary raw material, thus plants have lists of dangerous chemicals used in addition to reducing our waste disposal costs. This relates to polymer all material safety data sheets, water licenses and instructiribbons used to tie cardboard boxes shipped to Zvijezda by ons for proper handling. In case of an accident, Zvijezda has our suppliers and extracting polymer bottle caps. We found defined the alerting method, responsible persons and envia company that collects such waste in addition to other polyronment rehabilitation method. During this reporting period, mer waste free of charge, while our collection of bottle caps Zvijezda did not record any spill of dangerous substances that is of a charity nature because they are handed over to the Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 87 Association of Lymphoma Patients that sell such waste to rasecondary and tertiary packaging (cardboard boxes, stretch ise money to buy expensive medicines. foil) are collected, properly sorted and handed over to certified waste management organizations. Most of our transport Our wastewater treatment plant produces costs like any other boxes are recycled and used to make new ones that are purctechnological unit and we continuously undertake measures hased from our suppliers for the next production cycle. Wooto reduce our wastewater treatment costs and increase the efden pallets represent reusable packaging that circulates until ficiency of our treatment activities. We optimize the operatiits condition requires its disposal. on of our wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) by testing and introducing new chemicals (flocculants and coagulants). As regards our primary packaging used for margarine, oil, mayonnaise, sauces and salads, our consumers dispose of it The projects for the procurement and installation of our seas municipal waste after the end of its lifecycle because there cond margarine line included reconstruction and capacity enis no system in place for collecting and disposing of greased largement of our melting plant. The melting plant is used to packaging. It is only in such cases in which Zvijezda products melt and temper certain raw materials (lecithin) in margariare sold as input to industries that waste is properly collene production. When switching from one product to another, cted by type and disposed of by such industries as required the line needs to be cleaned of the previous product remaiby law. Zvijezda handles packaging waste received from its ning in its pipelines. These amounts of product are melted in supplier in the same way. the melting plant and returned to the production of the same product as a certain percentage of it, thus reducing the amoAccording to the Sustainable Waste Management Act (Offiunt of waste to be disposed of. In addition, such margarine cial Gazette 94/13) and the Packaging and Packaging Wais registered in the Ministry of Agriculture in the Registry ste Ordinance (Official Gazette 97/05; 115/05; 81/08; 31/09; of Animal Food Facilities and may be used as input for other 156/09; 38/10; 10/11; 81/11; 126/11; 38/13; and 86/13), Zvipurposes (as a supplement to animal food). jezda pays a waste disposal charge according to the type of consumption material for the purpose of covering its costs of Zvijezda products are packaged in primary (contact) packadisposing of packaging waste as a manufacturer that places ging, secondary (transport) packaging, and tertiary packaits products on the market in such packaging. ging. Most of our products are sold in retail stores, where Compliance Zvijezda has an established process of keeping up to date constantly audited according to plans or onsite by visiting with regulations and notifying its responsible persons in plants and identifying any irregularities or non-conformities. each process or activity. In addition, Zvijezda is under conIn addition to all third party audits, internal audits and custant supervision by certifying organizations for complianstomer audits, inspections are also conducted. There were no ce with the requirements of each standard within its manasignificant violations or cases of regulatory non-compliance gement system. In addition to internal audits, the system is or fines during the reporting period. Transport Zvijezda impacts the environment by transporting goods Significant environmental impacts of transporting using its own vehicles and by transporting members of its products and other goods and materials used for workforce to and from their respective workplaces. the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce During this reporting period, Zvijezda used 78,036 GJ of Total CO2 emission energy for transporting products and other goods and maFuel for transport (tons of CO2 terials and members of its workforce, which resulted in (GJ) equivalent for fuel) greenhouse gas emissions of 5,753 tons of CO₂ equivalent, compared to 60,310 GJ of energy used and 5,277 tons of CO₂ 2012 38,001 2,814 equivalent of greenhouse gas emissions generated during the 2013 40,035 2,939 2010-2011 reporting period. This increase in our greenhouTotal 78,036 5,753 se gas emissions is a result of an increase in the distribution segment during the reporting period. Environmental Protection Investments Zvijezda systematically manages its costs incurred in all types of plastic packaging during this reporting period, whiphases of its activity, especially its waste costs. We managed ch no longer ends up in combined packaging waste or lanto reduce our waste costs because we separated several more dfills. During the 2012-2013 reporting period, our environ88 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 mental protection investments and expenditures amounted to • WWTP operation; HRK 5,980,543 and included the following costs: • management system certification and training; • waste disposal; • investments in environmental protection. • packaging and packaging waste disposal charge (Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund); • emission measuring and charge for air emissions from staThese costs were much lower than in the preceding reporting tionary sources; period because at that time they included the cost of building • cleaning sewerage and separators; a wastewater treatment plant. Planned Activities and main Objectives for 2014 and 2015 We began to implement our Pallet Management and Monitoring project. Our annual cost of purchasing new or used pallets is very high and we intend to reduce it by 30-50%. As part of this target, we will: • develop a procedure and standard for collecting pallets from customers; • find a possibility for repairing damaged pallets; • establish a procedure for recording Euro pallets, i.e. actual number in real time and financial charges imposed on the customers; • monitor all pallets entering Zvijezda. • Our warehouse for raw materials, input and finished products is cooled in seven different temperature zones. We will perform an analysis of the possibility to raise the temperature in certain temperature zones by a few degrees to save an estimated 3-5% on electricity. • provide employee education in all segments of environmental protection on a continuous basis. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 89 Oil and Margarine Products Dijamant A.D. Dijamant A.D. is an oil, vegetable fat, margarine and occupation permit, after which we will start preparing the mayonnaise producing company headquartered in Zrenjadocumentation for obtaining a water license. nin and conducting its business within The Agrokor Group • Dijamant had intended to obtain a license for treating wasince 2005. Having operated and developed as part of the ste oil from deep fat fryers. These activities were abandoGroup, Dijamant became one of the largest processors of oilned in 2012 because the amounts of waste oil in Serbia are seeds and vegetable fat producers in this part of Southeast insignificant and it was impossible to separate our waste Europe. The Report provides information for 2012 and 2013 oil treatment activities from regular production in a feasipertaining to the factory site. It presents Dijamant’s business ble manner. indicators demonstrating its commitment to environmental • We introduced separation of paper from municipal waste protection. It is reflected in reduced pollution, proper waste in our offices. Paper is collected and handed over for dispomanagement, direct investments in equipment and processes sal separately. generating less noise, processes designed to prevent leaka• The chemicals we purchase and use are reported to and rege, etc. Dijamant has two independent wastewater treatment gistered in the Registry of Chemicals. Our material safety plants because its process wastewater pipeline systems are data sheets (MSDS) are updated as necessary and we sepaalso separated. In addition to process wastewater, precipitarately monitor solid and liquid chemicals. In addition, we tion wastewater is treated using gravitational grease separamaintain records of chemicals and biocides in circulation. tors before being discharged into the Bega River. Whenever possible, we purchase chemicals in reusable packaging. In 2012, we decided to abandon the IFS standard and repla• We are still working on the eco-indicator issue because we ce it by certification according to the FSSC 22000 standard, did not ensure measuring of all parameters by production which is recognized by the GFSI (Global Food Safety Initialine. In other words, some parameters are measured on the tive) and acceptable for the retail chains from the European level of each plant and then converted for specific products Union operating in Serbia (Delhaize Group, Metro, etc.). In or processes (electricity consumption, water consumption). 2013, Dijamant successfully had its existing standards recerThe planned study in connection with defining eco-indicatified: ISO 9001:2008, ISO14001:2004, GMP+, FSSC22000, tors has not been completed yet. HACCP, and HALAL. As regards our other planned objectives, • We reduced our amounts of municipal waste by increasing we achieved the following during the reporting period: the share of secondary raw materials extracted from it. We • We installed grease traps (gravitational separators) for prealso trained our employees. The factory circle is regularly cipitation wastewater treatment and are currently impletoured and our employees are warned about waste handmenting them. ling. The amounts of waste for each plant are determined • In late 2013, we started building a pumping station for by estimation and expressed by volume. Immediately bewastewater generated by the Oil Mill plant and expect to fore selling waste as secondary raw material, we precisely complete it in the spring of 2014. We are preparing an endetermine its amount. The material extracted from muvironmental impact study for the purpose of obtaining an nicipal waste and presently sold is polypropylene (waste packaging). Materials The amounts of input and other materials used are consiMaterials used by weight or volume kg stent with our sales plans. The increase in our consumption of raw materials was mostly affected by the amount of soy Type of material used 2012 2013 and sunflower seed bought, and the amounts bought depend Raw material 167,584,963 196,226,039 on the market prices and the amounts of inventory from the Ancillary process materials 1,060,979 1,026,644 preceding year. In addition to the packaging materials described in the table, in 2012 we used 36,463 pallets, compared to Packaging materials 3,530,213 3,593,179 46,590 used in 2013. Total 172,176,155 200,845,862 90 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 91 The amount of materials used in this reporting period Dijamant does not use any input or ancillary materials made (373,022.017 tons) was much higher than in the preceding of recycled materials in its production processes. As regards reporting period (136,598.47 tons) as a result of more sunthe input used, only a small percentage of secondary packaflower and soy seed bought and increased production of ging (cardboard boxes and mats) contains recycled paper. mayonnaise and related products. Energy Dijamant uses natural gas and sunflower shell to generate The amount of energy used for production remained stable. steam and uses diesel fuel to power its vehicles: The differences in the amounts of sunflower shell and gas used are associated with the qualities of these materials (the Direct energy consumption by primary energy moisture content in shell affects the amount of energy obtasource (non-renewable energy sources) ined). Natural gas LPG Year Diesel fuel (GJ) Indirect energy consumption by primary energy (GJ) (GJ) source (indirect energy supplied and used from 2012 37,172.72 217,308.81 0 non-renewable energy sources) 2013 36,481.91 185,351.14 0 Year Electricity (GJ) Total 347,090.35 267,526.40 30,353.75 2012 108,313.05 2013 99,237.34 In 2012 and 2013, our consumption of energy obtained from Total 207,550.39 natural gas (402,659.95 GJ) was reduced compared to the preceding reporting period (468,244.37 GJ). As we increased our sunflower seed purchase quantities, the process geneOur electricity consumption in this period (207,550.39 GJ) rated more shell used as energy instead of gas. At the same remained roughly the same as in the preceding reporting petime, our consumption of energy obtained from diesel fuel riod (201,089.39 GJ). (73,654.63 GJ) did not change significantly compared to the preceding reporting period (71,154.04 GJ). Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source (indirect energy supplied and used from Direct energy consumption by primary energy non-renewable energy sources) source (renewable energy sources) Year Steam (GJ) Year Sunflower shell (GJ) 2012 414,680 2012 219,319 2013 378,808 2013 218,400 Total 793,488 Total 437,719 We reduced our steam consumption (793,488 GJ) compared The energy obtained by sunflower shell combustion (437,719 to the preceding reporting period (866,713 GJ), as a result of GJ) also remained at the same level as in the preceding reporrepairing parts of the equipment where steam was lost. ting period (446,677 GJ). Water Total water withdrawal by source (m3) From a public From Total amount of all waters Year water supply own wells withdrawn system 2012 302,363 175,784 478,147 2013 418,260 161,709 579,969 Total 720,623 337,493 1,058,116 During the reporting period, we reduced the total amount of proved water management (less spills) and repaired leakage water used (1,058,116 GJ) compared to the preceding reporpoints on equipment. ting period (1,295,643 GJ). This decrease is a result of im92 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Biodiversity The area in which buildings and plants owned by Dijamant ch Dijamant operates is intended for production plants not are located does not have the status of a protected natural endangering the environment. This is also indicated in the habitat and is not adjacent to any areas where Dijamant’s above-mentioned Environmental Impact Study relating to the operations may endanger biodiversity. According to the geDijamant’s plant. neral plan of the Zrenjanin Municipality, the location in whiEmissions, Effluents and Waste Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions The amount of greenhouse gas emissions (80,128.77 t) sliby weight ghtly increased compared to the preceding reporting period (76,617.86 t). As we reduced our gas and shell consumption Total air emissions 2012 2013 (energy), this is a result of improved boiler operation and (t CO2 eq.) more efficient combustion (less ash is generated). Production plants 43,159.72 36,969.05 CO2 equivalent 43,159.72 36,969.05 CO2 emissions resulting from the combustion of fuel in passenger cars (in kg) Year Gasoline Diesel fuel Gas Total 2012 79.27 87.63 39.015 205.915 2013 121.71 153.79 105.06 380.56 Total 200.98 241.42 144.075 586.475 We did not record these parameters in the preceding reporting period, so we are unable to make a comparison. Dijamant uses the following ozone depleting substances: Emissions of ozone depleting substances (kg) Year R12 refrigerant R134a refrigerant R22 refrigerant R404 refrigerant R407C refrigerant Total 2012 13 39 26 78 2013 26 13 91 13 143 Total 13 26 13 130 39 221 We did not record these parameters in the preceding reporting period. Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions The amount of our CO emissions (25.35 tons) was reduced by weight (in tons) compared to the preceding reporting period (39.44 tons), which also demonstrates improved operation of our boilers Year SO2 NO2 CO (better combustion). The amount of nitrogen oxides (92.74 2012 0.00 53.59 18.99 tons) was reduced compared to the preceding reporting period (167.14 tons) also because we improved the combustion 2013 0.00 39.15 6.36 process in our boilers. Sulfur oxides were only detected in Total 0.00 92.74 25.35 2010 as a result of more domestic gas used, which was not purified like imported gas. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 93 Wastewater Total water discharge Fats and oil are removed more efficiently, which resulted in better COD and BOD₅ values. Both treatment plants use idenYear Wastewater (m3) tical coagulants and flocculants. 2012 401,544 2013 397,475 Quality of precipitation wastewater discharge into Total 799,019 the Begej River 2012 2013 During this reporting period, we recorded less water discharge (799,019 m³) compared to the preceding reporting period Water temperature 17.5 ºC (856,679 m³), which correlates to the amount of water used. Color tamnosiva Odor neodređen Quality of wastewater from the VeFa plant after Transparency neprozirna treatment Depositing after 30 minutes 20.3 ml/l Dried unfiltered residue 832 mg/l 2012 2013 Dried filtered residue 668 mg/l Water temperature 26.1 ºC 27.9 ºC Suspended substances 164 mg/l Color Light yellowish Light yellowish COD (from K2Cr2O7) 568 mg/l Odor Stale Undetermined BOD5 379 mg/l Transparency Almost transparent Turbid Fats and oil 27 mg/l Depositing after 30 minutes 0.3 ml/l < 0.1 ml/l pH 7.53 Dried unfiltered residue 1,333 mg/l 1,359 mg/l Dried filtered residue 1,178 mg/l 1,175 mg/l Our precipitation drainage system is mostly exposed to environmental impacts (the amount of organic substances Suspended substances 155 mg/l 184 mg/l flowing into it). In 2013, no precipitation water analysis was COD (from K2Cr2O7) 511 mg/l 433 mg/l performed in the presence of inspectors because the year was BOD5 289 mg/l 234 mg/l quite dry. Fats and oil 40 mg/l 12.75 mg/l pH 7.34 7.92 Quality of wastewater from the Oil Mill plant after treatment 2012 2013 Water temperature 33.2 ºC 28.8 ºC Color Light yellowish Light yellowish Odor Weak (sunflower) Herbal Partially Transparency Turbid transparent Depositing after 30 minutes 1 ml/l < 0.1 ml/l Dried unfiltered residue 3,201 mg/l 1,877 mg/l Dried filtered residue 3,125 mg/l 1,827 mg/l Suspended substances 75.6 mg/l 50.5 mg/l COD (from K2Cr2O7) 2,461 mg/l 523 mg/l BOD5 441 mg/l 172.29 mg/l Fats and oil 38 mg/l 2.25 mg/l pH 7.2 7.05 94 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Waste We recorded an increase in the amount of non-hazardous zardous waste is not relevant because the amount recorded in waste during the reporting period. This is a result of better 2012 was affected by our regular replacement of batteries in separation of waste materials, which in turn resulted in more all vehicles and forklift trucks. secondary raw material. This decrease in the amount of haTotal weight of waste by type and disposal method (kg) Type of waste Treatment Collected by 2012 2013 Total JKP, Eko unija, Centar za Non-hazardous waste R/D rec. Zvezda. Rvač.. 892,450 992,190 1,884,640 Jugo-impex Hazardous waste R Rvač 7,900 2,220 10,120, Total 900,350 994,410 1,894,760 During this reporting period, we reduced the amount of hacted 1,884,640 kg of waste compared to 2,378,420 kg in the zardous waste (10,125 kg) compared to the preceding reporpreceding reporting period because we then disposed of a ting period (35,490 kg) because, according to the new classicertain amount of waste that had been generating for years. fication, nickel was pronounced non-hazardous (we reduced our nickel content in waste). We also recorded a decrease in We did not record any significant spills of chemicals, fats or the amount of non-hazardous waste: in this period we collefuel. Products and Services In 2013, we completed the preparatory phase for the installaimpact study and conduct wastewater measuring which is a tion of a pumping station for the Oil Mill plant. The pumping precondition for obtaining a water license. station was selected as the only technical concept enabling the mounting of a system for measuring the amounts of waConcerning the handover of packaging waste placed on the ter discharged into the public water supply system on the market, in 2013 Dijamant cooperated with the certified pacexisting structure of sewerage pipes. By the end of 2013, we kaging waste operator Ekostarpak, meeting the national tarprepared all designs and licenses, so our works began in Degets for the year. cember. We are still required to prepare an environmental Compliance No fines or any other sanctions were imposed for non-complianNo complaints from individuals or labor inspectors were rece with any environmental regulations. No complaints were ceived in the preceding year regarding Dijamant’s operations received from individuals or any associations regarding Dijain connection with environmental regulations. mant’s operations in connection with environmental pollution. Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Total CO2 emission Fuel for transport (tons of CO2 (GJ) equivalent for fuel) 2012 31,410.9 2.28 2013 30,827.2 2.23 Total 62,238.1 4.51 Total CO₂ emissions (4.51 tons) recorded in the period 2012-2013 did not significantly change compared to the preceding reporting period (4.36 tons). Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 95 Environmental Protection Investments Protection expenditures and investments by type Costs in RSD 2012 2013 Waste treatment and disposal 7,494,598.48 6,818,985.04 520,000 (struja) Emission treatment (electrostatic filter operation) 669,000.00 2,435,000 (remont) Water from the public water supply system 10,370,748.00 10,181,915.61 Wastewater discharged into the city collector 18,203,355.00 19,089,752.61 Water domain utilization charge 135,638.25 106,582.96 Drainage charge 69,312.21 73,124.52 Drained water charge 1,451,111.53 1,411,477.35 Charge for using water structures and wastewater drainage systems 12,364,680.00 11,352,228.24 Institute services (mandatory environmental parameter monitoring) 1,339,671.30 657,907 Fee payable to the packaging waste operator 3,114,235.34 2,829,590.32 Environmental pollution charge 361,253.74 1,713,825.94 Environmental protection and improvement charge 13,006,189.26 16,218,479.26 Total 68,579,793.11 73,408,868.85 Our waste treatment and disposal expenses were slightly of Institute services/mandatory environmental parameter reduced (RSD 14,313,583.52) compared to the preceding remonitoring (RSD 1,997,578.3) decreased significantly comporting period (RSD15,197,707.15), mostly as a result of the pared to the preceding reporting period (RSD 5,151,874.08). market prices of secondary raw materials. As a result of our This is due to the fact that we performed an efficiency teoverhaul costs, the emission treatment/electrostatic filter sting of our wastewater treatment plant in the duration of operation costs (RSD 3,624,000) slightly increased compared one month. The remaining items are not comparable because to the preceding reporting period (RSD 1,335,000). The costs costs are classified in a different way. Planned Activities and main Objectives for 2014 and 2015 1. To obtain a water license (complete the missing environmental impact studies, obtain the rest of the requirements from Vode Vojvodine); 2. To continue to work on obtaining an integrated environmental license (BAT analysis and plans for meeting the defined parameters); 3. To define production eco-indicators, i.e. prepare a study on the basis of which it will be possible to assign the environmental protection costs more clearly to specific types of product and product scope; 4. To additionally improve our waste separation by type, subject, however, to economic feasibility; and 5. To plant trees around Dijamant’s facilities. 96 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Oil and Margarine Products Sojara d.d. Sojara Zadar is a factory engaged in the processing of soybeIn 2012, Sojara only used part of its processing capacities and ans, both domestic and imported, for the purpose of produno processing activities were undertaken in 2013. In 2013, cing soybean meal, soybean oil and lecithin. The factory has Agrokor trgovina, which has been supplying Sojara with a processing capacity of up to 1,100 tons a day. Sojara is the raw material since the beginning of its operation within The only soybean processing plant in the region. Thanks to its Agrokor Group, failed to import soybeans. It purchased only location in the Port of Zadar and its closeness to railway and a small quantity of soybeans of domestic origin, but failed to road routes, Sojara has a large number of possibilities for extract it. Sojara was therefore left with no raw material to transporting oilseeds and all kinds of crops, as well as for process, which is why no processing activities were undertastoring and handling goods in its silos and under-floor wareken in 2013. houses. These possibilities are increased by the fact that the company owns a transshipment deck within port facilities, The objectives planned for this reporting period (to reduce crude which is able to receive even the largest freight ships. Our oil consumption, to improve our waste management system, to silo for storing oilseeds, crops and flour, with a capacity of provide a designated waste disposal area, to reduce greenhouse 38,000 m³, increases our possibilities concerning the imports gas emissions and emissions in wastewater) were not met: and exports of goods. 1. The planned reduction of crude oil consumption was not successful as our processing activities lasted for a very Sojara Zadar started its production activities in 1977. In 1991, short period of time and the shorter the processing, the Sojara became part of The Agrokor Group, thus establishing greater the crude oil consumption. Our processing actibetter cooperation with companies such as Belje, Zvijezda, vities were performed only in the period from November etc. In late 2013, Sojara changed its legal status from a jo6-30, 2012 and our crude oil consumption per measureint-stock company to a limited liability company. ment unit was 33.1 kg per ton of processed soybean, while our planned consumption was less than 33 kg per ton of Sojara is particularly committed to quality control, environmensoybean. tal protection and product safety. It reduces its adverse environ2. As a result of insufficient funds and poor financial performental impacts by constantly training its employees and optimance, we failed to build the planned awning at the diesel mizing its energy and natural resource consumption. In 2001, fuel station for our internal transport vehicles. Sojara was certified according to the ISO 9001:2008 quality ma3. For the same reason, we failed to provide a designated wanagement standard. The most recent recertification was carried ste disposal area, i.e. we failed to pave it and connect it to out in 2012, while audits are conducted every year. In 2010, we the water supply, electricity supply and fire alarm systems had our environmental management system certified according – this is presently unimproved land where we dispose of to ISO 14001:2004, while audits are also carried out every year. solid waste to be collected. If we were to improve this area, Our ISO 14001 was last recertified in 2013. Sojara also holds it would be easier to mark and maintain it. a Kosher certificate and has implemented an HACCP system. 4. As we did not undertake any production activities, we reduSojara is subject to the IPPC Directive and the Kyoto Protocol. ced our emissions, but this does not constitute the fulfillment of the objective set. Materials In 2012 and 2013, we recorded a significant decrease in the Materials used by weight or volume kg amount of processed raw material. In 2012, our processing activities were reduced by approximately 300% compared to Type of material used 2012 2013 the preceding year and no processing activities were underRaw material 20,181,250 x 10 3 0 taken in 2013. Ancillary process materials 680,649 x 103 340 Recycled input materials cannot be used in Sojara production Packaging materials processes because of the nature of the company’s operations. Total 20,861,899 x 10 3 340 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 97 98 Energy Direct energy consumption by primary energy Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source (non-renewable energy sources) source (indirect energy supplied and used from non-renewable energy sources) Fuel Natural gas LPG Year (GJ) (GJ) (GJ) Year Electricity (GJ) Steam (GJ) 2012 668,000 2012 5.77 23,130 2013 0 2013 2.2 0 Total 668,000 Total 7.97 23,130 In 2012, we recorded a decrease in crude oil consumption by approximately 28% compared to our crude oil consumption Because of our high financial expenses for heating oil used in the preceding period. This is due to the fact that our proby our boiler room, we launched an initiative to switch to cessing volume was reduced in 2012 and in 2013 no soybean using biomass. This would reduce our energy costs by about processing activities were performed at all. four or five times. It would also reduce and improve the quality of our air emissions. We developed a concept for converWe recorded a decrease in our electricity consumption by ting our boiler room to burn biomass. We prepared all the neabout 75% in 2012 and 2013 compared to 2010 and 2011, whicessary parts of the project, including building, architectural, ch is a direct result of the reduction in soybean processing electronic and other designs. In order to obtain approval of and operation of our terminal for storing and transporting the main project design, we must obtain consent of the final crops. versions of separate parts of the project. We also submitted an application for a location permit for our boiler room. Water Total water withdrawal by source (m3) From a public For process Total amount of all Year From wells water supply purposes waters withdrawn system 2012 3,176 4,036 4,036 2013 0.00 251 251 Total 3,176 4,287 4,287 In the 2012-2013 reporting period, our water consumption ting period, due to the production volume and closing of the was significantly reduced compared to the preceding reporcompany restaurant in 2013. Biodiversity Sojara Zadar does not own, lease or manage land in protected so we are not responsible for impact on biodiversity in proteareas and none of our activities are undertaken in such areas, cted areas. Emissions, Effluents and Waste Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions The amount of carbon dioxide emissions directly depends on by weight the duration of boiler room operation, how well the designaTotal air emissions ted parameters (air amount, fuel amount, burner operation, 2012 2013 etc.) are adjusted, and whether or not our boiler room opera(t CO2 eq.) tes without interruption. In 2012, we recorded a decrease in Production plants 2,086.11 0 our carbon dioxide emissions by approximately 28% compaFuel for transport red to the 2010-2011 period as a result of reduced productiLPG on volumes and the fact that soybeans were not processed in CO2 equivalent 2,086.11 0 2013, so there were no emissions relative to such activities. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 99 Sojara does not have any information that we could use to deemissions by about 28% compared to our average consumptitermine our indirect CO₂ emissions from vehicles used by our on recorded in 2010 and 2011 as a result of reduced proceemployees to travel to and from work and the company does ssing volumes. Replacing the fuel we presently use by natunot have any vehicles used for business trips (other than the ral gas or biomass would significantly improve the quality of director’s car). our air emissions. We are currently considering our available options and intend to find new energy for Sojara. Sojara does not use any ozone depleting substances in its production processes. Its fire extinguishing systems contain Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 499.5 kg of halon. Our plans to replace halon by FM 200 will by weight (in tons) be fulfilled as soon as we are financially able to do so. Year SO2 NO2 CO The amounts of sulfur oxide and nitrogen emissions dire2012 30,489 7,270 0.144 ctly depend on the duration of boiler room operation and the quality of the fuel used. In 2012, we recorded a decrease in 2013 0 0 0 sulfur oxide emissions by approximately 30% and in nitrogen Total 30,489 7,270 0.144 Wastewater Total water discharge indicators indicate inconsistence of parameters (COD, BOD₅) in relation to the parameters set in the Environmental LicenYear Wastewater (m3) se. This problem may be solved by connecting to the common wastewater treatment plant in the Port of Gaženica, which is 2012 3,175.90 under construction and is expected to be put in operation in 2013 0 2016. The suspended production at Sojara contributes to the Total 3,175.90 reduction of the wastewater burden. The wastewater generated by Sojara is still discharged into Our total water discharge into the sea (Category 1 – our internal sewerage system consisting of three separate High-Quality Sea) was 122.15 m³/day during our processing drainage systems connected by a longitudinal deposit tank activities in 2012 and we had no discharge into the sea other (precipitation and oil drainage) through a common collector than precipitation in 2013. In 2012, we recorded a decrease and drainage well into a common discharge channel and in our process water discharge into the sea by approximately further into the sea. These systems comprise a fecal sewera400% compared to the preceding reporting period as a result ge system (septic tanks), a precipitation drainage system and of reduced production volumes and we discharged no process an oil drainage system. The mean values of our wastewater water into the sea in 2013. Waste Total weight of waste by type and disposal method (kg) Type of waste Treatment Collected by 2012 2013 CeZaR, Non-hazardous waste R 119,996 31,680 Čistoća-Zadar Hazardous waste D Ciak 328 31 Total 120,324 37,711 In 2012, we recorded a significant decrease in our waste tal Protection Requirements (Official Gazette 114/08). On Noamounts by approximately 6% compared to the preceding revember 30, 2012, Sojara received an Integrated Environmenporting period. As our production was suspended in 2013, we tal Protection Requirements Authorization (so-called Envirecorded a clear decrease in the amounts of hazardous and ronmental License). The Conformity Study defined the dates non-hazardous waste compared to 2010 and 2011. No spills by which non-conformities under the Environmental License were recorded during the reporting period. must be rectified. Our Environmental License was issued for a period of five years and expires on November 30, 2017. In 2010, we made an assessment of the situation, based on which proposals were prepared for using the best available As Sojara only produces soybean oil and input for cattle feed technology (BAT) for the purpose of protecting the enviin its plants, which are delivered by tanker trucks, trucks or ronment. That same year, we prepared a study on how our railway cars, there is no possibility of returning our products, present plant should be aligned with the provisions of the which means there is no possibility of reclaiming packaging Environmental Protection Act in accordance with the Regulamaterials. tion on the Procedure to Determine Integrated Environmen100 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Compliance No fines or any other sanctions were imposed during the reporting period for non-compliance with any regulations and no actions were taken using dispute resolution mechanisms. Transport Sojara does not distribute its products, does not use any pasmembers, so it has no significant environmental impacts in senger cars, and does not organize transport for its workforce this context. Environmental Protection Investments Total environmental protection expenditures and Our costs of waste disposal, emissions treatment and rehabiinvestments by type litation were reduced by 4% during the reporting period com2012 2013 pared to the preceding reporting period because these costs are mostly fixed and determined at the level of the city or Costs of waste disposal, emissions treatment and rehabilitation in HRK county (e.g. municipal waste transport, etc.). Our prevention and environmental management costs were reduced by 58% Waste treatment and disposal 219,972.26 212,149.96 in this reporting period compared to the preceding reporting Emissions treatment 4,014.50 0 period. Expenditures for obtaining and 0 0 using emission certificates Total 223,986.76 212,149.96 Environmental prevention and management costs in HRK External environmental 0 0 management services Environmental management 11,685.21 24,180.32 system certification Total 11,685.21 24,180.32 Total costs 235,671.97 236,330.28 Planned Activities and main Objectives for 2014 and 2015 For the purpose of further improving our environmental protection system, our plans for the next period are: 1. To improve our waste management system by continuously training all our employees on the need to sort municipal and other waste, purchase more containers for each type of waste and improve our bulky waste depository; 2. To provide a hazardous waste disposal area; and 3. To reduce our wastewater emissions and our direct impact on the recipient (the sea) by connecting to the common wastewater treatment plant in the Port of Gaženica as soon as it becomes available. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 101 Water and Drinks Jamnica d.d. Jamnica is the largest Croatian producer of mineral water, (autonomous and chemical technicians, line workers, superjuices, nectars and refreshing beverages with a tradition of visors and employees of the Administration Department) and over 190 years. It operates as part of The Agrokor Group. Jamtrained our employees for working with dangerous cheminica owns production plants in three locations: the Jamnica cals. We also held the Refrigerant Management seminar in Plant, the Jana Plant producing mineral water and refreshing 2012, attended by our fleet workshop employees. soft drinks, and the Juicy Plant producing fruit juices. In addition to these three production plants, it covers four sales reThe environmental management policy pursued by Jamnica gions and operates 11 sales centers, and its own distribution did not change during this reporting period. It prescribes the companies in Slovenia, Serbia and the USA. general objectives as guidelines for setting specific environmental protection targets. Jamnica has set and systematically upgrades its primary business goal, i.e. to meet the demands and expectations of Such specific environmental protection targets are intendits customers in compliance with the environmental proteced to prevent environmental pollution and are measurable, tion and sustainable development principles in all its busiattainable and defined in accordance with the relevant statness structures. For the purpose of improving the environutory and other requirements aimed at achieving lasting immental quality and protection in all its activities and across provements. the organization, Jamnica has integrated a quality management system, a food safety management system and an enWe fulfilled our objectives in terms of achieving savings vironmental management system into a single management (with respect to the use of energy, water and materials), insystem. cluding the procurement of a mobile generator and satellites for stationary washing of loaders for the Jamnica Plant, On the basis of the certificates we hold, Jamnica is considrepair of leakage on process water pipelines, and procureered one of the producers of safe and high-quality products ment of a cooling generator for the Jana Plant. Furthermore, with warranty. Jamnica has been certified according to ISO the objectives set according to the indicators for the output 9001:2008, ISO 14001:2004, HACCP, a Kosher Certificate and categories of environmental aspects were met, including the a CarbonFree® Certificate have been obtained for Jana naturepair of the old wastewater treatment plant for the purpose ral mineral water, and Jana was included in the Directory of of protecting the new plant during interventions and reconSanitarily Approved Food Establishments for Armed Forces struction of the fuel supply plant for the purpose of preventProcurement and in the NSF list for International Bottled ing fuel spills. Water – FDA Regulations, and has been certified in all 50 states. In late 2013, Jamnica and Stanić Grupa entered into an agreement for the acquisition of the Juicy fruit juice product line. All our objectives set for this reporting period were met: we Based on this agreement, Stanić Grupa became a new owner put in operation our wastewater treatment facilities within of the juice bottling plant in Jastrebarsko and the Juicy, TO, the Jamnica Plant, we improved our technological processes, Juicy Fruits, Juicy Kids and Juicy Vita brands. we completed our planned employee training program, and our business management system was upgraded. In cooperation with the Croatian Cleaner Production Center and UNIDO’s consultants from Austria, Jamnica launched its According to our training plan, we conducted employee trainLow Carbon Technologies project, which will be completed in ing in environmental protection according to ISO 14001:2004 mid-2014. Materials Direct materials (materials present in the final product), The weight of all materials used in 2010 and 2011 was non-renewable materials (resources that are not renewed over 1,497,481,479 kg, compared to 1,445,967,093 kg in 2012 and a short period of time), chemicals and packaging material 2013. used are expressed in kg. 102 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 103 Materials used by weight or volume kg To reduce its need for input and contribute to resource preservation, Jamnica uses the following recycled materials to Type of material used 2012 2013 package its products in secondary and tertiary packaging: Raw material 753,807,392 647,982,774 • cardboard boxes and cardboard mats are made of 100% reAncillary process materials 4,218,713 3,904,728 cycled cardboard; Packaging materials 20,769,017 17,847,664 • glass packaging contains recycled material – white bottles up to 25% and green bottles up to 60%; Total 778,795,122 669,735,166 • paper labels intended for each product group (Ginger, Gineta, Jana 5 L) contain up to 40% recycled material; During the 2012-2013 reporting period, our consumption of • metal twist-off bottle caps contain approximately 80% rematerials per product unit was roughly the same as in the cycled material; preceding reporting period. • handles are made of 93%-100% unsorted recycled paper; and • crates are made of 80% HDPE regenerated material. Energy Direct energy consumption represents our total consumption In its warehousing operations, Jamnica uses forklift trucks of energy from primary sources (fuel, natural gas, liquefied powered by LPG (liquefied petroleum gas) and environmenpetroleum gas – LPG). Our fuel consumption depends on the tally acceptable electric forklift trucks for its indoor actype of product, type of packaging, and product volume and tivities. Our consumption of LPG depends on our logistic category. processes and finished product and input handling. As an alternative fuel, LPG generates less greenhouse gas emissions than other fossil fuels, its combustion is clean, it has a Direct energy consumption by primary energy high octane number, is environmental acceptable and used source (non-renewable energy sources) in reusable gas bottles of 10 kg. Using electric forklift trucks Fuel Natural gas LPG reduces our fuel costs. In addition, they make less noise and Year (GJ) (GJ) (GJ) improve the air quality in the warehouse. 2012 116,010 5,155 12,563 Natural gas is used in PC Zagreb for heating, so its consump2013 108,570 5,399 12,793 tion depends on weather conditions. Total 224,580 10,554 25,356 Indirect energy is energy produced outside Jamnica and supplied outside the company. In Jamnica, this refers to electriciTotal fuel consumption required by our production plants ty since we produce thermal energy by ourselves. was roughly at the same level during the relevant years, although our production increased. By investing in new production lines and optimizing the operation of our plants, we Indirect energy consumption by primary energy use our best efforts to reduce our fuel consumption per prodsource (indirect energy supplied and used from uct unit or keep it at the same level. non-renewable energy sources) Year Electricity (GJ) Our direct energy consumption by primary energy source was 209,776 GJ in 2010 and 2011 compared to 224,580 GJ in 2012 81,125 2012 and 2013. Our energy consumption per product unit in2013 74,304 creased by 2.2% compared to the preceding reporting period. Total 155,429 During the reporting period, the Jamnica Plant recorded a decrease in fuel consumption as a result of its new work organiOur electricity consumption in 2010 and 2011 was 139,947 zation structure. On the other hand, in our production of soft GJ, compared to 155,429 GJ in 2012 and 2013. drinks we use more fuel because of additional needs for line preparation, as well as syrup and finished product pasteurDuring the 2012-2013 reporting period, our electricity conization. Fuel consumption of the Jana Plant depends on the sumption per product unit increased by 5.27% compared to operation of its aseptic line. The share of production on asepthe preceding reporting period. Our electricity consumption tic lines is higher, which results in more fuel used to produce depends on our product range (juice, water) and the packsteam. As a result of its production planning optimization, aging used for such products. The increase in electricity including longer batches, the Juicy Plant reduced its fuel conconsumption at the Juicy Plant is a result of installing a new sumption and produced greater quantities. Please note that sparkling wine line at Mladina. our measurements of fuel consumption for production and for heating purposes are not physically separated, so any variaOur production plants use fuel combustion to independently tions in consumption may result from weather conditions. generate steam in a closed system, which is calculated on the basis of the lower heating value of fuel. 104 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy technological process improvements, which will in turn prosource (indirect energy supplied and used from vide energy savings. non-renewable energy sources) Year Steam (MWh) To retain its leading market position, in late 2013 Jamnica launched its project for the modernization and improvement 2012 120,462 of its PET packaging bottling processes. The project includes 2013 112,736 converting to a new bottle design with lower preform weight and short-neck design (PCO 1881 thread) in Jamnica producTotal 233,198 tion plant for the L6 production line (natural mineral water and soft drinks bottled in 1.5 L bottles) and the L7 production In 2010 and 2011, we produced 217,605 GJ of steam, comline (natural mineral water and soft drinks bottled in 0.5 and pared to 233,197 GJ in 2012 and 2013. 0.75 L bottles). The project is expected to reduce our consumption of PET materials and energy, thus also minimizing During the 2012-2013 reporting period, our energy conour environmental impacts. sumption per product unit increased by 2.2% compared to the preceding reporting period. Our steam consumption is We will also reduce our energy needs by utilizing waste enclosely related to our fuel consumption, so any variations ergy (waste air from the blower on the new L5 line and L6 in steam consumption are interpreted in the same way as in line) to heat our storage areas during the winter period. fuel consumption. By converting to new bottle design with lower preform In 2013, we purchased a new PET line for the Jamnica proweight, Jamnica indirectly reduces the amount of energy duction plant. The investment included decommissioning of used by our preform suppliers. Such suppliers will use 7%the old L5 line and installation of a new, more modern Krones 10% less energy to make the same amount of preforms of line, which will take place in 2014. This project will result in lower weight (4 grams per preform) and will thus save substantial amounts of energy used to heat such preforms. Water Jamnica uses an integrated approach to water management. As an essential resource, water is managed rationally. Water Water used by the company includes water from own sources, is subjected to continuous quality audits and we monitor how process water and water from a public water supply system. much water is used and how. Total water withdrawal by source (m3) From a public For process Total amount of all Year From wells water supply purposes waters withdrawn system 2012 368,048 206,076 174,034 748,158 2013 340,036 156,627 149,085 645,748 Total 708,084 362,703 323,119 1,393,906 The total amount of water used in 2010 and 2011 was in Q3 2013 Mladina installed a sparkling wine bottling line 1,342,183 m³, 1,046,088 m³ of which was water withdrawn within the Juicy Plant, which resulted in increased water con(own sources for production and process purposes), and sumption. 296,095 m³ was water from a public water supply system. During the 2012-2013 reporting period, the total amount of As one of the largest producers of mineral water and soft water used was 1,393,906 m³, 1,070,787 m³ of which was wadrinks, Jamnica withdraws water from the water system for ter withdrawn (own sources for production and process purits operations. To prevent excessive withdrawal or potential poses), and 323,119 m³ was water from a public water supply contamination of sources, Jamnica developed an Environmensystem. tal Impact Study that identifies, describes and assesses our environmental impacts and determines the possible direct In 2012, we reconstructed the pipeline suspension to prevent and indirect impacts of the project on water, soil, air, flora major damage to equipment, provide for safety of our producand fauna, geological heritage, landscape, noise, traffic and tion workers and save water, and replaced damaged process people, considering their interrelations. water pipelines at the Jana Plant. Our water consumption at the Jana Plant depends on the product range, so our water We use a defined environmental monitoring program to conconsumption increased as a result of greater juice bottling tinuously monitor all our impacts associated with our water volumes on the aseptic lines. In 2013, we completed producwithdrawal. We introduced a telemetric module to monitor tion process modifications at the Juicy Plant, thus providing our water storage facility and collect information about the for significant savings in water consumption. Furthermore, level of water therein. We use water meters to register all Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 105 amounts of water withdrawn and we continuously monitor, In 2012, we launched a project at the Juicy Plant to save wacollect, check and measure the required physical values to ter by using the water re-circulation method, i.e. water from fully protect our water sources against excessive withdrawal. the production process is reused for boiler room purposes. In 2013, we saved additional amounts of water by using a To rationalize our water consumption, in Q3 2013 we inrecirculating agent to lubricate conveyor belts and replenish stalled satellites for stationary washing of loaders on certain the fresh water tank on the CIP. We purchased high-pressure lines at the Jamnica Plant, which resulted in decreased water nozzles to save additional amounts of water. consumption by 11.75% in 2013 compared to 2012. We save water as a result of purchasing such satellites used to foam In 2013, the Jana Plant launched a water saving project by and rinse loaders and the areas around them using cleaning using re-circulating agent, so water from the L2 and L3 lines agents and disinfectants. flows back into the process water pool. Biodiversity Jamnica’s locations are: the corporate building at Getaldićeva • Jana Plant in Gorica Svetojanska. 3, Zagreb, three production sites and four sales regions comprising sales centers and commercial warehouses. Our three The closest protected area is the Žumberak Nature Park, production sites are: which is approximately 1 km northwest of the Jana Plant. • Jamnica Plant adjacent to the Klinča Selo – Jamnička KiselOperating locations owned or leased by Jamnica are not in or ica road in the Municipality of Pisarovina; adjacent to any protected areas or areas of high biodiversity • Juicy Plant in the Town of Jastrebarsko; and value. Emissions, Effluents and Waste The company’s total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emisOur other relevant greenhouse gas emissions by weight sions include emissions from stationary sources and emispertain to our commuting employees (bus) and our business sions resulting from transporting materials and products ustrips (using company vehicles). ing our own vehicles (including transport and LPG fuel). To report our greenhouse gas emissions from stationary sources Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions (boiler rooms), a certified company performed a direct measby weight uring of our emissions. Year t CO2 CO₂ equivalent is a unit of measurement used to compare 2012 1,117 emissions of various greenhouse gases based on their glob2013 895 al warming potential (GWP) and equals 1 for the next 100 Total 2,012 years. Our total direct and indirect CO₂ emissions by weight relate to our production and transport of materials and products Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight and were calculated on the basis of our CO₂ combustion emiswere 2,446 t in 2010 and 2011. This decrease in emissions is sions as defined in Appendix A (Air Emissions) to the Envia result of fleet downsizing in Jamnica and bus route optimironmental Pollution Registry Maintenance Manual. zation. Furthermore, an additional decrease in emissions is a result of replacing our Euro 3 and Euro 4 compliant vehicles Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by vehicles using Euro 5 and Euro 6 engines. These new enby weight gines significantly reduce our emissions of harmful pollutTotal air emissions ing gases. 2012 2013 (t CO2 eq.) Considering the new regulations (Liquid Petroleum Fuel Production plants 8,399 8,721 Quality Regulation, Official Gazette 33/2011) concerning the Fuel for transport 3,734 2,924 sulfur content in heating oil in force as of January 1, 2013, LPG 550 560 the boiler room in the Jamnica Plant began to use LUS I fuel CO2 equivalent 12,683 12,205 with lower sulfur content instead of LUS II. According to the Specification of Basic Characteristics, the total sulfur content in LUS II is 2.8% m/m, compared to no more than 1.0% m/m As the sum of all direct and indirect emissions in tons of CO₂ sulfur in LUS I. While dissembling the L5 line in the Jamnica equivalent, our total greenhouse gas emissions in 2010 and Plant in 2013, we removed the R-22 blower cooler. 2011 were 22,035 t, compared to 24,888 t in 2012 and 2013. As a result of converting to a new bottle design with lower preform weight and short-neck design, we reduced the impact 106 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 of our production activities on the environment resulting concentrations in 2013 were obtained on the basis of a calcufrom greenhouse gas emissions expressed in carbon dioxlation. ide units. The completion of this project would represent a huge step forward in complying with the European trends in Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions making ‘carbonneutral‘ products, demonstrating an initiaby weight (in tons) tive to minimize the carbon footprint throughout a product’s lifecycle. Year SO2 NO2 CO 2012 39.40 5.61 0.17 After we implement our Eco-Driving project, we expect to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 5% in the next period. 2013 25.18 9.66 0.81 Total 64.59 15.27 0.99 According to the Code of Good Practice in Handling Ozone Depleting Substances, the Ozone Depleting Substances Regulation, and the Waste Electrical and Electronic Devices and During the 2010-2011 reporting period, the company’s total Equipment Management Ordinance, we always prepare a Proother air emissions by type and weight were 95.82 t of SO₂, tocol on the Inspection of Refrigerating and Air Condition18.74 t of NO₂, and 0.54 t of CO, compared to 64.59 t of SO₂, ing Equipment by a Certified Operator. In addition, Jamnica 15.27 t of NO₂, and 0.99 t of CO during the 2012-2013 reportemployees responsible for maintaining and handling refriging period. erating equipment and air conditioners using controlled and replacement substances were provided with certificates of According to the measuring of pollutant air emissions from completing the Refrigerant Management training program our heating equipment for all production sites, it is clear that conducted by a certified institution (Faculty of Mechanical our air emissions are within the allowed limits. Engineering and Naval Architecture in Zagreb) in accordance with the international Refrigerant Management Plan – UNIAs regards thermal power and the type of fuel, Jamnica uses DO project. boilers classified as small heating device (Regulation on the Limits of Pollutant Emissions from Stationary Sources The Jamnica production plant uses 24 kg of ozone-deplet– the EL Regulation). The test results and analyses conducting HCFC-22 (hydrochlorofluorocarbon) for its blower cooler, ed while the heating devices in Jamnica were in operation while ODP equals 0 in all other cooling equipment. showed that the emission concentrations found in the Jana and Juicy Plants and the Zagreb location are not in excess of To calculate our emissions, a certified operator measured our the allowed emission limits. NO₂, SO₂ and CO emissions in May of 2012 and our emission Wastewater The total amount of water withdrawn is determined by using values and we found the levels of wastewater discharge to flow meters or on the basis of estimates. Wastewater in the have significantly decreased in 2013, below the required limJamnica and Jana Plants is treated by a membrane bioreacits of discharge prescribed and allowed by the applicable regtor (MBR). The total water discharge in Jamnica by volume ulations and the Ordinance on the Limits of Dangerous and was 597,058 m³ in 2010 and 2011 and 651,354 m³ in 2012 and Other Substances in Wastewater. 2013, the destination being either a Class 2 water recipient or a public sewerage system, depending on the location. The We also renewed our water license for our site at Getaldićeva total amount of wastewater discharged is consistent with the 3, Zagreb (in June of 2013, Kanal Inspekt prepared a Wasteproduction volumes. water Discharge Study for a Water License, including a schedule of measures and their completion dates). Total water discharge The quality of treated wastewater is monitored by the Process and Wastewater Laboratory of the Faculty of Food TechYear Wastewater (m3) nology and Biotechnology in Zagreb according to a sched2012 339,386 ule required by law and this institution issues an analytical report on the quality of our treated wastewater. According to 2013 311,968 the Ordinance on the Limits of Dangerous and Other SubTotal 651,354 stances in Wastewater, we analyze wastewater samples and confirm the conformity of the results. In early 2012, Jamnica put into operation a new wastewater treatment plant. The startup phase showed increased BOD₅ Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 107 Waste Listed below are the relevant amounts of waste for Jamnica: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method (kg) Type of waste Treatment Collected by 2012 2013 EFP, L91, UM, DI, Non-hazardous waste R 2,767,444 2,653,274 HR, M CeZaR TK Hazardous waste D Ciak. SM. Flora 45,989 117,067 Total 2,813,433 2,770,341 Waste is sorted at its source, separately collected and tempoWe control dangerous substances (substances harmful to rarily stored in an area designated for temporary storage of health and substances harmful to the environment) by using different types of waste. During the 2010-2011 reporting peappropriate instructions and standards for handling dangerriod, Jamnica disposed of 4,580 t of non-hazardous waste and ous substances and occupational safety rules, by supervis223 t of hazardous waste compared to 5,421 t of non-hazarding our working environment, and by constantly medically ous waste and 163 t of hazardous waste disposed of during monitoring our employees handling dangerous substances. this reporting period (2012-2013). Our waste management The recorded amounts of dangerous substances, both in our plan and employee training activities resulted in improved production plants and our fleet workshop, are below the limit waste sorting and an increase in the respective waste codes required for dangerous substances by the Regulation for the by type of waste during the relevant period. Prevention of Major Accidents Involving Dangerous Substances. On its intranet site, the company provides lists of apBy entering into and revising our contracts with certified proved chemicals for all locations, including material safety operators, purchasing containers for systematic sorting of data sheets and water licenses. all types of waste at the source and installing the same in precisely defined places within the factory area, we achieved We collected information about chemical substances subject economic benefits arising from recyclable waste (paper packto the REACH Regulation (EC), no. 197/2006, and provided aging, glass packaging, PET packaging and foil, etc.). Waste it to the Croatian Institute for Toxicology and Antidoping is sorted at its source, separately collected and temporarily (CITA), so that the relevant Croatian authorities could prostored in an area designated for temporary storage of differvide to the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) information ent types of waste. that will be used to plan aid to the Croatian economy in the transitional process of aligning with the REACH Regulation Better waste sorting increases the amount of non-hazardous in 2013 and 2014. waste, which is sold to certified operators as secondary raw material. Jamnica has appropriate measures and procedures in place in case of extraordinary situations, which also define the reSludge develops on our wastewater treatment plants at the sponsibilities for their implementation in the Jamnica, Jana Jamnica and Jana Plants, which represents a substantial exand Juicy Plants. To prevent any potential environmental pense and increases our waste disposal costs. For the next incidents, Jamnica complies with all relevant regulations and reporting period, we arranged for our sludge to be disposed cooperates with inspecting authorities. The roles and responof at the Gradec biogas plant. sibilities of Jamnica Emergency Team and the employees in all Jamnica production plants are defined by the Measures In late 2012, we improved our fuel supply plant at the Jana and Procedures in Case of Extraordinary Situations procePlant to protect it against fuel spills. We provided a new condure, which also presents which actions should be taken in nection to the generator and repaired the fuel supply pipecase of an extraordinary situation. line. Having improved and reconstructed our fuel supply plant, we protected it against potential extraordinary fuel During this reporting period, we did not record any spills of spills. dangerous substances that may have an adverse effect on human health, soil, vegetation, water systems or ground water. Products and Services In early 2012, we put into operation our wastewater treatwaste treatment plant after obtaining a non-hazardous waste ment plant at the Jamnica Plant and repaired our old wastemanagement license for the Jamnica Plant and the Jana Plant water treatment plant. To prevent any adverse environmental locations in late 2012. impacts, we closed the old wastewater treatment plant at the Jana Plant. In mid-2013, Jana began to autonomously disBy purchasing a PET packaging punching and pressing mapose of its non-conforming products classified as 02 07 04 chine, we now have all the equipment we need to ensure com– materials unsuitable for consumption or processing at the plete product life cycle in the case of some of our products. 108 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 The liquid is disposed of at the wastewater treatment plant Carbon footprint (CFP) is a measurement of the environmenand we sort and bale our packaging and then hand it over to a tal impact of human activities through greenhouse gas emiscertified operator as raw material. sions expressed in units of carbon dioxide. Such measurement includes all direct and indirect emissions, which are exIn 2013, we completed our CarbonFree® project for Jana natpressed in tons of eCO₂. Carbon footprint is closely associated ural mineral water, including a Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) with the use of energy: the more efficiently energy is used, to determine the carbon footprint (GHG) for each product the lower the carbon footprint and CO₂ emissions are. Obtainthroughout its life cycle. Life cycle is the overall calculation ing a CarbonFree® certificate from Carbonfund.org and NSF for a selected product, including raw material production, is an authentic and transparent way for Jana to provide carproduct production, distribution, use, and ultimate disposbon-neutral products to its customers. On April 1, 2013, Jana al of its packaging. Such LCA allows Jamnica to pursue its was presented with a CarbonFree® certificate for Jana natural development strategy that includes minimization of signifimineral water from NSF and Carbonfund.org Foundation Inc. cant environmental impacts and provides the company with information on where such impacts can be found and which To further raise environmental awareness across its operimpacts can be reduced. ations and organization, Jamnica launched its Low Carbon Technologies project in late 2013 in cooperation with the A CarbonFree® certificate represents an authentic and transCroatian Cleaner Production Center and UNIDO’s consultants parent way of demonstrating our initiative to reduce our carfrom Austria, which we plan to complete in mid-2014. bon footprint during the entire life cycle of a product. Such carbon footprint approach promotes Jamnica as an environThe percentage of reclaimed products and their packaging mentally-friendly company and is taken into account in stramaterials during the reporting period was 45% in the case tegic and operational planning, environmental reporting and of water and approximately 6% in the case of juices, which savings planning. Greater energy efficiency increases our relates to the share of reusable glass packaging in total packcompetitiveness and reflects our corporate awareness and reaging by type of product – water or juice. sponsibility, and our trend monitoring in the global market. Compliance Jamnica applies, maintains and updates all statutory requireBureau Veritas Croatia conducted a recertification audit and ments and stakeholder demands in the Aligning Environmena supervisory audit of our integrated business management tal Aspects with Statutory and other Requirements form and system, which included supervisory audits of our quality in accordance with all applicable environmental regulations. management system according to HR EN ISO 9001:2008 and our food safety system according to the principles of Codex During the 2012-2013 period, 50 audits were conducted in Alimentarius (CAC/RPC 1-1969, Rev. 4-2003) as well as a reJamnica, 12 by external companies (BV, NSF, Kosher, US certification audit of our environmental management system Army) and 38 were internal audits of our business manageaccording to HR EN ISO 14001:2004. ment systems (quality/HACCP/environmental) by divisions and departments of Jamnica, including seven analyses of verAn audit entitled Sanitation Audit Report – US Army – Southification activities. The audits conducted by the external auern Europe Veterinary Detachment was conducted on Sepditors NSF, Kosher, BV, and US Army found 100% efficiency. tember 17, 2013. The audit was conducted according to the Rabi Kotel Da-Don, a representative of the Jewish religious Commercial Sanitation Audit and Approved Source Program. community Bet Israel in Croatia, conducted Kosher audits. No non-conformities were found during the audit. As no changes had been were introduced to the technological bottling process, our Kosher certificates were renewed. In 2012 and 2013, inspections were conducted in Jamnica NSF audits were conducted according to the NSF Beverage by the State Water Management Inspectorate, the Ministry Quality Requirements program. The responsible persons and of Agriculture, the Sanitary Inspectorate of the Ministry of deadlines for resolving all issues observed were determined Health, the Occupational Safety Inspectorate, the Ministry and NSF was appropriately notified thereof. It accepted the of Environmental Protection and Nature Protection, and the proposed responsible persons and deadlines. Fire Protection Inspectorate, and no cases of non-compliance were found, which means that inspections resulted in no fines or non-monetary sanctions. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 109 Transport Jamnica’s environmental impact includes transportation of These parameters are presented according to the following products, members of its workforce (fuel consumption for criteria: total transport) and other goods and materials used for the • energy used in GJ, and organization’s operations (LPG). • greenhouse gas emissions in tons of CO₂. equivalent Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Fuel for transport LPG Total CO2 emission Tons of CO2 Tons of CO2 GJ GJ equivalent for fuel equivalent for LPG 2012 67,814 12,563 4,851 550 2013 53,400 12,793 3,820 560 Total 121,214 25,356 8,670 1,110 Due to the improvement of the company’s logistic processes, ergy and emitting 9,780.08 tons of CO₂ equivalent of greenenvironmental impact of transporting products, members of house gases. During the preceding reporting period, we used its workforce and other goods and materials during the 2012158,681.82 GJ of energy and our greenhouse gas emissions 2013 reporting period is a result of using 146,569.33 GJ of enamounted to 10,533.89 tons of CO₂ equivalent. Environmental Protection Investments As a responsible company, Jamnica is committed to achievWe trained 132 employees according to our ISO 14001:2004 ing its further economic development in compliance with environment training plan and 21 of our employees were the environmental protection principles. During this reporttrained in handling dangerous chemicals at the Croatian Ining period, our environmental protection expenditures and stitute for Toxicology. In 2013, five of our employees passed investments included our costs of waste disposal, emission the examination to become a certified steam boiler operator treatment and rehabilitation (including measuring of and pursuant to the Ordinance on the Professional Training and charges paid for air emissions, water charges and waste Knowledge Testing for the Management and Operation of management costs, including EE waste and packaging waste Power Plants (Official Gazette 70/10 and 50/11), which came costs), and environment prevention and management (eninto force on June 17, 2010. vironmental certifications, education and training, projects and investments), amounting to HRK 70,340,000. Our total Our employees who passed the power plant operating examenvironmental protection expenditures and investments in ination before 2010 need to have their knowledge retested at the preceding reporting period amounted HRK 51,841,521. the Zagreb Energy Association as follows: The increase of 26% in costs is a result of adjusted the process of reporting the environmental protection costs. In the steam boiler operators who passed the examination before preceding reporting period, we included only the charge for 1975 are no longer required to have their knowledge tested water use and in this reporting period we included all water – one employee; employees who passed the examination becharges and environmental protection projects and investtween January 1, 1986 and December 31, 1995 were required ments. Such projects include: reparation of our process water to take the second test 36 months after this Ordinance came pipelines and distribution system, reconstruction of our enviinto force (June 17, 2013) – four employees; and employees ronmental treatment plant and our non-conforming product who passed the examination after January 1, 1996 were remanagement machine, improvement of our production proquired to take the second test 48 months after this Ordinance cess by purchasing PET packaging bottling equipment, and came into force (June 17, 2014) – 11 employees. In the future, implementation of a pilot project involving a new machine for the test shall be taken every five years. production of refreshing soft drinks. 110 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Planned Activities and main Objectives for 2014 and 2015 Our primary objectives for the next reporting period are: • to install and put into operation a new L5 line at the Jamnica Plant, which will result in PET material and energy savings; • to switch to a new bottle design and short-neck bottles at the Jamnica Plant; • to purchase burners and a control panel for the boiler room at the Jamnica Plant to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions; • to implement our eco-driving project; • to implement our Low Carbon Technologies project; • to purchase and install a pilot plant for the development of new products. The pilot plant simulates industrial conditions with a much smaller capacity, the process is shorter because smaller amounts of finished product are bottled, and the plant does not require suspension of the regular production process for testing purposes. The project will allow us to develop new products while using less raw material, input and energy; and • to train our employees in applying an environmental management system and implementation of the same at the Mivela factory. An example of successful activity – As an external partner, Jamnica provided its assistance, knowledge, experience and skills to help Sarajevski kiseljak of Bosnia and Herzegovina successfully implement its integrated management system at its mineral water bottling plant and have it certified. Furthermore, it thus laid the foundation for implementing a food safety system for winemaking activities at Mladina and for the Goda spring water bottling plant. These activities demonstrate that further progress in Jamnica is based on teamwork and mutual cooperation. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 111 Water and Drinks Mladina d.d. Mladina is a Jastrebarsko-based winegrowing and winesafety management system and an environmental managemaking company established in 1736 and operating in the ment system. As a result of changes in the business policy following locations: the Corporate Building, Ulica bana J. Jeof The Agrokor Group, our investments in the reconstructilačića 85, 10 425 Jastrebarsko, the Krašić Wine Cellar, Krašić on of our production plant and wine cellars, installation of a b.b., 10454 Krašić, and the Mladina Wine Cellar, Lokošin Dol wastewater treatment plant and construction of a sewerage 76, 10450 Jastrebarsko, including its vineyards. The Mladina system at the Krašić site were suspended and investments Wine Cellar operates as part of The Agrokor Group and rewere made in a new line for producing and bottling sparkling ceives marketing and distribution support from Jamnica, its and carbonated wine in the Juicy Plant in Jastrebarsko. We majority shareholder. The product range of Mladina includes installed a new line worth HRK 5,000,000, including statepremium, quality, sparkling, predicate and archival wines of-the-art equipment for making sparkling wine using the and brandies. Charmat process, equipment for making carbonated wine, a wine filtering system, and a line for bottling selected wines The company’s central wine cellar is in Krašić and is intenalong with a bottle labeling line. The line also includes a CIP ded for processing, ageing, bottling and storage of finished system and a washing water filtering system. products. A special place in the business strategy of Mladina is reserved for environmental protection. By innovating its During this reporting period, we provided locations for colleproduction processes with new technologies, Mladina contricting different types of hazardous waste (waste oil, oiled butes to the preservation of the environment and human herags, waste glycol, etc.) and all waste collected was properly alth. For the purpose of improving its quality and protecting disposed of. We also disposed of waste tractor tires and bethe environment, Mladina implemented a food safety managan to exercise greater care in managing all types of waste gement system and an environmental management system. resulting from our winegrowing and winemaking activities. We provided locations for mixing protective agents in the By appointing and training a person responsible for produfield (vineyards) to prevent environmental pollution. We also ct safety and environmental protection and performing all conducted internal training for our employees directly inassociated activities and by setting our objectives for the volved in waste generating processes and taught them about next reporting period, we took a further step toward responthe importance of preserving the environment and properly sible care for the environment, monitoring all environmental collecting, disposing of and storing waste in the designated aspects and eliminating and minimizing all adverse environplaces. We also marked our waste collection sites and regumental impacts. larly check that waste is handled in accordance with the relevant procedure. The objectives set for the 2012-2013 period were partially met. According to its objectives, Mladina implemented a food Materials Direct materials (materials present in the final product) and During the 2012-2013 reporting period, we recorded a signinon-renewable materials (resources not renewed over a short ficant increase in our input amounts compared to the 2010period of time) used during the 2012-2013 reporting peri2011 reporting period. This difference is a result of the high od include input, packaging materials and ancillary process yields of our new plantations and the general impact of numaterials. merous endogenous (internal nutrition of a plant) and exogenous factors that are intertwined and closely interrelated and Materials used by weight or volume kg ultimately determine the yield, i.e. the total amount of input. Type of material used 2012. 2013. The increase in our consumption of packaging materials by Raw material 480,450 464,020 over 100% and the increase in our consumption of ancillary process materials compared to the preceding reporting periAncillary process materials 75,867 176,445 od is a result of putting into operation a new line for produPackaging materials 88 113 cing sparkling and carbonated wines and enlargement of our Total 556,405 640,588 product range. 112 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 113 To reduce its need for input and contribute to preservation of • glass packaging containing up to 60% recycled material, resources, Mladina uses the following recycled materials to and package its products in secondary and tertiary packaging: • paper labels for each product group containing up to 20% • cardboard boxes and cardboard mats made of 100% recycrecycled material. led paper, Energy Our direct energy consumption from primary sources relates Our total indirect energy consumption by primary source reto our consumption of solid fuel (wood for heating) in our corded during the reporting period was 645 GJ, which is 8.7% own production locations. more compared to the preceding reporting period. Direct energy consumption by primary energy This increase in our electricity consumption stated in the source (non-renewable energy sources) new Report was mainly a result of intensified operation of our air conditioners during grape processing (intensified opeYear Total solid fuel (wood) in m 3 ration of cooling equipment), more wine-related procedures, 2012 27 preparation of wine for bottling, bottling, and preparation of 2013 27 large amounts of wine base intended for production of sparkling and carbonated wines. All these activities justify such Total 54 increase in electricity consumption. Mladina’s direct energy consumption from primary sources Having installed a new modern line with greater capacity in recorded during this reporting period was 54 m³ and did not the Juicy Plant and improved our technological process with change compared to the preceding reporting period because the option of bottling larger batches, we decreased our elewe heated rooms of the same floor area. ctricity consumption by 33% per product unit. Mladina uses electricity as direct energy. To remain competitive, in late 2013 Mladina launched a project for marketing carbonated wine in new lighter packaging. Indirect energy consumption by primary energy Once the project is implemented, we expect to achieve savinsource (indirect energy supplied and used from gs on materials and energy and thus reduce our environmennon-renewable energy sources) tal impact. Year Electricity (GJ) By switching to such lighter bottles, Mladina indirectly re2012 325 duces its bottle suppliers’ energy consumption. Our suppliers 2013 320 will use less energy to make the same amount of bottles of lower weight and will thus reduce the amount electricity Total 645 used to make such bottles. Water Mladina uses a rational approach to the management of waDuring this reporting period, our total water withdrawal by ter as an important resource. source was 3,183 m³ and our water consumption per product unit decreased by 18% compared to the preceding reporting Total water withdrawal by source (m3) period. From a public water Total amount of all Such increased total water consumption is a result of increYear supply system waters withdrawn ased production in the new production plant. However, by 2012 1,198 1,198 investing in new modern technology and systematically minimizing our drinking water consumption, we reduced our 2013 1,985 1,985 consumption per product unit. Total 3,183 3,183 114 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Biodiversity Mladina’s operating locations, owned or leased, are not in or • Polakov Breg is located on the very edge of the town of Jaadjacent to any protected areas or areas of high biodiversity strebarsko, between Zdihovo and Donja Reka, about 5 km value. by air from the Žumberak Nature Park; • Mladina is located in Lokošin Dol, about 8 km from the The company includes a corporate building based at Bana center of Jastrebarsko; Josipa Jelačića 85, Jastrebarsko, two production sites, six wi• Borička is located next to Lokošin Dol where local resinegrowing appellations where it grows grapes for internal dents have their vineyards on the edge of the settlement, 9 needs, one winegrowing appellation where it grows grapes km from Jastrebarsko; for someone else’s use, and a plantation for growing planting • Gaj is 2 km from the center of Jastrebarsko and separated materials. Mladina’s production sites are: from the surrounding settlements by a thick forest; • Krašić Wine Cellar – the main production plant in Krašić, • the winery is located next to the Jastrebarsko–Plešivica– 100 m from the center of Krašić and 8 km from the JastreSamobor road in Gornja Reka, 1.5 km from the center of barsko-Karlovac fast road; the Žumberak Nature Park is Jastrebarsko only about 7 km from the Cellar building; • aplant for making sparkling and carbonated wines within Grapevine mother block: the Juicy Plant is in Jastrebarsko, about 1.5 km from the • Laznica is located 2 km from Petrovina and is isolated from city center and 50 m from the corporate building. the surrounding settlements by forest and farmland. Vineyards: Adhering to the Good Agricultural Practice guidelines, Mla• Kolovrat, located 1 km from Pribić, 3 km north of the Kradina systematically monitors the impact of its activities on šić production plant and 1 km northwest of the Žumberak biodiversity. As it uses various plant protection agents (peNature Park; sticides) in its operations, Mladina implemented a vineyard • Keleduš is located in a triangle between Petrovina, Dragoprotection control system, including control of input agents, vanjščak and Rastoki, with the nearest residential building recording of consumption, and internal training of our em500 m away; ployees in proper pesticide handling, proper storage of agents and proper disposal of contaminated packaging. Emissions, Effluents and Waste According to the applicable regulations, Mladina, as a winecreating direct or indirect energy-related emissions produced maker, is not required to measure its greenhouse gas emissi25.52 tons of CO₂ equivalent. This is much less than in the ons from stationary sources. preceding reporting period when our greenhouse gas emissions amounted to 26.93 tons of CO₂ equivalent. Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Year t CO2 Year t CO2 2012 44.37 2013 44.17 2012 13.47 Total 88.54 2013 12.05 Total 25.52 Our total direct and indirect CO₂ emissions pertain only to the process of transporting materials and products, while Using company cars for business trips (arranging new deals, our CO₂ emissions were calculated on the basis of the type of professional trips and professional training) resulted in an infuel used and the total annual mileage (km) and amounted to significant increase in our greenhouse gas emissions. 88.54 tons of CO₂ for this reporting period. In 2010 and 2011, we emitted 68.16 tons of CO₂ equivalent. For our production purposes, we use 0,026 t of R 404a refrigerant. Our new refrigerating system, installed together with This difference in tons of CO₂ equivalent is a result of a diffethe new production line for sparkling and carbonated wines, rent emission calculation method. In the preceding reporting uses 0.0153 t of R 410A refrigerant. These refrigerants are period, we calculated our CO₂ emissions on the basis of the not ozone-depleting. type of fuel and total annual mileage (km), unlike the 20132014 reporting period when we used the formula provided in Mladina is not required to measure its greenhouse gas emisthe Environmental Pollution Registry (EPR). sions from stationary sources. The organization’s activities resulting in indirect emissions and including business trips taken using company vehicles Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 115 Wastewater Our total water discharge is determined on the basis of an Total water discharge estimate. Wastewater is discharged into the public sewerage system. Our total water discharge for this reporting period Year Wastewater (m3) was 3,183 m³, which is 25% more than in the preceding peri2012 1,198 od in which it was 2,405 m³. 2013 1,985 Our total amount of wastewater is consistent with the total Total 3,183 amount of water withdrawn from the public water supply system and depends on the amounts and rates of the supply of input materials. Waste Presented below are the amounts of waste generated by Mladina: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method (kg) Type of waste Treatment Collected by 2012 2013 EFP, Gumiimpex, Non-hazardous waste R 10,870 22,465 Fenix Hazardous waste D Ciak 2,200 360 Total 13,070 22,825 During this reporting period, Mladina continued to improve amount of municipal waste collected during the preceding its systematic waste management activities undertaken in reporting period was 34.43 tons. The amount of municipal the preceding reporting period. We purchased new contaiwaste was calculated on the basis of the volume of our contaners for different types of waste, disposed of some hazardous iners and does not reflect the actual situation. waste that had been accumulating for a while pending disposal (waste glycol, waste oil), and marked and provided areas In 2012 and 2013, the number of municipal waste collectifor collecting different types of waste. We appointed a person ons remained at the same level as in the preceding reporting responsible for maintaining the relevant documentation and period. As certified operators are not required to report the communicating with waste disposal companies. amounts of municipal waste collected, Mladina has no information available about the total weight of municipal waste Waste is sorted at its source, separately collected and temcollected. porarily stored in designated containers or places. During the preceding reporting period, we disposed of 2.19 t of Our waste management plan and employee training resulted non-hazardous waste. The hazardous waste collected during in an improved waste sorting process and an increase in the the preceding reporting period was disposed of during this respective waste codes by type of waste and amounts of wareporting period. In 2012 and 2013, we disposed of 33,335 t ste during the relevant period. of non-hazardous waste and 2.56 t of hazardous waste. The Spills During this reporting period, we did not record any spills responsibilities for their implementation in the Krašić Wine of dangerous substances that may have an adverse effect on Cellar and at our production sites in Jastrebarsko. To prevent human health and/or pollute the environment. Mladina has any potential environmental incidents, Mladina complies contingency measures and procedures in place, defining the with the applicable regulations. Products and Services During the preceding reporting period, Mladina continued to pending their disposal, improve our documentation mainteimprove its environmental protection activities by systematinance activities and internally train our employees, which cally managing its waste, which it started to do in the 2010resulted in improved figures for each type of waste and the 2011 period. We proceeded to purchase additional containers, total amount of waste disposed of. designate locations for collecting different types of waste 116 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Our grape production requires and allows using permitted Mladina does not reclaim end-of-life products or their packaplant protection agents. As this is a very important area in ging materials, but operates within the packaging waste mathe company’s overall business, we additionally provided innagement system and acts in accordance with the Packaging ternal training to our employees in handling pesticides and and Packaging Waste Ordinance. pesticide packaging. Compliance During the reporting period, no cases of non-compliance with any laws or regulations were found in Mladina and no fines or non-monetary sanctions were therefore imposed. Transport The environmental impact of Mladina’s transport includes Significant environmental impacts of transporting using energy (diesel fuel) and our greenhouse gas emissions. products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce During the 2010-2011 reporting period, we used 727 GJ of fuel for transport. We did not present the amounts of fuel Total CO2 emission Fuel for transport (tons of CO2 used by our trucks and some of our passenger cars for that (GJ) equivalent for fuel) period. By comparing this data with the preceding reporting period, we found our fuel consumption to have remained at 2012 957 58 the same level. 2013 954 58 Total 1,911 116 Environmental Protection Investments Mladina aims to contribute to economic development while amounted to HRK 521,829, compared to HRK 342,264.93 adhering to environmental protection principles. Our envirecorded in the preceding reporting period. This 34% increronmental protection expenditures and investments in this ase in costs is a result of increased production, which led to reporting period include our waste management costs, the higher environmental protection charges. An increase in our water protection and improvement charge, the municipal investments in different environmental protection aspects charge, and the packaging waste management charge. Our during each year is clearly presented. total environmental protection expenditures and investments Planned Activities and main Objectives for 2014 and 2015 • to reconstruct our vineyards at the Mladina-Lokošin Dol site, including operating area systematization and leveling; • to redesign our plant protection agent warehouse; • to launch a project to convert our premises at the Jastrebarsko location – a feeding site to be used to store fuel for our agricultural machinery (tractors); • to purchase new diesel fuel tanker trucks appropriately certified and including a volume meter and a flow rate measuring dispenser with a fuel nozzle; • build a bundwall for our fuel tank; and • provide further training to our employees and responsible persons handling dangerous substances. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 117 Water and Drinks Sarajevski kiseljak d.d. Sarajevski kiseljak is the largest producer of mineral water sorting and temporary storage of all types of waste (so-called and refreshing soft drinks in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with a Eco-Corner), purchased equipment for proper storage of raw bottling tradition of over 120 years. Thanks to its distinctive materials and chemicals and managing any potential spills, product quality, its flexible business policy that successfuland procured five electrical forklift trucks and built a station ly handles all market challenges and customer demands, and supplying them with energy. By entering into new and reviscontinuing investments in the modernization and improveing our existing contracts with hazardous and non-hazardous ment of its production processes, Sarajevski kiseljak has been waste operators, we significantly reduced our waste disposal an unquestionable leader in the local market and an increascosts – this in particular pertains to our broken glass buying ingly important player on regional markets. contracts as glass was disposed of as municipal waste. Due to our extensive work on implementing all these investments, In late 2000, Sarajevski kiseljak was acquired by Jamnica, which significantly altered the appearance of the entire plant whereby the company became part of The Agrokor Group. and corporate area and included modifications of certain This was the beginning of a new era in the company’s develbusiness processes, our development of an Operating Plan of opment, marked by substantial investments in development, Interventions in Case of Sudden Pollution was prolonged for new technologies and marketing. Our systematically manthe next period. aged investment program incorporates our care for protecting nature and the environment and Sarajevski kiseljak thus According to our training plan, we trained our employees in became a shining example of not just an economically highly environmental protection according to ISO 14001:2004 (lab successful company, but also a socially and environmentaltechnicians, machine operators, employees of regional disly responsible enterprise that follows the latest global trends tribution centers and new employees of the Production and both in its operations and its environmental protection activLogistic Division). For the purpose of training our external ities. partners on our EMP, we prepared an educational brochure that is distributed to all our visitors entering the company The company is headquartered in Kiseljak where its producarea. tion facilities are also located, while its sales and distribution activities are undertaken through five regional distribution Sarajevski kiseljak develops, incorporates and adheres to suscenters and two sales centers. For the purpose of ensuring tainable development principles in all its business structures that its products are safe and its environment is managed in by using a sustainable development philosophy. Our primary a diligent manner, Sarajevski kiseljak was certified according objectives are meeting our customers’ demands and expectato ISO 22000:2005 and ISO 14001:2004 by Bureau Veritas. tions and protecting the environment as part of sustainable These certificates are a sort of confirmation of our continudevelopment. ing care for the quality of our products, production processes and customer satisfaction, while complying with high enviThe sustainable development areas covered by Sarajevski ronment standards and sustainable development principles. kiseljak include environmental protection, employee and production process safety, and socially responsible treatment of The past period was marked by substantial investments its employees and the community in which it operates. in business improvement: we installed a new PET line, for which we installed and provided additional production, power By implementing new technologies and cleaner production, and storage capacities. These investments were accompanied we permanently improve the quality of our products and serby substantial environmental protection investments. vices, while rationally using energy and raw materials and managing waste. Most of our objectives set for this reporting period were successfully met: we built a facility for systematic collection, 118 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 119 Materials Direct materials (materials present in the final product), porting period is a result of a substantial increase in producnon-renewable materials (resources not renewable over a tion (by approximately 21%) during the relevant period, while short period of time), chemicals and packaging are expressed the amount of materials used per product unit did not change in kg. The weight of all materials used in 2010 and 2011 was significantly. 40,203,708 kg, compared to 52,130,426 kg used in 2012 and 2013. . Due to its reduced need for input and the need to preserve natural resources, Sarajevski kiseljak uses its best efforts to use recycled materials for packaging its products in secondMaterials used by weight or volume kg ary and tertiary packaging as follows: • cardboard boxes and cardboard mats are made of 100% reType of material used 2012. 2013. cycled paper; Input 7.523.500 8.726.722 • our new glass packaging contains up to 25% recycled material for white bottles and up to 60% recycled material for Ancillary process materials 358.263 390.001 green bottles; Packaging materials 19.032.820 16.099.120 • our paper labels on reusable glass packaging contain up to Total 26.914.584 25.215.843 40% recycled material; • our HDPE crates contain 30% regenerated material; and • the handles are made of 93% to 100% unsorted recycled This increase in the amount of materials used during the paper. 2012-2013 reporting period compared to the preceding reEnergy Our direct energy consumption represents our total conconsumption per product unit by investing in new production sumption of energy from primary sources (fuel, liquefied lines and optimizing the operation of our production plant. petroleum gas – LPG) that we used in our operations at the production site. In its warehousing operations, Sarajevski kiseljak uses forklift trucks powered by liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) and enOur fuel consumption depends on the type of product, type of vironmentally acceptable electric forklift trucks for its indoor packaging, volume and product category. activities. Our LPG consumption depends on our logistic processes and the rates of handling finished products and input. Direct energy consumption by primary energy LPG is a highly environmentally-friendly source of energy. source (non-renewable energy sources) Thanks to its direct combustion producing no smoke, ash, Fuel LPG soot, unpleasant odors or sulfuric compounds, it is more enYear (GJ) (GJ) vironmentally acceptable than other fossil fuels (other than 2012 11,898 3,060 natural gas). By using electric forklift trucks, we reduce our fuel costs, make less noise and avoid polluting the environ2013 13,224 2,943 ment, which directly improves air quality and our overall Total 25,122 6,003 warehouse working conditions. In 2010 and 2011, our direct energy consumption by primaIndirect energy is energy generated by the same or different ry source was 21,449 GJ, compared to 25,122 GJ used in 2012 primary sources external to Sarajevski kiseljak and supplied and 2013. The total fuel consumption recorded by our prooutside the company. In this case, it is electricity because we duction plant has been continuously increasing for a numproduce other forms of energy (thermal, cooling, etc.) interber of years, including this reporting period as well. This is nally. caused by a continuous increase in total production, installation of a new line, inclusive of the associated equipment, and our greater needs for heating in February 2012. NameIndirect energy consumption by primary energy ly, the equipment presently installed does not allow us to source (indirect energy supplied and used from separately record the amounts of heating oil and steam used non-renewable energy sources) for heating purposes and as fuel. Considering our increased Year Electricity (GJ) need for heating in February 2012 and a substantial enlargement of our production capacities, the increase in our total 2012 14,919 heating oil consumption was deemed justified and no major 2013 17,359 variations in our heating oil consumption per product unit Total 32,278 were recorded. Although our production increased substantially, we use our best efforts to reduce or maintain our fuel 120 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Our electricity consumption in 2010 and 2011 amounted to For the purpose of enhancing its competitiveness and re25,798 GJ, compared to 32,278 GJ recorded in 2012 and 2013, taining its leading position in the market, Sarajevski kiselwhich means that our total electricity consumption increased jak undertook a number of activities in 2012 for the purpose by 25.1% compared to the preceding reporting period. Howof increasing its production capacities and modernizing and ever, no significant variations in our electricity consumption improving its PET packaging bottling process. We therefore per product unit were recorded. This increase in our total installed a PET line offering state-of-the-art performance and electricity consumption during the relevant period was a reensuring substantial savings of energy and ancillary process sult of installing a new line, supporting power facilities and materials. We redesigned our PET bottles and significantly equipment, as well as a substantial increase in total producreduced the weight of the pre-form, while our conversion to tion. the short-neck design (PCO 1881 thread) allowed us to additionally reduce our use of plastic materials. Our production plant makes steam internally in a closed system by fuel combustion and its consumption is calculated on We are in the process of finalizing the redesign of our PET the basis of the lower heating value of fuel. bottles for the L2 line (for bottling mineral water in 1.5 and 0.5 L packaging), which will, in addition to reduced weight, include our conversion to the short-neck bottle design. Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source (indirect energy supplied and used from By managing our production process on a daily basis, we aim non-renewable energy sources) to control the operation of our machines in order to save energy and reduce our final costs. We systematically monitor Year Steam (GJ) our energy consumption and reach conclusions on how suc2012 12,644 cessful our measures were on the basis of such information. By undertaking the above activities and good housekeeping 2013 14,053 measures on a daily basis, we expect to reduce our consumpTotal 26,697 tion of plastic materials and energy, thus also reducing the related pollution. Our steam production in the preceding reporting period By switching to a new bottle design with lower pre-form amounted to 22,794 GJ, compared to 26,697 GJ recorded in weight, Sarajevski kiseljak indirectly reduces the amounts of 2012 and 2013. In this reporting period, our steam consumpenergy used by our preform suppliers. Such suppliers will use tion per product unit did not vary significantly. Our steam 8%-10% less energy to make the same amount of pre-forms consumption is closely related to our fuel consumption, so of lower weight (5 to 7 grams less per pre-form) and will thus any variations in steam consumption are interpreted in the save substantial amounts of electricity used to heat such presame way as in fuel consumption. forms. Water Sarajevski kiseljak uses an integrated approach to water ter supply system. As an important resource, water is manmanagement. Water used by the company includes water aged rationally. Water is subjected to constant quality audits from own sources, process water, and water from a public waand we monitor how much water is used and how. Total water withdrawal by source (m3) From a public For process Total amount of all Year From wells water supply purposes waters withdrawn system 2012 52,727 104,859 1,122 158,708 2013 46,180 147,957 1,625 195,762 Total 98,907 252,816 2,747 354,470 The total amount of water used in 2012 and 2013 was Our new Krones line installed in Q3 2012 uses a silicone 286,520 m³, 284,330 m³ of which was water withdrawn (from agent for lubricating conveyor belts that should not be mixed our own sources for production and process purposes), and with water and thus allows us to reduce our water consump2,190 m³ was water from a public water supply system. Our tion. Additional water savings were achieved by revising our total water consumption increased as a result of installing a syrup plant washing schedule as well. new line and a significant increase in production, while no major variations in water consumption per product unit were At the Sarajevski kiseljak production plant, water is presently recorded. recycled by using water from the washers to wash the crates. We also launched a project for saving water by using recySustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 121 cled materials in the syrup plant, i.e. returning water used for it will be reused for the same purpose. The completion of this cooling massecuite to the recycled process water tank, where project is expected to provide significant water savings. Biodiversity The company’s operating locations, owned or leased, are not versity value, so there are no significant impacts on biodiverin or adjacent to any protected areas or areas of high biodisity resulting from our activities, products or services. Emissions, Effluents and Waste Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions from Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Sarajevski kiseljak include emissions from stationary sourcin Sarajevski kiseljak for the 2012-2013 reporting period es and emissions resulting from transporting materials and amounted to 195 t, compared to 197 t recorded in the precedproducts by using our own vehicles (including transport and ing reporting period. LPG). Complying with high environmental standards, Sarajevski Our greenhouse gas emissions from stationary sources (boilkiseljak uses extra light heating oil (ELHO) with lower sulfur er room) were directly measured by a certified company. content (up to 0.5% m/m sulfur) for its boiler room. After we finalize our conversion to a new bottle design with Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions lighter preform and the short-neck design, we will reduce the by weight environmental impact of our production activities in the form Total air emissions of greenhouse gas emissions expressed as units of carbon 2012 2013 (t CO2 eq.) dioxide. Production plants 928 1,030 The raw material and input warehouse within the bottling Fuel for transport 1,487 1,337 plant uses a refrigerator for storing fruit bases for preparing LPG 134 129 carbonated soft drinks, which uses 6 kg of ozone-depleting CO2 equivalent 2,549 2,496 R22 refrigerant (hydrochlorofluorocarbon), while all other cooling equipment has zero ODP. Our total direct and indirect CO₂ emissions by weight relate Sarajevski kiseljak has no present plans for replacing R-22 to our production and transporting materials and products because, according to the Resolution on the Requirements for and were calculated on the basis of an estimate of CO₂ emisand the Method of Implementing the Montreal Protocol and sions resulting from combustion as defined in Appendix A Gradual Removal of Ozone Depleting Substances in Bosnia (Air Emissions) to the Environmental Pollution Registry and Herzegovina (Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina Maintenance Manual. As the sum of direct and indirect emisno. 36/07), using HCFC-22 will not be prohibited before Janusions expressed in tons of CO₂ equivalent, our total greenary 1, 2030. house gas emissions amounted to 4,713 t in 2010 and 2011, compared to 5,045 t in 2012 and 2013. The calculation of our NOx, SO₂ and CO emissions was based on measuring performed in 2012 and 2013 by a certified orOur other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by ganization and we are required by law to measure them on weight pertain to our employees using company vehicles to an annual basis. travel to and from work on a daily basis (passenger cars). Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (in tons) by weight Year SO2 NO2 CO Year t CO2 2012 11.84 1.26 0.13 2012 96 2013 13.16 1.40 0.14 2013 99 Total 25.00 2.66 0.27 Total 195 During the 2010-2011 reporting period, our total other air The amounts of CO₂ emissions were calculated on the basis emissions by type and weight were 21.34 t of SO₂, 2.27 t of of an estimate of CO₂ emissions resulting from combustion NO₂, and 0.23 t of CO. The figures for the 2012-2013 reportas defined in Appendix A (Air Emissions) to the Environmening period are 25.0 t of SO₂, 2.66 t of NO₂, and 0.27 t of CO. tal Pollution Registry Maintenance Manual. 122 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 According to the result of measuring air emissions of pollutants from the boiler room, it is clear that our air emissions are within the allowed limits. Wastewater Our total water discharge is determined on the basis of an Before being discharged into a type 2 water recipient, wasteestimate. In agreement with the relevant institutions, the water is neutralized in a three-degree deposit tank. The treatcalculation method used in the preceding reporting period ment of wastewater in Sarajevski kiseljak will be taken care changed, so our values were recalculated to reflect the new of after the town of Kiseljak builds its wastewater treatment calculation procedure. For our preceding reporting period, plant, after which all wastewater will flow into such town total water discharge was only calculated on the basis of exwastewater treatment plant instead of a type 2 deposit tank. periential assessments and estimates. As of 2012, the amount We are in the process of obtaining a water license for disof water discharge has been calculated according to a specific charging wastewater into a natural recipient from the releformula, as instructed by the Federal Bureau of Statistics: vant Agency for the Sava Water Area. Total amount of all waters withdrawn (mineral water + waAccording to the Regulation on the Conditions of Dischargter from own wells used for process purposes + water from ing Wastewater into Natural Recipients and Public Sewera public water supply system) – bound water, i.e. water that age Systems (Official Journal of the Federation of Bosnia and ends up in finished products. Herzegovina no. 04/12), the certified organization Dvokut pro from Sarajevo conducted a two-month analysis of wastewater After this formula was effectively implemented, we recalcuquality. The burden of wastewater pollution is expressed as lated the amounts of water discharge recorded in the precedpopulation equivalent (PE), while the unit of pollution of is ing reporting period (2010-2011) to obtain comparable valinhabitant equivalent (IE). ues. Sarajevski kiseljak, whose total annual amount of polluTotal water discharge tion by population equivalent (PE) exceeds 500 IE, conducts wastewater sample testing once every two years, i.e. tests its Year Wastewater (m3) waste and harmful substances before being discharged into surface waters for the purpose of accounting for and paying a 2012 63,900 special water protection charge. In January 2012, the waste2013 85,800 water burden expressed as PE was 1,173 IE. Total 149,700 We are in the process of finalizing our project for building an alkali regeneration plant by which we plan to significantOur total wastewater discharge increased as a result of a subly reduce the volume of our wastewater from bottle washers, stantial increase in production and no major variations in the thus also reducing our total consumption of fresh water in amount of water discharge per product unit were recorded. addition to decreasing the volume and saturation of wastewater. Waste Presented below are the amounts of waste generated at Sarajevski kiseljak: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method (kg) Type of waste Treatment Collected by 2012 2013 EF, ET, ES, Alba, Non-hazardous waste R Graming, DD, 473,521 405,258 KJKPViK Grioss, DeltaPetrol, Hazardous waste D 1,124 1,040 Tesla Total 474,645 406,298 Waste is sorted at its source, separately collected and temwaste and 0.19 t of hazardous waste. In this reporting periporarily stored in an area designated for temporary storage od, we disposed of 879 t of non-hazardous waste and 2 t of of different types of waste. During the preceding reporting hazardous waste. Our waste management plan and employee period, Sarajevski kiseljak disposed of 861 t of non-hazardous Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 123 trainings resulted in improved waste sorting process during fore we entered into such contract, broken glass was treated the relevant period. and disposed of as mixed municipal waste; however, its specific characteristics required much higher costs of disposal, After entering and revising our contracts with certified opertransport and handling than those incurred for traditional ators and purchasing containers for systematic sorting of all municipal waste. types of waste at the source and installing the same in precisely defined places within the factory area and our distribuDuring this reporting period, Sarajevski kiseljak did not retion centers, we obtained economic benefits arising from sellcord any spills of dangerous substances that may have an ading recyclable types of waste (paper packaging, glass packagverse effect on human health, soil, vegetation, water systems ing, PET packaging and foil). A better waste sorting process or ground water. Dangerous substances (substances harmful increases the amount of non-hazardous waste, which is sold to health and substances harmful to the environment) are to certified operators as secondary raw material. controlled on the basis of the relevant instructions and standards for handling dangerous substances. The intranet site of A significant decrease in the amount and costs of disposing Sarajevski kiseljak provides lists of approved chemicals inof municipal waste resulted from our conclusion of a contract cluding the relevant material safety data sheets. with an organization collecting waste glass packaging. BeProducts and Services Sarajevski kiseljak has contingency measures and procedures Percentage of reusable packaging in total in place, defining the responsibilities for their implemenpackaging by type of product (%) tation. To prevent any potential environmental incidents, Reusable packaging Sarajevski kiseljak complies with the applicable regulations 2012 2013 materials and cooperates with the relevant inspectorates. The roles and Product group (mineral water) 89.84 74.35 responsibilities of the Emergency Team and the employees in all Sarajevski kiseljak production plants are defined by the Product group (juice) 62.98 73.57 Measures and Procedures in Case of Extraordinary Situations Total 83.90 73.97 procedure, which also presents which actions should be taken in case of an extraordinary situation. The percentage of products and their packaging materials Our implemented project for redesigning our juice PET botreclaimed by Sarajevski kiseljak is significant because all tles in PET packaging, where we significantly reduced the glass packaging is reusable and its weight is much greater weight of the pre-form, and our ongoing project for redesignthan the weight of other packaging materials. In addition to ing our mineral water and Sensation bottles and converting glass packaging, reusable packaging includes reusable plasto a short-neck bottle design (PCO 1881 thread), will allow us tic crates. to reduce our environmental impacts by reducing our use of plastic materials and energy. Compliance Sarajevski kiseljak implements, maintains and updates all The inspections conducted at Sarajevski kiseljak in 2012 and statutory requirements and stakeholder demands in the 2013 included: Aligning Environmental Aspects with Statutory and other 1. inspections of pressure vessels; Requirements form and in accordance with all applicable en2. inspection by the Cantonal Ministry of Health and Social vironmental regulations. Policy – Sanitary Inspectorate; 3. inspection by the Cantonal Ministry of Agriculture, Water 27 audits were conducted at Sarajevski kiseljak in 2012 and Management and Forestry; and 2013, four of them by the external certifying organization 4. inspection by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water BV. Twenty-three internal audits of our business manageManagement and Forestry. ment system (food safety and environmental protection) were conducted by division, department and regional distribution No cases of regulatory non-compliance were recorded at Sacenter of Sarajevski kiseljak. rajevski kiseljak during this reporting period, which means no fines or non-monetary sanctions were imposed. Bureau Veritas Croatia conducted recertification and supervisory audits of our integrated business management system, which included a recertification and a supervisory audit of our food safety management system according to ISO 22000:2005 and supervisory audits of our environmental management system according to ISO 14001:2004. 124 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Transport The environmental impact of Sarajevski kiseljak includes These parameters are presented according to the following transporting products and other goods and materials used for criteria: the organization’s operations by using own vehicles (LPG). • energy used in GJ, and • greenhouse gas emissions in tons of CO₂ equivalent. Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Fuel for transport LPG Total CO2 emission Tons of CO2 Tons of CO2 GJ GJ equivalent for fuel equivalent for LPG 2012 20,787 3,060 1,487 134 2013 18,688 2,943 1,337 129 Total 39,475 6,003 2,824 263 A significant increase in production and logistic processes reperiod; however, these figures decreased in 2013 compared to sulted in an increase in our energy consumption and green2012 as a result of improvements in our logistic processes. house gas emissions compared to the preceding reporting Environmental Protection Investments Sarajevski kiseljak has incorporated its care for the enviincrease in costs is a result of paying charges for packagronment in all its business processes. During the reporting ing and EE wastes (which we were not required to pay in the period, our environmental protection expenditures and inpreceding reporting period) and including our projects and vestments included our costs of waste disposal, measuring investments in environmental protection costs. This relates air emissions, analyzing wastewater quality including the to the construction of a facility designated for systematic colrelated charges, our waste management costs, packaging and lection, sorting and temporary storage of all types of waste EE waste charges, and costs of environmental prevention and and procurement of waste management equipment. management (environmental certifications, trainings, projects and investments), amounting to EUR 268,357. Our enAccording to our ISO 14001:2004 environmental training vironmental protection expenditures and investments in the plan, we trained 80 employees in 2013, 40 of them from re2010-2011 reporting period totaled EUR 46,726. This notable gional distribution centers. Planned Activities and main Objectives for 2014 and 2015 Our primary objectives for the next reporting period are: • to convert to a new bottle design on the L2 line and short-neck closure at the Sarajevski kiseljak production plant; • to finalize our alkali regeneration plant project and commission the plant; • to install heat meters in all segments of production using thermal energy; • to implement our water saving project by using recycled material in the Process Preparation Department; and • to develop an Operating Plan of Interventions in Case of Sudden Pollution. An example of successful activities – To prevent emissions of harmful substances into water and soil and improve its waste management process, Sarajevski kiseljak built a facility for systematic collection, sorting and temporary storage of all types of waste in 2012. Thanks to this environmental protection investment, our waste management standards were raised and such improved waste disposal conditions were reflected in its quality as a secondary raw material, thus generating more revenue. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 125 Water and Drinks Fonyódi Kft. The Fonyódi natural mineral water bottling plant based in to employees concerning the importance of environmental Hungary has operated as part of The Agrokor Group since protection and methods of preventing and reducing pollution 2004. Since that time, we have invested substantial funds in and generation of all types of waste, while energy consumptitechnology and production processes. The bottling plant conon is monitored in compliance with the relevant regulations. tains two production lines. Its primary products are Fonyodi natural mineral water and non-carbonated water. The company is committed to preserving the environment and reducing any adverse environmental impacts of our busiNatural spring water Fonyódi is a popular brand in the Hunness operations by introducing innovations into our produgarian market, and its well-balanced mineral content, excluction process, reducing and systematically disposing of all sive of nitrates and nitrites, provides it with a drinkable and types of waste, and by raising nature protection awareness. distinctive quality. The overall product range comprises natural carbonated spring water, natural non-carbonated spring water and flavored spring water. As of 2010, Fonyódi has Activities planned for this reporting period and their been producing Akvia natural spring water for the Croatian results market. Fonyódi undertook the following activities for the purpose of improving its environmental protection: Fonyódi puts significant efforts into developing a business • It enhanced its wastewater management system and immanagement system. The company has also implemented a proved the process of sorting of all types of waste by purfood safety system, while its quality management system has chasing new containers for different types of waste and been certified. To demonstrate its systematic care and control revised its contracts with certified waste collecting orgaof the production process and products, the Fonyódi bottling nizations. plant had its quality management system certified according • It provided additional environmental management system to ISO 9001:2000 and is registered and audited by the certiand food safety system training to 20 employees. fied institution NQA. • It reduced the weight of its pre-forms, the thickness of labels on foil and the thickness of paper bag handles. The objectives set for this reporting period were met. Waste is properly sorted and disposed of, training was provided Materials The materials used during the reporting period included al. Fonyódi does not use any recycled packaging materials for input and natural resources used to make products, process its production. supporting materials (oil and lubricants for production machines), and packaging. Direct materials (materials present Materials used by weight or volume kg in the final product) and indirect materials (resources not renewable over a short period of time) are expressed in kg. Type of material used 2012. 2013. Input 24.751.570 25.743.921 The total weight used in the preceding reporting period was Ancillary process materials 19.513 18.308 51,956,650 kg, compared to 50,950,156 kg for this reporting period. The total amounts of material used were roughly equPackaging materials 330.607 86.237 Total 25.101.690 25.848.466 126 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 127 Energy Direct energy consumption represents total energy conIndirect energy is energy generated by a single primary soursumption from primary sources (natural gas, liquefied petroce or other primary sources and supplied outside the comleum gas – LPG) used in the company’s operations. pany. Indirect energy consumption by primary energy Direct energy consumption by primary energy source (indirect energy supplied and used from source (non-renewable energy sources) non-renewable energy sources) Natural gas LPG Year Year Electricity (GJ) (GJ) (GJ) 2012 806 346 2012 1,748 2013 752 417 2013 1,821 Total 1,558 763 Total 3,569 The total energy consumption for the 2010-2011 reporting Direct energy supplied and used from non-renewable energy period was 1,866 GJ. During this reporting period, the total sources largely depends on our total production. Our electriconsumption of energy from primary sources was 2,321 GJ. city consumption for the 2012-2013 was 3,569 GJ, the increNatural gas is used at the location for heating and its conase resulting from increased production. Our total indirect sumption depends on the weather conditions. Furthermore, energy consumption by primary source was 3,452 GJ during natural gas is used to heat process water for washing glass the 2010-2011 reporting period. packaging and the total consumption of natural gas depends on how many products in glass packaging are made. As our After we reconstructed an old block within the bottling plant, production of 1.0 liter glass bottles was suspended in 2013 we reduced our losses of energy needed to heat the solutions and our production of 0.25 liter bottles was reduced, our naused for CIP washing. tural gas consumption decreased from 1,670 GJ to 1,558 GJ. Our production of reusable glass decreased by approximately After converting to new bottles with lighter pre-forms, 30% compared to the 2010-2011 reporting period. Fonyódi will reduce its energy consumption. Once the project is implemented, we expect to achieve PET material and enerIn 2010 and 2011, we used 10,120 kg of LPG, compared to gy savings, but also to reduce our pollution. 11,341 kg in 2012 and 2013. The figures expressed in GJ in our 2010-2011 report were calculated according to a different By switching to a new bottle design with lighter pre-form, formula. Having aligned these figures, our direct consumptiFonyódi indirectly reduced the amounts of energy used by on of LPG increased insignificantly. the suppliers of such pre-forms. Such suppliers will use less energy to make the same amount of pre-forms of lower weight and will thus save substantial amounts of electricity used to heat such pre-forms. Water As an important resource, water is managed rationally. Water me of all waters withdrawn during this reporting period was is subjected to constant quality audits and we monitor how 53,611 m³, 50,470 m³ of which was water withdrawn from much water is consumed and how it is used. our own sources and wells and 3,141 m³ was water from a The water we use includes water withdrawn from our own public water supply system. This difference in total water wisources, process water and water from a public water supply thdrawal during this reporting period compared to the precesystem. The total amount of water used in the 2010-2011 reding reporting period is a result of an increase in production porting period was 49,891 m³, 48,028 m³ of which was water by approximately 34% compared to the preceding reporting withdrawn (from our own sources and wells) and 1,863 m³ period. was water from a public water supply system. The total voluTotal water withdrawal by source (m3) From a public For process Total amount of all Year From wells water supply purposes waters withdrawn system 2012 24,030 710 1,681 26,421 2013 24,965 765 1,460 27,190 Total 48,995 1,475 3,141 53,611 128 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 To prevent excessive use or potential contamination of sourAll impacts associated with water withdrawal are constantly ces, Fonyódi controls, determines, describes, assesses and demeasured, monitored and supervised. Fonyódi does not use fines all potential direct and indirect environmental impacts. recycled water in any of its processes. Biodiversity The bottling facility is located near the town of Fonyódi on The Fonyódi production plant is not in or adjacent to any prothe south bank of Lake Balaton. The plant covers a total area tected areas or areas of high biodiversity value, so it has no of 13,911 m² (industrial area) + 4,699 m² (water pump area). impact on biodiversity associated with its activities, products Its buildings (factory, offices, community buildings, stores) or services. stretch across 2,819 m². Emissions, Effluents and Waste The greenhouse gas emissions generated by the boiler room Our project for reducing the pre-form weight (from 37.5 g to are determined on the basis of our fuel consumption and the 32.5 g for our 1.5 L carbonated and flavored products; from 36 number of boiler room hours of operation. Our total direct g to 32.5 g for our 1.5 L non-carbonated products; and from and indirect CO₂ emissions resulting from transport were 25 g to 21 g for our 0.5 L and 0.75 L carbonated, non-carbonadetermined by estimating our CO₂ emission resulting from ted and flavored products) helped decrease the environmental combustion as defined on the Guide for the Preparation of the impact of our production activities. Plant Greenhouse Gas Emissions Monitoring Plan issued by the relevant regulatory authority. Having implemented this project, we took a major step forward in adhering to the European trends of making ‘carbonneutral’ products and demonstrated our initiative to reduTotal direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions ce our carbon footprint throughout a product’s life cycle. by weight Total air emissions Fonyódi does not use any ozone-depleting substances in its 2012 2013 (t CO2 eq.) production processes. Production plants 11 8 A certified organization measured our NO₂ and CO emissiFuel for transport 113 108 ons. LPG 14 17 CO2 equivalent 138 133 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (in tons) Our total greenhouse gas emissions include all emissions geYear NO2 CO nerated by the boiler rooms, transport and LPG. During this reporting period, they totaled 271 tons of CO₂ equivalent, 2012 0.0028 0.0013 which is 8.5% less than the preceding reporting period. 2013 0.0019 0.00089 Our other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions relaTotal 0.0047 0.00219 ting to our commuting employees and business trips (using company vehicles) are insignificant compared to our other As regards our total other air emissions by type and weight activities resulting in direct or indirect emissions. recorded during the 2010-2011 reporting period, we emitted 0.0075 tons of NO₂ and 0.0034 tons of CO. During the 2012By using a new bottle pre-form of lower weight, we reduce 2013 reporting period, our air emissions were 0.0047 tons of the environment impact of our production activities in the NO₂ and 0.00219 tons of CO. Our total air emissions by type form of greenhouse gas emissions expressed in units of carand weight were reduced as a result of decreased gas conbon dioxide. sumption. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 129 Wastewater Presented below is our total water discharge in m³ for 2012 Total water discharge and 2013 according to the total amount of wastewater. Wastewater is discharged into the public sewerage system. We Year Wastewater (m3) measure our water discharge by using water flow meters. 2012 2,391 During this reporting period, our total water discharge by 2013 2,225 volume was 4,616 m³, compared to 2,887 m³ recorded in the Total 4,616 preceding reporting period. Increased production of flavored water resulted in increased consumption of water used to wash our production lines, which in turn resulted in a greater volume of wastewater discharge in 2012 and 2013. Waste Presented below is our waste management data for the aluminum, iron, stainless steel, etc., while hazardous waste 2012-2013 reporting period, including the amounts of waste includes waste oil, hazardous packaging materials, waste la(in tons), types of waste, disposal methods, and operators. boratory chemicals and oil filters. Non-hazardous waste includes paper, plastic, wood, glass, Total weight of waste by type and disposal method (tona) Type of waste Treatment Collected by 2012 2013 Bányai Béla EV, Mindenker Non-hazardous waste R Ltd., Móraplast Invest Ltd, 43.40 51.70 Polgár & Polgár Ltd Hazardous waste K DESIGN Ltd. 0.10 0.14 Total 44 52 Waste is sorted at its source, separately collected and tempoSuch large amounts of collected waste are a result of dererarily stored in an area designated for temporary storage of cognizing old machines and iron that had not been used but waste. During the 2010-2011 reporting period, we collected were present at the location, and disposing of old bottles and 6,907 tons of waste, compared to 96 tons in 2012 and 2013. crates and other materials within the storage area. Spills We did not record any significant spills of dangerous substances during the reporting period that may have an adverse effect on human health, soil, water, air or biodiversity. Products and Services By reducing the weight of its pre-forms, Fonyódi makes a poFonyódi does not recover its products in PET packaging, unsitive impact on the environment by reducing its direct and like end-of-life reusable glass, crates and wooden pallets that indirect energy consumption. are recovered. Compliance We did not record any cases of non-compliance with any laws or regulations and no fines or non-monetary sanctions were imposed during the 2012-2013 reporting period. 130 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Transport Our environmental impact includes transporting products These parameters are presented according to the following using our own vehicles (fuel consumption for total transport) criteria: and other goods and materials used for the organization’s • energy used in GJ, and operations (LPG). • greenhouse gas emissions in tons of CO₂ equivalent. Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Fuel for transport LPG Total CO2 emission Year Tons of CO2 Tons of CO2 GJ GJ equivalent for fuel equivalent for LPG 2012 1,576 346 113 14 2013 1,509 416 108 17 Total 3,085 762 221 31 During the preceding reporting period, our environmental se gas emissions. During the 2012-2013 reporting period, we impact resulting from transporting products, members of the used 3,085 GJ of fuel, 762 GJ of LPG, and our total transport workforce and other goods and materials was 3,436.23 GJ of emissions were 252 tons of CO₂ equivalent. This decrease is a energy used and 265.55 tons of CO₂ equivalent of greenhouresult of changes in LPG density. Environmental Protection Investments Environmental protection investments 279,816 on systematic waste management during this reporting period. Year Waste management (EUR) These figures represent environmental charges, including 2012 148,259 charges paid for Fonyódi and Jamnica products, including 2013 131,557 PET packaging, closures, labels, foil, paper handles, wooden Total 279,816 pallets and bottle caps imported for Fonyódi. In addition, Fonyódi paid environmental charges for its raw materials in 2012.: 1 EUR = 289 HUF the amount of HUF 18,896,208 in 2012 and HUF 18,208,487 2013.: 1 EUR = 295 HUF in 2013. These costs are incorporated in Fonyódi’s standard product cost. As Fonyódi had already provided internal enFonyódi’s commitment to managing and systematically sorvironmental training, it incurred no other prevention costs ting hazardous and non-hazardous waste is incorporated during this reporting period. in the foundations of its business. We spent a total of EUR Planned Activities and main Objectives for 2014 and 2015 • to convert to a new bottle design (lighter preform and closures), • to reduce the weight of our secondary packaging material (reduce label thickness, reduce wrapping foil weight, reduce cardboard mat weight, reduce our use of adhesives for labels), • to reduce energy consumption, and • to use recycled materials for secondary packaging Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 131 Water and Drinks Nova Sloga d.o.o. Nova Sloga from Trstenik, which has existed since 1956, has by certified operators; continuously protect the environment, 42 years of experience in fruit and vegetable processing and identify environmental aspects and risks, and define goals 29 years of experience in producing Mivela mineral water. and programs for their minimization and elimination. Nova Sloga has operated as part of The Agrokor Group since 2009. Its production is organized in two plants: We successfully achieved the following objectives set for this reporting period: The MIVELA mineral water production plant – is loWe optimized our technological process at the Refrigeration cated in the village of Veluće, surrounded by intact nature. Plant. In 2012, we installed compensation stations (capacitor The source is some 900 meters from the bottling plant, at an batteries), so reactive power used to operate electric motors elevation of 220 m. and transformers is compensated by a capacitor, and does not go any further from the consumer, i.e. does not go through The Refrigeration Plant is a facility for processing, freethe electricity meter. This provides benefits to the electricity zing and storing fruits and vegetables. The refrigeration facisystem because reactive power causes losses of active power lity is located in Trstenik within the corporate headquarters in the transmission system. By eliminating unnecessary area. transport of large amounts of reactive power, technical losses of active power are reduced across the electricity system. In Nova Sloga opted for an environmental protection policy 2013, we also installed a compensation station at the Mivewith the following primary objectives: to minimize and prela mineral water bottling plant, which was one of the main vent all kinds of environmental pollution in its immediate tasks for this period. Such installation of compensation staand greater surroundings, which is achieved by adjusting our tions contributed to reduced electricity consumption in both technological processes and providing constant education for plants. The HACCP system at the Mivela Plant was certified the purpose of increasing our the awareness and knowledge in 2012, and the HACCP system of the Refrigeration Plant in of our employees; properly dispose of hazardous and non-ha2013. zardous waste, temporarily store waste and have it disposed Materials Direct materials present in the final product and chemicals Nova Sloga does not use any recycled packaging materials to and packaging materials used in this reporting period are package its products. In the Refrigeration Plant, fresh raw mateexpressed in kg. rials (cherries, blackberries and raspberries) are placed in small plastic containers. At the beginning of the season, old damaMaterials used by weight or volume kg ged packaging is replaced in this plant by new packaging made of regenerated materials. The percentage of such small plastic Type of material used 2012. 2013. containers obtained by exchanging new regenerated packaging Raw material 45,970 126,860 for broken packaging in the total amount of new small plastic containers procured is presented in the table below: Ancillary process materials 3,605 3,997 Packaging materials 250,431 753,936 Containers procured 2012. 2013. Total 300,006 884,793 Exchange on a “damaged for new” basis 37% 94% Procurement of new containers made of 63% 6% regenerated material During the preceding reporting period, we used 256,180 kg of material in 2010 and 261,632 kg in 2011. This increase in the weight of materials used in 2013 compared to 2012 and In 2012, Nova Sloga delivered its damaged PVC containers to the preceding 2010-2011 reporting period is a result of an Krušik plastika, which engages in plastic processing. In excincrease in the production of Mivela mineral water. This inhange, we received new containers made of regenerated macrease is also reflected in the amount of input and packaging terial. Nova Sloga purchased the remaining 63% of its contaimaterials used, while the amount of ancillary process mateners as new, but they were also made of regenerated material. rials remained roughly at the same level. In 2013, we exchanged our damaged containers at Zlatar plast 132 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 133 Energy The primary energy sources used by Nova Sloga are diesel Electricity is supplied by Elektroprivreda Srbije and is used fuel (euro diesel) and unleaded gasoline (BMB), as well as to operate our machines and lighting equipment. liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) for its loading and unloading purposes. Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source (indirect energy supplied and used from Direct energy consumption by primary energy non-renewable energy sources) source (non-renewable energy sources) Year Electricity (GJ) Fuel LPG Year 2012 11,311 (GJ) (GJ) 2012 164 43 2013 12,528 2013 256 193 Total 23,839 Total 420 236 Our electricity consumption in 2010 and 2010 amounted Our direct energy consumption by primary source was 905 to 23,148 GJ, compared to 23,839 GJ in 2012 and 2013. Our GJ in 2010 and 2011 (791 GJ of fuel, 114 GJ of LPG), compared electricity consumption increased in this reporting period to 656 GJ in this reporting period. We recorded a decrease in as a result of increased production. However, such increase our fuel consumption compared to the preceding reporting is insignificant compared to the preceding reporting period period as a result of less vehicles and more rational use of the because we installed compensation batteries that reduced our remaining vehicles. electricity consumption in both plants. Nova Sloga does not produce steam in its production plants. We also recorded an increase in our LPG consumption compared to the preceding reporting period as a result of inAmonia is used as a refrigerant in the primary cooling creased production and sale. Nova Sloga uses LPG powered system. The tanks and pipelines of the closed cooling system forklift trucks for its warehousing operations and for loading (operated manually only) contain approximately 16 tons of goods onto vehicles distributing finished products. LPG is ammonia. supplied in reusable 10 kg gas bottles. Our LPG consumption depends on the rate of purchasing production materials and The amount of waterless ammonia loaded into the the rate of delivering our finished products. Nova Sloga uses closed cooling system in kg electric forklift trucks and manual pallet forklifts trucks for Year Waterless ammonia (kg) its indoor activities. We thus improve air quality in our warehouse and production facilities. 2012 1,500 2013 1,500 Indirect energy is energy generated externally and supplied Total 3,000 outside the company. Indirect energy used by Nova Sloga is electricity and ammonia. No additional amounts of ammonia were loaded into the system during the reporting period. Water Nova Sloga uses water for drinking and sanitary purposes, la is supplied with water from its own onsite well, while the for production purposes as process water and cooling water, Refrigeration Plant purchases water from the public water for washing its plants and facilities, and for bottling mineral supply system of the Municipality of Trstenik. water. Nova Sloga’s water is supplied from two sources: MiveTotal water withdrawal by source (m3) Water from Ground water bound Water from our Total amount of all Year the public water to the product own well waters withdrawn supply system 2012 5,331 2,075 6,213 13,619 2013 19,334 3,940 8,640 31,914 Total 24,665 6,015 14,853 45,533 The total amount of water used in 2010 and 2011 was 24,295 sources for production and process purposes) and 6,108 m³ m³, 18,187 m³ of which was water withdrawn (from our own was water from the public water supply system. In 2012 and 134 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 2013, we used a total of 45,533 m³ of water, 30,680 m³ of whiwe repaired our existing pipelines. The water consumption ch was water withdrawn (from our own sources for productirecorded in the fruit and vegetable processing plant increaon and process purposes) and 14,853 m³ was water from the sed compared to the preceding reporting period as a result of public water supply system. Mivela’s water consumption was increased production in this plant. reduced compared to the preceding reporting period because Biodiversity The land owned by Nova Sloga is not in or adjacent to any why Nova Sloga’s activities have no significant impact on protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value. This is biodiversity. Emissions, Effluents and Waste According to its activities, Nova Sloga is not required to meare insignificant compared to our other activities resulting in asure its greenhouse gas emissions. The regulation defining direct emissions or energy-related direct emissions. this area is the Regulation on the Limits of Air Pollutants published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Serbia Our cooling system uses a type of anti-freeze based on nutrinumber 71. tive monopropylene glycol used in the food industry, which circulates within the system and does not evaporate and thus Nova Sloga’s activities resulting in indirect emissions, incends up in the atmosphere. In 2013, we loaded 1,000 kg of luding our employees’ daily commuting, business trips, etc., refrigerant into the system. Nova Sloga does not use any heating equipment, so there are no NOx or SOx emissions. Wastewater Process waters in our mineral water plant are directed to a water plant is disposed of in a septic tank, which is evacuated deposit tank, including surplus mineral water from the botby the Public Utility Company of the Municipality of Trstetling plant, so our process water in the deposit tank is diluted nik and further treated. The Refrigeration Plant discharges and neutralized, and then discharged into the local waterway. its water into the municipal sewerage system and such waWater discharged from the deposit tank meets the relevant ter is then treated at the town utility company. Wastewater quality requirements, as confirmed by analyses conducted by analyses are conducted four times a year at the public health the Public Health Institute. Sanitary water from the mineral institutes in Kruševac and Kraljevo. Total water discharge (m3) Mivela Plant Refrigeration Plant Total 2012 2013 2012 2013 Sanitary water 604 630 422 466 2,122 Process water 1,453 3,290 5,778 8,164 18,685 Total: 2,057 3,920 6,200 8,630 20,807 Wastewater (m3) The amount of our water discharge in 2010 and 2011 was 11,320 m³, compared to 20,807 m³ in 2012 and 2013. This inYear m3 crease in water discharge during this reporting period is a result of increased production in our fruit and vegetable proce2012 8,257 ssing plant. Increased amounts of fruits and vegetables result 2013 12,550 in increased consumption of process water used for washing Total 20,807 fruits and vegetables before processing and for washing and maintaining our equipment and plants. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 135 Waste Solid waste resulting from our production and ancillary proste, waste metal and used toner. All other waste is collected cesses in our production plants is sorted at its source by type in municipal waste containers arranged across the factory and disposed of in a designated place in accordance with the area. Waste sold as secondary raw material is collected by a provisions of the Waste Management Act. The types of socompany registered for recycling, while municipal waste is lid waste that may be used as secondary raw materials are collected by the Public Utility Company of the Municipality cardboard, paper, nylon, PET and closures, vegetable waof Trstenik. Total amount of non-hazardous waste by type (kg) Index number Type of packaging 2012 2013 Total 150101 Paper and cardboard packaging 1,646 7,268 8,914 150102 Plastic packaging 3,828 7,654 11,482 Total 5,474 14,922 20,396 During the preceding period, we disposed of 23,026 kg of of changes in our technological production process, i.e. the non-hazardous waste, compared to 20,396 kg in 2012 and absence of vegetable waste that was generated by the fruit 2013. The volume of municipal waste disposed of in 2012 and vegetable processing plant. Nova Sloga does not generate was 60 m³, compared to 65 m³ in 2013. During the preceding any hazardous waste. reporting period, we disposed of 180 m³ of municipal waste in 2010 and 165 m³ in 2011. This decrease in the amount of Nova Sloga did not record any spills of dangerous substances municipal waste recorded in this reporting period is a result that may have an adverse environmental impact. Products and Services For the purpose of improving its environmental protection, on, we also installed one in the Mivela mineral water plant Nova Sloga undertook the following activities during this rein 2013. Their installation resulted in decreased electricity porting period: consumption in both plants. • We reduced the dimensions of our thermo-shrinking foil • Analyses of our wastewater for both plants are conducted for packaging 1.5 liter and 0.5 liter Mivela mineral water four times a year. from 380 mm x 0.065 mm in early 2013 to 380 mm x 0.060 mm, and then to 380 x 0.045 mm and 340 x 0.045 mm by In 2010, the EKOSTAR PAK company from Belgrade, licenthe end of 2013 for our 1 L and 0.25 L packaging. sed for packaging waste management, assumed a contractu• In 2013, we started to wrap our pallets using super-stretch al obligation to manage our packaging waste. Nova Sloga foil, whereby we reduced our use of foil by 40% per pallet. reports the amounts of its packaging placed on the market to • After installing a compensation station in the RefrigeratiEkostar Pak on a monthly basis. on Plant in 2012 to further decrease our energy consumptiCompliance Nova Sloga complies with all environmental laws and regulations and no cases of non-compliance were recorded, which means that no sanctions were imposed either. Transport Nova Sloga outsources the transportation of its products, production material and members of its workforce to other companies. 136 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Environmental Protection Investments Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Costs of waste disposal, emissions treatment and 2012 2013 rehabilitations (EUR) Air emissions charges (SO2. NO2) Air emissions charges (CO2) Air emission measuring Water using charge and concession 67,092 59,945 Wastewater analysis 634 634 Waste management costs 8,660 7,750 Packaging environment and EE waste 1,763 5,230 Total 78,149 73,559 Environmental prevention and management costs (EUR) 2012 2013 HACCP Certification 1,235 2,404 Training and Education 265 1,000 Fire protection (firemen) 2,532 3,968 Water and Soil Protection 420 Total 4,452 7,372 Planned Activities and main Objectives for 2014 and 2015 • purchase new containers suitable for the type of waste disposed of for the Mivela Plant; • install and commission a new mineral water bottling line at the Mivela Plant; • train its employees on waste management and environmental protection; • build an artesian well within the Refrigeration Plant to reduce its water costs; • prepare documentation for, implement and have certified its ISO 14001 system in 2014; and • enter into a contract with an appropriate company that will dispose of and recycle a smaller amount (about 50 kg) of machine oil. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 137 Meat and Meat Products PIK Vrbovec d.d. PIK Vrbovec – Mesna industrija d.d. is a joint-stock company In July 2012, we put into operation our biogas plant Energiengaged in the production and sale of meat and meat prodja Gradec, located seven kilometers from PIK’s headquarters, ucts headquartered in Vrbovec. According to our informawhich made it possible for us to dispose of part of PIK’s waste tion for 2013, the company employed a total of 1,811 people there. By the end of 2012, we had already begun to transport (1,656 of them working at the Vrbovec location), of whom 946 the contents of bovine digestive tracts to the biogas plant as persons work in production, 316 work in logistics, 93 work in animal by-product and category 2 materials. By changing our maintenance, and 456 work in other departments. Compared method of disposing of the contents of the forestomach, we to 2011, the number of employees increased by 16%. PIK Vrreduced our water consumption (before this, we used water bovec operates as part of The Agrokor Group. by withdrawing it from a collection basin) and our ground pollution (we avoided further disposal at the unimproved ferThe total surface area occupied by PIK Vrbovec is 350,000 tilization area of the Management Facility). In 2013, our biom², the production segment accounting for 80,000 m² as folgas facility began to treat slaughterhouse waste, i.e. animal lows: slaughterhouse – 15,000 m²; Fresh Meat Factory includby-products and category 3 materials. Our biogas plant treating its refrigeration plant – 25,014 m²; Processed Meat Factoed 30% of our category 3 materials, while a rendering plant ry – 18,560 m²; Meat Product Packing, Storing and Distribu(Agroproteinka d.d.) treated the rest as in the previous period. tion Factory –10,000 m²; Durable Product Factory – 6,000 m² (opened in 2012); and the rest occupies 5,400 m². We rehabilitated our old and unusable diesel tanks (31 m³ and 48 m³) in July of 2012. We cleaned our diesel tanks to a Our ISO 14001:2004 certified environmental management gas free degree. The mixture of diesel fuel, water and tank system was maintained and improved, as found during the cleaning fluid was disposed of through a company engaged supervisory audit conducted in 2012 and the recertification in hazardous waste management (Kemis Termoclean). Our audit conducted in 2013. In January of 2013, PIK was awardtanks were collected to be recovered by a certified metal ed a Kosher certificate. waste company (Metalprodukt). This location does not contain any more underground tanks, whereby we ensured full Our total production increased during the reporting periprotection of soil and ground water where our former underod compared to earlier years (by 8% in 2012 and by 11.5% ground tanks used to be (next to the Transport Facility). in 2013). Most of our products (up to 96%) are made at the PIK Vrbovec’s site M.I. d.d., Zagrebačka 148, Vrbovec. Our During this reporting period, we achieved the following obsubcontractors engaged for different product groups were jectives: Kudelić i Valvita – Valpovo (slaughterhouses), Klaonica Martinjak d.o.o., Danica M.I. d.o.o. (cans), Kras (prosciutto), We completed our conceptual design to obtain a location perFrelimo (pork rinds), Kutjevo (pork rinds and fat), Voštane mit for a wastewater treatment plant in June 2013. The design (prosciutto), Dimes (Belje bacon pressing facility), and Petawas reviewed by the Administrative Department for Physison (shaped frozen meat). To ensure uninterrupted supply cal Planning, Construction and Environmental Protection in of CEFTA markets, we began to produce our sausages and Vrbovec without any comments in July 2013. Pursuant to the semi-durable meats at Dim-Dim in Banja Luka, Bosnia and Integrated Environmental Protection Requirements AuthoriHerzegovina. zation, the time limit for reconstructing our internal sewerage and building our own WWTP was extended to July 31, 2014. During this reporting period, we were very much focused on separately collecting usable waste and finding possibilities On December 24, 2013, the Ministry of Environmental Profor separate collection of bio-waste to reduce our amounts tection and Nature Protection issued its Integrated Environof municipal waste disposed of at landfills. In places where mental Protection Requirements Authorization, Class: UP/Iwe had already introduced separate collection of packag351-03/12-02/28; File Number: 517-06-2-2-1-13-40. ing waste, we made efforts to increase our efficiency by increased supervision, training and internal audits, and we also In June 2012, our EMS was subject to a supervisory audit by introduced the tested collection method in places where it Bureau Veritas (no non-conformities were found, only 4 OBS). had not been used. We introduced separate collection of paIn April 2013, our ISO standards (9001 and 14001) were sucper, cardboard and plastic (foil) packaging in PIK’s Discount cessfully recertified for the second time. Store and in PC Osijek in 2012, and in PC Rijeka in 2013. In 2012, we started to separately collect bio-waste (waste resultWe did not install internal meters for monitoring our water ing from the preparation of fruits and vegetables in the kitchconsumption in our production departments, but completed en), which is treated through composting by a waste treatour preparatory activities for their procurement and installament organization (Eko Flor plus). tion in 2013. 138 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 139 We prepared a report on the carbon dioxide emissions genthe ETS (greenhouse gas emission quota trading system) in erated by our plants and provided a verified emissions report 2012 and 2013. PIK requested of the Ministry to be exempted for 2011 to the Environmental Protection Agency. Informafrom ETS, due to the bad condition of its plants, and the retion about our plant activities used to calculate emission construction obligation aiming to reduce the installed capacunits that will be allocated free of charge for the 2013-2020 ity of boilers below 20 MW (a criterion for the requirements trading period were provided to the Ministry of Environmenof trading GHG emission quotas). In early 2013, we received tal Protection and Nature Protection by March 31, 2012. a Decree revoking PIK’s permission regarding the greenhouse gas emissions from the Ministry of Environmental We procured and replaced a burner on a boiler to make comProtection and Nature Protection based on the reduction of bustion more efficient and to reduce our fuel consumption in the installed capacity in the heating boiler room facility. PIK the boiler room. According to the Power Plant Thermal ImVrbovec was thus formally exempted from ETS, which should pact Reduction Study (ENING d.o.o.), we did the following: be underscored as the Republic of Croatia has been part of • we installed a new burner on boiler BKG 60 A, factory no.: the EU ETS since January of 2013. The total investment 12137 (1974) and thus reduced the power of the boiler from was justified because it would cost PIK approximately EUR 5.1 to a maximum of 4 MW; 300,000 to remain in ETS between 2013 and 2020. Having • we reduced the power of a burner already mounted on boilbeen exempted from ETS, we are now only required to pay an er BKG 100 A, factory no.: 19892, by limiting its max. powannual air emissions charge to the Environmental Protection er from 8,149 to 6,762 MW and Energy Efficiency Fund (approximately HRK 100,000). The preparation of the relevant Study (Ening) and the reducBecause we invested in reducing the installed power of our tion of installed boiler power (Eko plamen) cost HRK 401,969. boiler room, we did not install an automated boiler desalinThe installed power of the power plant was thus reduced ization and blowdown system the purpose of which was to from 20,731 MW to 18,911 MW and PIK was excluded from reduce our fuel consumption. Materials PIK Vrbovec does not use any indirect natural resources • Raw material = livestock + imported raw material (fresh, (non-renewable materials) to make its products, but only for frozen) + additives and condiments its ancillary processes that are not part of the final product • Ancillary process materials = liquefied gases for product and for machine maintenance (lubricants). packaging and maintenance + machine lubricants + cleaning products and chemicals used in production and mainMaterials used by weight or volume kg tenance Type of material used 2012. 2013. • The information used was received from the Planning and Analysis, Production and Maintenance Departments of Raw material 75.498.590 82.181.299 Adria Group (responsible for washing our plants) Ancillary process materials 630.148,00 804.299,90 Packaging materials 2.672.010 2.538.611 Total 78.800.748 85.524.210 Packaging materials used by type Type of packaging 2012 2013 Changes implemented in 2013 material kg % kg % Switching to thinner foil for some products, Polymers 877.32 32.83 956.03 37.66 e.g. from vacuum to flowpack Paper / cardboard 1,511.69 56.57 1,348.05 53.1 We introduced crates instead of boxes Metals (Al, Fe) 219.60 8.22 170.94 6.73 Seals (Al) are no longer used in production Natural materials (wood, 27.99 1.05 35.47 1.4 flax, collagen) Other (combined) 35.40 1.32 28.12 1.11 Production optimization Total packaging 2,672.01 2,538.61 In 2013, we used 5% less packaging than in 2012. The reathe table. Although we used more direct materials than we sons for the reduction in packaging weight are provided in did in earlier years (6% more than in 2012 and 8% more than 140 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 in 2013), our use of direct materials decreased proportionatemarket. Multilayer polymer packaging materials (material ly per ton of total production compared to earlier years (by necessary to retain all characteristics of a product through1.9% in 2012 and by 2.7% in 2013). The company’s total conout its shelf-life) cannot be replaced by recycled materials sumption of materials by type of product decreased compared because, unlike standard packaging materials, biodegradable to earlier years, as did our consumption of direct materials. packaging meets all environmental requirements, but also shows functional weaknesses in terms of barrier and meRecycled input material refers to cardboard packaging (all chanical properties and thermal resistance. This is why we our cardboard boxes are made of 100% recycled paper, except only use biodegradable materials for our disposable bags for for A 10 cardboard where the share of recycled fibers is 25the time being (shopping bags and bags for household waste), 30%). In 2013, we used cardboard crates instead of cardboard while the development of new bio-degradable materials as boxes, which resulted in 31.77% less cardboard used annuprimary packaging and improvement of their functional ally. This means we placed 220,836 kg less cardboard on the properties are still being extensively studied. Energy The primary energy sources used by PIK to directly satisfy Direct energy consumption by primary energy its energy needs is diesel fuel used to transport goods and source members of the workforce and propane-butane (fuel for forkPropaneFuel Natural gas lift truck, furnaces and pig singeing in absence of natural gas Year butane (GJ) (GJ) supply). The primary energy sources used by PIK to produce (GJ) 2012 56,859.47 178,814.47 184.26 indirect forms of energy for its internal purposes are natural gas used for heating (steam, water) and ELHO (boiler room’s 2013 57,897.26 166,729.33 98.57 alternative fuel), also used for heating. Total 114,756.72 345,543.79 282.83 Fuel = diesel fuel + ELHO Primary energy consumption 2012 2013 Type of fuel Fuel (m 3) Direct energy (GJ) Fuel (m3) Direct energy (GJ) Natural gas 4,583,811 178,814.47 4,274,015 166,729.33 Extra light heating oil 5.9 199.13 7.5 253.14 Diesel fuel 1,562 56,660.33 1,589 57,644.12 Propane-butane 7,685 184.26 4,111 98.57 Total 4,593,064 235,858 4,279,723 224,725 Diesel fuel consumption by purpose (m3) Purpose 2011, 2012 2013 Internal (tank) 25.047 29.424 25.815 Passenger cars 236.957 225.599 205.871 Freight vehicles 1,306.940 1,307.280 1,357.740 Total 1,569 1,562 1,589 After our total direct energy consumption increased during 1,100,000 on gas in 2013 compared to 2012 (i.e. 309,796 Nm³). the preceding reporting period (by approximately 3%), this In addition to the measured decrease in gas consumption, we trend continued in 2012 (by 2.7%) compared to 2011, while also reduced our steam losses. Our annual consumption of our direct energy consumption in 2013 decreased by 4.7% direct energy per ton of product decreased compared to the compared to 2012. This decrease in energy consumption is a preceding reporting period, especially in 2013 (16%) compared result of a 6.8% decrease in gas consumption in 2013 comto 2012. pared to 2012, and 3% compared to 2011. This decrease in gas consumption is mainly a result of our procurement of a new The only form of indirect energy externally supplied to PIK is ultrasonic condensate discharge checker – Dr. Trap PM 301 (of electricity (as PIK makes its steam internally, it is not includthe total of 96 discharge lines, 26 were found to be defective) ed in indirect energy). and 26 discharge lines totaling HRK 91.992,88. We saved HRK Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 141 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy Similarly to the preceding reporting period, our electricity source (indirect energy supplied and used from consumption increased in 2012 and 2013 as a result of innon-renewable energy sources) creased production, while our electricity consumption per ton Year Electricity (GJ) of product decreased. Compared to 2012, our electricity per ton of product decreased by 9.5%. 2012 117,158.42 2013 128,318.46 Total 245,476.88 Water Total water withdrawal by source (m3) From a public For process Total amount of all Year water supply purposes waters withdrawn system 2012 567,760 133,320 701,080 2013 606,704 116,193 722,897 Total 1,174,464 249,513 1,423,977 Our water consumption increased by 9% in 2012 and by an put into operation new equipment for measuring our pubadditional 3% in 2013 compared to earlier years. Our conlic water consumption (a new shaft, water meter, flow rate sumption of water from a public water supply system recordmeter) for the purpose of modernizing our equipment and ed both in this and the preceding reporting periods increased ensuring more accurate measurement of water input. This deby approximately 3% annually as a result of decreased concrease in water consumption was also a result of defrosting sumption of process water (withdrawn from the mini accuour refrigerators in chambers 29, 30 and 31 by using hot gas mulation lake Bajer). After a slight increase in water coninstead of using water, as we did before, and by monitoring sumption per ton of product in 2012, it decreased by 9% in more closely the amounts of water used to wash our produc2013 compared to 2012. In August of 2013, we installed and tion plants. Biodiversity The location of PIK Vrbovec is not in a protected area or impact on biodiversity. an area of high biodiversity value, so its activities have no Emissions, Effluents and Waste Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Total annual CO2 by weight emissions from the boiler room chimney (t) Total air emissions Total 2012 2013 Natural gas ELHO t CO2 eq. (t CO2 eq.) emissions Electricity 25,503.02 27,932.34 2012 8,930.15 16.32 8,946.47 8,946.47 Natural gas 8,946.47 8,319.67 2013 8,298.93 20.74 8,319.67 8,319.67 Propane-butane 12.37 6.62 Fuel for transport 3,573.00 3,698.08 The emissions information derives from an estimate: CO₂ (combustion emissions) (t) = fuel consumption (natural Cooling equipment (refrigerant) 165.41 290.74 gas) (m³) x combustion amount (TJ/m³) x emissions factor Total 38,200.27 40,247.44 (t CO₂ /TJ) x oxidation factor. Our direct greenhouse gas emissions are generated from The sources of information in the estimate formula are sources owned and controlled by PIK: fuel consumption (according to supplier’s bill), combustion amount (lower heating value of natural gas according 1. CO2 emissions from the steam boiler room to supplier’s bill x 10-6 TJ/m³), emissions factor (according chimney emissions resulting from combustion of gas or to Table 6 of the Guide*, it is 56.1 t CO₂ /TJ for natural gas, extra light heating oil (alternative fuel in absence of gas sup77.3 t CO₂ /TJ for ELHO, and 63 t CO₂ /TJ for LPG or proply) – these emissions are consistent with the primary energy pane-butane), and the oxidation factor (according to Appendix specified under EN3. 142 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 VI-table-combustion emission measurement methods to the Our CO₂ emissions increased compared to preceding period Guide*, it is 1 for natural gas and ELHO). as a result of increased production. * Guide for the Preparation of the Plant Greenhouse Gas Emissions Monitoring Plan (MEPNP, September of 2009) Greenhouse gas emissions generated by vehicles (t CO2 eq.) Our total annual CO₂ emissions from the boiler room chimPurpose 2012 2013 ney decreased by 7% in 2013 compared to 2012 and by 2% compared to 2011. This decrease is a result of decreased gas Internal (tank) 78.65 69.00 consumption in 2013. Freight vehicles 3,494.20 3,629.08 Total 3,573.00 3,698.00 2. CO2 emissions generated by forklift trucks and Information used for diesel: density = 840 kg/m , lower heating value = 3 furnaces (propane-butane combustion) 0,043 TJ/t, emission factor = 74 t CO2/TJ, GWP CO2 = 1 3. CO2 emissions generated by PIK’s vehicles used 4. Emissions resulting from system leakage: fluorto transport products to the PC (refrigeration plant) and coninated greenhouse gases (HFC (R 134 A) or blends of substisumers and by vehicles used for internal transport of materitute substances (R 404 A, R 407 C, R 410 A). als within the factory area. Greenhouse gas emissions generated by cooling equipment 2012 2013 Type of equipment Type of gas GWP t/god, t CO2 eq. t/god, t CO2 eq. Onboard cooling equipment R404 a 3,700 0.0342 126.54 0.0268 99.16 (refrigerator trucks) R134 a 1,300 0 0 0.002 2.6 R404 a 3,700 0.0086 31.82 0.04825 178.525 Stationary cooling equipment R407 c 1,600 0.0026 4.16 0.0026 4.16 (chambers, refrigerators) R134 a 1,300 0 0 0.00327 4.251 1,700 0.0017 2.89 0.0012 2.04 Total 0.0471 165.41 0.08412 290.736 These cases of greenhouse gas leakage are a result of defects In 2011, HEP emitted 1 t of CO₂ to generate 1,276.08 kWh of or maintenance of cooling equipment in refrigerator trucks electricity and stationary equipment (chambers, air conditioners), mainly occurring at Zagrebačka 148, Vrbovec. Total greenhouse gas emissions (t CO2 eq.) 2012 2013 Equipment in PIK’s refrigerator trucks is maintained and serviced by PIK Vrbovec (which holds a license from MEPNP, Direct emissions Reg. No.: 1075), while our stationary equipment has been Boiler room 8,946.47 8,319.67 serviced by the licensed servicer Uslužni obrt pokretni serVehicles 3,573.00 3,698.08 vis Frigo-elektro, as defined by the relevant agreement since Cooling equipment 165.41 290.736 2012. The total amount of emissions generated by our cooling equipment (converted to CO₂ eq.) decreased in 2012 by Forklift trucks, furnaces 12.37 6.62 22% and increased in 2013 by 37% compared to 2011. Indirect emissions 25,503.02 27,932.34 Total 38,200.27 40,247.44 Our indirect greenhouse gas emissions related to our greenhouse gas emissions resulting from the generation of electricity owned and controlled by another organization (HEP). Out total GHG emissions increased by approximately 6% in 2012 and by 5% in 2013 compared to the preceding year. Indirect CO2 emissions 2012 2013 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions Amount of electricity used by PIK (kWh) 32,544,005 35,644,016 by weight (total emissions resulting from transporting members of the workforce) CO2 emissions resulting from electricity 25,503.02 27,932.34 Year t CO2 e generation at HEP (t) 2012 1,697 The figures relating to the CO₂ emissions from HEP’s power 2013 1,677 plants resulting from electricity generation were taken from Total 3,374 HEP’s 2011 Sustainable Development Report: Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 143 Our indirect emissions are a result of PIK’s activities, al(The figures relating to the total amount of CO₂ emissions though they were generated by sources owned or controlled per liter of fuel were taken from the general information by another organization or individual, namely by company available at wastewater.ee.undp.hr = about 2.4 kg of CO₂ per cars used to transport our employees and by organized transliter of gasoline and about 2.7 kg of CO₂ per liter of diesel) port of our workforce members to and from work. The results provided by the organization reporting in the area of gradual phase-out of ozone depleting substances indiTotal greenhouse gas emissions resulting from cate its technological leadership and its competitive positransporting members of the workforce CO2 tion in markets for products and services. All newly acquired emissions (t) equipment containing refrigerants is accompanied by a Statement that the product does not contain any ozone depleting Purpose 2012 2013 substances as required by law (Ozone Depleting Substances Company cars 603.00 550.27 Regulation, Official Gazette120/05). Our old equipment dating back to 1996 will be replaced by equipment not containBuses 245.81 419.83 ing any ozone depleting refrigerant or the refrigerant in such Private cars 848.00 707.00 equipment will be replaced by an appropriate non-ozone deTotal 1,696.81 1,677.10 pleting substance no later than by the end of 2014. Our emissions resulting from using company cars decreased Emissions of ozone depleting substances in 2013 by 5% in 2012 and by 8% in 2013 compared to earlier years. Leakage (t/ CFC-11 Type of gas ODP As we are not in possession of exact figures about biodiesel year) in 2013 equivalent consumption for the relevant bus services, the data is presented on a worst-case-scenario basis, as if only biodiesel R22 0.0042 0.055 0.0000231 were used. ODP stands for Ozone Depleting Potential. Our fuel consumption increased and so did our CO₂ emissions, by 66% in 2012 and by 71% in 2013 compared to earlier years. This is a result of Dubrava Bus introduction of the Other relevant air emissions (in tons) following bus services in 2012 in addition to the existing Vrbovec – Bjelovar service: Poljanski Lug – Vrbovec, Vrbovečka Year NO2 CO Dubrava – Vrbovec; in 2013, Čazmatrans also introduced the 2012 6.01 0.31 following new services: Vrbovec – city service, Križevci – Vrbovec, Lovrečka Velika – Preseka – Celine, Preseka – Rakovec 2013 7.08 0.45 – Gaj, and Samoborec – Luka. Total 13.09 0.76 Our employees commute to work using their private vehicles This report provides information about the emissions genon a daily basis causing the following emissions: approxierated by our boiler room chimney (there are three exhaust mately 848 t/year (848 t CO₂ eq.) in 2012 and approximately points from three boilers). The air emissions generated by the 707 t (707 t CO₂ eq.) in 2013. This information is based on the PIK Vrbovec factory location are measured and analyzed by average number of vehicles in PIK’s parking areas (about 600 Dvokut-ECRO, a company licensed for professional monitorin 2012 and about 500 in 2013 each day) and approximated ing of air emissions by the Ministry of Environmental Proaverage fuel consumption per vehicle (about 7l/100km), astection. Our pollutant emissions were reviewed on the basis suming that 50% of the vehicles use diesel and 50% use gasof a report on the measuring and analyses of pollutant emisoline and that each vehicle drives 30 km a day on average. sions from stationary sources at the factory. Wastewater Total water discharge • DISCHARGE POINT A (IMS-1): wastewater from the slaughterhouse and the fresh meat and processing faciliYear Wastewater (m3) ties, • DISCHARGE POINT B (IMS-2): corral, disinfection sta2012 429,272 tions wastewater. 2013 450,869 Total 880,141 Until December 24, 2013, the quantity and quality of our wastewater were determined on the basis of a water license allowing us to discharge partially treated wastewater into PIK discharges its wastewater via two wastewater collectors the public sewerage system (as of December 2013, they have and two inspection & measuring shafts (IMS) into the public been determined on the basis of our Integrated Environmensewerage system of the town of Vrbovec: tal Protection Requirements Authorization). The quality of our wastewater is tested by a licensed laboratory (Križev144 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 ci Veterinary Institute) six times a year on both shafts. The • oil separators (for potentially contaminated precipitation quantity of wastewater is determined by continuously using water from parking areas), water level meters mounted on both IMSs. Monthly readings • deposit tanks (for wastewater from corrals and wastewater and data processing have been outsourced to the licensed from the truck washing stations). company Hidroing, Zagreb. Wastewater is pretreated using the following wastewater pretreatment equipment: • sand traps (for precipitation water from parking and hanAnnual wastewater discharge by discharge point dling areas), Year IMS 1 IMS 2 Total • grease separators, sand traps/grease traps (to remove grease and deposit materials at the end of collectors A and 2012 236,285 192,987 429,272 B), 2013 261,198 189,671 450,869 Total annual pollutant discharge (t) Annual amount of discharge and transfer Pollution indicators 2013 2012 IMS-1 IMS-2 IMS-1 IMS-2 BOD5 54.14 27.72 82.12 36.51 COD (dichromate) 165.56 82.79 167.76 102.27 Settleable substances 0.75 0.25 0.36 0.20 Non-evaporating lipophilic substances 7.85 3.36 14.21 8.50 Adsorbable organic halogens 0.05 0.02 0.03 0.02 Total chlorine 0.04 0.03 0.01 0.01 In late 2013, PIK was issued an Integrated Environmental nal WWTP, PIK should meet the wastewater pollution paProtection Requirements Authorization defining the wasterameters up to the level required for discharging water into a water pollution indicators to be tested in the future before natural recipient. and after we build our internal WWTP. By building its interWaste Most waste generated in 2012 and 2013 was non-hazardous en pallets and planks, metals). In 2012, we thus reduced the waste, some of which was sold or assigned to our interested amount of non-hazardous waste to be recovered or disposed employees for further treatment (plastic containers, woodof by 21.6%, and by 10.7% in 2013. Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Type of waste Treatment Collected by 2012 2013 EKO FLOR-PLUS, MULLTRANS, METALPRODUKT, CE-ZA-R, Gumiimpex-GRP, CIAK, MUNJA , AGROPROTEINKA, POS – Non-hazardous R 782.11 861.7 PLAST, PROTING HORVAT, ROTO TRANS, UNIJA waste PAPIR, DRAVA INTERNATIONAL, METIS (ARCUS EKOLOGIJA D EKO FLOR PLUS , KEMIS Termoclean 449.8 423.94 MI-VI MAZIVA , MAZIVA ZAGREB, FLORA VTC , Hazardous R 9.75 12.39 S.T.R. AKUMULATOR, CIAK, MUNJA, CE-ZA-R waste D KEMIS Termoclean, CIAK, REMONDIS MEDISOM 10.42 1.611 Total 1,252.08 1,299.64 R = recovery methods, D = disposal methods The total amount of waste increased in both this and the ed while cleaning our underground fuel tanks (they were dug preceding reporting periods, but the percentage of increase out and recovered after cleaning). In 2013, we generated 31% has decreased year after year. In 2012, we generated 7.3% less hazardous waste than in 2012, and only 4% more than in more waste than in 2011, and in 2013 we generated 3.2% 2011. more waste than in 2012. Such increasing amounts of separately collected non-hazardIn 2012, we generated 50% more hazardous waste compared ous and hazardous waste continue to increase in this period. to 2011. This is mainly due to the hazardous waste generatSustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 145 In 2012, we generated 2.5% more waste than in 2011, and in we did in 2012. In earlier periods, this increase was only 1%. 2013 we generated 7.2% more waste than in 2012. Similarly, we reduced the amount of waste disposed of (D) by 7.5% in 2013 compared to 2012. The amount of municipal Municipal waste: In 2013, we generated 2.6% less municipal waste per ton of product recorded in 2013 constantly dewaste compared to 2012. It was not possible to make a comcreased compared to 2012. parison against the preceding reporting period because municipal waste had not been weighed before February of 2011 Animal by-products (AB) are transported from the location (it was paid per m³). by Agroproteinka and disposed of in its own rendering plant. Category 2 material (contents of bovine digestive tract) and The ultimate goal of the waste treatment processes persome of category 3 material (slaughterhouse waste) are disformed at PIK is to achieve the maximum recovery (R) rate of posed of in the biogas plant operated by Energija Gradec separately collected waste in relation to overall waste disposd.o.o. al. Accordingly, we recovered 9.4% more waste in 2013 than Total weight of Animal by-products (t) Animal by-products Vrsta 2013 2012 2011 amount (t) price (HRK) amount (t) price (HRK) amount (t) price (HRK) Category 1 Agroproteinka d.d. 1,450.01 137,078.68 1,418.45 468,087 1,720.59 567,794 (iz proizvodnje) Category 1 (masnoća iz mastoAgroproteinka d.d. 155.53 178.62 58,945 239.10 78,903 lova kolektora A) Total cat. 1 1,605.54 137,078.68 1,597.07 527,031.78 1,959.69 646,697.37 Category 3 Agroproteinka d.d. 9,017.56 722,119.40 11,471.96 2,867,990 10,913.38 2,728,345 Energija Category 3 3,924.66 737,836.64 0 0 Gradec d.o.o. Total cat. 3 12,942.22 1,459,956.04 11,471.96 2,867,990.00 11,592.31 2,728,345.00 Energija Total cat. 2 2,075.66 114,161.30 246.82 0 Gradec d.o.o. Total AB 16,623.43 1,711,196.02 13,315.85 3,395,021.78 13,551.99 3,375,042.37 In 2013, we treated a total of 30% category 3 materials at the decreased by 50% because category 3 has been a commercial biogas plant, while the rest was treated at a rendering plant category since September of 2013, which means that we sell (Agroproteinka). Irrespective of the increase in total AB by it to licensed companies. 25% in 2013 compared to 2012, the relevant disposal prices Spills In 2012, we recorded fourteen, and in 2013 we recorded eight were rectified by PIK’s on-duty firemen who sprinkled the adminor spills, mostly of hydraulic oil from trucks (transportsorbent across the area, while such oiled adsorbent was dising livestock) operated by our contractors within PIK (paved posed of as hazardous waste under waste code 15 02 02* (we surfaces between the gate and the loading dock). All spills disposed of 266 kg in 2012 compared to 154 kg in 2013). Products and Services PIK’s activities undertaken to reduce its adverse environmenThis is also a very valuable raw material and is very easily tal impacts: recyclable. They are followed by polymers: polyethylene, • Packaging: polypropylene, etc. Polymers can be recycled in Croatia, but When selecting our packaging, we use our best efforts to large amounts are exported to China. Our third most used use recyclable material, provided it meets all safety pamaterial is metal (aluminum and iron), also a very valuable rameters required for storing meat and meat products. We recyclable material. Therefore, most packaging materials mostly use cardboard/paper type of packaging material. used for packaging PIK’s products are recyclable materials. 146 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 What causes problems is purity of material (required by • We reduce our amounts of hazardous waste by ordering rewaste collecting/treating organizations), the required sepusable toner cartridges and leasing our computer printing arate collection of packaging, and the method of collectequipment ing all such packaging from the market separately by type. Although this is a statutory obligation of the EnvironmenIn 2012, we collected 484 reusable toner cartridges, which tal Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund, PIK also pays was 39% less than in 2011. This is due to the fact that we a packaging waste charge, although we witness on a daily replaced our old HP printers by new, more efficient Lexmark basis that such packaging waste still ends up in landfills. printers, which are able to print more pages using one toner • We reduced our emissions of ozone depleting gases by recartridge, so the decrease in the total amount of toner carplacing R22 by a non-ozone depleting refrigerant. tridges collected is equal to the decrease in the amount of • We reduced the amount of waste resulting from wastewaprinting. ter pre-treatment – we purchased two containers with double perforated bottoms for separating water when sludge The number of toner cartridges collected in 2013 was even from the grease trap is disposed of (decreased sludge dissmaller because we implemented a different printing solution posal costs by up to 44.52% or HRK 32,920). (corporate building) and have leased our printing equipment, • Improved wastewater quality – we plan to build a wastewaso our new toner cartridges are supplied and old ones dister treatment plant and provide a point of discharge into a posed of by the company from which we lease such equipnatural recipient by the end of 2014. As PIK’s Management ment. Board decided to treat wastewater up to the parameters required for discharge it into a natural recipient, PIK will substantially decrease its burden on the Luka waterway, PIK Vrbovec does not recycle its products sold and their packthe Lonja River, and ultimately on the Sava River. aging materials after the end of their lifecycles. Compliance In 2012 and 2013, no sanctions were imposed on PIK Vrbovec for non-compliance with any environmental laws or regulations. Transport Emissions by source Significant environmental impacts of transporting t CO2 equivalent products and other goods and materials used for Purpose the organization’s operations, and transporting 2012 2013 members of the workforce Transport of goods t CO2 t CO2 equivalent Internal purposes 78.65 69.00 equivalent for Total Freight vehicles for diesel propane-butane 3,494.20 3,629.08 (refrigerator trucks) 2012 5,269.81 8.66 5,278.47 Forklift trucks 8.66 4.83 2013 5,375.18 4.83 5,380.01 Transport of workforce members Company cars 603.00 550.27 Buses 245.81 419.83 The highest level of environmental impact was recorded for our CO₂ emissions resulting from transporting goods (68% in Private cars 848.00 707.00 2012, 69% in 2013), most of this pertaining to our refrigeraTotal 5,278 5,380 tor trucks. They are followed by emissions generated by our employees’ private cars (16% in 2012, 13% in 2013), emissions generated by our company cars (11% in 2012, 10% in 2013), and emissions resulting from transporting our workforce members by buses (5% in 2012, 8% in 2013). Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 147 Environmental Protection Investments Protection expenditures and investments by type (HRK) Costs of waste disposal, emissions treatment and 2012 2013 rehabilitations Air emissions charges (SO2. NO2) 1,458 1,458 Air emissions charges (CO2) 78,747 78,747 Air emission measuring 3,500 3,500 Water using charge and concession 105,589 92,025 Water protection charge 382,129 694,607 Wastewater treatment plant maintenance 70,000 30,000 Wastewater analysis and water level meter maintenance 51,362 40,828 Waste management costs 781,470 735,840 Waste analysis 24,228 17,359 Procurement of new equipment and maintenance of the waste 7,536 54,354 management area Packaging environment and EE waste 264,886 521,683 AB disposal 3,395,022 1,711,196 Environmental and sewerage maintenance 918,000 780,000 Technical services provided by certified environmental professionals 35,000 45,000 Total 6,048,927 4,806,597 Environmental prevention and management costs 2012 2013 Certification 26,250 26,600 Training and Education 1,560 862 Fire protection (firemen) 756,000 756,000 Watertightness testing 7,020 0 Idle operation AEKS d.o.o. (emergency preparedness) 30,000 30,000 Total 820,830 813,462 148 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Planned Activities and main Objectives for 2014 and 2015 To improve our waste management system (prevent pollution and minimize all types of waste) • to reduce the amount of municipal waste per product unit by 5% compared to 2013; • to reduce the amount of disposable waste plastic packaging per product unit by 2% compared to 2013. The new printing method will be implemented across all offices in the factory in 2014 to prevent generating reusable and waste toner cartridges. To minimize our water consumption and our use of sources and energy Decrease in energy consumption in 2014 compared to 2013 in m³ or in kwh/kg of processed product: • to purchase and install internal water meters; • to reduce our water consumption on the process packaging washing machine by 2% compared to 2013; • to repair the air pipeline within the factory; • to reconstruct the low and medium voltage transformer station. To maintain and improve our wastewater quality and to minimize the possibility of wastewater leakage • to establish records of animal byproducts collected from slaughterhouse floors; • to reconstruct the relevant internal drainage system and the wastewater treatment plant. To minimize the possibility of environmental incidents and pollution and improve our emergency response • to train 50 of our drivers in eco-driving; • to comply with the Seveso II Directive and manage our harmful materials; • to remove R22 refrigerant from the kitchen refrigerator; • to move the valve separating part of Frigoscandia from the ammonia installation to a safer area. To comply with the IPPC (Integrated Pollution Control) Directive • to design an IPPC implementation program; • to prepare a BAT analysis and a gap analysis and assess our needs for resources. To replace dangerous materials (and chemicals) by less dangerous and/or non-hazardous ones • to check for the presence of asbestos and remove all asbestos-containing roofing materials from our roofs. HSE management • to implement an HSE management system; • to extend the scope of our environmental management system to our sales centers (Osijek and Rijeka). Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 149 Ice Cream and Frozen Food Ledo d.d. Ledo, a leading producer and distributor of ice cream and operate our air conditioning system. We increased our steam frozen food in Croatia and the region, conducts its business consumption compared to the same period in the preceding on highly dynamic markets, most of them in countries that year because of our new chocolate sauce production that have joined the European Union a few years ago or are in the requires steam, so we did not manage to reduce our steam process of preparing to join it. These rapid changes pertain to consumption by 1% as planned. We did not meet our objectithe economic, technological, political, sociological and envive of reducing our fuel consumption by 0.5% in 2012 because ronmental aspects of our business. Sometimes these changes we started to distribute other manufacturers’ frozen products pose a threat to Ledo, while some provide it with an opporin addition to distributing our own products. tunity to improve its quality and performance, as well as its approach to sustainable development. We had set five environmental objectives for 2013, three of which were attained: electricity consumption, steam conAs a food company, Ledo aims to raise the level of awareness sumption and water consumption. The refrigerant in our of the importance of choosing a healthy lifestyle by recomchamber was not replaced for a reason because we were relomending healthy eating habits and developing public awarecating our cooling chambers during the relevant period and ness of active care for one’s own health. Ledo aims to maxiwe did not manage to reduce our fuel consumption in 2013. mize its environmental protection efforts by using natural production resources, by improving its collection and sorting During the reporting period, we implemented all relevant enof waste at its source, and by improving its technologies and vironmental management programs, had our pressure vessels work processes. and safety valves gauged, preventively maintained our cooling system, disposed of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, The company strives for continuous progress in terms of adconducted wastewater and sludge analyses, measured our hering to environmental standards, monitoring and comenvironmental emissions, provided for appropriate ammonia plying with all applicable laws and regulations of the Repumanagement in accordance with the applicable regulations, blic of Croatia and the European Union, and aims to minimiperformed regular maintenance and measuring, conducted ze its adverse environmental impacts by developing its busiexercises, conducted ammonia incident drills (in both 2012 ness, thus meeting all its stakeholders’ expectations. and 2013) and complied with the applicable regulations on waste storage and disposal methods and conditions, establiBy caring for the environment, Ledo assumes part of the resshed effective environmental protection cooperation with ponsibility for the sustainable development of the community good partners familiar with Ledo environmental managein which it operates. ment system, and continuously trained our employees on environmental impacts by segment. For its achievements in 2013, Ledo received a CSR award in the Responsible Environmental Management Policy and On March 12, 2013, an incident occurred in Ledo, at ČavićePractice category at the Fifth National Conference on Sociava 9, Zagreb, namely ammonia vapors were discharged as a lly Responsible Business sponsored by the President of the result of voltage variations in Peščenica. Our ammonia absorRepublic of Croatia, Prof. Ivo Josipović, PhD. We think of this bing system, in which Ledo had invested HRK 1,500,000 in award as a special recognition from the industry that reco2010, fully absorbed all vapors discharge. All employees were gnized the efforts we used in providing top-quality produevacuated from the production area until the incident was cts while minimizing any adverse environmental impacts, resolved. Although this incident was not a pleasant occurrensaving natural and energy resources, which encourages us to ce, our incident departments and the relevant inspectorate fobecome even better in this area. und Ledo to have acted properly in terms of using its human and technical/material resources in case of an emergency, According to its plan for this reporting period, Ledo unfollowing air quality measuring, on which a relevant report derwent audits of its integrated quality, safety and environwas issued. Based on this incident, Ledo conducted an extramental management systems. ordinary audit of its ISO 14001:2004 system. Ledo had set five objectives for the year 2012, two of which were fully attained (replacement of refrigerant in our chambers and reduction of water consumption). The remaining three objectives were not met for a reason and will be reallocated to the next period. We did not manage to reduce our electricity consumption by 0.5% because the summer was extremely hot, so we used more electricity to start and 150 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 151 Materials Materials used by weight or volume kg changes occurred in the family product segment where we Type of material used 2012. 2013. reduced use of cardboard boxes and changed the packaging Raw material 20,754,802 19,869,824 method, so that packaged products are now placed directly on pallets wrapped in thermo-shrinking foil. Packaging materials 1,416,680 1,239,753 Total 22,171,482 21,109,577 Cardboard transport packaging (boxes) used is entirely made of 100% recycled paper. Our consumption of raw materials and packaging materials was in line with the preceding reporting period. Significant Energy Ledo does not generate or sell any primary energy sources. Direct energy consumption by primary energy The primary sources of energy purchased by Ledo for its insource (non-renewable energy sources) ternal purposes during the reporting period were fuel (diesel Natural gas and gasoline) and natural gas. Fuel is used as a form of enerYear (m 3) gy necessary for transport. To reduce our fuel consumpti2012 73,447.00 on, we aim to drive more rationally, optimize our transport routes and regularly maintain our vehicles. Natural gas is 2013 69,548.00 used for making ice cream cones and for heating premises Total 143,025.00 and water. In 2012, the amount of diesel used for all types of tranDirect energy supplied and used from energy sources extersport (raw materials, finished products, equipment, etc.) was nal to Ledo includes electricity, steam, ammonia, refrigerants 1,254.54 t (54,359.22 GJ), while our total gasoline consumptiand liquid nitrogen. on was 7.35 t (329.28 GJ). In 2013, our total diesel consumption was 1311.80 t (56,840.30 GJ), while our total gasoline conLedo uses electricity supplied by HEP to operate its machines sumption was 35.40 t (1,585.92 GJ). and lighting equipment. Electricity consumption is monitored on the basis of the bills received. To reduce our electriciDirect energy consumption by primary energy ty consumption, we monitor our electricity consumption and source (non-renewable energy sources) make plans for the amounts of energy and power needed on Diesel Gasoline an annual basis. Year (GJ) (GJ) In 2012, Ledo used 12,307.96 MWh (44,308.65 GJ) of electri2012 54,359.22 329.28 city, compared to 11,555.30 MWh (41,599.07 GJ) in 2013. 2013 56,840.30 1,585.92 Total 111,199.52 1,915.20 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source (indirect energy supplied and used from Our total fuel consumption in 2012 decreased compared to non-renewable energy sources) 2011. However, our fuel consumption per ton of sold produYear Electricity (GJ) ct increased by 8.28%. Our total fuel consumption in 2013 increased compared to 2012 as a result of more products sold 2012 44,308.65 and delivered. Our fuel consumption per ton of sold product 2013 41,599.07 increased by 0.03%. Total 85,907.72 Variations in the amounts of fuel used and the amounts of fuel used per ton of sold (delivered) product depend on the Out total electricity consumption increased in 2012 compatrends in delivering products to large stores and central wared to 2011 as a result of an increase in the total amount of rehouses supplied using large freight vehicles weighing in products made (we started producing readymade meals and excess of 15 tons and outsourcing such services to other comprocess chestnuts). Our electricity consumption per ton of panies. product increased by 1.22% as a result of an extended period of extremely high temperatures during the summer when we used more electricity to start and operate our air conditioning system. In 2013, we reduced our total electricity consumption compared to 2012. Our electricity consumption per ton of product 152 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 decreased by 1.05% as a result of technological process optiIn 2013, we reduced our total steam consumption compared mization and improvement (rational use of machines, devices to the preceding year as a result of installing a steam condenand equipment) and production process improvement (larger sate system to heat our sanitary water and as a result of less batches, less interruptions). By optimizing our use of cooling cold days. Our steam consumption per ton of product decreachambers and facilities, we minimized our energy losses, sed by 2.24%. which resulted in more efficient storage, loading and transporting processes. By installing highly efficient lighting Ammonia is used as refrigerant in our closed primary cooequipment featuring sensors, we also contributed to minimiling system. The system is designed to be operated from a zing our electricity consumption. Continuous training and central control system (compressor station control boars) or awareness programs intended for our employees have played manually. The tanks and pipelines within this system contain a major role in our rational use of electricity. approximately 12 t of ammonia. The system was not replenished in 2012 and 2.50 t of ammonia was loaded into it in 2013. Steam supplied to Ledo by the Heat Plant is used to heat water using heat exchangers for technological process purposes Liquid nitrogen is used in our production process for direct and for heating all premises. Our consumption is monitored ice cream freezing. In 2012, we used 458.74 t, compared to on the basis of meters provided on site. We reduce our steam 476.89 t in 2013. consumption by requiring technological discipline in production and by optimizing the heating temperature. Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source (indirect energy supplied and used from The total amount of steam used in 2012 was 6,696.45 t, comnon-renewable energy sources) pared to 6,211.97 t in 2013. Year Liquid nitrogen (t) Indirect energy consumption by primary energy 2012 458.74 source (indirect energy supplied and used from 2013 476.89 non-renewable energy sources) Total 935.63 Year Steam (t) 2012 6,696.45 In 2012, our total consumption of liquid nitrogen increased 2013 6,211.97 compared to the preceding reporting period as a result of increased production. In 2013, our liquid nitrogen consumption Total 12,908.42 additionally increased by 3.81% compared to the preceding Our total steam consumption was insignificantly lower in year as a result of increased ice cream production using liqu2012 than in 2011. Our steam consumption per ton of product id nitrogen for ice cream freezing. decreased by 2.54%. Water In addition for drinking, Ledo uses water as a raw material meters and train our employees in rational use of water. We (ice cream, dough, readymade meals), as process water, as coalso monitor our water consumption when no water conoling water and as sanitary water, while some of it evaporasuming equipment is activated to ensure that our internal tes from evaporation condensers. water supply system is watertight. We also monitor our water consumption on the basis of our In 2012, Ledo used 91,072.00 m³ of water, compared to program for monitoring water consumption by using water 86,572 m³ in 2013. Total water consumption (m3) Process Cooling Sanitary Total Year water water water onsumption 2012 61,771 17,348 11,803 91,072 2013 65,972 16,138 4,226 86,572 Total 127,743 33,486 16,029 177,644 In this reporting period, we recorded, as we did in the preceThe water reusing trend continues to grow during this repording reporting period, a continuing downward trend in water ting period, totaling 20,000 m³/year. After being used, some consumption, resulting from more rational use of water (reof the water is reused in the process of cooling the evaporatiduced consumption of sanitary and cooling water resulted in on condensers. We continue to use our best efforts to maxia decrease in total consumption of this resource). mize our reuse of water for the purpose of optimizing and rationalizing our water consumption. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 153 Emissions, Effluents and Waste Direct greenhouse gas emissions ners, we ensure that such equipment uses environmentally Stationary source emissions: acceptable gases such as R134A, R404A, R407, R410, or R507. In 2012, the amount of our CO₂ emissions resulting from natural gas combustion in the ice cream cone furnace was During the first eight months of 2012, we used 1,567.191 t of 136.68 t CO₂, calculated on the basis of the total amount of refrigerant to replenish our cooling equipment. We later outnatural gas used and the discharge factor. We calculated our sourced our cooling equipment and air conditioning mainteCO₂ emissions for 2013 (129.42 t) using the same principle. nance activities to an external organization. Emissions resulting from transport: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by For our transport purposes, we use passenger cars, light comweight mercial vehicles and heavy freight vehicles. In 2012, we used 391 vehicles, compared to 310 in 2013. Refrigerant 2012 2013 R 22 49.02 33.00 Total: 49.02 33.00 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions R 134 A 184.95 0.00 by weight R 404 A 998.52 618.50 Total air emissions 2012 2013 (t CO2 eq.) R 407 1.40 0.00 Diesel 3,324.52 3,476.27 R 507 318.81 0.00 Gasoline 17.65 84.95 R 410 14.50 0.00 CO2 equivalent 3,342.17 3,561.22 Total: 1,518.18 618.50 Grand total 1,567.20 651.50 Our CO₂ emissions (in t CO₂ per L of fuel) resulting from transport (of raw materials, finished products, equipment, This decrease in the amount of refrigerant recorded during etc.) were estimated on the basis of the CORINAIR manual the reporting period was a result of replacing R22 by an envi(EMEP/EEA Emission Inventory Guidebook 2009). ronmentally acceptable refrigerant. Minor variations were recorded in our diesel consumption According to the Regulation on the Limits of Pollutant Emisover the past four years, which may be associated with the sions from Stationary Sources (Official Gazette 117/12), we rates of using our vehicles. Before 2013, we recorded a decreconduct measurements of our NOx and CO emissions (and asing trend in our gasoline consumption, but recorded a siassign fume numbers) resulting from natural gas combustion gnificant increased afterwards as a result of using rental cars in the ice cream cone furnace and compare such values agapowered by gasoline. inst the required limits for small heating equipment (Article 100 of said Regulation). Our emissions are determined by occasional measuring conducted at least once every two years Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Article 112 of said Regulation). by weight Ledo measured the amounts of its pollutant emissions from Year t CO2 stationary sources. The obtained NOx and CO emission con2012 136.68 centrations and the fume codes were in compliance with the 2013 129.42 required limits. The amount of pollutant emissions for 2012 was determined on the basis of calculating the total amount Total 266.10 of natural gas used and the waste gas factor. The results for 2013 were obtained on the basis of measuring conducted on Our total CO₂ emissions have been measured since 2011 when April 9 and the total amount of natural gas used. we moved our ice cream cone plant to Čavićeva 9. During the reporting period, we recorded a continuing decrease in the amoTotal direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions unt of our CO₂ emissions as a result of less hours of operation by weight (in tons) compared to the initial year and as a result of blowing fresh air into the plant. Year CO NO2 Refrigerants are used by our cooling equipment. To minimize our 2012 0.025 0.245 adverse impacts on the ozone layer and the climate, we have gra2013 0.013 0.029 dually replaced all controlled substances present in our cooling Total 0.038 0.274 equipment by appropriate substitutes during its maintenance. R12 refrigerant was entirely removed from our cooling equipCompared to the 2011-2013 period, we recorded a decreasing ment. Most of R22 was replaced by environmentally acceptable trend in those years when we did not have a licensed laborarefrigerants and we plant to phase it out completely by 2015. tory to conduct measuring. No formal measuring was conducted in 2012, so this information was obtained on the basis of When purchasing new cooling equipment and air conditiothe formula provided by the Environmental Protection Agency. 154 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Wastewater Wastewater is discharged from Ledo facilities via two connebefore discharging it into the public sewerage system of the ctions to the public sewerage system of the City of Zagreb as City of Zagreb. Wastewater treatment performance and wamixed (inspection & measuring shaft 1) and sanitary (refristewater environmental emissions are measured and wageration equipment maintenance) water. Process wastewater stewater samples are collected in accordance with the Limits is treated by neutralization and mechanically in the deposit Ordinance and the water license. Wastewater quality and tank and separator before being discharged into the public flow rates are measured by licensed institutions. sewerage system. All sanitary water from the production and refrigeration equipment maintenance facilities is discharged Total water discharge into the public sewerage system without any prior treatment. Wastewater is then channeled from the public system into Year Wastewater (m3) the city treatment plant before being discharged into the re2012 67,530 levant recipient (a natural waterway). 2013 81,125 In 2012, our total water discharge of mixed wastewater meaTotal 148,655 sured on inspection & measuring shaft 1 was 67,530 m³, compared to 81,125 m³ in 2013. Our amounts of wastewater show a variable trend as they deWastewater sampling is conducted according to the water pend on the technology used for each production process and license on the inspection & measuring shaft, immediately the amount of precipitation in a year. Wastewater analysis 2012 by quarter 2013 by quarter Parameter I II III IV I II III IV Mixed wastewater flow rate – level meter, 15,453 21,470 19,189 11,418 10,856 20,586 36,069 13,614 in m³/quarter 2012 (six-month periods) 2013 (six-month periods) Parameter I (22/3/2012) II (22/11/2012) I (20/2/2013) II (17/10/2013) Mixed wastewater flow rate (L/sec) 5,700 4,700 6,500 6,500 Dissolved oxygen content (mgO2/L) 5,600 9,600 13,500 10,000 BOD5 (mg O2 / lit) 26,000 60,000 26,000 25,000 maks, 250 COD – dichromate (mg O2 / lit) 68,000 135,000 86,000 154,000 max. 700 Total suspended substance (mg/L) 26,000 26,000 14,000 10,000 Total dry evaporation residue (mg/L) 602,000 552,000 195,000 524,000 pH 7,000 7,100 7,000 6,700 6.5-9.5 Visible waste substance None None None None Color None None None None Water temperature (oC) 15,000 15,600 16,000 16,100 max. 45 Settleable substances 0,100 0,100 0,100 0,1000 max. 10 Total oil and grease (mg/lit) 1,000 4,000 3,000 1,000 max. 100 Mineral oil (mg/lit) 0,140 0,020 0,067 0,068 max. 30 Anionic detergent (mg/lit) 0,082 0,173 0,074 0,317 max. 10 Non-ionic detergent (mg/lit) 0,057 0,085 0,051 0,183 max. 10 Sulfates (mg/lit) 34,000 56,000 33,000 26,000 The wastewater analysis results are in compliance with all and improved the quality of our process wastewater discharge. water license requirements relating to discharging water Before using cleaning products, we mechanically clean all worinto a public sewerage system and in accordance with the king areas, floors and walls and use all cleaning products and applicable regulations of the Republic of Croatia. disinfectants in a controlled manner. Some of the process wastewater resulting from our CIP cleaning activities is treated by Having optimized and automated our technological process and neutralization and all wastewater is mechanically treated before automatically controlled it, we minimized our organic discharge being discharged into the public sewerage system. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 155 Waste Ledo sorts its waste at its source, separately collects it by waste totaling 37,110,667 t, twelve types of non-hazardous type, and temporarily stores it in a designated area. Such waste totaling 374,503.72 t, and 523,280 t of municipal wawaste is collected by an organization licensed for waste ste. In 2013, we disposed of eleven types of hazardous waste collection, transport, intermediation, treatment, recovery or totaling 45.14 t, ten types of non-hazardous waste totaling disposal. In 2012, we disposed of eleven types of hazardous 342.80 t, and 500.24 t of municipal waste. Total weight of waste by type and disposal method (tons) Type of waste Treatment Collected by 2012 2013 Hamburger, Eko Flor, Agroproteinka, Kemis, Non-hazardous waste R 374.50 342.80 Gumiimpex, Sava promet, Unija nova, Makromikro, Rol-Bo Ciak, Flora VTC, CE-ZA-R, Kemis, Hazardous waste D 37.11 45.14 Rijekatank Municipal waste Čistoća d.o.o. 523.38 500.24 Total 934.89 888.18 The amounts of waste were provided by the respective operators. Although the amount of municipal waste increased during The amount of separated plastic packaging decreased comthis reporting period compared to the preceding reporting pared to the preceding reporting period. In 2013, the amoperiod, a decrease by 4.40% was recorded in 2013 compared unt of plastic packaging increased by 32.71% as a result of to 2012. This is a result of more rational use of raw materials increased production of products that are packaged in therand packaging materials in our production process. mo-shrinking foil as transport packaging instead of cardboard boxes. One of the ways to reduce the amount of plastic The amount of paper and cardboard packaging decreased by packaging is to make appropriate arrangements with our 6.21% in 2012 and increased by 6.28% in 2013. The amounts suppliers. Whenever possible, delivery is arranged in reusaof separated paper and cardboard packaging vary depenble packaging. ding on the amount of packaging material in which our raw materials arrive and on the method of packaging finished We aim to reduce our waste amounts by continuously traiproducts during the production process. In 2012, we started ning our employees in proper waste sorting and separation packaging our finished products in thermo-shrinking foil inby type and source. Such training also aims to raise our emstead of cardboard transport boxes, whereby we reduced the ployees’ awareness of the importance and methods of enviamount of waste packaging that would have resulted from its ronmental protection. non-compliant handling. In 2013, the amount of this type of waste increased because of increased amount of raw material packaged in paper/cardboard packaging. Spills As it did in the preceding reporting period, Ledo has internal the Environment, and the Operating Protection and Rescue regulations in place on how to act in case any substances that Plan. may have an adverse environmental impact spill. We presently have six internal documents applicable at the company We did not record any spills of chemicals, oil or fuel in this level: the Operating Plan of Intervention Measures in Case or the preceding reporting periods. We undertake additional of Extraordinary and Sudden Water Pollution, the Operameasures and initiatives to reduce our adverse environmenting and Maintenance Plan for Sewerage Structures and the tal impacts by regularly having our cooling system gauged, Wastewater Treatment Plant, the Rules for Disposing of all tested and periodically inspected. Our cooling equipment is Types of Process Waste and Sludge resulting from Wastewaregularly inspected and maintained and our cooling plants ter Treatment, the Operating Plan of Environmental Proteand cooling equipment are checked for water-tightness and ction Interventions, the Assessment of Risk of Disasters and properly treated in case it needs to be disposed of. Major Accidents to People, Tangible and Cultural Goods and 156 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Products and Services For the purpose of minimizing our losses and costs, we conConsidering the adverse environmental impact of greenhoutrol our consumption of raw materials and packaging by opse gas emissions, all new vehicles ordered must comply with timizing our technological process, systematically training the presently applicable Euro standards and be powered by our employees, optimizing our production batches, rationally sulfur-free fuel according to DIN EN 590. All Ledo vehicles using our raw materials in powder or liquid form, and adjuare regularly maintained and serviced and routes are optimisting our packaging materials to each type of product (we zed on an annual basis. In 2012, we discontinued seven Euro reduced the dimensions of the transport boxes used for each 3 freight vehicles and purchased seven new Euro 5 freight type of impulse ice cream and use thermo-shrinking foil invehicles featuring a start-stop option that turns the engine stead of cardboard boxes for certain family products). off during short stops. In 2013, we approved an order of two new Euro 5 vehicles featuring a start-stop system. During the same period, we discontinued four Euro 2 freight vehicles. Compliance All inspections conducted in 2012 and 2013 resulted in sanctions were imposed on Ledo for non-compliance with any positive findings and no fines or any other non-monetary environmental laws or regulations. Environmental Protection Investments Total environmental protection investments and expenditures (HRK) 2012 2013 Waste disposal, emissions treatment and rehabilitation costs 1,809,224.42 1,745,013.71 Environmental prevention and management costs 59,746.26 66,386.89 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments 1,868,970.68 1,811,400.60 Our environmental prevention and management costs incutection system. Our environmental prevention and managerred during this reporting period were much lower than they ment costs in this reporting period (2012-2013) were roughly were in the preceding reporting period because we had no the same. major investments in our environmental prevention and proPlanned Activities and main Objectives for 2014 and 2015 Our primary objectives set for the next period are to improve our waste management system and further reduce our energy consumption per product unit. By improving and optimizing our technological processes, we plan to reduce our electricity consumption per ton of product in 2014 by 3% compared to 2013. During the same period, we plan to reduce our water consumption per ton of product by 3% and reduce our steam consumption per ton of product, also by 3%. As the company’s environmental management objectives are defined on an annual basis, the objectives for 2015 will be defined at the end of this calendar year. We are planning further development of our human resources by providing training opportunities all year round. Such trainings will include topics relating to actions to be taken in case of incidents in accordance with our internal operating plans, operational training in the area of environmental protection (wastewater, actions to be taken in case of minor incidents: spills of acid, oil, etc.), and topics based on the requirements of the ISO 14001:2004 international standard (assessment of environmental aspects and identification of significant environmental aspects). Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 157 Ice Cream and Frozen Food Frikom d.o.o. Frikom developed from an experimental frozen food plant As part of our environmental management system, we reguand a frozen dough and ice cream plant established by the larly monitor and measure our energy and water consumptiIndustrial Technology Institute within the PKB Institute. on, wastewater and air quality, and manage our waste in a International Finance Corporation in former Yugoslavia masystematic and planned manner with a special emphasis on naged to make Unilever and International Finance Corporahazardous waste flows and special waste flows. We continuotion in Washington interested in the project, which resulted usly monitor all applicable regulations and align our businein the establishment of Frikom in June 1976. Pursuant to the ss with their requirements. purchase agreement entered into in 2003, Frikom became a joint-stock company, with Agrokor of Croatia as its majoriDuring the reporting period, we continued to monitor the ty shareholder. In September 2013, Frikom changed its legal effects of our measures undertaken as part of our clean proform to a limited liability company and the company was duction project, while constantly aiming to optimize our use acquired by Ledo. Its production plants are located at Zrenjaof natural resources. For this purpose, we undertook numeroninski put b.b., Belgrade, including an ice cream production us measures to minimize our losses and improve our monitoplant, a plant for processing and packaging frozen vegetaring of natural resource consumption and thus provided for bles, and a frozen dough production plant. Frikom operates better control of all processes within the factory. We overa network of four distribution centers and uses 140 delivery hauled the main steam divider and purchased a steam meter vehicles and over 52,000 cooling devices. for the factory boiler room and the blanching machine in the vegetable processing plant. We automated the chlorine Frikom holds: station within the factory’s internal plumbing system and thus provided for better control in managing our production • a quality management system certificate according to the process and drinking water disinfection. We reconstructed requirements of ISO 9001:2008; certification body: Quality our condensate return line at the ice cream blend preparaAustria; certification date: December 16, 2008; certificate tion department and thus achieved savings on water and number: 07576/0; certificate expiration date: December 15, energy. The resulting water savings amount to approxima2014; tely 1,300 m³ annually. We reconstructed the pipeline in the chemical water preparation department and thus provided • a HACCP certificate; certification body: Quality Austria; for more security in water supply and reduced the likelihood certification date: June 12, 2007; certificate number: of any accidents. We established better control of our waste 00133/0; certificate expiration date: June 3, 2016; management activities with a special emphasis on the management of hazardous waste and its ultimate disposal that • a food safety management system certificate according to will be most acceptable in the context of environmental prothe requirements of ISO 22000:2005; certification body: tection. We improved our cooperation with waste collecting Quality Austria; certification date: April 12, 2010; certifioperators, thus enabling the free-of-charge use of over 60 cate number: 00082/0; certificate expiration date: June 3, containers for separating secondary raw materials and better 2016; waste sorting at the source, as well as its appropriate ultimate disposal. • a Global GAP (Good Agricultural Practice) certificate; certification body: ISACert, first certification date: October As regards our objectives set for 2012 and 2013, we achieved 12-13, 2010; last certification date: September 12-13, 2013; the following: certificate number: 137543; certificate expiration date: November 7, 2014; 1. We entered into a contract with the Belgrade Paper Mill, which provided 60 containers to Frikom to be used for se• an environmental management system certificate accorparating secondary raw materials and a paper, cardboard ding to the requirements of ISO 14001:2004; certification and nylon baling press. In addition, BiS Reciklažni centar, body: Quality Austria; certification date: June 6-7, 2011; with which we have a contract in place for collecting waste certificate number: 01490/0, certificate expiration date: light bulbs, provided a container for sorting and disposing July 3, 2014; of that type of waste. We thus provided for improved waste collection. • an occupational health and safety management system certificate according to the requirements of BS OHSAS 2. We reconstructed the steam meter in the boiler room to 18001:2007; certification body: Quality Austria, certificaticontrol the amounts of steam generated. on date: June 6-7, 2011, certificate number: 00612/0; certificate expiration date: July 3, 2014. 158 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 159 3. We reconstructed our condensate return line in the ice creOn the other hand, we did not provide for the collection of am blend preparation department to reduce our consumptiplant waste and establish cooperation with a biogas plant on of fluids and energy. because no biogas plants were built in the surrounding area. The reconstruction of the wastewater treatment system was 4. We reinstalled our old flow rate meters at the entrance to not completed and this remains a priority for the next period. the production plants. We did, however, begin to prepare the engineering and technological designs and chose a wastewater treatment tech5. We reconstructed the pipeline in the chemical water prepanology, technical concept and a location for the wastewater ration department to secure our water supply and minimitreatment system. The construction start date was postponed ze the possibility of any accidents. due to the planned enlargement of our production capacities, which will significantly affect the characteristics and capacity of the treatment plant. Materials The materials used in our production processes are natural tly (by 1%), while our other materials decreased by 15.6%. gas used to generate steam for our production processes, raw This is partly a result of the fact that we discontinued using materials, packaging, oil and lubricants, spare parts, fuel (ED, our own farmland and started using contractors in 2013, whiD2), and mineral fertilizer and plant protection products (inch is why we stopped using mineral fertilizer and protective secticide, fungicide, herbicide) used in agricultural productiagents. on. Materials used by weight or volume kg Materials used by volume – m3 Type of material used 2012. 2013. Raw material 23,614,701 21,688,670 Type of material used 2012. 2013. Ancillary process materials 532,147 477,031 Natural gas 1,578,474 1,797,574 Packaging materials 2,850,861 2,813,500 Fuel (ED, D2) 148 152 Total 26,997,709 24,979,201 Total 1,578,622 1,797,726 As regards recycled materials, Frikom uses cardboard packaCompared to the preceding reporting period, we recorded a ging/transport boxes partly made of recycled cardboard. This decrease in our average consumption of materials used. Our packaging is used as secondary packaging to transport all consumption of natural gas and fuel decreased insignificantypes of products. 160 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Energy Non-renewable energy sources used by Frikom are natural compared to the preceding reporting period. This decrease is gas used to generate steam in our internal boiler room (for a result of replacing some of our diesel powered vehicles by our production processes and to heat the factory in wingas powered vehicles, by downsizing our fleet, and by better ter months) and fuel – ED, BMB and LPG used to transport organizing our transport in the field. products and, to a minor extent, to transport our workforce members. Indirect energy consumption represents the amount of electricity supplied and used from non-renewable energy sources, which we use for all our production and ancillary procesDirect energy consumption by primary energy ses in the factory. source (non-renewable energy sources) Fuel Natural gas LPG Indirect energy consumption by primary energy Year source (indirect energy supplied and used from (GJ) (GJ) (GJ) non-renewable energy sources) 2012 38,655 94,733 8.2 2013 37,198 93,498 17.2 Year Electricity (GJ) Total 75,828 188,231 25.4 2012 73,203 2013 74,554 Total 147,757 Energy consumption per unit of product Natural gas Fuel Year (m 3/t) (l/t) Electricity consumption per product unit 2011 72.99 45.40 Year Electricity (kWh/t) 2012 60.18 36.87 2012 504.16 2013 55.72 38.83 2013 481.41 Our natural gas consumption per product unit decreased by 17.55% in 2012 and by 23.66% in 2013 compared to the preOur electricity consumption per product unit decreased by ceding reporting period. Our fuel consumption per produ6.31% in 2012 and by 10.36% in 2013 compared to the precect unit decreased by 18.97% in 2012 and by 14.66% in 2013 ding reporting period, i.e. compared to 2011. Water The total amount of water used by the factory is obtained Through continuous monitoring of water withdrawal and from our own source, by withdrawing ground water from six the amounts of water used and discharged, as well as throwells located within the factory area. ugh overhauling our present installations and equipment and replacing them with new ones, we achieve savings and Total water withdrawal by source (m3) establish control over water consumption thus continuing our efforts to reduce our consumption of and save water. Our total water consumption for this reporting period increased Year Total water withdrawal from Frikom sources by 15.7% compared to our total water consumption in the 2012 485,634 preceding reporting period as a result of increased production volumes. Our water consumption per ton of product decre2013 591,910 ased by 9.07% in 2012 and increased by 4% in 2013 compared Total 1,077,544 to our consumption per ton of product in the preceding reporting period. This increase in water consumption per ton of product in 2013 is a result of changing how we measure our water consumption, i.e. moving the measurement point from Water consumption per product unit the entrance to the plumbing system to the exit from the factory. This change is a result of insufficient accuracy of our Year Water (m3/t) formerly used measurement instrument. 2012 12.03 2013 13.76 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 161 Biodiversity Frikom does not have any owned or leased land in or adjacent to any protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value. Emissions, Effluents and Waste Direct greenhouse gas emissions in Frikom are a result of naFreon is used as refrigerant in our cooling equipment (cootural gas and fuel combustion, while indirect emissions are a ling displays, refrigerator trucks, chambers, air conditioners). result of using electricity. In 2012, we used a total of 2.20 t of Freon to replenish our cooling equipment. 0.076 t of this amount was R11, R12 and R22 refrigerants. In 2013, we used 1.61 t of Freon to repleTotal direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions nish our cooling equipment. 0.035 t was R11, R12 and R22 by weight refrigerants. R11, R12 and R22 are being phased out and are no longer supplied. The amount presented in this Report was Total air emissions 2012 2013 supplied earlier and is used to replenish a small number of (t CO2 eq.) old devices. Production plants 1,990 1,975 Fuel for transport 1,095 1,054 The amount of R11, R12 and R22 used decreased by 42% in LPG 84 176 2012 and by 73.1% in 2013 compared to the amount of such refrigerants used in the preceding reporting period. CO2 equivalent 3,169 3,205 The total amount of refrigerant used during the relevant reOur total greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 9.2% in porting period was roughly the same as that in the preceding 2012 and by 8.17% in 2013 compared to the preceding reporreporting period. ting period, while our total production increased by 12.1% in 2012 and by 19.5% in 2013. This decrease in greenhouse gas Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions emissions is a result of using less energy during the reporby weight (in tons) ting period. Year PM10 NOx CO Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions 2012 0.30 28 5 by weight 2013 0.34 26 6 Year t CO2 Total 0.64 54 11 2012 504 2013 502 The emissions generated by the organization are a result of Total 1,006 combustion of natural gas and fuel (ED, BMB, LPG) used by the company for its production and distribution purposes and relate to our emissions of NOx, PM10 and CO. The quality of Emissions resulting from our other activities are emissions exhaust fumes resulting from natural gas combustion in the resulting from our employees traveling to and from work and factory boiler room is determined by having a certified opebusiness trips and are not substantial or subject to signifirator measure our pollutant emissions as legally required and cant decreases as a result of changes in the organization’s ordered by a competent inspector. Such measuring is on an activities. annual basis, which is consistent with the sizes and capacities of our boilers. 162 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Wastewater Total water discharge (m3) Year Deposit tank Lisičji jarak Total wastewater 2012 438,690 19,848 458,538 2013 544,480 15,436 559,916 Total 983,170 35,284 1,018,454 The factory produces wastewater, including process wastewading reporting period (the average value for the preceding reter, sanitary wastewater and atmospheric wastewater. There porting period was 13.6 m³/t, compared to 11.47 m³/t for this are two points of discharge – the deposit tank from where reporting period). wastewater is channeled to the PKB collector and then discharged into the Danube and the rainwater drain through whiIn 2012, the quality of our wastewater in the deposit tank ch atmospheric wastewater is channeled to Lisičji jarak. The was far above the values recorded in the preceding reporting total amount of wastewater discharged from the deposit tank period, and significantly improved in 2013. In 2012, deviain 2012 was 438,690 m³, compared to 544.480 m³ in 2013. tions occurred in three most important wastewater quality The amount of atmospheric wastewater discharged into the parameters in relation to the required limits, whereas 90% of Lisičji jarak irrigation channel in 2012 was 19,848 m³, comthe wastewater analyses conducted in 2013 were within the pared to 15,436 m³ in 2013. Our total wastewater discharge required limits and deviations only occurred in two wastewarecorded during the entire reporting period increased by 25% ter parameters. compared to our total wastewater discharge recorded in the preceding reporting period. Despite our plan to build a process wastewater treatment system within this reporting period, we suspended our actiThe amount of wastewater discharged into the PKB collector vities on preparing the documentation necessary for its conincreased by 12% in 2012 and by 39.5% in 2013 compared struction because we plan to expand our production plants, to the preceding reporting period. Because of the possibiliwhich will affect the amounts and quality of the factory’s waty of deviation in the atmospheric wastewater parameters as stewater and the necessary treatment plant volume. a result of impurities ending up in such wastewater resulting from the washing of our handling areas in front of our In 2012, we selected a designing company to provide an engiproduction plants, atmospheric wastewater was transferred neering & technological concept, which delivered the equipto the deposit tank by a by-pass for most of the year. Accorment for the future treatment plant. We conducted detailed dingly, the amount of wastewater discharged into the Lisičji analyses of the hydraulic and qualitative characteristics of jarak channel decreased by 44% in 2012 and by 66% in 2013 the factory’s wastewater, based on which an engineering & compared to the preceding reporting period. Treated sanitary technological concept was provided, including a proposal for wastewater is discharged from the bio disc machine into the the phases and the equipment for the wastewater treatment deposit tank. The quality of our wastewater when leaving the system. In 2013, we entered into a contract and put into opebio disc is far below the minimum allowed values and is conration a licensed designing company that began to prepare sistent with quality category 2 water. the engineering & technological design for the treatment plant. Frikom, the designing company and the supplier of the The total amount of all wastewater generated and our water equipment agreed upon the technology to be used for waconsumption decreased compared to the preceding reporting stewater treatment, the engineering concept, and the exact period, amounting to 10.87 m³/t of product unit in 2012 and location and appearance of the plant. 12.67 m³/t of product unit in 2013. Our wastewater discharge per product unit decreased by 15.7% compared to the preceSustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 163 Waste Total weight of waste by type and disposal method (kg) Type of waste Treatment Collected by 2012 2013 Papir servis FHB, IvLajn, Beotok, Maks union metali, Non-hazardous waste 7,506,200 8,088,910 JKP Gradska čistoća, Perihard inženjering, etc. Kemis, BiS Reciklažni Hazardous waste centar. Jugo-Impex, 131,260 50,005 Farmakom MB, etc. Total 7,637,460 8,138,915 Spills No spills of dangerous substances were recorded in 2012 and 2013. Products and Services During the same period, we undertook activities to improIn 2012, the total amount of packaging materials reclaimed ve our control of water and steam consumption by installing was 21.01% of the amount of packaging placed on the market, new steam meters and reconstructing our existing water which was consistent with the relevant targets. Paper accometers. We reduced our water and energy consumption by unts for 54.81%, plastic accounts for 18.09%, metal accounts reconstructing the condensate return line at the ice cream for 9.43%, and wood accounts for 7.16%. We reclaimed 34.2% blend preparation department. Such reduced and better conof all paper we placed on the market, 15.9% of plastic, 53.6% trolled water consumption was also a result of reconstructing of metal and 6.9% of wood. In 2013, the total amount of pacthe pipeline at the chemical water preparation department. kaging materials reclaimed was 32% of all packaging placed We thereby also improved safety and reduced the possibility on the market, which was consistent with the relevant target of any accidents. (23%). This information was received from our contractors responsible for collecting and properly disposing of packaging waste placed on the market. Compliance In 2012 and 2013, Frikom did not pay any court-imposed or tal laws or regulations and no other non-monetary sanctions any other fines for failure to comply with any environmenwere imposed. Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting In 2012, our total greenhouse gas emissions resulting from products and other goods and materials used for transporting products and other goods was the same as it the organization’s operations, and transporting was in the preceding period, while it increased by 8% in 2013 members of the workforce as a result of increased production and distribution volumes. Total CO2 emission Fuel for transport Year (tons of CO2 (GJ) equivalent for fuel) 2012 58,346 1,538 2013 63,655 1,678 Total 122,001 3,216 164 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Environmental Protection Investments Costs of waste and wastewater disposal and analysis, emissions treatment, rehabilitation, maintenance and investmenta Waste disposal, Environmental emissions treatment, Year prevention, investments rehabilitation, and and management (EUR) pollution costs (EUR) 2012 383,142 69,353 2013 431,579 90,953 Total 813,721 160,306 Planned Activities and main Objectives for 2014 and 2015 1. T  o contract the service of collecting vegetable waste resulting from vegetable processing to a biogas plant remains an objective for solving the issue of organic waste for the next period, as there are still no biogas plants available that could dispose of such waste. 2. To reconstruct our process water and wastewater treatment system. 3. T  o automate the plumbing pumping station to improve distribution and reduce the amount of water withdrawn to minimize our electricity consumption and our pump maintenance costs. 4. To replace the old hydrochloric acid tank by a new one, whereby we will enhance our chemicals management safety and reduce the likelihood of any spills. 5. To overhaul our heating line in a part of the factory complex and thus reduce our heat and water losses. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 165 Ice Cream and Frozen Food Irida d.o.o. IRIDA was the first fish processing factory in continental • Representatives of Bureau Veritas conducted internal and Croatia, established in 1978 in Daruvar. Its initial capacities external audits of our integrated process management used for primary processing, confectioning and deep freezing system (2 supervisory audits ISO 9001 and ISO 14001, of freshwater fish, have developed into a modern factory for and 1 recertification audit and 1 supervisory audit for HAprocessing, confectioning and deep freezing of all kinds of CCP). freshwater and saltwater fish, mollusks, crustaceans, seas• We sorted waste by type and source and disposed of it hells, fish products and other seafood. through licensed operators. In line with the prevailing market requirements, the comWe made several investments during this reporting period pany’s production is primarily based on processing saltwater for the purpose of optimizing our use of natural resources fish and mollusks, whereas freshwater fish accounts for very and constantly improving and preventing and minimizing little of the overall production (about 2%-3% annually). all adverse impacts on the environment – water, air and soil in our immediate and global settings. Consequently, these Irida has been owned by Ledo and has operated as part of the investments were as follows: we built and put into operatiAgrokor Group since 2002. In 2005, Irida implemented its enon a wastewater treatment plant; by installing an electricity vironmental management system and thus became the first consumption monitoring system, we reduced our electriciAgrokor company to hold an ISO 14000 certificate. ty consumption per ton of cleaned product (squid) by 9%; by dividing a single gas network into two networks (production In 2008, Irida received a grant as part of the SAPARD proplant and corporate building) and rationalizing our congram for its Packaging Line Technological Equipment Prosumption, we reduced our natural gas consumption by 10%, ject. In 2009, Irida established its integrated quality, food and reduced our consumption of chemicals used for washing safety and environmental management system and had it by 5% by installing stationary foam machines. certified according to the requirements of ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001:2004 and HACCP. In 2012, Irida received IPARD To attain and maintain top quality of our products, a food aid for its project for building a wastewater treatment plant. factory of this type uses plenty of water as this is required By keeping up to date with local and global achievements in by the technological process and high hygienic standards in fish processing and constantly investing in modernization of production. Using a clean production methodology, we take its business processes, Irida ensured a remarkable level of testeps to minimize our water consumption and our pollutant chnological equipment. emissions into wastewater. Having rationalized consumption, we achieved a decrease of 25% in the reporting period. All All relevant environmental management programs were imcomparisons relate to the 2010-2011 reporting period. plemented during the 2012-2013 reporting period: • We provided employee training programs, both internally Irida complies with and implements the provisions of all laws (all permanent and new employees – evacuation drill, ratiand regulations of the Republic of Croatia and the EU defional use of resources, waste management) and externally ning environmental issues and constantly aims to improve (training the responsible person for handling dangerous its attitude towards the environment. Environmental manachemicals). gement is reflected in proper waste sorting by type and sour• We undertook our regular activities – gauged our safety ce, continuous monitoring of our energy consumption levels, valves and pressure meters on compressors, preventively and constant training of our employees in rational use. maintained our cooling system (ammonia replenishment), monitored the quality of our wastewater and sludge, and measured our exhaust fume emissions from the boiler room in 2012. 166 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Materials Raw materials processed (cleaning, freezing, confectioning, In 2012 and 2013, the ancillary process materials used breading, packaging) at Irida are classified as follows: by Irida were lubricating oils used to operate its cooling • saltwater fish (oily and white), system and vacuuming machines. These are mineral-based, • other marine organisms (mollusks, seashells, crustaceans non-chlorinated lubricating oils for engines and gears. Duand musky octopus), ring this reporting period, the amount of ancillary process • freshwater fish, materials used decreased by 12% compared to the preceding • meat (chicken, pork and baby beef), and reporting period. • miscellaneous (vegetable soup and mushroom soup). In 2012 and 2013, Irida used cardboard and polymer packaSaltwater fish, other marine organisms and meat are deliveging materials in its production. During this reporting pered to Irida frozen at up to -18 °C. Freshwater fish is delivered riod, the amount of packaging materials used decreased by fresh as a raw material and then frozen at Irida at -18 °C after 27%. cleaning. Compared to 2012, in 2013 we recorded a decrease in the amount of raw material used in the case of meat (91%), salMaterials used by weight or volume kg twater fish (39%) and freshwater fish (29%), whereas an increase by 8% was recorded in the case of other marine organisms. Type of material used 2012 2013 The total amount of raw material used in 2013 decreased by Raw material 3,186,963 2,850,492 11% compared to 2012. This is mainly due to the fact that we Ancillary process materials 0,374 0,239 relocated almost all our meat packing and some of our saltwater fish packing activities to Ledo packing facility in DugopoPackaging materials 386,985 292,918 lje. The reason for the decrease in the amount of raw freshwaTotal 3,574,322 3,143,649 ter fish is that we discontinued this product range. Compared to the preceding reporting period (2010-2011), we recorded a decrease in the amount of raw material used for freshwater Recycled packaging materials are mostly used as secondary/ fish (87%), meat (64%) and saltwater fish (45%), whereas an intransport packaging, as they were in the preceding reporting crease by 7% was recorded in the case of other marine organiperiod. sms. The total amount of raw material used decreased by 19%. Energy The only primary energy source used by Irida is natural gas. Our natural gas consumption recorded during the 2012It uses no other fuels (diesel or gasoline) because it does not 2013 period decreased by 10% compared to the preceding have its own transport division. Natural gas is used to heat reporting period. This is a result of more rational use of gas sanitary water and all premises. and dividing a single gas network into two networks, thus allowing us to heat the production plant independently of the In 2012 and 2013, gas was supplied to Irida by Darkom, a corporate building (the plant operates while the corporate bucompany based in Daruvar, on the basis of a service contract ilding is closed, or vice versa). signed. We did not produce or sell any direct energy sources during the relevant period. Indirect energy supplied and used from sources external to Irida includes electricity, ammonia, refrigerants and liquid nitrogen. Direct energy consumption by primary energy source (non-renewable energy sources) Electricity is used to supply our equipment, lighting devices Fuel Natural gas LPG and machines. Electricity continues to be supplied by HEP Year Elektra Križ Daruvar and our consumption is monitored on (GJ) (GJ) (GJ) the basis of the bills received. 2012 0 4,296 0 2013 0 4,223 0 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy Total 0 8,519 0 source (indirect energy supplied and used from non-renewable energy sources) In 2012, gas prices ranged between: Year Electricity (GJ) • 2,92 HRK/m³ and 3,05 HRK/m³, • 322870 HRK/kWh and 0.442731 HRK/kWh. 2012 6,414 2013 6,646 In 2013, gas prices ranged between 0.396298 HRK/kWh and Total 13,060 0.404937 HRK/kWh. The total gas consumption and price includes all gas meters In 2012, we installed a 24-hour electricity consumption moat the location (large gas meter, small gas meter (kitchen), nitoring system. The results of a scan showed which equipand the gas meter in the drying kiln). ment uses most electricity and they now operate when lower Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 167 rates apply. Our electricity consumption increased by 2% Indirect energy consumption by primary energy during the 2012-2013 reporting period compared to the presource (indirect energy supplied and used from ceding reporting period. This increase is a result of increanon-renewable energy sources) sed cleaning activities (squid) and putting into operation of Year Ammonia (kg) a wastewater treatment plant using electricity. Our electricity consumption was in proportion to our product cleaning 2012 1,640 activities because the technological process involves using 2013 0,840 electricity for the freezing tunnel (temperatures between -26 Total 2,480 °C and -35 °C). Depending on the amounts of products, the tunnel may operate for 15 to 20 hours daily. Our electricity consumption (MW) per ton of cleaned product decreased Freon is used as refrigerant in our primary cooling system, compared to 2011 because freezing in a Styrofoam mat was which is also closed. The tanks and pipelines of this cooling replaced by metal molds for all smaller commercial packasystem contain 120 kg of R404 A and 20 kg of R22 – the amoging sizes (400 g and 500 g), so our batches within a freezing unts and types of refrigerant did not change compared to the cycle are now bigger. preceding reporting period. Ammonia is used as refrigerant in our primary cooling Liquid nitrogen is used for direct freezing of breaded produsystem, which is closed. The tanks and pipelines of our closed cts. In 2012, our production of breaded products increased, cooling system contain approximately 3,000 kg of ammonia. which resulted in increased use of liquid nitrogen; in 2013, New amounts of ammonia must be loaded into the system we downsized this product range, which also resulted in a every year because ammonia is lost every time oil is dischardecrease in the consumption of liquid nitrogen. Our liquid niged from the compressor. In 2012, we replenished the system trogen consumption increased by 50% compared to the precewith a substantial amount of ammonia while overhauling the ding reporting period as a result of increased production. plant and replenishing the new plant (the new container is larger than the old one). Compared to the preceding reporIndirect energy consumption by primary energy ting period, we loaded 63% more ammonia into our cooling source (indirect energy supplied and used from system. non-renewable energy sources) Year Liquid nitrogen (kg) 2012 271,137 2013 224,408 Total 495,545 Water Irida uses water for drinking, for production purposes as prothat our internal water supply system is watertight. The cess and cooling water, for sanitary purposes, and for wasmost recent test was conducted in 2011 by using the V-wahing its plants and facilities. Water from the public water suter method. The inspection and testing results showed that pply system supplied by Darkom from Daruvar is used for all some inspection shafts and drains did not meet the relevant these purposes. Our water costs are monitored on the basis of watertightness requirements. After rehabilitation, the wathe bills received, we internally record our water consumptitertightness of the rehabilitated parts of the internal seweon on the water meter on a monthly basis to rationalize our rage system was tested, and the test results showed that all use of water, and train our employees in rational use of wafacilities (shafts and drains) were in ling with watertightness ter. We also internally monitor our water consumption when requirements. the plant is not in operation (weekends and holidays) to check Total water withdrawal by source (m3) From a public For process Total amount of all Year From wells water supply purposes waters withdrawn system 2012 0 0 17,226 17,226 2013 0 0 22,071 22,071 Total 0 0 39,297 39,297 In 2012 and 2013, the price of water was 8,90 HRK/ m³. use and a new technological process for cleaning raw materials adopted as of 2011. Compared to the 2010-2011 reporting period, our water consumption decreased by 25% as a result of rationalization in 168 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Irida is located on the edge of the town, in an industrial zone. engages in processing of fishery products, meat processing A location within the factory area covering 0.03 km² contains and repacking and storing frozen animal-origin food. Irida twelve buildings (corporate building, production plant, wais a food facility registered in the records of authorized food rehouse/refrigeration facility, and ancillary facilities). Irida facilities under number 677. Biodiversity As Irida is located within an industrial zone, it has no impact on any protected areas and their biodiversity. Emissions, Effluents and Waste Our CO₂ emissions are a result of natural gas combustion the amounts of pollutants in our waste fumes from our small (point of emission: boiler room exhaust line) to obtain therheating equipment through occasional measuring conducted mal energy for heating sanitary water and all premises. The at least once every two years. Our NO₂ and CO emissions are amount of CO₂ emissions is calculated on the basis of the a result of natural gas combustion (for heating water and preamount of gas used. Our CO₂ emissions decreased compared mises). IRI SISAK conducts measuring of pollutant emissito the preceding reporting period as a result of decreased naons from stationary sources at Irida’s location once every two tural gas consumption. years. The most recent measuring was conducted on October 25, 2012. The concentrations of NO₂ and CO emissions and Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions the fume code were within the required emission limits. Our by weight NO₂ and CO emissions decreased compared to the preceding Total air emissions reporting period as a result of decreased natural gas con2012 2013 sumption. (t CO2 eq.) Production plants 0,205 0,202 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Fuel for transport 0 0 by weight (in tons) LPG 0 0 Year SO2 NO2 CO CO2 equivalent 0,205 0,202 2012 0 0.17 0.04 According to Article 112 of the Regulation on the Limits of 2013 0 0.36 0.04 Pollutant Emissions (Official Gazette 117/12), we determine Total 0 0.53 0.08 Wastewater Process wastewater at the location is treated by our wastewaAgriculture and Rural Development checked that the invester treatment plant (mechanical and physical & chemical tment was consistent with the provisions of the contract. In procedures) and in the deposit tank facility (mechanical proDecember of 2013, the plant was completed and became fully cedure). operational. In 2011, Irida submitted an application for using IPARD Process wastewater flows into the treatment plant where rofunds for Measure 103 Investments in the processing and ugh impurities are separated by a screw sieve (mechanical marketing of agriculture and fishery products to restructure treatment) and then enters a flotation machine where even those activities and to upgrade them to Community standarthe smallest particles of fat are extracted (physical & chemids , Section 103.3 Fisheries Sector, subsection 103.3.1 Concal treatment). Waste collected on the screw sieve is animal struction, and 103.3.2 Equipment, whereby it plans to reconby-product, while waste collected by the flotation machine is struct, expand and equip its wastewater treatment plant for waste sludge. Wastewater so treated flows to the deposit tank the purpose of improving its effluent quality. facility through sewerage pipes. In the deposit tank facility, floating peel and sludge and all floating substances are In 2012, we began to build our wastewater treatment plant retained by a barrier and evenly deposited across the bottom. and put it into operation in early 2013. During the commisDuring the reporting period, we cleaned the deposit tank fasioning period, we obtained the relevant occupation permit, cility and waste sludge (waste code 19 08 13*) was collected adjusted the equipment to achieve better output parameby a licensed hazardous waste operator. After being analyters (COD and BOD₅) for wastewater and carried out additiozed by a certified laboratory, waste sludge further divided by nal work on the equipment, whereas the Paying Agency for waste code according to the results and properly disposed of. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 169 Treated wastewater is discharged into the city collector via waste code 19 08 13*. The operation of the plant increased an inspection shaft. the amount of animal by-products (AB) (waste code 02 02 02) and resulted in a new waste code (02 02 04) – sludge from Fish processing has the greatest impact on the generation on-site effluent treatment. As the plant was put in operation of wastewater. Most water is used to clean and thaw fish. in 2013, we expect to determine the actual amounts of waste During equipment and area washing and cleaning, pieces of in 2014. In 2012 and 2013, we reduced our water consumptifish are washed away into the sink, which increases the conon and increased our product cleaning activities (squid), centration of BOD₅, COD, grease and suspended substances which resulted in increased process wastewater concentratiin wastewater. Irida presently discharges its wastewater in ons. Thanks to our wastewater treatment plant, such waaccordance with the applicable water license (BOD₅ = 1500 ter has similar COD and BOD₅ values after treatment as our mgO₂/l and COD = 2000 mgO₂/l) and the applicable regulawastewater did during the 2010-2011 period when our water tions of the Republic of Croatia. According to the Water Maconsumption was greater and our production smaller. nagement License, wastewater is sampled twice a year. The Veterinary Institute of Križevci collects samples and measuTotal water discharge res the flow rate of, and analyzes our wastewater. The results of the wastewater analyses conducted in 2012 and 2013 were Year Wastewater (m3) consistent with the requirements of the water license. 2012 17,226 Having made our wastewater treatment plant fully operatio2013 22,071 nal, we reduced the amount of waste sludge classified under Total 39,297 Wastewater analyses 2012 2013 Parameter Sample 1 Sample 2 Sample 1 Sample 2 Water temperature (°C) 13 16 16 18 Color whitish White and grey Grey Whitish and grey Odor Intensively foreign Intensively foreign Intensively foreign Very unpleasant pH 6.8 6.7 7.2 7 COD (mgO2/L) 1028 785 1412 1609 BOD5 (mgO2/L) 416 250 774 333 Total oil and fat (mg/L) 57 1.8 36.2 1.1 Detergent – anionic MBAS – 0.6 0.52 0.25 Waste Irida sorts its waste at its source, collects is separately by and then all types of waste are collected by an operator licentype, and temporarily stores it in a designated area. Hazardosed for waste collection, transport, intermediation, treatment, us and non-hazardous waste is temporarily collected at Irida use or disposal. Total weight of waste by type and disposal method (kg) Type of waste Treatment Collected by 2012 2013 Agroproteinka, Europlast, Non-hazardous waste R ili D Sekundarne sirovine, 625,682 696,431 Vitrex, KT Hazardous waste R Zagrebpetrol, KT 0,343 13,503 Total 626,025 709,934 In 2013, the total amount of non-hazardous waste increased ard packaging and plastic waste decreased compared to 2012. compared to 2012; however, if analyzed individually, decreaThe amount of paper and cardboard packaging decreased by sed amounts were recorded only in the case of some types of 13% and the amount of plastic decreased by 21% compared to waste. On September 1, 2012, Ledo packing plant in Dugopothe preceding reporting period. lje began to operate and some of Irida production was moved to that location. This is why the amount of paper and cardbo170 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 To extract fat and oil from wastewater (the flotation macIn 2013, we recorded a significant decrease in total hazardohine), the wastewater treatment plant uses chemicals packaus waste compared to 2012, mainly due to waste sludge from ged in reusable plastic packaging, so their use did not result the deposit tank. At the beginning of each year (in January in an increase in this type of waste compared to 2012. In or February), we cleaned the deposit tank (disposal of waste 2013, we increased our squid production, which resulted in sludge – waste code*) and presented the relevant amount as more animal byproducts and was also the main reason why amount generated in the preceding year. In 2013, we cleaned our total amount of non-hazardous waste increased compait at the end of the year instead of the beginning of the year, red to 2012. The share of animal by-product waste increased so this amount was presented for 2013 instead of 2012. The by 2% and the share of non-hazardous waste decreased by 3% amount of waste sludge decreased by 50% and the total amocompared to the preceding reporting period. unt of hazardous waste decreased by 49% compared to the preceding reporting period. Spills Irida has internal regulations in place for the treatment of in the 2012-2013 period. However, we recorded a 12% increasubstances that may have an adverse environmental impact se in consumption during this reporting period compared to if spilled. The relevant internal regulations are: Policy and the 2010-2011 reporting period. This was a result of increaInstructions for the Operation and Maintenance of Facilities sed use of products for cleaning metal molds (used for squid and Equipment Relevant to the Protection of Water against freezing) as they replaced Styrofoam mats for almost all our Pollution, Policy for the Disposal of all Types of Waste Resulproducts during the 2012-2013 period. ting from Processes and Sludge Resulting from the Wastewater Treatment Process, Operating Plan of Interventional MeTotal cleaning and disinfecting chemicals asures in Case of Sudden Water Pollution, and the Environmental Interventions Plan. Year Total amount (kg) All cleaning products, disinfectants, oil and hazardous wa2012 6,185 ste are kept in locked storage room designed to prevent any spills into water or soil (bundwalls provided as protection in 2013 5,885 case of uncontrolled spills). Similarly to the preceding reporTotal 12,070 ting period, no spills of chemicals, oil or waste were recorded Products and Services For the purpose of minimizing our electricity consumption, To minimize water consumption, we continuously train emour electricity consumption is monitored 24 hours a day, our ployees, monitor water consumption, measure watertightneemployees are constantly trained and we raise their awass, recirculate water, and use nozzles on washing hoses to mireness with respect to electricity consumption (during our nimize uncontrolled discharge during washing. The storage internal training sessions, we focus on each individual’s rooms in which we keep our cleaning products, disinfectants, contribution to electricity saving), we optimize and improve oil and hazardous waste are designed to prevent any spills technological processes (economical use of machines, devices into water or soil (bundwalls provided as protection in case and equipment), and optimize the use of cooling chambers of uncontrolled spills). In addition, we regularly inspect, test and plants. and gauge our cooling system (preventive and protective measures) to prevent any ammonia penetration. To minimize waste, we continuously train employees with respect to proper waste sorting by type and source and receive cleaning products and disinfectants in reusable packaging. Compliance No fines or non-monetary sanctions were imposed in 2012 and 2013 for non-compliance with any environmental laws or regulations. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 171 Environmental Protection Investments Costs of disposal, emissions treatment and rehabilitation in 2012 and 2013 Type of waste 2012 2013 (waste code) Paid to amount description of amount amount description of amount (kg/m3) cost (HRK) (kg/m3) cost (HRK) Packaging containing residues of or contaminated Zagrebpetrol 51 4 HRK/kg 204.00 70 4 HRK/kg 280.00 by dangerous substances d.o.o., Zagreb (15 01 10*) Oil filters Zagrebpetrol 25 4 HRK/kg 100.00 9 4 HRK/kg 36.00 (16 01 07*) d.o.o., Zagreb Fluorescent tubes and other Zagrebpetrol 9 29 mercury-containing waste 5 HRK/kom 230.00 5 HRK/kom 745.00 d.o.o., Zagreb (46 units) (149 units) (20 01 21*) Absorbents, filter materials (including oil filters not otherwise specified), fibers, Zagrebpetrol 6 4 HRK/kg 24.00 26 4 HRK/kg 104.00 wiping cloths and protective d.o.o., Zagreb clothing contaminated (15 02 02*) Sludge containing dangerous substances from Kemis-Termoclean other treatment of industrial 13,180 4.90 HRK/kg 64,582.00 d.o.o., Zagreb wastewater (19 08 13*) Municipal waste Darkom d.o.o., 90 m3 177.41 HRK/m3 25,966.90 85 m3 177.41 HRK/m3 15,079.85 (20 03 01) Daruvar 1,1, 31,8,: Animal-tissue waste Agroproteinka d.d., 0,69 HRK/kg 488,476 0,69 HRK/kg 337,048.44 585,682 (02 02 02) Sesvetski Kraljevec 1,9, 31,12,: 261,655.64 0.10 HRK/kg Plastic packaging Europlast d.o.o., 35,870 1.80 HRK/kg 64,566.00 33,960 1.80 HRK/kg (15 01 02) Petrinja 61,128.00 Sludge from on-site effluent Kemis – treatment (waste sludge 2.50 HRK/kg + termoclean d.o.o., 772 resulting from flotation) 1000 HRK/tour 4,930.00 Zagreb (02 02 04) Total 418,139.34 408,540.49 Compared to the 2010-2011 reporting period, the costs of 2012 and lower prices of disposing of animal by-products in disposal, emissions treatment and rehabilitation decreased 2013. by 15% as a result of our failure to clean the deposit tank in 172 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Environmental prevention and management costs Amount (HRK) Cost Paid to 2012 2013 Safety valve gauging Frigo MPS, Cerje 12,000 Measuring of pollutant emissions from stationary IRI Sisak d.o.o. Sisak 2,000 sources Waste sludge analysis Zavod za javno zdravstvo 4,341 3,081 (02 02 04 and 19 08 13*) „Dr. Andrija Štampar“, Zagreb Supervisory audit of the ISO 9001quality management system, and the ISO 14001 environmental management Bureau Veritas 19,630 17,365 system Wastewater composition analysis Hrvatski veterinarski institut, Zagreb 1,500 2,300 Electricity consumption monitoring D.V.V. d.o.o., Zagreb 12,300 Total 51,771 22,746 Compared to the 2010-2011 reporting period, our environCompared to the 2010-2011 reporting period, our total envimental prevention and management costs increased by 29% ronmental protection expenditures and investments decreaas a result of introducing an electricity consumption monitosed by 12%. ring system in 2012. Total environmental protection expenditures in 2012 and 2013 2012 2013 Disposal, emissions treatment 418,139.34 408,540.49 and rehabilitation costs Environmental prevention and 51,771.00 22,746.00 management costs Total 469,910.34 431,286.49 Planned Activities and main Objectives for 2014 and 2015 • to have Bureau Veritas recertify our quality and environmental management system and conduct a supervisory audit of our quality and environmental management system in 2015; • to gauge our safety valves and mano vacuum meters, provide evacuation and rescue drills, and analyze our sludge and wastewater on an annual basis; • to measure our air emissions from stationary sources in 2014; • to adjust the operation of our wastewater treatment plant according to the input water concentration for the purpose of lowering the BOD₅ and COD values by 10%; • to retain the present levels of electricity and natural gas consumption or, if possible, decrease them by 1%; • to reduce our water consumption (m³/ton of cleaned squid) and our use of cleaning products and disinfectants by 1-5%; • to reduce the amount of oiled cloths, sawdust and absorbents by 10%; • to reduce the amount of hazardous waste by 10%; • to increase the amount of waste to be disposed of free of charge by 5%; • to comply with statutory and other environmental requirements; • to conduct internal and external environmental training according to the training plan for the purpose of raising our employees’ awareness and improving their competences on all levels of the EMS. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 173 Ice Cream and Frozen Food Ledo d.o.o. Čitluk Ledo d.d. Zagreb established Ledo Čitluk in 2000 by acqui(BV). It was first recertified in 2011 (BV). The second and ring a private factory in Čitluk. Company’s core business is third supervisory audits were conducted in 2012 and 2013. ice cream production, butter and frozen fish packaging, and distribution of frozen products where we are a leader on the HALAL System territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our product range preAiming to meet the market demands, we implemented a Hasently comprises 16 types of impulse popsicles, a commerlal system in 2011 and 2012 in cooperation with our consulcial butter packaging, and 31 types of packaged fish produtants. The Halal system was implemented according to BAS cts, while our distribution range includes some 400 produ1049:2010 and certified by the Halal Quality Certification cts. Ledo presently employs 285 people on a permanent and Agency. The Halal system is recertified on an annual basis. seasonal basis, operates a fleet of 166 vehicles, and serves approximately 14,000 stores on a daily basis. Our constant As regards our environmental protection activities planned focus on our employees and their education, development of for 2012 and 2013, we implemented most of them, as well as new knowledge and skills, modernizing our business processome additional ones as follows: ses, and improving our technologies and equipment ensures • We installed additional internal water meters to monitor us the leading position in our line of business. Simultaneowater consumption by each process more accurately and to usly with our increasing business success, we have develoenable a timely response in case of increased consumption. ped our quality, food safety and environmental management • We automated the CIP cleaning system to optimize our system. water consumption. Positive results were recorded in terms of water consumption reduction compared to the preceding Management Systems of Ledo Čitluk reporting period. QUALITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM • We joined the packaging waste management system throuOur quality management system, developed under the guigh a licensed operator and thus fulfilled our statutory oblidelines of ISO 9001:2000, was first certified in 2003 (DNV). gations. We established a system of maintaining records The system was recertified for the third time in 2011 (BV). and reporting to the operator and competent authorities. The second and third supervisory audits were conducted in • We conducted the planned training and measuring requi2012 and 2013. red by law. • We upgraded our fire alarm system. HACCP SYSTEM • We insulated the ammonia system pipeline and replaced The management system, developed under the guidelines of the ammonia evaporator in the RIA-8 machine cooling Codex Alimentarius, was first certified in 2005 (DNV). The system, which enhanced the system’s level of safety. system was recertified for the third time in 2011 (BV). The • According to the relevant electronic waste management second and third supervisory audits were conducted in 2012 regulations, we duly joined the system through a licensed and 2013. operator, in the same way we did for packaging waste. • No non-conformities were found during the supervisory ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM audits, only minor comments were given and all defects Our environmental management system, developed under were rectified very soon. the guidelines of ISO 14001: 2004, was first certified in 2009 174 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 175 Materials Materials used by weight or volume kg Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Type of material used 201. 2013 Raw material 1,825,276 1,746,844 Recycled packaging materials 2012 2013 Packaging materials 188,456 159,840 kg 117,602 104,205 Total 2,013,732 1,906,684 % 64.45 65.19 In the context of ice cream production, 2012 was one of the Materials that may be used after recycling are packaging most successful years in history. We also recorded an incrematerials used for secondary packaging – cardboard boxes. ase in our packaged fish product range. Such good results in The use of such materials increased by 7.24% compared to the case of ice cream were not repeated in 2013, mostly as a the preceding reporting period, which is directly related to result of bad weather. We recorded an increase in fish produincreased production. The percentage of materials used that ction in 2013 as well. In total, we used more raw materials are recycled input materials was 64.5% in the preceding re(7.22%) and packaging materials (8.66%) compared to the porting period, compared to 63.7% in this reporting period. preceding reporting period. Energy Direct energy consumption by primary energy The electricity consumption decreased compared to the presource (non-renewable energy sources) ceding reporting period (-1.47%), although production increased (+7.32%), which is a result of systematic consumption Fuel Heating oil Year monitoring, production planning and taking steps to reduce (GJ) (GJ) our electricity consumption. 2012 27,611 2,330 2013 27,629 2,210 Total 55,240 4,540 Electricity consumption per product unit Diesel consumption increased by 1.36% compared to the preElectricity Consumption Production ceding reporting period. As turnover increased by 8.02% (in Year consumption per production (kg) kg of product) during the same period, increase in fuel con(kWh) unit (kWh/kg) sumption by 1.36% shows that transport optimization was 2010 2,136,731 2,654,019 1.242 successful. Heating oil is used by the boiler room for the hot 2011 2,136,513 2,592,048 1.213 water boiler directly relating to production, so consumption of heating oil increased by 7.58% compared to the preceding Total 4,273,244 5,246,067 1.228 reporting period. 2012 2,427,165 2,684,304 1.106 2013 2,159,045 2,484,444 1.151 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy Total 4,586,209 5,168,748 1.127 source (indirect energy supplied and used from non-renewable energy sources) Electricity consumption per product unit has been systeYear Electricity (GJ) matically monitored since 2010. By using rationalization measures (preventive maintenance of equipment, insulation, 2012 9,663 planning larger production batches, training, consumption 2013 8,944 parameter analysis), we reduced electricity consumption per Total 18,607 kilogram of product by 8.20% compared to the preceding reporting period. 176 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Water Total water withdrawal by source (m3) Ledo Čitluk uses water from a public water supply system for its processes. As we had recorded a significant increase Total amount of all in water consumption, we took corrective actions (installing Year waters withdrawn internal water meters, automating the CIP system) that resul2012 16,012 ted in a decrease in water consumption by 8.75% during this 2013 13,207 reporting period, which is 14.98% less expressed in units of finished product. Total 29,219 Biodiversity Ledo Čitluk is located in the industrial zone of the Municiareas or areas of high biodiversity value and therefore has no pality of Čitluk, which is not in or adjacent to any protected significant impacts on biodiversity. Emissions, Effluents and Waste Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Ozone depleting substances by weight (kg) by weight Total air emissions Year R22 (ODP 0.05) 2012 2013 (t CO2 eq.) 2012 66 Production plants (electricity)* 1,950 1,804 2013 235 Fuel for transport 1,691 1,692 Total 301 Heating oil 179 169 CO2 equivalent 3,819 3,666 As regards the refrigerants used by cooling systems, only R22 has ODP over 0. Its consumption increased in 2013 as a *The emission coefficient values were used according to the EMEP/EEA air pollutant emission inventory guidebook (for all sectors), 2009 (http:// result of defects in the cooling system that could not be forewastewater.eea.europa.eu/publications/emep-eea-emission-inventoryseen or prevented. Compared to the preceding reporting periguidebook-2009) od, consumption increased by 216.2 kg. We observed a decreasing trend in total electricity consumption, which directly reflected on the level of CO₂ emissiTotal direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions ons, resulting in a decrease of 1.47% compared to the preceby weight (in tons) ding reporting period. Our CO₂ emissions resulting from fuel Year SO2 NO2 CO2 combustion during transport directly depend on fuel consumption and increased by 1.36%. Heating oil is used for the 2012 0.461 0.143 178.501 boiler in our boiler room, which is directly related to produ2013 0.438 0.136 169.312 ction. As we had recorded an increase in production of 7.32% in the preceding reporting period, related consumption of Total 0.899 0.279 347.813 heating oil also increased by approximately the same percentage – 7.58%. Emissions of nitrogen and sulfur oxides are a result of heating oil combustion in the boiler room and they increased Indirect greenhouse gas emissions relate to emissions resulcompared to the preceding reporting period by 7.66% due to ting from transporting employees to work. As it is impossible increased consumption of heating oil resulting from increato organize group transport of our employees, we only record sed production (+7.32%). fuel used for business trips using company cars, as presented in the above table. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 177 Wastewater Total water discharge estimate the relevant amounts. Thanks to rationalization measures, we reduced water consumption and, consequently, Year Wastewater (m3) wastewater amounts (the decrease is estimated to be 19.89% compared to the preceding reporting period). Our water li2012 9,271 cense is regularly renewed, studies are regularly prepared, 2013 8,076 wastewater quality measuring conducted, and all water charTotal 17,347 ges duly paid. The respective results of such wastewater quality measurements depend on the current production phase The amount of wastewater is directly related to our water and are not mutually comparable. consumption and production volumes, which were used to Waste Total weight of waste by type and disposal method (kg) Type of waste Treatment Collected by 2012 2013 JKP Broćanac, Non-hazardous waste R3, R4, R5 188,230 178,365 CIBOS, DUGA KEMIS, CIBOS, Hazardous waste D10, D15, R1,R4 1,592 742 Triton, DUGA Total 189,822 179,107 In 2012, we collected a total of 21 types of waste, 15 hazardoWe did not record any significant spills of chemicals, oil or us and 6 non-hazardous. Most of our non-hazardous waste is fuel. We purchased a mobile bundwall for oil to improve our municipal waste, paper and cardboard, while waste oil accoincident management activities. unts for most of our hazardous waste. In 2013, we generated a small amount of hazardous waste, primarily because we did During this reporting period, we undertook activities to innot replace oil in our machines. crease the safety level in handling ammonia by replacing the cooling system on the RIA-8 machine and replacing and inWe collected 3.59% less waste compared to the preceding resulating the liquid ammonia pipeline. porting period there was 3.82% less non-hazardous waste, but 53.85% more hazardous waste. Products and Services By making the following changes in our production plant: and energy. Compared to the preceding reporting period, we • by installing new internal water meters to precisely define reduced consumption of: our consumption by process within the company, based on • water per kg of finished product by 14.98%, which we will be able to make appropriate plans; • electricity per kg of finished product by 8.20%, and • by procuring additional containers and thus increasing • fuel per kg of sold product by 6.17%. production capacities and ensuring better production continuity and production in larger batches; We do not reclaim products from our final customers. Ledo • by automating the CIP system to optimize and automaticaČitluk is included in the packaging waste management lly monitor cleaning water consumption, system through a licensed operator responsible for recording the amounts of packaging waste placed on the market of the we reduced water consumption and the volume of cleaning Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and through the Enviwater used, as well as the relevant burden. ronmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund of the Republic of Srpska. The packaging waste management targets We purchased additional special containers for hazardous set were 8% of the total amount in 2012 and 13% in 2013. waste. We completed upgrading our fire alarm system. The operator we had engaged submitted evidence of our fulfillment of the targets set to the relevant Ministry, whereby we By exercising technological discipline, monitoring costs and met the objectives we had been required to meet. consumption on a monthly basis, maximizing production batches, monitoring distribution parameters and planning transport routes, we optimize our costs and use of raw materials 178 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Compliance During this reporting period, no negative reports were issued imposed for non-compliance with any environmental laws or by supervisory authorities and no fines or sanctions were regulations. Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Fuel for transport Heating oil Total CO2 emission Tons of CO2 Tons of CO2 equivalent GJ GJ equivalent for fuel for heating oil 2012 27,611 2,330 1,691 179 2013 27,629 2,210 1,692 169 Total 55,240 4,541 3,383 348 Our diesel consumption increased by 1.36% and heating oil consumption per kg of turnover decreased by 6.17%. Heating consumption by 7.58% compared to the preceding reporting oil consumption per unit of finished product was roughly the period, which is an absolute amount that should be monitored same as it was in the preceding reporting period. according to the results achieved in that period, because fuel Environmental Protection Investments Total environmental protection expenditures and Compared to the preceding reporting period, we made much investments by type (EUR) greater investments in our production plant (we replaced the cooling system on our RIA 8 machine and the ammonia Ledo Čitluk 2012 2013 system and upgraded our fire alarm system), which resulWaste management costs 6,391 5,623 ted in a total increase in our system-related expenditures by Measurement, analysis and EUR 127,355 (+390.6%). As regards our waste management 6,428 6,112 training costs revenue (secondary raw materials), we recorded an increase Charges (packaging, electronic compared to the preceding reporting period – we obtained 9,074 14,851 waste, etc.) EUR 6,524 in revenue for the preceding reporting period, Periodic system checks 773 844 compared to EUR 9,879 for this reporting period, which was Investments in waste 51.43% more. management and the production 9,990 111,100 plant Total expenditures 32,656 138,530 Planned Activities and main Objectives for 2014 and 2015 As decided at the Ledo Group level, ice cream production in Ledo Čitluk will be discontinued following the 2014 season and the present fish repacking facilities will be enlarged by introducing a new automated packaging line. These changes in our product range also define activities to be undertaken in the next period: • optimization of ice cream production by maximizing raw materials and input to minimize our waste; • dissembling of ice cream line and disposal of the resulting hazardous waste; • dissembling the ammonia system and removal of 5 tons of ammonia; • installing a new fish packing line; • aligning the changes to production plant with the relevant statutory provisions (licenses, measurements, authorizations); • revising our Environmental Management System, but also all other implemented management systems (all procedures, documents and records) and educate our employees on the topic of such changes Our continuing activities on maintaining and improving EMS that will be performed in the next period are: continuing employee training, conducting legally required measuring and tests, and conducting internal and external audits. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 179 Agriculture Belje d.d. Belje was established 317 years ago, way back in 1697. After nal standard. As a member of The Agrokor Group, Belje fully joining The Agrokor Group in 2005, Belje has built its future adopted its Environmental Protection Policy. Due to the comas part of the largest food producer in this part of Europe. By plexity of organization and scope of work, that same year Beimplementing global state-of-the-art technologies, it follows lje established its Management System Department attached healthy food trends, adheres to environmental standards, to the CEO’s Office. Intensive work was undertaken on impleand is fully market-focused. We have modernized all Belje menting such integrated management system. We engaged production processes and discontinued some of them. Most the Lloyd´s Registar EMEA and Biotechnicon consultants to of these funds were invested in renovating the core activities help us implement our integrated management system. – agriculture and cattle farming. With such new financial and market strengths, Belje received support for its further During the 2012-2013 reporting period, Bureau Veritas congrowth and development. ducted regular external audits (the first one in April of 2012, and the second one in April of 2013) for the ISO 9001:2008 Its food production, agricultural and cattle farming activities and ISO 14001:2004 standards. Our BS OHSAS 18001:2007 are divided into different profit centers (PC): standard was first recertified in April of 2012, at which • production of cured meat products (PC Baranjka) time we received a certificate that expires on April 29, 2015. • production of mill products, drying and storing crops and The first supervisory audit was conducted in April of 2013, oleaginous plants (PC Mill and PC Mlinarstvo Križevci) followed by the second one a year later, in April of 2014. Our • winegrowing, winemaking (PC Wine Cellars) HACCP standard is recertified every three years and super• production of cattle feed, drying and storing crops and oilvisory audits are conducted on an annual basis. The standard seeds (PC AFF, PJ Agroprerada Ivanić Grad) was last recertified in 2012 (PC Baranjka, PC DF, PC Mil, PC • production of dairy products (PC DF) Mlinarstvo Križevci, PC AFF, PC AFF PU Agroprerada, PC • growing crops and vegetables; seed refinement (PC AgriWine Cellars, Kormoran Restaurant). As regards our GLOBAL culture: PU Brestovac – Karanac, PU Mirkovac, PU Širine – G.A.P., the cattle farming module was recertified for the DeKneževo, PU Poljanski lug, and PU Seeds) cember 21, 2011 to November 29, 2012 and the November 30, • pig farming and pig fattening (PC Pig Farming; farms: 2012 to November 29, 2013 periods. Kozarac, Darda 1, Brod Pustara 1, Brod Pustara 2, Malo Kneževo, Gradec 1, Gradec 2, Haljevo, Gaj, Sokolovac, PodThe agricultural module was recertified for the December 21, lugovi) 2011 to December 20, 2012 and the December 21, 2012 to De• veal farming and baby beef fattening (PC Baby Beef Fattecember 20, 2013 periods. In 2008, we received a Kosher certining; farms: Eblin, Hatvan, Mala Karašica, Sudaraž, Poljanficate for PC DF, in 2009 for PC Mill, and in 2010 for PC Mill, ski lug) PU Mlinarstvo Križevci. A Halal certificate was awarded for • dairy cow farming and dairy production (PC Dairy Farour PC DF; it was first certified on December 10, 2012 and ming; farms: Topolik, Čeminac, Popovac, Zeleno polje, Prorecertified on December 10, 2013. Our Kosher and Halal stansine, Karanac and Mitrovac) dards are recertified on an annual basis. We received an IFS • servicing, maintaining and selling agricultural machinery Food certificate for PC DF. It was first certified in September and equipment (PC Remont) of 2013. The certificate expires on November 19, 2014. • transport (PC Beljetrans) • storing and packing fruits and vegetables, fruit farming The following plans were implemented during this reporting (PC Fruit Farming; PU Dugo Selo Refrigeration Facility period: and PU Obreška Fruit Farm) • We installed a new wastewater treatment plant in PC Wine • providing veterinary audit services for cattle farming, colleCellars (the new winery). cting animal waste (the Belje Agro-Vet d.o.o. subsidiary). • We replaced crude oil in PC Dairy Factory by environmentally more acceptable natural gas. In late 2006, Belje made a strategic decision to implement • Our Darda 1 and Brod Pustara 1 farms within PC Pig Faran integrated quality management system according to the ming also switched to natural gas in 2013. requirements of the HRN ISO 9001:2000 international stan• Our Mitrovac Farm (PC Dairy Farming) has not been comdard and an environmental management system according pleted yet, but finishing work is in progress. In October of to the requirements of the HRN ISO 14001:2004 internatio2013, we put into operation our Mitrovac biogas plant. 180 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 181 Materials Materials used by weight or volume kg Considering the structural changes in Belje, we recorded an Type of material used 2012 2013 increase in the amount of packaging material used; howeRaw material 226,471,014 225,939,647 ver, if we compare the years within a single reporting period (2012-2013), we recorded a minor decrease by 0.24% in the Ancillary process materials 36,049,379 34,261,682 amount of raw materials used and by 4.96% in the amount Packaging materials 1,305,611 1,347,787 of ancillary process materials used. We did not analyze the Total 263,826,004 261,549,116 amounts of our ancillary process materials for the 2010-2011 reporting period. No major discrepancies were recorded for the EN1 indicator between the 2010-2011 and the 2012-2013 reporting periods. Belje presently uses no recycled input materials. Energy Direct energy consumption by primary energy Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source (non-renewable energy sources) source (indirect energy supplied and used from non-renewable energy sources) Fuel Natural gas LPG Year (GJ) (GJ) (GJ) Year Electricity (GJ) 2012 252,092 59,011 39,019 2012 99,341 2013 254,245 50,501 32,262 2013 101,864 Total 506,337 109,512 71,281 Total 201,205 Comparing the two reporting periods, we can observe a decrease Electricity is supplied by HEP and is primarily used to opein LPG consumption by 29.73% and in natural gas consumption rate our machines and lighting equipment. Our electricity by 33.83%. If we compare the years 2012 and 2013, our liquefied consumption for the 2012-2013 reporting period increased by gas consumption decreased by 17.31% as a result of conversion 2.47%. Comparing the consumption levels for both reporting to a new form of energy (natural gas), the consumption of which periods, we can observe increased consumption which does also decreased by 14.42% during the same period. Such reduced not result from non-monitored use, but the merger of a new natural gas consumption is a result of minimal operation of our PC (PC Fruit Farming) and increased production volumes in drying kilns (that normally use substantial amounts of this form both PC Animal Feed Factory and PC Dairy Factory (work in of energy) due to a very dry summer. Comparing the two reporthree shifts). ting periods, we can observe an increase in fuel consumption by 23% as a result of increased production volumes and the merger of PC Fruit Farming (on May 1, 2013). Water Total water withdrawal by source (m3) From a public For process Total amount of all Year From wells water supply purposes waters withdrawn system 2012 645,594 0 197,784 843,378 2013 637,427 0 189,959 827,386 Total 1,283,021 0 387,743 1,670,764 Water is used for drinking, personal hygiene and sanitary slightly increased (by 0.53%) during the 2012-2013 reporting purposes, cattle watering, production purposes and for wasperiod, and decreased by 2% in 2013 compared to 2012. Belje hing our plants and facilities. Compared to the preceding presently does not use recycled water. reporting period, the total amount of all waters withdrawn Biodiversity The total surface area of the land leased by Belje in protected the so-called cow-calf system. Most of the herd within the areas of Kopački rit is 1274 ha. In addition to agriculture, we system are bovines of the Hereford breed. What makes the use these areas for cattle farming on a natural basis – using project special is our care for a herd of eight Slavonian/Srijem 182 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Podolac bovines, which represent an autochthonous breed, so king, in 1699. From then on, Prince Eugene of Savoy manathese are among rare specimens in Croatia. The Eblin farm, ged the Manor until 1784. Afterwards, it was leased to the a part of our PC Baby Beef Fattening, is in the immediate Habsburg family up to 1918. From 1920 this area was declavicinity. Our production activities in this protected area are red as a King Aleksandar Karađorđević's reserve, while from undertaken in accordance with the Breeding Plan approved 1941-1944, under the Hungarian Kingdom, it was managed by the competent Ministry. This plan is defined and approby the Hungarian National Museum that established a bioved for each business year and includes a defined proposal logical station called Albertina. The Jelen hunting and forest of required measures that we comply with in our production estate managed Kopački rit after World War II up to 1959 and processes. In addition, we have our Kormoran Restaurant on from 1967 the area became a Managed Natural Reserve. As of the edge of Kopački rit that undertakes its activities in ac1997, the Kopački rit Nature Park Public Institution has macordance with the environmental requirements and is fully naged the Nature Park. blended with the setting. All this helps protect the environment, preserve natural resources, minimize soil, water and Environmental impact assessment studies have confirmed air pollution, and maintain biodiversity. that Belje’s activities relating to the construction of new production facilities have no significant impact on biodiversity. The History of the Kopački rit Nature Park PC Pig Farming is subject to the IPPC Directive and meets its requirements, and each pig farm holds an Environmental Kopački rit was first managed after the Belje Manor had been License. founded and granted by Leopold I, the Hungarian-Croatian Emissions, Effluents and Waste Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions frigerant only), have no harmful or adverse environmental by weight impacts. Total air emissions 2012 2013 The closed cooling system in PC DF contains 435 kg of refri(t CO2 eq.) gerant and 1,000 kg of ammonia, while that in PC Baranjka Production plants 9,475 9,532 contains 60 kg of refrigerant and 1,500 kg of NH3. In 2013, Fuel for transport 6,190 6,187 PC Baranjka loaded 8 kg of R404A into 1 chamber. The amoLPG 2,929 2,422 unt of refrigerant present in PC Wine Cellars is 435 kg. In CO2 equivalent 18,594 18,141 2012, we loaded 10 kg of gas into it, and 13.6 kg on two occasions in 2013. Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight by weight (in tons) Year t CO2 Year SO2 NO2 CO 2012 3,775 2012 29.325 6.703 0 2013 3,700 2013 30.963 7.316 0 Total 7,475 Total 60.288 14.019 0 A comparison of both indicators between the two reporting periods shows that the emission levels were roughly No significant variations in our SO₂ and NO₂ emission lethe same except for CO₂ emissions in 2011 that increased by vels were recorded in either reporting period (2012-2013 and 40.09%. This is a result of putting new pig farms into opera2010-2011). The emissions were calculated on the basis of an tion (Haljevo, Sokolovac, Gaj). estimate, on the basis of the emissions and energy measured for each profit center and its production units, and the figures The environmentally acceptable R 404A refrigerant and amare consistent with the figures reported to the Environmental monia, which are used as refrigerants for the cooling systems Pollution Registry database, which we are required by law to in PC Baranjka, PC Dairy Factory and PC Wine Cellars (redo by March 1 for the preceding year. Wastewater Total water discharge Year Wastewater (m3) No major discrepancies were found between the total water discharge levels for the respective years. Smaller amounts 2012 510,473 were reported for the 2010-2011 reporting period because Hr2013 511,483 vatske vode notified the calculated water protection charge Total 1,021,956 after final settlement much later. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 183 Waste Total weight of waste by type and disposal method (kg) Type of waste Treatment Collected by 2012 2013 Non-hazardous UP-OS, HR, EFP, DI, BČ-BM, R 3, 4, 5, 13 4,398.00 3,993.00 waste KB, BV,VITREX, CeZaR, BE-AV Hazardous waste D 9, 10, 15 CIAK, Flora VTC (M-Z RJ VU) 56.46 69.04 Total 4,454.46 4,062.04 The total amount of hazardous waste increased in 2013 comalso of extracting useful waste from mixed municipal waste. pared to 2012 because PC Baranjka and PC Mill Milnarstvo We generated 3.18% less hazardous waste during the comKriževci did not generate any hazardous waste in 2012. In parable period. Ultimately, having compared the preceding 2013, we generated 9.22% less non-hazardous waste than we reporting period against this one, we reached the conclusion did in 2012. A substantial increase by 51.18% in the amothat the total amount of non-hazardous waste increased by unt of non-hazardous waste was recorded in 2011 compa14.23% and the total amount of hazardous waste decreased red to 2010. This is a result of merging our new pig farms by 27.03%. in 2011, increased production volume during that year, but Spills Belje did not record any significant spills of oil, fuel, waste, and conduct monitoring and measuring. According to requchemicals, etc. in the past two years. This also applies to the irement 4.4.7 of ISO 14001:2004 (Emergency Preparedness 2010-2011 reporting period. We systematically train our emand Response), we conduct drills according to the Incident ployees (in profit centers and production units and on farms) Plant, thus acting preventively and educationally. Products and Services The level of environment awareness in Belje in very high, specific fertilization depending on the soil composition (as so we aim to additionally improve the present situation on determined by an analysis) and the needs of the crops grown a daily basis. By building new farms within PC Pig Farming in this specific location. Employee training and rational use and using modern production technologies and pig manure of energy also largely contributed to mitigation of adverse disposal methods, we took a step forward in the context of environmental impacts. environmental protection. In October of 2013, we put into operation the Mitrovac biogas plant powered by biomass and Belje does not have a system in place for recycling and reuother raw materials from renewable sources. PC Agricultusing materials as part of its production cycle. re has a very positive impact on the environment by using Compliance No cases of statutory non-compliance were recorded at Belje ne novine), maintains the relevant records, and all our profit in 2012 and 2013. This also applies to the 2010-2011 reporcenters assess their compliance with the relevant statutory ting period. No cases of statutory non-compliance were found and other requirements in accordance with requirement 4.3.2 in any of the locations visited by environmental inspectors. of ISO 14001:2004. All requested documents and information were presented to such inspectors. We also ensure that our employees from all organizational levels are further trained to contribute to continuing progreOur Management System Department (Environmental Pross and development. Our training, systematic monitoring and tection Department) monitors environmental regulations on continuing supervisory activities have a preventive purpose, a daily basis on the website of the Official Gazette (Narodwhich we think is crucial. 184 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Fuel for transport LPG Total CO2 emission Tons of CO2 Tons of CO2 GJ GJ equivalent for fuel equivalent for LPG 2012 86,606 0 6,190 0 2013 85,533 0 6,187 0 Total 172,139 0 12,377 0 The transport systems in all our companies, including Belje, decreased CO₂ emissions. Such reduced fuel consumption is have a significant environmental impact as they generate ena result of less company vehicles and implementing satellite vironmental emissions, mostly air emissions (the focus is on vehicle tracking. We monitored around 60 transport vehicles CO₂ emissions as primary emissions resulting from fuel comon average. We use 148 passenger cars, compared to 179 pasbustion). Our fuel consumption in 2012 and 2013 decreased senger cars analyzed in 2010 and 2011. by 12.34% compared to 2010 and 2011, which also resulted in Environmental Protection Investments Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type (HRK) 2012 2013 Total Waste disposal, emissions treatment and 3,619,456 3,359,049 6,978,505 rehabilitation costs Environmental prevention, management ad 416,922 7,595,593 8,012,515 investment costs Total 4,036,378 10,954,642 14,991,020 We recorded a decrease of 16.27% in waste disposal, emissinagement and investment costs increased by 60% (installations treatment and rehabilitation costs in 2012 and 2013 comon of a pig manure container, a manure separator and a water pared to 2010 and 2011. Our environmental prevention, matreatment plant on the Mitrovac farm). Planned Activities and main Objectives for 2014 and 2015 • To complete the Mitrovac complex including a dairy farm, a greenhouse and a biogas plant, thus resolving the issue of removing pig manure from the farm, but also the issue of by-products resulting from our industrial production activities in an environmentally acceptable manner. • The biogas plant in Mitrovac was put in operation in October of 2013. For the next period, we plan to have pig manure and industrial by-products collected and thus reduce our waste and by-product disposal costs. The plant is powered by biomass. • To encourage reduced use of natural resources and energy, thus also reducing costs and pollutant emissions. • To train all our employees in a systematic and specific manner for the purpose of reducing use of natural resources and energy as a further step in our efforts. We set specific and measurable objectives for PC Baranjka and PC Wine Cellars, which are monitored on a quarterly basis. Both PCs use their best efforts to maintain the level of water consumption per product unit recorded in the preceding year. PC Dairy Factory aims to reduce its specific water consumption per unit of processed milk by 3%. • To encourage switching to environmentally more acceptable sources of energy. • For now, we are conducting employee training in this context. Switching to environmentally more acceptable energy sources is envisaged under our long-term plans. In 2014, we plan to replace ELHO by natural gas in PC Baranjka, build a biogas plant on the Popovac farm in 2015, and replace LPG by natural gas in all other locations. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 185 Agriculture Agrolaguna d.d. Agrolaguna is an agricultural and food processing company In addition to quality (ISO 9001:2000), food safety (HACheadquartered in Poreč. It produces grapes, olives, vegetables CP) and environmental (ISO 14001:2005) standards, we are and sheep milk on its agricultural land in the surroundings considering introducing a Global G.A.P. system that would of Poreč. Most of these products are raw materials used in help integrate our management systems in the agricultural Agrolaguna’s production processes to make wine, extra virsegment. The manager of the management systems is also gin olive oil, hard cheeses and curd. Vegetables are sold fresh. responsible for the occupational safety segment. Some raw materials are bought from our partners. Agrolaguna is an active member of the Istrian olive farmers The quality of grapes and entire yield was much better in group, undertaking activities to obtain protected designation 2013, primarily as a result of very dry weather during harveof origin for their olive oil. The implementation of this projesting. In addition, we purchased substantial amounts of grapes ct would valorize the specific characteristics of Istrian variefrom private winegrowers. We processed somewhat less grapes ties and climate, and provide added value to Istrian brands. than we did in 2011, but much more than in 2010. Our water Similar activities were undertaken to protect Istrian cheese, consumption was lower than it was in 2011 during both years, so it will be interesting to evaluate our progress in the conbut higher than it was in 2010. Most of these reductions are text of these activities in the next reporting period. achieved through the reduction of olive farm irrigation. On the other hand, in our grape processing activities (the wineries) we As of October 2012, after the dissolution of Agrokor Wines, have been recording a continuous increase. entire exports of wine were taken over by Agrolaguna, except for the regional markets served by Jamnica. In Q4 2012, we In 2012, we implemented our cheese plant project. This exported 11,127 liters of wine. This positive trend continued resulted in decreased environmental impact as a result of in 2013 when we exported 44,874 liters. The wine markets replacing heating oil by liquefied petroleum gas in the boiwe serve are: Germany, The Netherlands, Poland, Austria, ler room, installing air conditioners using refrigerants that Czech Republic, Lithuania, England, Ireland, Bosnia and Herhave less impact on the atmosphere, and by establishing a zegovina, Serbia, Montenegro, and Slovenia. wastewater treatment plant and a grease separator for water flowing from the road. On the other hand, our water conWe presently export our cheese to only two European cosumption increased in 2013 as a result of increased productiuntries, Austria and Germany, and it was not before our on, and this trend is expected to continue. new cheese plant opened that we have become able to serve export markets. In 2013, we exported 1,188 kg and expect We mounted solar panels on the roofs of the cheese plant and this segment to grow in the context of sales. We also export the winery, which generate electricity without any combustiour olive oil to Austria, Switzerland, USA, and Germany. on on Earth. Materials Materials used by weight or volume kg The share of recycled raw materials used for glass production (%) Type of material used 2012 2013 2010 2011 2012 2013 Raw material 6,521,760 8,135,832 White glass 1.15 0.82 23.89 20.97 Ancillary process materials 32,692 33,666 Green glass 4.26 17.36 55.44 69.54 Packaging materials (kom) 13,570,519 15,269,841 Olive glass 0.00 11.38 45.27 55.39 Packaging materials (kg) 4,350 4,500 The share of recycled raw materials used for glass productiTotal kg 6,558,802 8,173,998 on increased compared to the preceding two-year period. The Total pcs 13,570,519 15,269,841 shares of recycled olive and green glass show a continuous increase, while the share of recycled white glass slightly deKartonska ambalaža koju upotrebljavamo kao pakovinu za creased in 2013 compared to 2012. The reason for this decrenaše proizvode u cijelosti je proizvedena od recikliranih siroase is probably in more stringent requirements for input mavina. terial purity, i.e. there should be no colored glass admixtures. 186 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 187 Energy Direct energy consumption by primary energy Electricity consumption recorded in the winery and the oil source (non-renewable energy sources) mill increased over the past three years, and then decreased Fuel Natural gas LPG in 2013 compared to the preceding two years. Our total conYear sumption in this reporting period was 500 GJ higher com(GJ) (GJ) (GJ) pared to the preceding reporting period. Olive oil and must 2012 13,090 0 184 cooling machine uses substantial amounts of electricity, 2013 13,614 0 1,769 depending on the temperatures during harvesting. If graTotal 26,704 0 1,953 pes arrive in our cellar warmer, it takes more energy to cool them. In addition, the electricity consumption correlates with The cheese plant facility replaced heating oil by liquefied the amounts of processed grapes. petroleum gas (LPG). As a result of increased production, our consumption increased from 1,065 GJ (average in 2010 and Significant variations were recorded in the Špin cheese plant. 2011) to 1,654 GJ in 2013. Our consumption in 2012 was fifty In 2012, it did not make cheese because it was being reconpercent of this figure because we did not process milk for the structed, but usual farm activities were carried out and some better part of the year (while the cheese plant was reconstruof the electricity was used for the construction work. In 2013, cted). we launched production in the new plant with greater capacity and additional mechanical equipment (ice water for coExcept for the effect of the cheese plant, our fuel consumptioling, compressor station, etc.). Our electricity consumption on was at the same level as it was in the preceding two-year in 2013 was 3.8 times greater than the average consumption period. in the old plant and 2.35 times greater during the 2012-2013 reporting period than the preceding two-year period. Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source (indirect energy supplied and used from Electricity consumption recorded in PC Agriculture was non-renewable energy sources) approximately 6% higher compared to the preceding reporting period. Year Electricity (GJ) 2012 4,292 2013 5,589 Total 9,881 Water Total water withdrawal by source (m3) From a public For process Total amount of all Year From wells water supply purposes waters withdrawn system 2012 0 0 34,313 34,313 2013 0 0 53,210 53,210 Total 0 0 87,523 87,523 Water consumption recorded in the winery and oil mill However, our water consumption has increased rapidly as a shows that the amount of water used increased between 2010 result of launching production in the new plant. The conand 2013. It increased by 14% in 2013 compared to 2012 and sumption in 2013 was almost three times the average figure by 18% during this reporting period compared to the precerecorded in the case of the old plant, and 3.8 times higher ding two-year period (2012-2013 vs. 2010-2011. than in 2012. Water consumption recorded in the cheese plant and on the The amount of water used for agricultural activities decreafarm was 1,253 m³ lower in 2012 than it was the year befosed because the years 2012 and 2013 were very wet and we re because no milk was processed in 2012 (reconstruction). needed less irrigation. 188 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Biodiversity Agrolaguna does not own or use land in any protected areas on biodiversity in such areas. or areas of high biodiversity value, so it has no direct impact Emissions, Effluents and Waste Boiler room emissions Of course, these emissions cannot be precisely calculated or estimated. What is also relevant is the balance sheet, i.e. the Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions difference between the emitted and bound CO₂, because it is by weight bound by plant production. Almost all carbon contained in Total air emissions cultivated plants originates from CO₂ bound by the photosyn2012 2013 thesis process from the atmosphere. (t CO2 eq.) Production plants 311,051 356,669 Fuel for transport 250.55 281.37 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions LPG 11.57 111.26 by weight CO2 equivalent 311,313.12 357,061.63 Year t CO2 2012 N,A, The emissions from our winery and oil mill boiler rooms 2013 N,A, showed a decreasing trend over all four years. This in parTotal N,A, ticular applies to SO₂ emissions, the decrease in which is a result of changes in fuel quality standards. The Liquefied Petroleum Fuel Quality Regulation restricted the allowed Agrolaguna uses the following refrigerants: sulfur content in fuel, which resulted in lower sulfur content in fuel supplied to us. Total amount Location Refrigerant in kg In 2012, fuel consumption and emissions were very low because the facility did not operate due to reconstruction for R410a 10.8 the better part of the year. After our new plant opened, the R410a R32/125 17 CO₂ emissions increased by 34% compared to our average Winery R404a 46 emissions from the old boiler room as a result of increased production. At the same time, SO₂ emissions were 12.7 times R134a 114 lower as a result of replacing heating oil by liquefied petroleR410a 6 um gas. Cheese plant R-507 360 23 Almost all natural processes result in greenhouse gas emissions as a result of the transformation of organic substances into inorganic substances. Human activities contribute to After putting into operation the new cheese plant, the amosuch processes as a result of using natural resources. Indirect unt of refrigerants increased, but this only relates to substiemissions are ‘latent’ because they do not result from direct tute R507 refrigerant. fuel combustion, but processes such as: • animal food fermentation and metabolism (sheep and goat All our NOx and SOx emissions are a result of fuel combustifarm in St. Špin) on, as described above. • fermentation or composting of plant or animal residue (plant and animal waste resulting from our agricultural Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions activities and the milk, grape and olive processing plants) by weight (in tons) • wastewater treatment (organic carbon from water is transformed into CO₂) Year SO2 NO2 CO • production of input by our suppliers (packaging materials, 2012 3,056 773 16 raw materials) – energy used for production and transport and indirect emissions of other manufacturers 2013 1,422 724 37 • generation of electricity (direct – fuel combustion and agaTotal 4,478 1,497 53 in indirectly as a result of activities of other electricity producers) • maintenance of machines and equipment (production of spare parts, using tools powered by electricity or any other form of energy). Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 189 Wastewater Wastewater is discharged into a public sewerage system and Total water discharge its amounts are roughly consistent with the amounts of water used by the winery and the cheese plant. A new wastewaYear Wastewater (m3) ter treatment plant was installed at the cheese plant locati2012 25,257 on, which significantly reduced our pollutant emissions. A wastewater treatment plant is being designed for the winery 2013 41,606 and oil mill locations, while the town of Poreč is working on Total 66,863 establishing a municipal wastewater treatment plant. These activities are expected to further reduce our environmental impacts. Waste Total weight of waste by type and disposal method (kg) Type of waste Treatment Collected by 2012 2013 Energija Gradec, Metis, Non-hazardous waste R 30,021 550,923 Ecooperativa, Hazardous waste D Ciak, Metis, Ecooperativa 4,014 32,692 Total 34,035 583,615 The increase in the amount of non-hazardous waste recoroiled water resulting from cleaning the separator of oiled waded in 2013 is mainly related to waste resulting from the ter flowing in from the road next to the new cheese plant. In treatment of water from the new cheese plant facility, which 2012, we disposed of our old transformer that contained PCB. is transported for processing to the Gradec biogas plant near Vrbovec. The amounts of other types of waste varied over the past four years within the usual limits. Some of these variations are a Most of the increase in the amount of hazardous waste in result of varying dates of periodic disposal, which sometimes 2013 is related to disposal of asbestos waste resulting from occur in December, and sometimes in January. replacing part of the winery roof. We also disposed of the Products and Services Agrolaguna makes food products that have no direct environsuch warehouse as non-conforming products. Retailers and mental impact. Our packaging (glass bottles, cardboard) is customers dispose of packaging materials by using licensed recyclable, as indicated by the relevant marks on such packaoperators. ging. Goods are shipped by trucks in maximum amounts to reduce our environmental emissions per product unit resulThis does not apply to vegetable transport packaging, which ting from transport. is returned after delivery, cleaned, and then reused for packaging and delivering vegetables. According to the relevant regulations, food products that leave the producer’s warehouse may no longer be accepted by Compliance No sanctions for non-compliance with any environmental laws or regulations were imposed on Agrolaguna during the reporting period. 190 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Transport Our environmental impact is partly a result of our vehicle on. Fuel consumption by category indicates the level of our maintenance activities. The amount of waste resulting from air emissions resulting from fuel combustion, which is also internal maintenance activities (waste oil, filters, tires, oiled specified above. cloths and car batteries) is included in the waste informatiSignificant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Fuel for LPG Total CO2 emission transport Year GJ GJ equivalentTons of CO2 Tons of CO2 for fuel equivalent for LPG 2012 8,998 184 200.55 11.57 2013 10,277 115 281.37 7.23 Total 19,275 299 481.92 18.8 Environmental Protection Investments In 2013, we received HRK 20,742 in revenue by selling waTotal environmental protection expenditures (HRK) ste, while our waste disposal expenses amounted to HRK Type of cost 2012 2013 164,231.04. Most of these costs relate to disposal of municipal waste, fuel tank cleaning performed in 2013, and depoWaste disposal 142,860.47 164,231.04 sit tank cleaning. We invested substantial funds in the new Wastewater analysis 6,582.77 12,884.02 cheese plant facility, including a new wastewater treatment Winery wastewater treatment plant, a grease trap for removing grease in water flowing in 0.00 190,000.00 project from the road and wastewater from the kitchen of the cateConstruction of a wastewater ring establishment, and replacement of old air conditioners treatment plant for the cheese 3,477,030.36 202,233.45 using Freon by new ones using environmentally acceptable plant refrigerants. The investment in the cheese plant amounted to Cheese plant wastewater 0.00 100,028.46 HRK 34.4 million, of which HRK 3,679,264 was spent on equtreatment ipping the wastewater treatment plant. We replaced another Air emissions measuring part of the winery roof, an investment worth HRK 702,710. and boiler room burner 0.00 28,704.25 We mounted solar panels on the roofs of the cheese plant and maintenance the winery. We also invested in the design of a wastewater ISO 14001 environmental treatment plant for the winery and the oil mill and obtained management system 17,394.11 17,824.18 the relevant building permit. By mid-2014, we invested HRK certification 400,000 in designing documentation and obtaining permits Replacement of the asbestos 0.00 702,710.00 (HRK 190,000 in 2013). roof on the production hall Total excl. of environmental 3,643,867.71 1,418,615.40 charges Environmental charges, including refundable packaging 2,164,011.90 2,581,480.23 charge Total 5,807,879.61 4,000,095.63 Planned Activities and main Objectives for 2014 and 2015 • complete wastewater treatment plant project for the winery and oil mill locations; and • continue to improve our waste sorting and disposal activities through licensed operators. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 191 Agriculture PIK Vinkovci d.d. PIK Vinkovci is a company established in 1962 in Vinkovci. conducted in 2011 and 2012, our environmental management It has been part of Agrokor since 1994. The core activities system was recertified in 2013. Our food quality and safety of PIK Vinkovci include production, processing, drying and management system was initially certified in 2006 and then storage of crops and oilseeds, seed refinement, production of recertified in 2009 and 2012. Our Global GAP (Good Agriindustrial plants and vegetable cultures, storage, processing cultural Practice) has been recertified once a year since 2008 and packaging of fruits and vegetables, and cattle farming. in the case of agriculture and vegetable farming, and in the case of cattle farming since 2012. PIK conducts its business in the Counties of Vukovar-Srijem, Zadar and Međimurje. In April of 2013, the Belica purchasing The most important objectives achieved during this reporcenter was merged into PIK Vinkovci, followed by the Polača ting period are: purchasing center and later by Kašteli. In January of 2012, • rehabilitation of the underground fuel tank the Zvirinac baby beef fattening farm (Privlaka) rejoined PIK. • reduction of noise emissions in Lipovac by building a noise In order to align its business operations with its environbarrier mental activities, the company uses integrated agricultural • maintenance and improvement of wastewater quality by production: we ensure that waste is properly sorted and disinstalling an oil separator in the location at Matije Gupca posed of and monitor the consumption of all forms of enerStreet in Vinkovci gy and the quality of our wastewater. Our commitment was • intensified education, awareness raising, professionalism confirmed by the certification of our ISO 14001:2004 system building and communication in the context of environin 2010. To make sustainable development possible, we set mental protection, including various internal and external specific objectives each year, and their control and implementraining sessions tation largely contribute to the mitigation of our impacts on • enhanced emergency preparedness as a result of fireall components of the environment. fighting tank reconstruction. Our integrated management systems represent the implementation of the ISO 14001 environmental management system in the existing ISO 9001 quality management system, HACCP and Global GAP. In addition to regular audits 192 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Materials Materials used by weight or volume (kg) rials. The amount of packaging materials also increased as a Type of material used 2012 2013 result of an increasing number of new products. PIK Vinkovci did not use any recycled input materials. Raw material 55,564,123 62,205,100 Ancillary process materials 24,736,243 28,020,487 Packaging materials 415,784,400 502,925,420 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source (non-renewable energy sources) Total 496,084,766 593,151,007 Fuel Natural gas LPG Year (GJ) (GJ) (GJ) Materials used for production (kg) 2012 36,882 13,855 5,071 Type of material used 2012 2013 2013 43,230 20,723 3,841 Agriculture and vegetable Total 80,112 34,578 8,912 farming Seed 7,520,148 8,095,176 Plant protection agents 46,993 50,253 Fuel consumption in 000 Mineral fertilizer 2,956,047 3,465,509 Fuel 2012 2013 Manure 5,155,780 6,877,401 Heating oil, crude oil, lubricants (l) 158 275 Lubricants 19,830 20,509 Euro diesel (l) 68 85 Refinement Blue diesel (l) 982 1052 Natural seed 7,370,136 6,645,100 Natural gas (m3) + LPG 485 630 Wheat mill Our consumption of blue diesel as a cheaper source of enerWheat 28,131,140 27,709,698 gy increased compared to the preceding reporting period as a Corn mill result of the above-mentioned expansion of production to new Corn 9,055,880 16,151,010 locations, while Euro diesel consumption decreased. We recorCattle farming ded an increase in our gas consumption during the 2012-2013 period, mostly as a result of merging three pig farms, two of Gilts 221,928 209,380 which use natural gas for heating and one uses LPG, and a Pigs 2,555,730 3,005,175 baby beef fattening farm that also uses LPG. We observed a siCalves 709,161 389,561 gnificant decrease in crude oil consumption in 2012 as a result of a very dry year that caused a decrease in our seed corn and Feed 14,466,873 15,232,958 popping corn production using this form of energy for drying. Straw 2,090,720 2,373,857 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy Packaging materials placed on the market (kg) source (indirect energy supplied and used from non-renewable energy sources) Type of material used 2012 2013 Year Electricity (GJ) Electricity (kWh) Paper/cardboard 316,414.33 365,888.84 2012 22,822 6,424,728 Wood 4,560.00 21,346.00 2013 25,536 7,093,346 Textile 352.00 560.50 Total 48,358 48,358 Plastic bags 0.00 1,530.00 Other polymer materials 94,458.07 113,600.08 TOTAL 415,784,40 502,925,42 Charge in HRK 190,235,73 227,989,35 (according to RTAPPM) RTAPPM – Registry of the Types and Amounts of Packaging Placed on the Market – Packaging and Packaging Waste Ordinance 97/05 (115/05; 81/08; 31/09; 38/10; 10/11;81/11; 126/11;38/13;86/13); Quarterly reports are submitted and charges are paid to the Environmental Protection Fund. Our scope of production increased during this reporting period because it extended to our newly merged locations, which also directly increased the amount of ancillary process mateSustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 193 Energy Summary of electricity consumption for 2011-2013 although to a lesser extent, for heating. By expanding our related to production (kWh / kg) activities to include cattle farming and extending to new loMonth 2012 2013 cations in 2011, we have recorded a constant increase in the consumption of this form of energy. We recorded an increase January 0.12 0.2 in electricity consumption per product unit in 2012 compared February 0.09 0.14 to the preceding reporting period, and then again a decrease March 0.10 0.03 in 2013. April 0.10 0.04 May 0.09 0.07 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source (indirect energy supplied and used from June 0.02 0.04 non-renewable energy sources) July 0.03 0.03 Year Steam (MWh) August 0.05 0.02 2012 0 September 0.02 0.02 2013 0 October 0.02 0.04 Total 0 November 0.04 0.03 December 0.14 0.11 PIK Vinkovci uses steam in its technological process of drying crops and oilseeds in the Silo, which it generates in Total 0.04 0.06 its internal power plant (energy: crude oil – LUS II). Electricity is used in all our plants for operating electric motors in production and processing (refinement), and also, Water Total water withdrawal by source (m3) From a public For process Total amount of all Year From water supply purposes waters withdrawn system 2012 0 1,060,867 0 1,060,843 2013 0 965,234 5148 970,382 Total 0 2,026,077 5,148 2,031,225 Sanitary water consumption farm uses raw water, without any treatment. We use water from the Bosut and Spačva rivers and ground water witYear Sanitary water (m3) hdrawn from our own wells (Čeretinci, Markušica) to irrigate 2012 115,843 our agricultural areas. In late 2013, the Sopot location was 2013 107,382 connected to the city water supply system and well water has been used only as process water for washing handling areas Total 223,225 and agricultural machinery. In May of 2013, our location in Vinkovci was connected to the public water supply system and wells have only been used for hydrant network purposes. Irrigation water (000 m3) Our Otok location also withdraws water from its own well and uses it as processing water in the preparation of plant Water withdrawal site 2012 2013 protection agents in production areas. The Belica and PolaOwn wells 65 40 ča locations use water from the public water supply network. As the year 2012 was quite dry, our consumption of water for Bosut River 414 404 irrigation purposes increased compared to 2013. In 2013, we Spačva River 466 419 reduced water consumption on farms (by 17,014 m³) because Total 945 863 we had to repair a pump defect on the Andrijaševci 2 farm. In 2012, we withdrew water for process purposes from our own wells at all analyzed locations. The Andrijaševci 1, Andrijaševci 2 and Čeretinci pig farms and the Zvirinac baby beef fattening farm use water from their own wells. Water is treated on pig farms and used in production, while cattle 194 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Biodiversity PIK Vinkovci does not have any land owned, leased or manabiodiversity in such areas. ged in any protected areas, so its activities have no impact on Emissions, Effluents and Waste Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions recent emissions measuring was conducted in November of by weight 2013. The test results showed that the emission concentrations Total air emissions were in excess of the limits in the case of NO₂ emissions pro2012 2013 (t CO2 eq,) duced by boilers and CO₂ emissions produced by the air heater. Production plants 1,344 1,873 As we detected excessive gas emissions, we plan to replace this source of energy by an environmentally more acceptable Fuel for transport 3,784 4,422 source of energy in the next period, i.e. replace crude oil by LPG 335 179 natural gas. The next measuring is scheduled for November CO2 equivalent 5,128 5,893 2015. In 2012 and 2013, we monitored the emissions from boilers on our farms. The emission concentrations measured on our boilers (Vitoplex 100, 100 PV1, 300 TX3, Vitocrossal 300 CT3) were within the required limits. The next measuring is CO2 emissions (kg/year) scheduled for October 2014. The measuring of emissions from our drying kilns was conducted in November of 2009 and the Point of emission 2012 2013 next measuring is scheduled for November 2014. Boiler type 300 339,982.29 548,175.61 Boiler type 500 14,781.84 58,874.93 Gas drying kiln Nije radila 344,577.35 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Drying kiln Law 31,748.99 79,023.46 Air heater 5,642.80 Year t CO2 Neovulkan 65,135.30 52,652.80 2012 0,319 Boiler Viessmann 2013 0,401 146,742.09 114,721.41 Vitoplex 100 PV1, A1 Total 0,720 Boiler Viessmann 146,742.09 114,721.41 Vitoplex 100, A1 Boiler Viessmann Vitocrossal 300CT3, A2 132,141.39 136,819.72 Fuel consumption (000 L) Boiler Viessmann Fuel 2012 2013 132,141.39 136,819.72 Vitoplex 300 TX3, A2 Heating oil, crude oil, lubricants (l) 158 275 Boiler 1 Viessman Euro diesel (l) 68 85 Vitoplex 100 PV1, F-Č Blue diesel (l) 982 1052 Boiler 2 Viessman 167,318.40 140,635.38 Vitoplex 100 PV1, F-Č Fuel – passenger cars 102 128 Kotao 2 Viessman Vitoplex 100 PV1, F-Č 167,318.40 140,635.38 The increase in consumption of fuel and other sources of Total: 1,344,052.18 1,873,299.97 energy is associated with the above-mentioned merger of Our boilers type 300 and 500 and our Sopot boiler are powered new profit centers, which also resulted in more company veby crude oil. Reduced CO₂ emissions were recorded in the case hicles and more visits to these new production sites located of boiler type 500 as a result of reduced fuel consumption and in different places. less hours of operation during this reporting period. The most Conversion of fuel emissions to kg (methods ISO 12039:2003) 2012 2013 Energent L CO2 coefficient L CO2 coefficient Heating oil, crude oil, lubricants (l) 158 495,014 275 861,575 Euro diesel (l) 68 213,044 85 266,305 Blue diesel (l) 982 3076,606 1052 3295,916 Fuel – passenger cars (I) 102 319,566 128 401,024 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 195 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Other relevant air emissions by weight (in tons) Point of emission SO2 (kg/year) Year SO2 NO2 CO 2012 2013 2012 3,84 1,14 0,20 Boiler type 300 3,663.33 2,983,16 2013 3,38 2,04 1,09 Boiler type 500 171.47 390.39 Total 7,22 3,18 1,29 Air heater 0.36 Neovulkan 4.16 3.36 Total SO2 3,838.96 3,377.27 Other relevant air emissions Point of emission NO2 (kg/year) 2012 2013 Point of emission CO (kg/year) Boiler type 300 2012 2013 Boiler type 500 Boiler type 300 74.06 336.91 Drying kiln Law Boiler type 500 2.70 7.1 Neovulkan 29.64 34.01 Gas drying kiln Did not operate 0 Air heater 3.21 Drying kiln Law 2.04 5.09 Boiler Neovulkan-Sopot 29.64 34.01 Air heater 5.26 Boiler Viessmann Vitoplex 100 Neovulkan 56.66 684.51 76.09 59.5 PV1, A1 Boiler Viessmann Vitoplex 100 11.51 9.0 Boiler Viessmann Vitoplex PV1, A1 51.49 40.26 100, A1 Boiler Viessmann Vitoplex 19.63 15.35 Boiler Viesmann Vitocrossal 100, A1 44.59 46.17 300CT3, A2 Boiler Viessmann Vitocrossal 9.16 9.48 Boiler Viessmann Vitoplex 300 300CT3, A2 61.84 64.04 TX3, A2 Boiler Viessmann Vitoplex 300 10.72 11.1 Boiler 1 Viessman 1,060.00 1,328.00 TX3, A2 Vitoplex 100 PV1, F-Č 89.75 67.40 Boiler 1 Viessman 0.36 Boiler 2 Viessman Vitoplex 100 PV1, F-Č 9.97 7.48 Vitoplex 100 PV1, F-Č 87.19 65.48 Boiler 2 Viessman Vitoplex 100 9.2 6.91 PV1, F-Č Total NO2 1,142.21 2,045.59 Total CO 205.65 1,098.19 Wastewater Total water discharge Results of measuring COD and BOD in wastewater (mg O2/l by BOD and COD in wastewater) Year Wastewater (m3) 2012 2013 2012 16,719 Locations COD BOD COD BOD 2013 19,091 Sopot 17.17 1.35 <30 4.94 Total 35,810 Vinkovci 21.66 1.95 36 9.5 Lipovac 3.1 1.95 24.45 1.59 In 2013, the Vinkovci location was connected to a public sanitary wastewater drainage system via a collector. An Andrijaševci 1 14 7.84 <30 7.72 oil separator was installed at the location for treating Andrijaševci 2 20.45 7.02 <30 2.39 precipitation water before discharging it into the Čeretinci <30 1.67 precipitation drain. As a result of such changes, we applied for an adjustment to our water license in December of 2013. Our farms generate wastewater as a result of treating water At the Sopot location, process wastewater resulting from discharged into the precipitation drain after the deposit washing machinery and handling areas is discharged into a tank. Analyses are conducted for all discharged wastewater channel via a separator. Otok has generated no wastewater according to our valid water licenses. The values of the since 2012. The Lipovac location discharges its wastewater analyzed parameters were found to be within the required resulting from vegetable washing into a channel via a limits. Our valid water licenses are as follows: Sopot – the deposit tank. license expires on August 20, 2017; Otok – the license expires on April 10, 2022; in the case of sanitary wastewater at the Silo and New Mill locations, the license expires on September 1, 2016; Lipovac – the license expires on May 3, 2021. 196 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Waste Total weight of waste by type and disposal method (kg) Type of waste Treatment Collected by 2012 2013 Non-hazardous Drava I., Unijapapir, Eko-flor, R 257,700 186,745 waste Agrovet, CeZaR, Gumiimpex Ciak, Komunalije Hrgovčić, Ina Hazardous waste D 34,959 18,308 maziva, Metal Zec Total 292,659 205,053 To increase the efficiency of our waste sorting activities in by law, including a registry and supporting sheets. The amo2012 and 2013, we increased the number of waste types, but unts of waste generated between 2010 and 2013 as a result the total amount of waste was reduced. Waste is temporariof company’s activities are specified in Table 4, including a ly disposed of in precisely defined and coded places. Further summary by type of waste. All waste generated was collected disposal and recovery of such waste is carried out as required by a licensed operator to be recovered and disposed of. Hazardous and non-hazardous waste Waste (kg/year) Waste code Type of waste 2010 2011 2012 2013 02 01 08* Agrochemical waste 0 221 Mineral-based non-chlorinated engine, gear and 13 02 05* 11,390 7,560 7,740 5,380 lubricating oils 13 05 02* Sludge from oil/water separators 0 14,000 980 0 13 05 07* Oily water 17,460 700 13 08 99* Waste not otherwise specified 0 1,158 Packaging containing residues of or 15 01 10 * 9,000 8,393 6,098 7,217 contaminated by dangerous substances 15 02 02* Absorbents, oily waste 362 719 1,707 1,320 16 01 07* Oil filters 415 2,060 0 239 16 02 11* Discarded refrigerators 0 0 0 30 16 02 13* Electronic waste 760 620 0 830 16 05 06* Laboratory chemicals 0 37 16 06 01* Lead batteries 982 0 0 0 16 07 09* Waste containing other dangerous substances 400 0 0 0 18 02 02* Infectious waste 0 0 974 1,166 20 01 21* Fluorescent tubes and infrared bulbs 0 0 0 10 Total Hazardous waste 23,309 33,352 34,959 18,308 02 01 02 Animal-tissue waste 0 0 96,780 98,592 02 01 04 Waste plastics 0 0 0 260 12 01 01 Ferrous metal filings and turnings 12,980 41,600 15 01 01 Paper and cardboard packaging 31,500 12,660 44,320 47,780 15 01 02 Foil, plastic bags 5,920 3,380 6,780 15,180 16 01 03 End-of-life tires 4,280 3,800 0 6,340 16 01 17 Ferrous metal 13,880 0 17 04 02 Aluminum 1,220 0 17 04 05 Iron and steel 22,600 70,520 97,940 12,430 17 06 04 Insulation materials 0 0 0 4,800 18 02 03 Pharmaceutical waste 0 0 1,380 1,123 20 01 01 Paper and cardboard 960 7,940 10,500 240 Total Non-hazardous waste 93,340 139,900 257,700 186,745 Total Waste 116,649 173,252 292,659 205,053 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 197 Spills PIK Vinkovci did not record any spills during the relevant re• training an internal auditor for our environmental manaporting period. gement system By setting general and specific environmental objectives and monitoring their implementation by using a performance monitoring program, we substantially mitigate our environProducts and Services mental impacts. Important objectives set for and achieved within the reporting period are: PIK Vinkovci is not authorized to reclaim packaging from its • reconstruction of the underground fuel tank at M. Gupca customers or to recover and/or dispose of it. It therefore pays Street in Vinkovci charges to the Environmental Protection Fund for disposal of • replacement of the manure cover on the Čeretinci pig farm its packaging placed on the market. • construction of a noise barrier in Lipovac, whereby we reduced the noise level by 10 dB • rehabilitation of the firefighting water tank at M. Gupca Street in Vinkovci Compliance • improvement of drinking water quality in Sopot by connecting to the city water supply system No fines or sanctions were imposed on PIK Vinkovci for • installation of a precipitation wastewater treatment sepanon-compliance with any environmental laws or regulations rator during the reporting period. Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Fuel for LPG Total CO2 emission transport Year GJ GJ equivalentTons of CO2 Tons of CO2 for fuel equivalent for LPG 2012 3.109 0.39 0.222 0.017 2013 3.887 0.23 0.278 0.010 Total 6.996 0.62 0.50 0.027 PIK Vinkovci does not engage in transportation of goods. Energy consumption for Transport Goods are transported by our customers or transport services are outsourced. Agricultural machinery (tractor + trailer), Fuel Gas Number of cars trucks and forklift trucks are used for internal transport of (000 liters) (m 3) goods. The company had 45 company cars in 2012, compared to 47 in 2013. For all these modes of transport, we used 2012 45 102 10,1 102,413.00 liters of fuel and 10.1 m³ of gas in 2012, compared 2013 47 128 5,47 to 128,030.00 liters of fuel and 5.47 m³ of gas in 2013. This increase in fuel consumption is associated with the merger of the new locations into PIK Vinkovci. 198 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Environmental Protection Investments Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type (HRK) 2012 2013 Waste disposal, emissions treatment and rehabilitation costs Air emission charges (SO2) 297,22 1,073,81 Air emission charges (NO2) 114,86 234,08 Air emission charges (CO2) 19,166,63 Air emission measuring 6,402,00 3,500,00 Water charges 586,337,75 645,558,91 Wastewater analyses 8,810,00 8,660,00 Waste management costs 395,132,94 325,344,00 Total waste disposal, emissions treatment and 1,016,261,40 984,370,80 rehabilitation costs Environmental prevention and management costs ISO 14001 certification 10,200,00 16,500,00 EMS training 5,500,00 Fire protection 85,000,00 Investments in waste management 2,000,00 2,300,00 Environmental impact assessment, IPPC, EMS, etc. 10,573,00 55,000,00 Total environmental prevention and management costs 28,273,00 157,100,00 Total 1,044,534,40 1,141,470,80 Our waste disposal costs increased compared to the preceof waste, but also as a result of disposing of waste resulting ding reporting period as a result of increased production, from the reconstruction of our burned warehouse in Lipovac. which in turn resulted in greater amounts of different types Planned Activities and main Objectives for 2014 and 2015 • To enhance our emergency preparedness • renew firefighting equipment • renovate present car battery charging station • refurbish gas bottle storage facility • To improve our waste management system • procure new waste containers at M. Gupca • To maintain and improve our wastewater quality • procure a new oil/grease separator for the Sopot location • To procure a mobile oil pump for the Zvirinac farm • To enlarge the present manure depository on the Zvirinac farm • To replace the asbestos panels • To prepare project documentation to replace our primary energy used by our power plants by an environmentally more acceptable source of energy • To prepare project documentation to increase energy efficiency with respect to electricity (reactive power compensation) Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 199 Agriculture Vupik d.d. Vupik is an organization with a tradition dating back to 1945 As regards the objectives set for 2012 and 2013, Vupik achiewhen the Federal Agricultural Estate Vukovar was establisved the following: hed. Only five years later, Vupik was in possession of 3,000 • On February 15, 2013, Vupik had its ISO14001:2004 stanha of farmland. PIK Vukovar was organized in 1964 and its dard certified. The certification covered all its locations, agricultural land expanded to 6,048 ha (bought between which was more than planned (only the pig farms and BU 1964 and 1984) following a process of enlargement and reVegetable Farming were planned to be certified); distribution. In 1974, Vupik began to build two silos (Dunav • The reconstruction of PC Transshipping Port/Silos and the and Đergaj), slaughterhouses and pig and cattle farms, new transshipping dock was completed; vineyards were planted, and a winery including a bottling • The winery was equipped. plant was built. In early 1980, Hotel Dunav was built in the center of Vukovar, whereby the company expanded its actiIn 2013, Vupik achieved the objectives set in late 2012: vities to tourism. Vupik suspended its operations during the • We implemented the Global G.A.P. standard in PC Pig Homeland War but was reorganized in 1994 as a joint-stock Farming and PC Agriculture and Vegetable Farming. We company controlled by the Croatian Privatization Fund. had nine crops certified according to the principles of this Following the reintegration process in 1998, Vupik resusystem; med its production and became part of The Agrokor Group in • We installed water meters in all Vupik locations where 2010. wells are present; • We prepared studies to obtain six concessions for witAgricultural production in Vupik is divided between the hdrawing water for process purposes; following profit centers: PC Agriculture and Vegetable Far• We prepared water license studies for eleven locations; ming including its business units Ovčara, Bobota and Grabo• We prepared policies for the disposal of all types of waste vo; PC Winegrowing and Winemaking including its business resulting from our technological processes and wastewater units Winery and Winegrowing-Jakobovac; PC Pig Farming treatment processes for all locations; including its four business units/farms: Ovčara 1, Ovčara 2, • We prepared waste management plans for all fifteen of Bobota and Pačetin; PC Cattle Farming including five farms: Vupik locations; Jakobovac, Klisa and Dubrava for dairy production, Bobota for • We developed operational plans in case of sudden and cattle fattening, and Lovas for baby beef breeding; PC Tranextraordinary water contamination; sshipment Port including three business units: Maintenance, • We collected bids for wastewater treatment concepts and Dunav Silo and Bobota Silo. A cooperative operates as part of technological solutions for the BU Agriculture Ovčara and this profit center, including four business units in Vukovar, the BU Agriculture Bobota locations; Bobota, Čakovci and Trpinja, and its BU Tourism and Hospi• In 2013, Vupik obtained five water licenses for BU Winetality, which operates the Goldschmidt wine company. making, Cattle Farms Bobota, Jakobovac and Dubrava and BU Dunav Silo, and a decree from Hrvatske vode Osijek for The organization confirmed its commitment to environBU Winegrowing Jakobovac stating that no water license mental protection by adopting the Environmental Manageis required; ment Policy and by proceeding to organize its Management • We installed a telemetric water consumption reading System Department as early as at the end of 2013 as a central system at our cattle farm in Klis. department responsible for the integrated systems due to the company’s scope of activity and complexity. As far as the plans envisaged for this reporting period which were not accomplished are concerned, we failed to build a wastewater treatment plant in PC, Agriculture and Vegetable Farming due to insufficient funding and have also not built a vegetable storage facility. 200 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 201 Materials Materials used by weight or volume kg Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials (%) Type of material used 2012 2013 Type of material used 2012 2013 Input 81,660.80 101,846.39 Cardboard packaging 13.37 20.24 Ancillary process materials 22,710.00 20,573.00 PVC – packaging materials 2.0 1.81 Packaging materials 2,941,296.16 3,394,581.90 Total 85,862,203.59 105,965,223.52 The percentage of recycled cardboard packaging was for the first time included in the Report in the above table. It refers The amounts of raw materials, ancillary process materials to recycled packaging material made of cardboard used for and packaging materials increased during the reporting peripacking finished products (wine) in the winery, the only unit od compared to the preceding reporting period as a result of making finished products in Vupik d.d. increased production volumes. This percentage was calculated as the share of recycled cardboard packaging in the total amount of cardboard packaging used. Energy Direct energy consumption by primary energy Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source (non-renewable energy sources) source (indirect energy supplied and used from non-renewable energy sources) Fuel Natural gas LPG Year (GJ) (GJ) (GJ) Year Electricity (GJ) 2012 56,209 32,400 0 2012 240,124 2013 58,282 29,100 0 2013 231,458 Total 114,491 61,500 0 Total 471,582 The amount of fuel used decreased compared to the preceNo significant variations were recorded in our electricity ding reporting period because we replaced our old agricultuconsumption compared to the preceding reporting period. ral machinery by new machinery. During the preceding reporting period, we took electricity The gas consumption was balanced after we built a drying consumption as an important factor, and by deregistering, rekiln in Silo Dunav and started using our full capacities on the gistering and merging various measuring points, we got rid pig farms. As we were unable to plan our actual consumption of the unnecessary ones. In doing so, we brought consumptibefore the end of the investment cycle, gas consumption will on on new farms close to the levels recorded in the preceding be stabilized during the next reporting period. reporting period. Water Total water withdrawal by source (m3) From a public Total amount of all Year From a lake From wells water supply waters withdrawn system 2012 852,064 237,820 18,655 1,108,539 2013 933,700 272,429 15,474 1,221,603 Total 1,785,764 510,249 34,129 2,330,142 During the reporting period, Vupik increased the amounts of the water used was withdrawn from the Danube, which ultiirrigation water withdrawn from a lake. The amount increamately resulted in higher production costs. sed as a result of dry years. The amount of water in the lake was not sufficient to meet our irrigation needs, so 40-50% of 202 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Biodiversity The total surface area of the land farmed by Vupik is 7,338.60 to the construction of our new production facilities are the ha. Vupik owns 212.64 ha. Vupik leases 4,386 ha of farmland Environmental Impact Studies prepared for our newly built and uses 2,739.63 ha on the basis of one-year contracts. 500 pig farms Bobota, Pačetin and Ovčara. PC Pig Farming is suha is used for vegetable farming (potatoes, carrots, peas, bject to the IPPC Directive and is in the process of obtaining onions and sweet corn) and our crops are irrigated from the all licenses required to obtain an environmental license. We nearby Lake Grabovo. None of the plots are in or adjacent to have obtained all integrated environmental requirements auany protected area. thorizations from the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Physical Planning for all our pig farms. The documents confirming that Vupik’s activities have no significant impact on biodiversity and the documents relating Emissions, Effluents and Waste Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Vupik does not use any ozone depleting refrigerants. by weight Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Total air emissions (t CO2 eq.) 2012 2013 by weight (in tons) Production plants 2,084 2,140 Year SO2 NO2 CO Fuel for transport 122 125 2012 0 0.449 0.093 LPG 0 0 2013 0 0.397 0.082 CO2 equivalent 2,206 2,265 Total 0 0.846 1.021 We reduced our CO₂ emissions as a result of closing the BU Hotel location, the BU Winemaking location uses natural The emissions were calculated on the basis of measuring of gas instead of heating oil, and PC Agriculture and Vegetable emissions and energy consumption for BU Winemaking. The Farming replaced its outworn machinery by new machinery, information was delivered to the Environmental Pollution thus reducing its environmental pollution levels. Registry (EPR), which we are required by law to do by March 1 of each year for the preceding year. Wastewater Total water discharge The results of all wastewater analyses were within the required limits compared to the preceding reporting period. This Year Wastewater (m3) was also a result of our Management System Department’s active involvement in marking wastewater sampling points 2012 22.500 in the field. Such good results provided us with five water li2013 23.100 censes obtained by Vupik from Hrvatske vode Osijek. Vupik’s Total 45.600 wastewater has been analyzed by the Public Health Institute Sveti Rok of Virovitica since 2012. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 203 Waste Total weight of waste by type and disposal method (kg) Type of waste Treatment Collected by 2012 2013 EFP, L91, UM, DI, HR, M, Non-hazardous waste R 183,113 192,279 CeZaR, TK Hazardous waste D Ciak, SM, Flora 17,206 18,258 Total 200,319 210,537 The amounts of non-hazardous waste collected during the our animals are healthy and reduce our use of medicines and reporting period show an increasing trend. The amount of infectious and pharmaceutical wastes. paper and PVC foil disposed of increased ten times compared to 2010. The amounts of hazardous waste decreased by 50% Vupik did not record any significant spills of oil, fuel, waste, compared to the preceding reporting period. We ensure that chemicals or the like. Products and Services As a result of building a new gas-powered drying kiln that employees’ awareness of the need to sort waste by the end of began to operate in 2012, we no longer use heating oil. In 2012. These efforts are reflected in an increased amount of 2012, we purchased five new Fendt tractors to replace old useful waste collected (ten times more) and began to provide and outworn tractors, thus reducing our CO₂ emissions. In us with financial benefits. early 2012, we launched intensive environmental training and awareness programs and began to implement the ISO Vupik does not have a recycling system and does not reuse 14001 requirements, so we formed eco-islands and raised our materials in its production processes. Compliance In 2012 and 2013, Vupik did not record any cases of statutory environmental regulations on a daily basis on the website non-compliance in the context of environmental protectiof the Official Gazette (Narodne novine), as required by ISO on. No cases of non-compliance with any laws were found in 14001:2004. We ensure that our employees are trained to acany of the locations visited by environmental inspectors. All hieve continuing progress and development, which we belierequested documents and information were presented to such ve is very important. inspectors. Our Management System Department monitors Transport The transport systems of all companies cause environmenhas 34 passenger cars, compared to the preceding reporting tal impacts and so does Vupik’s as well. Transport activities period when we had 33. Our employees travel to work using produce certain air emissions (we focused on CO₂ emissions their private cars or public transport. We outsourced our freas primary emissions resulting from fuel combustion). Vupik ight transport activities to Beljetrans of Belje. Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Fuel for LPG Total CO2 emission transport Year GJ GJ equivalentTons of CO2 Tons of CO2 for fuel equivalent for LPG 2012 5,049 0 194,060 0 2013 6,758 0 259,749 0 Total 11,807 0 453,809 0 204 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Environmental Protection Investments Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type (HRK) 2012 2013 Waste disposal, emissions treatment and rehabilitation costs Charges for CO2 emissions 10,215.80 10,215.80 Waste management costs 153,786.32 198,493.60 Water use charges 265,556.40 269,584.60 Total waste disposal, emissions treatment and 429,558.52 478,294.00 rehabilitation costs Environmental prevention and management costs Certification 25,883.75 50,581.78 Training and Education 16,557.70 0.00 Environmental impact studies, integrated environmental requirements 0,00 0.00 Total environmental prevention and management costs 42,441.45 50,581.78 Total 471,999.97 528,875.80 The amount of charges payable for CO₂ emissions in 2012 so the figures provided in the table will change as the above and 2013 was the same. It however increased compared to figures only reflect a flat amount according to a provisional the preceding reporting period as a result of CO₂ emissicalculation made by the Fund. Our water charges increased ons from the pig farms that have operated with full capacity as a result of increased production capacities compared to the since late 2011. In 2015, the Environmental Protection and preceding reporting period, but became stable during this Energy Efficiency Fund will issue a final resolution for 2013, period. Planned Activities and main Objectives for 2014 and 2015 • completion of the reconstruction process of the PC Silo storage facility – installing a new truck scale • irrigation – an investment worth HRK 15,000,000 – Phase 1 (the total investment is worth HRK 29,000,000) • Opatovac farm – an investment worth HRK 35,000,000 • to build wastewater treatment plants in two locations – BU Ovčara and BU Bobota. • to prepare project documentation required to obtain water licenses and concessions for wells • to check the sewerage system in some of Vupik’s facilities for watertightness by June of 2016, as required by law • to obtain an ISO 9001 certificate • to have our HACCP system in BU Winery certified Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 205 Agriculture Kor Neretva d.o.o. Kor Neretva is a limited liability company engaged in agrioperated under the name of Konzum DAD. Having been cerculture and trade, established on May 1, 2013 and having tified according to this standard, we demonstrated our ability its registered office in Opuzen. Kor Neretva merely contito meet the most stringent requirements imposed by large nues a ten-year story of Konzum’s and Agrokor’s (Konzum is retail chains. In addition to its integrated quality system, 100% owned by Agrokor) presence in the Neretva Valley. The Kor Neretva monitors the implementation of all standards. In company has changed several names in the past ten years addition to the standards for which we have been certified, (Konzum DAD, Neretva Fructus, AgroFructus), but continued our integrated system also includes HACCP and some parts performing the same business operations, so that all our enof the ISO 9001 management system. As we are not required visaged accomplishments and plans remain the same. Kor by law to have these systems certified, we established and Neretva engages in buying fresh fruits and vegetables across implement them internally for the purpose of reducing our the region, approximately 50.000 tons of fresh fruits and vecosts. After we separated from AgroFructus, we only retained getables annually. We are the leading mandarin buyer, and our Global GAP certificate for our production of mandarins, this line of business accounts for 50% of the company’s annuour primary export product. Further extension of the Global al turnover. The company presently employs 55 persons and GAP system to new products and producers will depend on operates a modernly equipped buying center in Opuzen. our customers’ demands. While continuously improving the quality and increasing the For the purpose of further positioning the Neretva mandarin sale of fruits and vegetables in the local and international on the international market, in 2009 we launched a project to markets, we aim to conduct our business operations accorprotect the mandarin’s geographic origin in cooperation with ding to internationally recognized quality control standarthe Faculty of Food Technology and Biotechnology in Zagreb. ds to guarantee safety and hygiene of our agricultural food Soon afterwards, FAO joined this project, primarily conduproducts. Kor Neretva’s success story includes the first Global cted by the Association of Mandarin Producers. In 2013, we GAP certificate obtained in Croatia back in 2006 (the comsuccessfully completed the project and registered protected pany operated under the name of Konzum DAD at the time) designation of origin for Neretva mandarin. We are currently awarded for its mandarin production. Even back then, the in the process of registering the protection at the EU level. company demonstrated its long-term commitment to its products and the environment, optimization of electricity and water consumption, and municipal waste management. All Global GAP certified contractors adhere to the good agricultural practice guidelines and are fully aware of the importance of establishing and maintaining this standard. Having undergone a stringent selection process, they were trained in the course of several seminars in responsible management of natural resources, protection of natural habitats, maintaining high hygienic standards during harvesting, rational use of fertilizers and pesticides, hazardous waste disposal, etc. We are proud to highlight the fact that, as a Tesco’s supplier, we fulfilled all requirements to be certified according to the Tesco Nature (TN) standard in mandarin production and distribution back in 2008. Five of our contractors have been certified according to this standard since that year when we still 206 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 207 Materials Kor Neretva aims to reduce the share of disposable packaHowever, as we export over 70% of our mandarins, we mostly ging and increase the share of reusable plastic packaging. use cardboard packaging to pack them. The cardboard boxes We are continuing this increasing trend of using reusable we use are made of fully recycled cardboard, and the polyetpackaging. Our plastic (RPC) packaging is fully reusable and hylene (plastic) packaging which we use can also be recoveis subjected to a supplier (cleaning and disinfection) – Kor red very efficiently. Neretva (arranging products) – customer (emptying, shipping to the supplier) cycle. When RPC packaging is received in Kor Neretva, 4% of it is not suitable for further use as a result of 2013 Fruits and vegetables (May 1 to Dec. 31) damage and is temporarily stored in Kor Neretva’s purchasing centers and periodically returned to suppliers. Fruits 15.141 t Vegetables 9.967 t Cardboard packaging is disposable and its useful life ends Total 25,109 t after it reaches the final customer (retail store). During transport or as a result of a manufacturing error, the suppliers Packaging materials in 000 units (producers) of such cardboard packaging deliver 2% non-comCardboard boxes (units) 205 pliant packaging, which is also temporarily stored and perioWooden crates (units) 66 dically shipped to recycling yards as waste. Reusable plastic packaging 948 We have been increasingly using reusable plastic packaMiscellaneous (vessels, inserts, strings, 1,128 ging for packing our fruits and vegetables lately, which has ribbons, etc) resulted in a decrease in the use of cardboard boxes by 52%. Energy Due to the specific nature of its business operations, most Over the years, we recorded a decrease in electricity conof the electricity used by Kor Neretva to operate its cooling sumption as a result of continuous efforts in raising the awaequipment is supplied by HEP. Kor Neretva has five electric reness of our employees concerning saving methods and purcooling chambers. These chambers also need small amounts chasing modern, more energy-efficient equipment. We aim to of water to provide sufficient humidity. This humidification continue undertaking such measures to reduce our average mode runs for two to three minutes a day. energy consumption per product unit at a rate of no less than 10% annually. Indirect energy consumption by primary energy During the reporting period, we used 15,001 kg of gas from a source (indirect energy supplied and used from tank and 13,220 kg of gas from bottles. Most of this gas was non-renewable energy sources) used to operate our thermo-tunnel for drying mandarins afElectricity ter washing and to operate forklift trucks. Year kW GJ We have not incurred any fuel costs since 2013 when Kor Neretva was established and begun to operate apart from the 2013 995,915 584,950 rest of the AgroFructus system. Kor Neretva outsources the (do 1,5, do 31,12) transport of its products to its final customers to different transport companies. Water During the reporting period, Kor Neretva used a total of by a further 5% annually. However, we are already recording 10,876 m³ of water from a public water supply system. We major savings as a result of water consumption awareness plan to continue reducing our consumption of public water programs. 208 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Emissions, Effluents and Waste Between May 1 and December 31, we disposed of a total of model by C.I.A.K., periodically as necessary, and we aim to 302 m³ of municipal waste, 0.3 t of non-hazardous waste provide continuous training in the area of good agricultural (cardboard, paper), and 275 m³ of bio-degradable waste. The practice to raise the awareness among our contractors of the cost of municipal waste disposal was HRK 88,572, while our necessity of using such approach with respect to this type of biodegradable waste disposal costs amounted to HRK 30,000. waste. Compared to 2012, when we spent HRK 143,375 on waste disposal (without separating biodegradable waste), our costs Since its establishment, Kor Neretva recorded no incidents decreased by 17%. attributable to any spills of chemicals, oil or fuel or any other similar environmental pollution. Hazardous waste in the form of empty pesticide packaging (bags and bottles) is collected as part of the CROPCA ECO Biodiversity In cooperation with the International Atomic Energy AgenThis program directly and for the most part contributes to cy and FAO, and with plenty of support from our company the protection of biodiversity and environmental protection, (both in financial terms and in terms of providing working especially if the most environmentally acceptable pesticide premises), the Croatian Center for Agriculture, Food and Ruis used. It takes four liters to cover 1 hectare. It is thereforal Affairs has implemented a program for sterilizing fruit re easy to calculate that we used 16,000 to 18,000 liters less fly males for the purpose of reducing the share of pesticides pesticide only last year. After using the male sterilization in mandarin production. The share of pesticides in fruits has method, the Mediterranean fruit fly population decreased by thus been significantly reduced, which is very relevant to our over 90% on treated areas compared to untreated areas and mandarin export policy. we completely phased out the pesticides that were used to combat this pest before. This project is in line with the EU After the preparations, the project gained momentum in 2010 water protection policy because we also significantly reduced when this method was used by releasing sterile males across the pesticide content in wastewater and soil. an area of 1,000 ha. In 2011, the project covered 1,250 ha, and we plan to use such biological inhibition method on an area Since its establishment, Kor Neretva recorded no incidents of 4,000 ha in 2014 and across the entire Neretva Valley in attributable to any spills of chemicals, oil or fuel or any other the next few years. similar environmental pollution. Compliance We have paid no fines for non-compliance with any environmental laws or regulations. Planned Activities and main Objectives for 2014 and 2015 • In the next reporting period, we plan to increase the share of reusable packaging to directly reduce the amount of municipal waste resulting from disposable packaging. • We will continue to include new products in our Global GAP and increase the number of our contractors by at least 5%. • In addition to raising environmental awareness, we are also pursuing a cost-cutting policy to keep our business profitable. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 209 Agriculture Kikindski mlin a.d. Kikindski mlin Kikinda has a long tradition as a wheat proThe milling facility in Kikinda includes a pasta plant. The pacessing and raw material storing company. The company was sta product range includes short and nest-style pasta, the line transformed in 2005 and since that time Dijamant, Zrenjanin, has a capacity of 250 kg/hr for nest-style pasta and 300 kg/ and Frikom, Belgrade, have been its majority shareholders. hr for short pasta, and the forms of energy used are electriciKikindski mlin has production plants in two locations: in ty and natural gas for heating water used in the pasta drying Kikinda and in Odžaci (formerly Žitoprodukt Odžaci), and its process. The latest Italian technology that allows using tracore activities are storage, keeping and processing of wheditional recipes for making pasta resulted in a final product at and laboratory testing. By storing wheat, Kikindski mlin of outstanding sensory characteristics, nutritionally valuable meets the raw material quality requirements for the baking, and dietetically suitable for a wide range of consumers. The brewing and confectionery industries. In January 2000, Žitocombined production line enables us to efficiently meet all produkt Odžaci became an organizational part of the Dijaspecific market demands for different forms of pasta. mant oil factory of Zrenjanin and a then division of Kikindski mlin in January 2009. The company has aligned its activities and adopted: • QMS including the requirements of SRPS ISO 9001:2008, By processing wheat of quality preserved during the storage • the principles of CODEX ALIMENTARIUS CAC / RCP period, Kikindski mlin makes various flour milling products. 1-1969; Rev. 4 (2003), Our raw materials storage and wheat processing activities • laboratory QM according to the requirements of SRPS ISO/ are supported by good laboratory testing of raw materials IEC 17025: 2006 for the declared scope of accreditation and products and constant technological process monitoring and control. The mill in Kikinda, with a capacity of 135 t/day, For the above systems, the company holds a certificate issued uses electricity as energy and is among the leading mill faby TÜV PROFiCERT of Hessen (expiring on May 25, 2016) cilities in the country in terms of equipment and production and an accreditation certificate issued by the Accreditation capacities. Excellently distributed equipment made by preAuthority of Serbia in Belgrade (expiring on February 29, mium international and local manufacturers enables rational 2016). and stable mill processing of wheat and production of standard and special types of flour. A modern design of the mill’s Our certified HACCP system is used at our Kikinda location technological chart with harmoniously set sieving schemes and applies to the following products: allows for a large number of flour fractions that can be com• standard and special types of wheat pasta, bined to make finished flour milling products with predefi• pasta, and ned technological characteristics. The mill in Odžaci has a • animal feed, capacity of 120 t/day and uses electricity as energy. from the moment we receive the raw material until we deliver our finished products. The raw material storage facilities include a silo and a warehouse. The silo (for storing wheat) in Kikinda has a capacity We are in the process of implementing an environmental maof 57,670 t, the silo in Novo Miloševo has a capacity of 8,000 nagement system (EMS) according to SRPS ISO 14001:2005 t, and the capacity of the silo in Odžaci is 64,500 t. Our unand expect to be certified in May of 2014. The system is dederground storage facilities are located in several places arosigned to be used across the company’s location in Kikinda, und Kikinda and have a combined storage capacity of 8,500 t. including all its organizational parts, and applies to our proThe silo facilities in Kikinda and Odžaci also include drying duction and marketing of wheat products and flour. kilns with a capacity of 32 t/hr (calculated for corn). The drying kiln in Kikinda uses natural gas as energy, whereas the one in Odžaci uses oil. 210 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 211 Materials Materials used by weight or volume kg Type of material used 2012 2013 In 2013, Kikindski mlin was supplied with its basic raw material (wheat) at the usual rate. Most wheat was purchased Raw material 50,718,440 47,132,440 during the harvesting period and the amounts purchased Ancillary process materials 1,388 809 were consistent with the production needs. Kikindski mlin Packaging materials 380,634 280,616 does not use any raw material or other input made of recycled material in its production process. Total 51,100,462 47,413,865 Energy Direct energy consumption by primary energy natural gas for pasta production and heating premises and source (non-renewable energy sources) consumption of liquefied petroleum gas for loading and unFuel Natural gas LPG loading goods decreased in 2013 compared to the preceding Year year as a result of reduced production and sales. (GJ) (GJ) (GJ) 2012 3,147 7,040 102 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy 2013 3,263 7,292 82 source (indirect energy supplied and used from Total 6,409 14,332 184 non-renewable energy sources) Year Electricity (GJ) The direct nonrenewable energy sources used by Kikindski 2012 21,855 mlin are natural gas for its pasta production purposes, euro 2013 19,544 diesel and D2 for its transport purposes, and LPG for loaTotal 41,399 ding, unloading and handling finished products using forklift trucks. Electricity is used in Kikindski mlin to operate machines and Our consumption of fuel for transport increased during the lighting equipment. Our electricity consumption is consireporting period because in 2013 we mostly used our own stent with the volume of work in Kikindski mlin. In 2013, elevehicles for transport and only outsourced a small part of ctricity consumption fell compared to 2012 due to a reduction such services to transport companies. Our consumption of in total production. Water Total water withdrawal by source (m3) From From a public Total amount of all Year internal wells water supply system waters withdrawn 2012 1,879 2,019 3,898 2013 1,834 1,878 3,712 Total 3,713 3,897 7,610 Kikindski mlin is supplied with water from its own well and our laboratory testing processes. Water is also used for fire from the town water supply system. Chemically prepared waprotection purposes and to maintain hygiene of our premises ter is used to prepare wheat for milling in our milling faciliand employees. Our water consumption has been stable and ties, pasta production in the pasta production facility, and for is related to our production activities. Biodiversity The buildings and plants owned by Kikindski mlin are not in ding to the general plan of the Municipality of Kikinda, the or adjacent to any protected natural areas or areas where KiKikindski mlin location is within the north operating zone kindski mlin’s operations may endanger biodiversty. Accorintended for secondary and tertiary activities. 212 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Emissions, Effluents and Waste Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions No other relevant greenhouse gas emissions were found in by weight Kikindski mlin that may have a significant environmental impact. In addition, Kikindski mlin does not emit any ozone Total air emissions 2012 2013 depleting gases in its production process. (t CO2 eq.) Production plants 395 409 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Fuel for transport 244 253 by weight (in tons) LPG 6 5 Year SO2 NO2 CO CO2 equivalent 645 667 2012 0.00 0.70 0.07 Direct greenhouse gas emissions in Kikindski mlin result 2013 0.00 0.73 0.07 from combustion of natural gas, diesel fuel and, to a minor Total 0.00 1.43 0.14 extent, LPG. Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions Our direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions measuby weight red in tons are insignificant because Kikindski mlin does not use any NOx or SOx emitting fuels in its production process, Year t CO2 such as coal, crude oils, heating oil or heating wood, but only 2012 0 natural gas. 2013 0 Total 0 Wastewater Total water discharge Kikindski mlin does not discharge its process wastewater, but only sanitary and precipitation wastewater. During discharYear Wastewater (m3) ging, wastewater is treated in a longitudinal deposit tank and we do not measure the amounts of our wastewater or analy2012 1,728 ze it. 2013 1,723 Total 2,451 Waste Total weight of waste by type and disposal method (kg) Type of waste Treatment Collected by 2012 2013 Ecology Action Non-hazardous waste R 12,860 11,440 Kikinda Ecology Action Hazardous waste D 0 0 Kikinda Total 12,860 11,440 The amount of non-hazardous waste decreased in 2013 comNo significant spills of chemicals, fat or fuel were recorded pared to 2012 as a result of a reduction in total production. during the reporting period in Kikindski mlin. The amount of municipal waste was determined on the basis of the total area on which municipal waste is generated, more precisely 6,570 m² in Kikinda and 2,141 m² in Odžaci. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 213 Products and Services Kikindski mlin continuously works on optimizing its conour wheat acceptance point, whereby we significantly redusumption of energy and natural resources and rational use ced the environmental impact of powder substances. of raw materials. We arranged for collection and recording of all types of waste by type and source and its disposal by During 2013, we completed our preparations for the implelicensed operators. We constantly monitor our environmental mentation of an environmental management system (EMS) parameters (air and noise emissions). During the reporting according to SRPS ISO 14001:2005 and plan to have it certiperiod, we invested in vehicles using less fuel and featuring fied in May of 2014. The system is designed to be used across new generation engines that emit less harmful substances the company’s location in Kikinda, including all its organizaduring combustion. We also invested in closing and airing of tional parts, and applies to our production and marketing of wheat products and flour. Types and amounts of disposable packaging produced and placed on the market Type of packaging (kg) Disposed of by 2012 2013 Plastics Ekostar Pak Beograd 46,997 42,545 Glass Ekostar Pak Beograd 0 0 Metal Ekostar Pak Beograd 0 338 Paper and cardboard Ekostar Pak Beograd 279,016 237,733 Wood Ekostar Pak Beograd 0 0 Miscellaneous Ekostar Pak Beograd 0 0 Total 326,013 280,616 In 2013, Kikindski mlin cooperated with Ekostar Pak, a licenKikindski mlin did not pay any administrative or court fines sed packaging waste operator, and thus performed its packaduring this reporting period for failure to comply with any ging waste disposal obligations. environmental law or regulation and no non-monetary sanctions were imposed on the company. Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Fuel for LPG Total CO2 emission transport Year Tons of CO2 Tons of CO2 GJ GJ equivalent for fuel equivalent for LPG 2012 3,147 102 244 6 2013 3,263 82 253 5 Total 6,409 184 497 11 No significant environmental impact was found as a result of transporting raw materials, finished products or members of the workforce. 214 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Environmental Protection Investments Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type (RSD) 2012 2013 Waste disposal, emissions treatment and rehabilitation costs Waste treatment and disposal 1,230,379.99 1,272,967.32 Water charge 801.84 846.00 Sewerage charge 10,570.37 11,151.75 Packaging waste operator’s fee 203,502.31 136,172.00 Total waste disposal, emissions treatment and 1,445,254.51 1,421,137.07 rehabilitation costs Environmental prevention and management costs (RSD) External mandatory environmental parameters monitoring services 574,000 527,000 Total environmental prevention and management costs 574,000 527,000 Total 2,019,254.51 1,948,137.07 Planned Activities and main Objectives for 2014 and 2015 • To produce and install bolts on the input branches of the airing ventilators in the engine room within Silo B (3 units). • To produce and install a noise damper on the pneumatics ventilators in the mill (3 units) and the airing ventilators in the machine room within Silo B (1 unit). • To organize records of electricity, natural gas and water consumption including a data filtering option. • To enter into contracts with licensed hazardous waste organizations. • To improve our waste management by sorting at the source, namely: • paper and cardboard waste (paper and cardboard packaging, office and filing paper), • plastic waste (plastic foil and PET packaging), • plant waste, • waste metal, • waste wood, • waste rubber, • waste printing toner, • electric and electronic waste, • waste oil, • waste car batteries, • waste fluorescent tubes and mercury-containing bulbs, • oily filter material and wiping cloths. • To redesign our hazardous waste storage facility. • To increase the amount of waste recycled by separating waste paper, cardboard and plastic from mixed municipal waste. • To duly have waste collected and establish a system to prevent spreading waste beyond the intended containers. • To post our Quality, Food Safety and Environmental Protection Policy on the company website. • To inform our suppliers of services, raw materials and other materials, transporters of finished products and visitors to the company on how to behave. • To complete all planned employee training programs in the area of environmental protection. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 215 Solana Pag d.d. Solana Pag is the largest producer of sea salt in Croatia and enjoys good transport connections. The salt plant does not its production is based on a tradition of a thousand years. Hahave any adverse environmental impacts and the activities ving joined The Agrokor Group in 1995, Solana Pag began to undertaken in Solana Pag do not have a harmful effect on the enlarge its product range, so it now produces the high-quality health of people living in nearby buildings. salt flower, dishwasher salt, bathing salt and seasoned salt in addition to small and large sea salt. The production technology Solana Pag provides additional safety and quality in its actiused in Solana Pag maximizes the natural advantages of the vities by implementing and enforcing its Quality, Environsurrounding area clean environment, many sunny days and mental Protection and Product Safety Policy, thus ensuring favorable wind, so Pag salt’s purity makes it one of the best sea that its production, from sea withdrawal to the finished prosalts in Europe and the entire world. Salt produced in Solana duct, and the environmental impact of its production are in Pag contains many minerals, most of which are necessary for compliance with the requirements of Codex Alimentarius and human health, and undergoes iodination in our modern faciliISO 14001:2004. ties. Solana Pag markets most of its products in Croatia, but is also present in the markets of our neighboring countries. • On May 12, 2005, we adopted our Production Hygiene and Sea Salt Enriching Policy. Solana Pag thus chose to impleSolana Pag is a combined solar and thermal salt plant, which ment a production hygiene and sea salt enriching system means its production process consists of two segments. During according to the requirements of Codex Alimentarius for the first one, seawater is densified up to a certain concentratithe purpose of minimizing the risk of distributing unsafe on, and then salt is crystallized from densified seawater. The products and complying with the relevant statutory requiprocess of producing sea salt begins in shallow fenced pools rements and customer demands. where seawater evaporates exposed to the effects of solar energy and wind and is then brought into our vacuum-evaporating • In early 2006, our HACCP system was certified according station. Most of such evaporation takes place outdoors, while to Codex Alimentarius and is recertified every three years, the rest takes place within the plant as a result of the effect of including annual supervisory audits. thermal energy in the form of steam. Salt is then subjected to iodination, dried, sieved and packed or stored away for later • Solana Pag has been certified according to the Kosher use without iodination. Salt is controlled by an internal laborastandard since 2009. tory from the time it is produced until the finished product is made and is under constant supervision of government accre• In 2011, Solana Pag extended its policy. The management dited laboratories and sanitary and veterinary inspectorates in adopted the comprehensive, integrated Quality, Environthe context of quality control and safety. mental Protection and Product Safety Policy, and its environmental management system was successfully certified The salt plant is located on the island of Pag, 3 km south of later that year according to the requirements of the ISO the town of Pag, next to its seawater densification pools, and 14001:2004 international standard. Materials Materials used by weight or volume kg for heat and we needed more of it than heating oil to generate the same amount of energy. Type of material used 2012. 2013. Raw material 63.860.000 78.280.000 As far as recycled input materials used by Solana Pag are concerned, during the reporting period we used transport boxes Ancillary process materials 1.719.571 7.978.865 made of 100% recycled material and cardboard boxes for packaPackaging materials 822.392 827.931 ging our 1 kg products that contain unknown/varying shares of Total 66.401.963 87.086.796 recycled materials. The percentage of packaging made of 100% recycled material (transport boxes) in total cardboard packaging was 8.89% in 2012 and 8.51% in 2013. The percentage of pacAs its initial raw material, Solana Pag uses seawater that unkaging partly made of recycled materials in the total amount of dergoes a densification process. Our consumption of ancillary all types of packaging was 63.82% in 2012 and 67.37% in 2013. process materials in 2013 was much higher compared to earThe percentage of all types of packaging containing recycled lier years because that was the time we started using wood materials was 70.0% in 2012 and 73.63% in 2013. 216 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 217 Energy Direct energy consumption by primary energy in increased electricity consumption in 2013. This had been source (non-renewable energy sources) expected because we had built a completely new facility conFuel Natural gas LPG taining equipment that uses additional amounts of electricity Year in addition to the existing equipment. (GJ) (GJ) (GJ) 2012 68,656 225 To produce sea salt, a large amount water of must evapora2013 4,844 192 te from seawater to obtain densified sea salt that enters the Total 73,500 417 production plant and is made into salt as a finished product there. Most of this evaporation takes place in our salt pools where solar thermal energy and wind act to improve air exDirect energy consumption by primary energy change, which results in a loss of up to 90% of water from source (renewable energy sources) seawater. The remaining 10% of water in a salt and water suspension evaporates under the effect of thermal energy in Wood Year the production plant within a crystallization system. As of (GJ) 2013, we have been producing thermal energy by wood chip 2012 0 burning, as opposed to combustion of crude oil that we had 2013 117,750 used before. Total 117,750 Solana Pag is unable to include in its Report the indicator of energy savings resulting from process improvements achieThe major decrease in fuel consumption (non-renewable enerved by rationalization and energy efficiency. In the context gy sources) in 2013 compared to 2012 and the preceding reof energy, no changes occurred during the reporting period porting period (2010 and 2011) is attributable to the commiswithin the plant in terms of technological improvements, sioning of a new heating boiler room powered by wood, i.e. thermal insulation, etc. This is why no progress was made wood chips that are classified as a renewable energy source. compared to earlier periods. This is why our consumption of medium heating oil was 95 t in 2013, compared to 1,655 t in 2012. Our wood consumptiIn 2012, we launched an initiative for creating an energy-efon increased compared to these figures, so our estimate for ficient product, that is, a product based on renewable energy. 2013 was 7,850 t. During 2012, when we only used crude oil In 2013, we implemented this initiative by building a wood for heating (compared to 2013 when we started using woodchip powered boiler room, such wood chips being treated as chips), our crude oil consumption was lower compared to the forest biomass and a renewable energy source. However, this preceding reporting period as a result of smaller amounts of initiative will not result in reduced needs for energy. Our salt produced during that year. Our consumption of liquefied need for thermal energy is the same as it was in earlier peripetroleum gas is similar as it was in the preceding reporting ods, while our need for fuel increased in the sense that more period. biomass needs to be burned than crude oil to generate the same amount of required thermal energy. Indirect energy consumption by primary energy We did not have any direct initiatives for reducing our direct source (indirect energy supplied and used from energy consumption; however, with smaller investments and non-renewable energy sources) regular maintenance of the plant, we are able to reduce our Year Electricity (GJ) electricity consumption. Our electricity consumption did not significantly decrease between 2010 and 2012. The producti2012 7,262 on volume depends on the production year, i.e. on how much 2013 8,802 salt was produced, and on salt packaging needs during a year. Total 16,064 However, if we take into account our electricity consumption (kWh) per kilogram of produced salt, we can see that this coefficient decreased between 2010 and 2012. By making We optimized electricity consumption and improved our various small investments, Solana tried to minimize the enenergy balance sheet thanks to fewer defects in the plant vironmental impact of its electricity consumption. For this where we replace and repair outworn parts of the equipment purpose, we installed light sensors for lighting management; every year, so our indirect consumption was somewhat lower we reduced the number of lighting fixtures in the productiin 2012 compared to 2011 and 2010. This decreasing trend in on plant and the packing facility; and installed a new comelectricity consumption ended in 2013 when our new wood pressed air pipeline, which indirectly reduced our electricity chip-powered boiler rooms started to operate, which resulted consumption. 218 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Water Total water withdrawal by source (m3) From a public water Total amount of all Year Sea Cooling sea supply system waters withdrawn 2012 62,000 1,100,000 15,765 1,177,765 2013 76,000 1,440,000 21,991 1,537,991 Total 138,000 2,540,000 37,756 2,715,756 Solana Pag uses water from the public supply system for its to the preceding reporting period as a result of our daily moprocess and sanitary purposes. The quality of water supplied nitoring of water quality that we started practicing in 2011. is closely related to its consumption, so we monitor both Seawater is used as cooling water for process purposes. In items on a daily basis. Our consumption of water from the 2012, we processed 62,000 m³ of brine to produce 14,000 t of public supply system was higher in 2013 than it was in 2012 salt, compared to 2013 when we processed 76,000 m³ of brine as a result of the operation of our new boiler room that initiaand produced 15,700 t of salt. Solana Pag did not use recycled lly used more water, but our consumption of water from the water during the reporting period. public supply system was cumulatively much lower compared Biodiversity Solana Pag is located 3 km south of the town of Pag on an The first written records of salt plants in Solana’s present area of 225 hectares. The salt plant includes pools in Dinjiška location date back to the late 8th and early 9th century, but covering an area of 33 hectares, 258 hectares combined with they are believed to have existed here much earlier. The pools our pools south of Pag. The site in Dinjiška is connected by a and channels and embankments around the pool are part of saltwater pipeline with the site/salt plant in Pag. Solana Pag the ecological network. These are special and very sensitive is the only salt producer on the island of Pag that uses seawaecosystems containing endemic species of fish and highly ter crystallization to produce salt. Solana Pag is authorized to endangered bird species. The Solana Pag habitat contains the exploit mineral raw materials in the area described. The enlargest nesting site for plover (Charadrius alexandrines), a tire area of Solana Pag and the Dinjiška Salt Plant is within highly endangered bird included in the Red List of Endangethe Natura 2000 ecological network of the Republic of Croared Bird Species. The entire plover population found in Croatia, in the segment named NW Dalmatia and Pag and coded tia depends on salt plants, more specifically those salt plants HR1000023. Both salt plants are located within a conservatithat produce salt, i.e. that are in operation. Nests and young on area important for protection of various species and types birds have been found in Solana Pag, so the most urgent meof habitat, as well as birds. asure for the survival of the remaining, most important two salt plants among the proposed measures for the preservation The business activities pursued by Solana Pag are production of registered endangered species and guidelines for sustaiand enriching of sea salt. Seawater used for salt densification nable management of habitats of special relevance to enand production is poured across our site from Pag Bay. Our dangered species is to ensure that these salt plants survive. business location did not change since the preceding reporBecause of these special characteristics, Solana Pag has been ting period. included in Natura 2000. The figures did not change compared to the preceding reporting period. Emissions, Effluents and Waste Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight The methodology used to calculate our total direct and inTotal air emissions 2012 2013 direct greenhouse gas emissions is based on the emission (t CO2 eq.) factor. Our production plant emits CO₂ during combustion of Production plants 5,329 6,596 fuel for generating thermal energy, namely medium heating Fuel for transport 12.27 46.34 oil used by our old boiler room and wood chips used by our LPG 10.7 9.13 new boiler room. In 2013, we recorded an increase in CO₂ emissions from our production plant as a result of increased CO2 equivalent 5,352 6,652 consumption of fuel (wood) compared to 2012 and 2011. In Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 219 2012, our CO₂ emissions resulting form combustion of fuel to vatske šume are cut in accordance with the sustainable forest generate heat decreased compared to the preceding repormanagement principles, i.e. such logs are not obtained from ting period. As the amount of fuel used and the resulting fire-devastated areas, from hollow, unhealthy or old trees, or CO₂ emissions are in close correlation to the duration of each from trees that needed to be removed for rehabilitation, bioloproduction period and the relevant amount of salt produced, gical regeneration or forest thinning. this decrease in CO₂ emissions recorded during the reporting period is also a result of smaller amounts of salt produced. Solana Pag does not use any ozone depleting substances in its production processes. For salt handling purposes during packaging, Solana Pag uses a loading machine that uses fuel for transport together Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions with a truck. As our truck for transporting wood was purchaby weight (in tons) sed in the reporting year 2013, the increase in our CO₂ emissions from transport fuel is obvious. Year SO2 NO2 CO 2012 53.29 9.65 0.30 In late 2012, Solana Pag started to build its new boiler room that uses wood chip as a heating medium to generate process 2013 1.57 16.83 0.24 steam. We aimed to reduce one of the environmental maTotal 54.86 26.48 0.54 nagement system (EMS) aspects (pollutant emissions from stationary sources) to a minimum, as wood, on the other hand, is a renewable energy source. In terms of functionaliWe reduced pollutant emissions from stationary sources after ty, boilers powered by wood chip are no worse than oil-based commissioning our wood chip-powered boiler room. This was heating systems and are much more fuel efficient. We are confirmed by measuring the emissions for our crude oil-potherefore building this new steam generating plant powered wered boiler and our biomass-powered boiler. Our emissions by wood chips for the purpose of satisfying our process needs of other gases and particulate matter resulting from wood for thermal energy to be supplied by a plant using cheaper chip burning were lower compared to other fossil fuels. The and environmentally more acceptable fuel. The energy utiligreatest progress in reducing our air emissions is reflected in zation of wood chips may be considered CO₂ neutral, which the amount of SO₂ emissions recorded in 2013. If we compare is their primary environmental advantage compared to fossil this figure to the mean SO₂ emissions recorded in 2010 and fuels. Namely, present and newly planted trees need oxygen 2011, our SO₂ emissions were approximately 35 times lower during their growth and development, so the amount of CO₂ than they were in the preceding reporting period. On the otresulting from biomass burning is ‘neutralized’ compared to her hand, if we compare our total SO₂ emissions recorded in fossil fuels. It is also important to mention that biomass is 2012 and 2013 to the preceding reporting period, we will redelivered in the form of logs not previously contaminated by ach the conclusion that our SO₂ emissions decreased by 50% processing or treatment (e.g. by paint). Logs supplied by Hrin only two years. Wastewater Total water discharge Solana Pag holds a water license issued on March 20, 2009 by Hrvatske vode, CLASS: UP/Iº-325-04/09-04/49, FILE NO.: Year Wastewater (m3) 374-24-4-09-3/LP, which allows for wastewater to be disc2012 1,167,669 harged into the sea as follows: sanitary water (treated in a biological treatment plant), process water and cooling water. 2013 1,528,891 According to the water license, sanitary wastewater is samTotal 2,695,560 pled twice a year and process and cooling wastewater is sampled four times a year. Wastewater is sampled and its quality is tested by the Zadar Public Health Institute. Mixed wastewater discharged from Solana Pag’s location into the public sewerage system includes process, cooling, saThe results of wastewater analyses are in compliance with all nitary and precipitation water. The entire amount of densirequirements of the water license with respect to discharging fied seawater is used to crystallize salt, the evaporated part wastewater into a public sewerage system in accordance with is condensed and such condensate is discharged into the sea, the applicable regulations of the Republic of Croatia. In 2012 while the rest is mother liquor that is also discharged into and 2013, the results of the tested parameters were within the sea. the allowed limits. Our total wastewater discharge recorded during the two years was similar as it was during the preceding reporting period. 220 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Waste Total weight of waste by type and disposal method (kg) Type of waste Treatment Collected by 2012 2013 Unijapapir, CeZaR, Non-hazardous waste R 17,600 60,286 Arburoža Ciak, Ind Eko, Flora Hazardous waste D 12,746 13,130 VTC Total 30,346 73,416 Non-hazardous waste results from our production processes cleaning products and crude oil resulting from cleaning a as follows: 15 01 01 and 15 01 02 from the packaging process crude oil tank for the purpose of repairing the tank material and office activities, and 10 01 01 from the combustion proceon the outer wall. This cleaning was performed by a licenss in the wood chip-powered boiler room. The generation of sed company and the waste was properly disposed of. 11.86 this type of waste is proportional to increased or decreased t of waste coded 13 07 03* and 16 07 09* was generated in production and packaging needs. The increased amount of 2013 on a one-time basis while removing an oil tank. Waste non-hazardous waste recorded in 2013 was a result of ashes is properly disposed in designated containers indicating the resulting from wood chip burning. Ash is a new type of warespective waste codes and waste names. In 2013, we reste in Solana Pag. It is disposed of in a fully environmental moved a large oil tank that had represented a potential risk manner, which means it is not discarded but used in wabecause the material it was made of was old. The contents of stewater treatment by a company on the island. In 2013, we the tank were properly disposed of and its materials collected generated somewhat more metal waste as a result of remoby a licensed operator. We replaced it by a new, smaller tank ving our crude oil tank. that does not represent such an environmental risk as the old one did. Hazardous waste is generated during regular annual maintenance of machinery and as a result of office and laboratory Solana Pag did not record any spills during the reporting peactivities. 12 t of waste coded 16 07 08* was generated on a riod. one-time basis in 2012. This waste was a mixture of water, Products and Services In 2012, we started to build a new boiler room using wood consumption was launched before this reporting period, it chip to generate thermal energy. This project allowed us to proved to be a very efficient step because we are able to resimprove our energy efficiency in production and to replace pond in a timely manner in case of any damage. crude oil by a cleaner form of energy. We also reduced our pollutant emissions. The quality of our wastewater is within Solana Pag did not use any end-of-life recyclable products. the limits required by the water license, confirmed by the Packaging reuse is practiced by using reusable pallets, some results of measuring conducted by the Zadar Public Health of which are reclaimed and used for packaging new products. Institute. Although the initiative for monitoring our water Compliance No significant fines or non-monetary sanctions were imposed on Solana Pag during this reporting period for non-compliance with any environmental laws or regulations. Transport Solana Pag does not use a fleet for transporting materials and products or a bus for transporting its workforce members to work. Waste substances are collected and transported to be disposed of beyond the island in a controlled manner. Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 221 Environmental Protection Investments Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type (HRK) 2012 2013 Fume emissions measuring 2,875 5,000 Wastewater analyses 2,840 3,000 ISO 14001 supervisory audits 14,421 13,044 Employee training 6,500 Waste collection and disposal 75,168 11,100 Boiler room construction 19,000,000 Total 95,304 19,038,644 As regards its objectives for 2012 and 2013, Solana Pag comour energy consumption, we reduced our energy consumptipleted its investment in the construction of a new boiler room on and thus also reduced our environment impacts. Some and development of a low-carbon industry that allowed us to forms of energy directly depend on our annual production vouse energy efficiency measures and renewable energy sourlumes, so they cannot be visibly manipulated, but can be maces, reduce greenhouse gas emissions resulting from combuintained on a constant predefined consumption level to avoid stion and have a positive impact on the environment and air any major variations in the course of a year. By training the quality, thus mitigating the risk to human health thanks to employees of Solana Pag in proper waste sorting and energy lower air pollution levels. Thanks to this project, we removed use, we raised their awareness of the importance of sorting a large crude oil tank that represented a risk of potential sudand disposing of each type of waste. Each department properden crude oil spills. Certified in 2011, our ISO 14001 system ly disposes of its specific types of waste and uses raw matesuccessfully underwent two supervisory audits and is scherials and energy more rationally for its activities. duled to be recertified in 2014. By continuously monitoring Planned Activities and main Objectives for 2014 and 2015 Solana Pag is preparing to implement projects and investments in the next reporting period that are absolutely necessary to improve the quality of Solana Pag’s products. These investments would provide for a higher quality of salt to meet the demands (particular humidity content and particular granulation, i.e. grain size) of most international markets Solana Pag is attempting to penetrate, and would ultimately result in improved business and more secure production. As regards the salt production and processing segment, we need to replace our production equipment (salt drying facility and mill) to maintain the present production and business capacities. In 2014, recertification audits will be conducted for both systems that Solana Pag has certified. We plan to continue the process of obtaining a national geographic origin mark for Pag sea salt and to start a process of having this mark certified on the EU level. 222 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Implementation of the United Nations Global Compact in the Republic of Croatia (Global Compact – Communication on Progress) The Global Compact is a 2000 international United Nations initiative to bring together businesses with UN agencies, governments and civil society in supporting fundamental values in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. The Global Compact is based on ten fundamental principles arising from or based on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor Organization's Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and the United Nations Convention against Corruption of 2000. The signatories to the Global Compact expressed their willingness to conduct their business in a socially responsible manner and are expected to adopt, promote and apply in their respective spheres of influence these fundamental values i.e. the ten principles divided into four basic groups. The Agrokor Group is a complex business group operating in several countries within and outside the region and includes companies engaged in several sectors: primary agricultural production, processing, food and beverage production, retail trade and wholesale trade. Our third sustainability report includes our activities undertaken in 2012 and 2013. Our activities, as they relate to the fundamental principles of the Global Compact, are detailed in the Report, the relevant indicators are provided for each of the principles below, and a list of all indicators included in the Report is provided in Appendix 5. Human rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. GRI 3 indicator: LA4, LA8, LA9, LA13, LA14, HR5, SO5 Labor standards Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation. GRI 3 indicator: LA2, LA4, LA13, LA14, HR5, SO5, EC7 Environment Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. GRI 3 indicator: EC1, EC2, EC3, EC4, EC8, EC11, EC12, EC16, EC17, EC19, EC20, EC21, EC22, EC23, EC26, EC27, EC28, EC29, EC230 Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. GRI 3 indicator: SO5 223 Apendix 1 The shareholding structure for all companies within the Agrokor Group Business Group Food Agrokor Zagreb d.o.o. 100.00% Ledo kft. 55.30% Agrolaguna d.d. 85.22% Ledo d.o.o. Podgorica 55.30% Belje d.d. 67.92% Mladina d.d. 48.98% Dijamant a.d. 73.08% Nova Sloga d.o.o. 55.30% Dijamant Agrar a.d. 70.03% PIK Vinkovci d.d. 70.87% Frikom d.o.o. 55.30% PIK Vrbovec d.d. 99.99% Fonyodi kft. 80.44% Sarajevski kiseljak d.d. 80.98% Irida d.o.o. 55.30% Sojara d.o.o. 51.84% Jamnica d.d. 80.44% Solana Pag d.d. 96.68% Kikindski mlin a.d. 66.07% Vupik d.d. 55.76% Ledo d.d. 55.30% Zvijezda d.d. 51.84% Ledo d.o.o. Čitluk 55.30% Business Group Retail Angropromet a.d. 96.86% Libertus usluge d.o.o. 100.00% Euroviba d.o.o. 91.50% Multiplus card d.o.o. 72.65% Idea d.o.o. 96.86% PIK BH d.o.o. Laktaši 99.99% Jamnica d.o.o. Beograd 80.44% Roto dinamic d.o.o. 100.00% Jamnica d.o.o. Maribor 80.44% Roto ulaganja d.o.o. 100.00% Konzum d.d. 96.86% Super Kartica d.o.o. 96.86% Konzum d.o.o. Sarajevo 96.86% Tisak d.d. 67.35% Kor Neretva d.o.o. 96.86% TPDC Sarajevo d.d. 51.00% Krka d.o.o. 79.82% Zvijezda d.o.o. Ljubljana 51.84% Ledo d.o.o. Kosovo 55.30% Zvijezda d.o.o. Sarajevo 51.84% Ledo d.o.o. Ljubljana 55.30% Žitnjak d.d. 86.62% Other businesses Acro d.o.o. 100.00% Agrokor AG 100.00% Agrokor Energija d.o.o. 100.00% Agrokor kft. 100.00% Agrokor trgovina d.d. 100.00% eLog d.o.o. 96.86% L.G. Moslavina d.o.o. 100.00% M-profil SPV d.o.o. 100.00% mStart d.o.o. 100.00% 224 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Apendix 2 List of major unions in The Agrokor Group Croatia • PPDIV • HUS Sindikat radnika PIK Vrbovec • Sindikat trgovine Hrvatske • H US Nezavisni sindikat Demokratska zaštitna zajednica po• Hrvatski sindikat trgovine sloprimaca-Sindikalna podružnica PIK Vinkovci • Sindikat Istre i Kvarnera • Nezavisni sindikat Ledo • Novi sindikat Hrvatske • Sindikat novine • Hrvatska udruga sindikata HUS • Sindikat grafičke i nakladničke djelatnosti Hrvatske • HUS radnika Belja • Sindikat prometa i veza • HUS radnika Belja-Podružnica Vupik; • Slavonsko-Baranjski sindikat • HUS radnika Belja-Podružnica Konzum, • Sindikat hrvatskog vozača Serbia • Samostalni sindikat Sindikalna organizacija Dijamant a.d. • Samostalni sindikat trgovine Srbije Idea • Slobodni sindikat Frikom a.d.,član Unije sindikata, Sindikat • Unija slobodnih sindikata Idea nezavisnost Frikom a.d.,član granskog sindikata prehrane,u• Asocijacija slobodnih i nezavisnih sindikata Idea gostiteljstva i turizma, Samostalni sindikat Frikom a.d.,član • Sindikat Nova Sloga a.d. Saveza samostalnih sindikata Srbije, • Sindikalna organizacija samostalnog sindikata Dijamant • S avez samostalnih sindikata SrbijeSindikalna organizacija Agrar Kikindski mlin Bosnia Herzegovina • PPDIVUT BiH • Sindikat trgovine Sindikalna podružnica Konzum • PPDIVUTSindikalna organizacija Sarajevski Kiseljak • Sindikat radnika trgovine BiH • Sindikat trgovine, ugostiteljstva,turizma i uslužnih djelatnosti Republiek Srpske Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 225 Apendix 3 List of Certified International Standards Company Certificate Agrolaguna d.d. HACCP; ISO 9001:2008; ISO 14001:2004; Koscher Belje d.d. HACCP; ISO 9001:2008; ISO 14001:2004; OHSAS 18001:2007; GLOBAL G.A.P. ; IFS; Koscher; Halal Dijamant a.d. HACCP; ISO 9001:2008; ISO 14001:2004; FSSC 22000; IFS; Halal; GMP+ Fonyodi kft ISO 9001:2008 Frikom a.d. HACCP; ISO 9001:2008; ISO 14001:2004; ISO 22000:2005; OHSAS 18001:2007; GLOBAL G.A.P. Idea a.d. ISO 14001:2004 Irida d.o.o. HACCP; ISO 9001:2008; ISO 14001:2004; Koscher Jamnica d.d. HACCP; ISO 9001:2008; ISO 14001:2004; Koscher; NSF; NATO-US Army Kikindski mlin a.d. HACCP; ISO 9001:2008; ISO/IEC 17025 Konzum d.d. HACCP; ISO 14001:2004; OHSAS 18001:2007; ISO 22000:2005; ISO/TEC 27001:2005 Konzum BIH d.o.o. ISO 14001:2004 Ledo BIH d.o.o. HACCP; ISO 9001:2008; ISO 14001:2004; Halal Ledo d.d. HACCP; ISO 9001:2008; ISO 14001:2004; IFS; BRC; Koscher Nova Sloga a.d. HACCP PIK Vinkovci d.d. HACCP; ISO 9001:2008; ISO 14001:2004; GLOBAL G.A.P.; Koscher PIK Vrbovec d.d. ISO 9001:2008; ISO 14001:2004; OHSAS 18001:2007; IFS; Koscher; Halal Sarajevski kiseljak d.d. ISO 14001:2004; ISO 22000:2005 Sojara d.d. ISO 9001:2008; ISO 14001:2004; Koscher Solana d.d. HACCP; ISO 14001:2004; Koscher Vupik d.d. ISO 14001:2004; GLOBAL G.A.P. Zvijezda d.d. HACCP; ISO 9001:2008; ISO 14001:2004; ISO/TEC 27001:2005; Koscher 226 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 Apendix 4 List of Employees Involved in Drawing up the Report Agrokor d.d. Jevtić Ivana Vrdoljak Marijo Pecinger Gordana Begović Vitomir Kostović Marija Zrinski Ivona Perić Vido Bilić Ivana Milićević Jelena Periškić Mirela Bogdanić Marta Miletić Radomir Konzum BIH Borčić Ivana Ostojić Mirjana Avdaković Haris PIK Vrbovec d.d. Greganić Mato Sopić Aleksandra Bukvarević Drežnjak Brebrek Josip Krstulović Ivana Tošić Vesna Andrijana Findri-Šestanović Višnja Janjić Ivona Veljić Aleksandra Ćeman Nina Hrupački Geček Josipa Jukić Lucija Vižlina Dalibor Džanko Amer Kajfeš Hrgovan Tamara Jukić Suzana Vlahović Jovičić Radica Efendić Mustafa Pleše Željka Marasović Ćurčić Mirjam Vuković Dunja Henda Azra Stjepanović Ivica Markovac Zvonimir Vulović Velimir Kovačić Žana Krvavac Seid Sarajevski kiseljak d.d. Međugorac Popovski Mila Idea a.d. Kunić Selma Čabrić Marina Odrljin Gordana Brajdić Jasmina Saković Mutapčić Edita Josipović Darko Popovac Ana Škoro Stipan Katana Milka Prkačin Kristina Dumanović Ivica Švarc Beširević Katarina Trogrlić Kožul Vesna Salihagić Dino Gukić Danijela Seidl Herman Krneta Zoran Voloder Haris Sojara d.d. Slavica Ivan Marković Katarina Kor Neretva Franušić-Bajlo Nikolina Tomljenović Ivica Milijanović Marina Rančić Zoran Ostojić Marko Aničić Ana Troskot Ana Šakić Ksenija Pančić Maja Crnomarković Dragan Agrolaguna d.d. Prodanović Dimitrije Ledo d.d., Ledo Kft, Solana Pag d.d. Budinski Ivana Stojšić Vladimir Fabijanić Rosana Ledo d.o.o. Kadum Gracijano Uglješić Miroslav Maržić Damir Bocak Gojun Kristina Radan Silva Vasojević Marijana Pernar Marija Ćurić Luka Sakić Evelina Želehovski Kristina Hećimović Ivana Slade Danko Irida d.d. Kovač Siniša Šterpin Franko Halupa Zdenka Tisak d.d. Škoro Josip Zec Nerina Jakšić Vesna Bertović Snježana Tapavički Jogun Jelena Lukić Jelena Gizelov Vanda Velin Andrea Agrokor trgovina d.d. Gregurić Iva Jamnica d.d., Fonyodi, Zapušek Greta Todorić Anela Kolak Domagoj Jamnica d.o.o. Krajnik Krešimir Ledo Čitluk Belje d.d. Antunović Ana Lulić Martina Sudar Ana Čavrag Patricija Fratrić Katarina Peharec Danijel Pehar Ante Emert Antun Horvath Zsofia Vuković Sanda Firanj Blanka Jakimovski Lidija Mladina d.d. Ileković Damir Kalogjera Tanja Adam Ana Marija Vupik d.d. Lečić Nada Kovacs Peter Ćuso Tatjana Boričević Neda Pinotić Zvonimir Krnjević Ivana Jurić Bruno Brkić Robert Pletikapić Vlatko Mikačić Jasna Maljak Sanja Radivojević Radomir Petričević Ivana mStart Mandić Zlatica Ružička Igor Petrov Damiani Sanja Kovačić Marijan Milovanović Stanimir Stojković Aleksandar Podrug Martina Rukavina Vlatka Posavac Mario Vajda Mlinaček Ljiljana Savić Slavica Živanović Slađan Nova Sloga a.d. Dijamant a.d. Kikindski mlin a.d. Mrmošanin Bogdana Zvijezda d.d. Ergelašev Ljiljana Bajić Helena Petković Tamara Bosolt Tina Ludoški Tatjana Kuljanski Radivoj Puzović Dragana Đurđek Robert Nenin Predrag Savić Vladimir Džeko Igor Veliki Olivera Sekulić Marija PIK Vinkovci d.d. Horvat Dunja Banožić Goran Krajnović Darija Frikom a.d. Konzum d.d. Kloss Marija Sertić Srebrenka Atlija Jovan Deković Marijana Janković Mihaela Siuc Martina Čajić Dušan Tomić Nera Mihaljević Vesna Škoro Darko Jakić Bojana Validžić Kristina Novak Renata Tišlerić Nina Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 227 Apendix 5 GRI Indicators PROFILE 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1. Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy 2. Organizational Profile 2.1. Name of the organization. 2.2. Primary brands, products, and/or services. 2.3. Operational structure of the organization. 2.4. Location of organization's headquarters. 2.5. N umber of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6. Nature of ownership and legal form. 2.7. Markets served. 2.8. Scale of the reporting organization. 2.10.Awards received in the reporting period 3. Report Parameters Report Profile 3.1. Reporting period 3.2. Date of most recent previous report 3.3. Reporting cycle 3.4. Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Report Scope and Boundary 3.5. Process for defining report content 3.6. Report boundaries GRI Content Index 3.12. Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report Assurance 3.13. Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 4. Assurance Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 4.1. G overnance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2. I ndicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their function within the organization's management and the reasons for this arrangement). 4.3. F or organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or nonexecutive members. 4.4. M echanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 4.8. I nternally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation Commitments to External Initiatives 4.12. E  xternally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. 4.13. M  emberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations Stakeholder Engagement 4.14. List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 4.15. Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 228 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS EC1 – Economic value generated and distributed, EC2 – Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. EC3 – Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. EC4 – financial assistance received from public sources EC6 – Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers at locations of significant operation EC7 – Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Labor Practices and Decent Work LA1 – Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region LA2 – Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. LA3 – Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or parttime employees, by significant locations of operation Labor / Management Relations LA4 – Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. LA7 – Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender. LA8 – Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 – Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Training And Education LA10 – Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category LA11 – Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings LA12 – Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA13 – Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity LA14 – Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation HUMAN RIGHTS PERFORMANCE INDICATORS HR4 – Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken PUBLIC POLICY SO5 – P ublic policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying SO7 – Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes SO8 – Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 229 FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR FP3 – Percentage of working time lost due to industrial disputes, strikes and/or lock-outs, bycountry FP4 – Nature, scope and effectiveness of any programs and practices (in-kind contributions, volunteer initiatives, knowledge transfer, partnerships and product development) that promote access to healthy lifestyles; the prevention of chronic disease; access to healthy, nutritious and affordable food; and improved welfare for communities in need. FP5 – Percentage of production volume manufactured in sites certified by an independent third party according to internationally recognized food safety management system standards FP6 – Percentage of total sales volume of consumer products, by product category, that are lowered in saturated fat, trans fats, sodium and added sugars. FP7 – Percentage of total sales volume of consumer products, by product category, that contain increased nutritious ingredients like fiber, vitamins, minerals, phytochemicals or functional food additives. FP8 – Policies and practices on communication to consumers about ingredients and nutritional information beyond legal requirements. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Customer Health and Safety PR1 – Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed PR2 – Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and Service Labeling PR3 – T ype of product and service information required by procedures and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements PR4 – Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 – Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Marketing Communications PR6 – Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship PR7 – Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer dana Compliance PR9 – Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services 230 Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Materials EN1 – Materials used by weight or volume. EN2 – Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Energy EN3 – d irect energy consumption by primary energy source EN4 – d irect energy consumption by primary energy source Water EN8 – total water withdrawal by source Biodiversity EN11 – L ocation and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 – Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. EN22 – Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Products and Services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. Compliance EN28 – Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. Transport EN29 – Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce Overall EN30 – Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Sustainability Report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 2012/2013 231 © 2014. Agrokor Publisher: Agrokor d.d. Design: Agrokor d.d. Photography: Mara Bratoš, Ranko Šuvar / CROPIX, arhiva Agrokor d.d. Translation: Abis d.o.o. Zagreb Prepress: Kaligraf d.o.o., Zagreb Print: Kolor klinika d.o.o.
