AIR TECHNIQUES LTD Communication On Progress UN Global Compact AUGUST 2014 AIR TECHNIQUES LTD Statement of continued support To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Air Techniques Ltd reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Peter Kariuki Muchiri CEO – Air Techniques Ltd AIR TECHNIQUES LTD Human Rights Respecting the human rights principles is naturally incorporated into everything we do at Air Techniques Ltd. We have a long-standing tradition of treating people with respect and in observance of the human rights. We take responsibility for our employees, the environment and the community we are a part of. We have high internal requirements to secure a safe and respectful work environment for our employees. We use the framework of the UN Global Compact as a road map in our daily decision making. Implementation Our HR policy stresses that “we do not discriminate on the basis of gender, sexual orientation or religion” and “We do not use forced or child labor”. 's Work Environment Organization that annually conducts a legally based APV (Workplace assessment) and by offering health insurance to all. rights. The handbook describes, among other things, the right to vacation, child´s first day of sickness etc.. AIR TECHNIQUES LTD In the year to come we will: policies. m of a mailbox in the lunchroom. Measure of outcome We will measure our progress in the annual APV (Workplace assessment) that will later be evaluated by the management group. on of staff and the management team to ensure equal and fair treatment for all. Labour Our primary region of operation, Denmark, has a long tradition for respecting the freedom of association. Air Techniques Ltd adheres to local laws on labour rights. All employees are free to join trade unions of their own choice, and we respect the right to collective bargaining. We take responsibility for our employees by creating a healthy work environment both physically, psychologically and ethically. Implementation Our employees are covered by health insurance. We have established a Work Environment Organization, that monitors and work to prevent accidents at work, stress, sickness and bullying among colleagues. We conduct an annual Work Place Assessment (APV) that measures the work environment, job satisfaction, motivation and stress among our employees. We offer flexible working hours in respect of work/life balance as well as the possibility to work from home. We conduct annual Employee Development Interviews (MUS) for all employees. AIR TECHNIQUES LTD In the year to come we will: Educate all employees to make sure that they understand Labour Rights and know our policies. Map all suppliers in relation to their compliance with GC 10 principles. Measurements Employer satisfaction will be measured in the annual APV (Workplace assessment) that will later be evaluated by the management group. Suppliers will be evaluated based on their compliance with GC 10 principles. Environment As a manufacturer of sustainable energy solutions, a healthy and sustainable environment is of great importance for us. The components in our products are manufactured by third-parties and we are not able to monitor the circumstances of their production. An assessment of the component environment impact will be the next step. Implementation We are certified in accordance with ISO 14001. We have installed a solar energy system on top of our headquarters, which supply us with renewable energy. our used solar panels. In the year to come we will development department. AIR TECHNIQUES LTD Measurement Reduce our electricity consumption in the office by 5%, measured using electricity meter readings. The savings will be found by focusing on environment friendly light sources, light control and the use of solar energy. ed per employee, by 3%. Emphasis will be on continuous information about how to use the printer options and encouragement only to print needed material. The measurement is carried out through counter report measured against the current number of employees. Anti-corruption Gaia Solar has a non-tolerance policy for corruption. We do not accept that our employees offer, demand or receive money, presents or other services in order to achieve personal or commercial preferential treatment. We operate within the 10 principles of the Global Compact and expect our business partners to do the same. Implementation We work with reputable suppliers, to minimize the risk of corruption. undeclared work. In the year to come we will: 0 principles. Measurements Suppliers will be evaluated based on their compliance with GC 10 principles. AIR TECHNIQUES LTD
