Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 2014 Communication on Progress GRI Index and UNGC Principles Cleveland Clinic compiles our sustainability report for our patients, caregivers, communities and global stakeholders. As a leader in the healthcare industry, we hold ourselves accountable for our social, environmental and economic impacts. We develop this report to highlight both our accomplishments and communicate our challenges as we strive to reach our goals. As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, Cleveland Clinic has pledged to promote sustainability policies and practices to advance our organization in ways that benefit the economies and societies we serve. This year marks our fifth consecutive Communication on Progress and reflects our work in the 2013 calendar year. In addition to addressing the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, this report applies the Global Reporting Initiatives G3.1 guidelines, the world’s most common standard for sustainability reporting. To align our reporting process with our environmental stewardship goals, we have developed an online report this year. Here we include our GRI Index and table of UN Global Compact Principles with the appropriate links to our online report: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future. Please view our complete sustainability report at clevelandclinic.org/ungc or use the following indices to guide your progress through our 2014 Communication on Progress. Dear Patients, Caregivers and Community Members, We are pleased to present our fifth Communication on Progress as part of the United Nations Global Compact. Cleveland Clinic shares the UN Global Compact’s principles of human rights, environmental responsibility and corporate integrity. This report uses guidelines developed by the Global Reporting Initiative to measure our performance in these areas. Cleveland Clinic continues to address the needs of a changing healthcare environment. Innovation and new knowledge have made it possible for us to do more for more patients than ever before. At the same time, we face challenges of chronic disease, demographics and access. North America must cope with an epidemic of obesity and consequent rise in cases of heart disease, diabetes, stroke and joint disease. As the population ages, we are already seeing a dramatic rise in neurological conditions related to aging. Governments and payers strain to meet the costs of treating these diseases. Cleveland Clinic sees these challenges as opportunities. The collaborative approach to medicine pioneered by Cleveland Clinic in 1921 continues to be an efficient and effective model for care. All of our doctors, nurses and support caregivers are on the same team, with the same incentives to control costs, improve quality, and provide courteous, attentive and empathetic care. We are collaborating with our partners and communities to lower costs, support innovation, and most importantly, promote healthy behaviors that prevent disease and lower the need for expensive treatments. Sustainability is an essential part of our strategy. We are committed to responsible purchasing and resource use, intentional and beneficial enterprise growth and community preventive health programs. We have joined with local governments and community groups to promote weight-loss and smoking cessation. Our Minority Men’s Health Center provides free screenings and education. We urge leaders at all levels of society to promote nutrition, exercise and greater personal responsibility for health. In 2013, Cleveland Clinic provided medical services to more patients from more places than ever before. We have been recognized among the World’s Most Ethical Companies by Ethisphere Institute, and honored as a top five hospital by DiversityInc. We are proud to share the information in this year’s Communication on Progress. Thank you for your interest. Sincerely, Delos M. Cosgrove, MD Cleveland Clinic CEO and President Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 2 GRI Index Profile Disclosure Description Response PROFILE DISCLOSURES 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of Link: CEO Letter the organization. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Link: Annual Report 2.1 Name of the organization. Cleveland Clinic 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Link: Organizational Profile 2.3 Operational structure of the organization. Link: Where We Operate, Governance 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A. 2.5 Countries where the organization operates. Link: Where We Operate 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. The Cleveland Clinic Foundation is an Ohio nonprofit corporation. As such, it is not owned by any individuals or corporate entities. The Cleveland Clinic Foundation serves as a direct or indirect parent or as the “sole member” or “sole regular member” of each affiliate within the Cleveland Clinic Health System (CCHS). 2.7 Markets served. More than 77 percent of our patients come from 21 counties in Northeast Ohio. In 2013, 61% of patient care was paid by private insurance companies, 32% from government sources and 7% was patient self-paid. Cleveland Clinic received $17.7 million in net HCAP payments for charity care in 2013 from the state. 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Link: By the Numbers 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Link: Annual Report regarding size, structure, or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Link: Awards 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for Calendar year, January–December 2013. information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). May 24, 2013 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its For more information regarding this report’s content, contact Cleveland Clinic’s contents. Corporate Communications Department at 216.444.0141. 3.5 Process for defining report content. Link: Materiality 3.6 Boundary of the report. Link: Scope 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or Link: Scope boundary of the report. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, Affiliated, divested, partially leased and international operations are excluded from leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other this report based on availability of information and our shared control over these entities. operations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques. Data was compiled following GRI Indicator protocols whenever possible or applicable. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of Link: Internal Energy Data Audit, Annual Report information provided in earlier reports. Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 3 GRI Index Profile Disclosure Description Response 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods None. in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard GRI Index. Disclosures in the report. 3.13 External assurance for the report. Cleveland Clinic will not pursue external assurance for this report. Internal assurance has been performed on certain measurements include our historic and present energy data through June 2013. 4.1 Governance structure of the organization. Link: Governance 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance No, there are 25 members of the Cleveland Clinic Board of Directors. The Chair of the body is also an executive officer. Board of Directors holds the highest Board position, but is not an executive officer, employee or staff member of Cleveland Clinic. 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, There are 25 members of the Cleveland Clinic Board of Directors. These include state the number and gender of members of the two senior members of the Cleveland Clinic Board of Governors. There are also highest governance body that are independent and/or four female and two African-American Directors. Of the 25 members of the Board non-executive members. of Directors, there are 19 Directors (15 males and 4 females) who are independent under the Cleveland Clinic’s Board Independence Policy. Under this Policy, an independent Director is a Director whom the Governance Committee, after considering all relevant facts and circumstances in accordance with the policy, advice and guidance of the Chief Governance Officer, and upon the recommendation from the Board Conflict of Interest and Managing Innovations Committee, has affirmatively determined that he/she has met certain criteria, as defined in the Cleveland Clinic’s Board Independence Policy. A Director will not be determined to be independent if certain conditions are met, including but not limited to if the Director is employed by the Cleveland Clinic, received compensation from the Cleveland Clinic or is a director or executive officer of an entity with gross payments to or annual receipts from the Cleveland Clinic of more than 1% of the receiving entity’s gross revenues for the applicable year. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to Committees use existing organizational feedback mechanisms, such as the provide recommendations or direction to the highest compliance hotline to collect feedback from stakeholders, staff and employees. governance body. Employees have the opportunity to respond to “Toby’s Blog” and quarterly communications from Dr. Cosgrove, the highest governing body. Employees use My2Cents, another mechanism for providing feedback that is directed to the apporporiate department and/or institiute. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the Directors and Trustees are dedicated community leaders, selected on the basis of highest governance body, senior managers, and their expertise and experience in a variety of areas beneficial to CCHS and are not executives and the organization’s performance. compenstated for their services. Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 4 GRI Index Profile Disclosure Description Response 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to The Cleveland Clinic Board of Directors Conflict of Interest and Managing Innovations ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Committee discharges the obligations set forth in the Cleveland Clinic Code of Regulations for the Board of Directors. These obligations relate to (a) determining the existence of, assessing, resolving and managing, any conflicts of interest arising from an individual interest of a Director, Trustee or Officer of CCHS or from an interest held directly or indirectly by Cleveland Clinic, in accordance with the current Board of Directors Conflict of Interest Policy and (b) supervising the Cleveland Clinic Professional Staff Conflict of Interest Committee in the performance of its responsibilities for professional staff conflicts of interest matters. The Committee conducts its duties in accordance with all applicable rules and regulations, including those applicable to nonprofit and tax exempt charitable organizations. On an annual basis, the Cleveland Clinic distributes a questionnaire to CCHS directors, trustees, officers and key employees to determine independence, as defined by the United State Internal Revenue Service and Cleveland Clinic Conflict of Interest Policy. This questionnaire is also designed to ascertain information relating to business affiliations and transactions that might give rise to potential conflicts of interest. Directors and Trustees who are not independent are entitled to participate fully in their duties as a Board member, subject to the Cleveland Clinic’s Conflict of Interest policies and the requirements applicable to Board members to recuse themselves from any actions that involve a personal interest. A Director or Trustee who is deemed not to be independent is nevertheless assumed to be always acting in the best interests of the Cleveland Clinic. The Cleveland Clinic Board of Directors Conflict of Interest and Managing Innovations Committee discharges the obligations set forth in the Cleveland Clinic Code of Regulations for the Board of Directors. These obligations relate to (a) determining the existence of, assessing, resolving and managing, any conflicts of interest arising from an individual interest of a Director, Trustee or Officer of CCHS or from an interest held directly or indirectly by Cleveland Clinic, in accordance with the current Board of Directors Conflict of Interest Policy and (b) supervising the Cleveland Clinic Professional Staff Conflict of Interest Committee in the performance of its responsibilities for professional staff conflicts of interest matters. The Committee conducts its duties in accordance with all applicable rules and regulations, including those applicable to nonprofit and tax exempt charitable organizations On an annual basis, the Cleveland Clinic distributes a questionnaire to CCHS directors, trustees, officers and key employees to determine independence, as defined by the United State Internal Revenue Service and Cleveland Clinic Conflict of Interest Policy. This questionnaire is also designed to ascertain information relating to business affiliations and transactions that might give rise to potential conflicts of interest. Directors and Trustees who are not independent are entitled to participate fully in their duties as a Board member, subject to the Cleveland Clinic’s Conflict of Interest policies and the requirements applicable to Board members to recuse themselves from any actions that involve a personal interest. A Director or Trustee who is deemed not to be independent is nevertheless assumed to be always acting in the best interests of the Cleveland Clinic. Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 5 GRI Index Profile Disclosure Description Response 4.7 Process for determining the composition, The Cleveland Clinic Board of Directors, as the governing body of the Cleveland qualifications, and expertise of the members of Clinic, regularly evaluates its membership with a goal of increasing diversity and the highest governance body and its committees, including qualified representatives from the communities it serves. The Governance including any consideration of gender and other Committee of the Board of Directors regularly reviews the composition of the Board, indicators of diversity. based on various factors, so as to ensure a balanced membership that includes ethnic and gender diversity, as well as business and community expertise. The Governance Committee also seeks recommendations from Board members of candidates that will add value to the Board of Directors and Board of Trustees. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or Link: Organizational Profile values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for Members of the Cleveland Clinic Board of Directors adhere to the principles overseeing the organization’s identification and set forth in Cleveland Clinic’s Code of Conduct. Included in these principles are management of economic, environmental, and standards relating to environmental protection, family and work, business ethics, social performance, including relevant risks and conflicts of interest, fraud/waste/abuse, insider trading, antitrust and anti-kickback opportunities, and adherence or compliance with laws. Additionally, Directors receive an annual mailing that not only includes a internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, questionnaire for disclosure of activities that may give rise to conflicts of interest, and principles. but also includes documentation relating to IRS regulations pertaining to intermediate sanctions provisions. Cleveland Clinic conducts a formal annual risk assessment to identify risks in the health system. Significant risks, such as the impact of healthcare reform and the maintenance of a high level of clinical quality, safety and security, and the mitigating efforts, are communicated to management and the Board using a risk matrix and dashboards. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance Each Board Committee is governed by a charter, which includes specific goals body’s own performance, particularly with respect to and responsibilities. On an annual basis, Board Committees are responsible for economic, environmental, and social performance. conducting annual self-assessment surveys to assess performance. For example, in addition to other responsibilities, the Audit Committee is charged with the task of reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of administrative, operating and internal accounting controls, policies and procedures for the Cleveland Clinic health system. At the end of each year, the Audit Committee distributes a self-assessment survey tool to its members so that Committee members document their comments relating to the Committee’s performance and effectiveness in meeting this and other goals as stated in its Committee Charter. In addition, the Board of Directors, with assistance from the Governance Committee, routinely reviews its performance and the performance of its members, particularly when a director’s term is about to expire and the Board has to determine whether the individual should be re-elected. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary We apply the precautionary principle in the care of our patients and in our approach approach or principle is addressed by the to our environmental impacts. organization. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and Link: Memberships, Awards social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations and/or national and Link: Memberships international advocacy organizations. Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 6 GRI Index Profile Disclosure Description Response 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Link: Stakeholders, The Reporting Process, Government Relations. organization. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Link: Stakeholders with whom to engage. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including Link: Materiality frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised Link: Materiality, Government Relations through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Indicator Description Response PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ECONOMIC DMA-EC Disclosure on Management Approach -EC Link: Community Engagement, Community Impacts, Where We Operate EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, Link: By the Numbers, Annual Report including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and Link: Annual Report, Climate Change opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan Link: Human Rights and Labor Standards obligations. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from Link: By the Numbers, Annual Report government. EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure Link: Community Impacts investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect Link: Community Impacts economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. ENVIRONMENTAL DMA-EN Disclosure on Management Approach-EN Link: Conserving Energy, Climate Change, Driving Change, Environment, Environmental Performance, Reducing Waste EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Link: Environmental Performance EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Link: Environmental Performance EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Link: Conserving Energy, Green Building, Driving Change and Environmental improvements. Performance Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 7 GRI Index Profile Disclosure Indicator Description Response EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable Link: Conserving Energy, Green Building, Driving Change and Environmental energy based products and services, and reductions Performance in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and Link: Conserving Energy, Green Building, Driving Change and Environmental reductions achieved. Performance EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Northeast Ohio’s regional water utility has struggled with accurate billing, monitoring and volume data, as such we are unable to provide reliable water use data. In 2013 we began implementing a utility bill-pay vendor that will help reliably track Cleveland Clinic water usage beginning in 2014. EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of The region’s water is collected from four intake cribs located 3-5 miles off Lake Erie’s water. shoreline. Lake Erie is a part of the Great Lakes watershed. EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed Link: Green Building in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, Link: Green Building products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Link: Green Building EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for Link: Green Building, Climate Change managing impacts on biodiversity. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Link: Environmental Performance by weight. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Link: Environmental Performance EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type Link: Environmental Performance and weight. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Link: Environmental Performance EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Cleveland Clinic has not had an significant spills during the 2013 calendar year. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated Cleveland Clinic has not shipped any hazardous waste internationally during the hazardous waste and shipped internationally. 2013 calendar year. Link: Reducing Waste, Environmental Performance EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts Link: Environment of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number Cleveland Clinic has not had any fines for environmental non-compliance during the of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with 2013 calendar year. environmental laws and regulations. EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and Link: Green Building, Conserving Energy investments by type. SOCIAL: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK DMA-LA Disclosure on Management Approach-LA Link: Caregiver Safety, Human Rights and Labor Standards, Talent Development Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 8 GRI Index Profile Disclosure Indicator Description Response LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment Link: Diversity and Demographics contract, and region, broken down by gender. LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and Link: Diversity and Demographics employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Link: Human Rights and Labor Standards provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective Cleveland Clinic has collective bargaining agreements with various groups of bargaining agreements. employees working at certain subsidiaries in a variety of roles. Cleveland Clinic believes that its relationships with the unions are positive and that any expiring collective bargaining agreements during the current or upcoming fiscal years will be renegotiated without any disruption in service or operations of the related facilities. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and Link: Caregiver Safety absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and Link: Caregiver Safety, Patient Safety, Community Engagement risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning Link: Talent Development that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular Link: Talent Development performance and career development reviews, by gender. SOCIAL: HUMAN RIGHTS DMA-HR Disclosure on Management Approach-HR Link: Caregiver Safety, Diversity and Demographics, Human Rights and Labor Standards, Talent Development HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment Currently Supply Chain sources the majority of products domestically and we do not agreements and contracts that include clauses currently have contracts that contain clauses incorporating human rights. incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and During the calendar year 2013, no findings of probable cause were issued by any corrective actions taken. administrative agency. SOCIAL: SOCIETY DMA-SO Disclosure on Management Approach-SO Link: Anti-Corruption, Our Communities, Culture of Principles, Government Relations, Transparency SO2 Percentage and total number of business units Link: Anti-Corruption analyzed for risks related to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s Link: Anti-Corruption anti-corruption policies and procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Link: Anti-Corruption Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 9 GRI Index Profile Disclosure Indicator Description Response SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public Link: Government Relations, Memberships policy development and lobbying. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to Link: By the Numbers, Annual Report political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. SOCIAL: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY DMA-PR Disclosure on Management Approach-PR Link: Patient Safety, Green Building, Transparency. Cleveland Clinic is compliant with all safety regulations. Patient safety is our first priority. PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts Link: Patients, Patient Safety, Quality of Care, Patient Satisfaction, Patient Data of products and services are assessed. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including Link: Patient Satisfaction results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, Link: Transparency and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 10 UN Global Compact Principles Princple Description GRI Indicators HUMAN RIGHTS Continuing Statement of Continuing Support 1.1 Support Principle 1 Support and respect protection of internationally LA4, LA7-8, HR1, HR4, SO5, PR1, DMA-EC, DMA-HR, DMA-PR proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Ensure organziation is not complicit in human rights HR1, HR4, SO5, DMA-HR abuses LABOR Principle 3 Uphold the freedom of association and the effective HR1, LA4, SO5, DMA-HR, DMA-LA recongition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and HR1, SO5, DMA-HR compulsory labor Principle 5 Uphold the effective abolition of child labor HR1, SO5, DMA-HR Principle 6 Uphold the elimination of descrimination in respect of LA2, HR1, HR4, SO5, DMA-HR, DMA-LA employment and occupation ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Support a precautionary approach to environmental 4.4, EC2, EN26, EN30, SO5, DMA-EN changes Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater EN3-9, EN11-14, EN16-17, EN19-20, EN22-26, EN28, EN30, SO5, DMA-EN, DMAenvironmental responsibility PR Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of EN5-7, EN26, EN30, S05, DMA-EN environmentally friendly technologies ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Work against corruption in all its forms, including SO2-6, DMA-SO extortion and bribery Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 11
