Tinashe Ndoro (left) and Wenjing Fu Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2013 Life Sciences and Materials Sciences DSM, the Life Sciences and Materials Sciences company Our purpose is to create brighter lives for people today and generations to come. We connect our unique competences in Life Sciences and Materials Sciences to create solutions that nourish, protect and improve performance. DSM uses its Bright Science to create Brighter Living for people today and for generations to come. Based on a deep understanding of key global trends that are driving societies, markets and customers, DSM creates solutions to some of the world’s biggest challenges, thus adding to both its own and its customers’ success. DSM believes that its continued success will be driven by its ability to create shared value for all stakeholders, now and in the future. It creates sustainable shared value by innovating in ways that allow its customers to provide better People, Planet and Profit solutions − solutions to the challenges facing society, the environment and end-users. In this way, DSM’s customers derive value from being able to offer end-users improved products; society and the planet derive value from the impact of more sustainable, longer-lasting, safer, healthier and more nutritious alternatives; and, as a result, DSM and its shareholders derive value from stronger growth and profitability. Finally, DSM’s employees feel engaged and motivated both through the contribution they make to a better world and the success this creates for the company in which they work. DSM – Bright Science. Brighter Living.™ Royal DSM is a global science-based company active in health, nutrition and materials. By connecting its unique competences in Life Sciences and Materials Sciences DSM is driving economic prosperity, environmental progress and social advances to create sustainable value for all stakeholders simultaneously. DSM delivers innovative solutions that nourish, protect and improve performance in global markets such as food and dietary supplements, personal care, feed, pharmaceuticals, medical devices, automotive, paints, electrical and electronics, life protection, alternative energy and bio-based materials. DSM’s 24,500 employees deliver annual net sales of around € 10 billion. The company is listed on NYSE Euronext. More information can be found at www.dsm.com. © 2014 Royal DSM. All rights reserved. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 www.dsm.com Key data for 2013 Net sales, total DSM Operating profit plus Net profit, total DSM Capital expenditure, total (x million) depreciation and (x million) DSM amortization, total DSM1 (x million) (x million) € 9,618 € 1,314 € 271 € 793 Net sales, continuing Operating profit plus Net profit, continuing Capital expenditure, operations depreciation and operations1 continuing operations (x million) amortization, continuing (x million) (x million) operations1 (x million) € 9,051 € 1,263 € 499 € 752 Cash provided by Core earnings per ordinary Dividend per ordinary ROCE, continuing operating activities, total share, continuing share3 operations DSM operations2 (in %) (x million) € 889 € 3.19 € 1.65 9.7 Workforce Number of nationalities Employee engagement Frequency Index of (at year-end) (at year-end) favorable score recordable injuries (in %) (per 100 DSM employees and contractor employees) 24,349 83 71 0.38 Greenhouse-gas Energy use, total DSM Water use, Total DSM ECO+ solutions as % of emissions, total DSM (in petajoules) (in million m3) running business, total (x million tons) DSM 4.3 43 152 45 ECO+ solutions as % of Innovation sales as % of China sales, continuing Sales to High Growth innovation pipeline, total total sales operations Economies as % of total DSM (x USD million) sales 95 19 1,714 39 1 Before exceptional items 2 Before exceptional items and excluding amortization of intangible assets related to purchase accounting 3 Subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 1 www.dsm.com Table of contents 3 Key data 122 Report by the Supervisory Board 122 Supervisory Board report 4 DSM at a glance 126 Remuneration policy for the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board 6 Letter from the Chairman 136 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 10 Report by the Managing Board 10 DSM in motion: driving focused growth 138 What still went wrong in 2013 15 Growth Driver: High Growth Economies 18 Growth Driver: Innovation 140 Information about the DSM share 20 Growth Driver: Sustainability 24 Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships 144 Consolidated financial statements 28 Stakeholder engagement 144 Summary of significant accounting policies 39 External recognition 150 Consolidated statements 41 Sustainability Governance Framework 157 Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal 43 People in 2013 DSM 56 Planet in 2013 69 Profit in 2013 204 Parent company financial statements 205 Notes to the parent company financial statements 74 Review of business in 2013 77 Life Sciences 212 Other information 79 Nutrition 212 Independent Auditor's Report on the Financial Statements 87 Pharma 213 Independent Assurance Report on Sustainability 91 Materials Sciences Information 93 Performance Materials 214 Profit appropriation 101 Polymer Intermediates 215 Special statutory rights 105 Innovation Center 215 Important dates 109 Corporate Activities 216 DSM figures: five-year summary 110 Financial and reporting policy 110 Financial policy 220 Explanation of some concepts and ratios 110 Reporting policy 224 List of abbreviations 112 Corporate governance and risk management 112 Introduction 226 Royal DSM Bright Science. Brighter Living. 114 Dutch corporate governance code 115 Governance framework 116 Risk management 121 Statements of the Managing Board Forward-looking statements This document may contain forward-looking statements with respect to DSM's future (financial) performance and position. Such statements are based on current expectations, estimates and projections of DSM and information currently available to the company. Examples of forward-looking statements include statements made or implied about the company’s strategy, estimates of sales growth, financial results, cost savings and future developments in its existing businesses as well as the impact of future acquisitions, and the company’s financial position. These statements can be management estimates based on information provided by specialized agencies or advisors. DSM cautions readers that such statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict and therefore it should be understood that many factors can cause the company's actual performance and position to differ materially from these statements. These factors include, but are not limited to, macro-economic, market and business trends and conditions, (low-cost) competition, legal claims, the company's ability to protect intellectual property, changes in legislation, changes in exchange and interest rates, changes in tax rates, pension costs, raw material and energy prices, employee costs, the implementation of the company’s strategy, the company’s ability to identify and complete acquisitions and to successfully integrate acquired companies, the company’s ability to realize planned divestments, savings, restructuring or benefits, the company’s ability to identify, develop and successfully commercialize new products, markets or technologies, economic and/or political changes and other developments in countries and markets in which DSM operates. As a result, DSM’s actual future performance, position and/or financial results may differ materially from the plans, goals and expectations set forth in such forwardlooking statements. DSM has no obligation to update the statements contained in this document, unless required by law. The English language version of this document is leading. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 2 www.dsm.com Key data 20131 20121 People Workforce at 31 December (headcount) 24,349 23,498 Female/male ratio 26/74 26/74 Total employee benefits costs in € million 1,845 1,761 Frequency Index of recordable injuries (per 100 DSM employees and contractor employees) 0.38 0.44 Employee engagement favorable score (in %) 71 72 Planet Energy use (in petajoules) 43 41 Water use (in million m3) 152 149 Greenhouse-gas emissions in CO2 equivalents (x million tons) 4.3 4.2 Emission of volatile organic compounds (x 1000 tons) 5.1 3.5 COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) discharges (x 1000 tons) 5.4 5.5 ECO+ solutions as % of innovation pipeline2 95 80 ECO+ solutions as % of running business 45 43 Profit (in € million, unless otherwise indicated) Net sales, continuing operations 9,051 8,588 China sales in USD million, continuing operations 1,714 1,692 Operating profit plus depreciation and amortization, continuing operations (EBITDA)3 1,263 1,073 Operating profit, continuing operations (EBIT) 3 749 651 Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 271 278 Cash provided by operating activities 889 730 Dividend for DSM shareholders 297 263 Capital expenditure 793 715 Net debt (1,862) (1,668) Shareholders' equity 5,908 5,874 Total assets 12,017 11,966 Capital employed, continuing operations 7,864 7,480 Market capitalization at 31 December4 10,370 8,307 Per ordinary share in € Core earnings, continuing operations 3.19 2.80 Dividend 1.655 1.50 Ratios (%) Sales to High Growth Economies / net sales 39 38 Innovation sales / net sales 19 18 EBITDA / net sales (continuing operations) 14.0 12.5 Operating working capital / annualized fourth quarter net sales (continuing operations) 21.1 20.7 ROCE (continuing operations) 9.7 10.1 Gearing (net debt / equity plus net debt) 23.4 21.6 Equity / total assets 50.7 50.5 Cash provided by operating activities / net sales 9.2 8.0 1 Key data presented relate to total DSM (= continuing operations + discontinued operations), unless explicitly stated otherwise 2 For a definition of ECO+ see page 221 3 Before exceptional items 4 Source: Bloomberg 5 Subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 3 www.dsm.com DSM at a glance DSM’s activities have been grouped into For reporting purposes, the activities are business groups representing coherent grouped into five clusters. In addition, DSM product/market combinations. The reports on a number of other activities, business group directors report directly to which have been grouped under Corporate the Managing Board. Activities. Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Continued value growth Leveraging partnerships for growth The Nutrition cluster comprises the business groups DSM The Pharma cluster includes the business group DSM Nutritional Products and DSM Food Specialties. They serve the Pharmaceutical Products (DPP), one of the world's leading food and beverage, feed, personal care, dietary supplements custom manufacturing organizations to the pharmaceutical and pharmaceutical industries. DSM offers the world’s widest industry, biopharmaceutical and crop protection industries, and range of nutritional ingredients, addressing existing markets DSM's 50 percent interest in the DSM Sinochem based on fermentation and chemical synthesis as well as key Pharmaceuticals (DSP) joint venture, the global market leader in niches of active compounds derived from plant extracts. DSM beta-lactam anti-infectives. In 2013, DSM announced the has particularly strong positions in vitamins, nutritional lipids formation of a new entity together with JLL Partners, combining (polyunsaturated fatty acids), enzymes, cultures and DPP and the US-based company Patheon to create a leading carotenoids. New nature-identical or natural ingredients as well global contract development and manufacturing company in as the expansion of the premix footprint in high growth which DSM will retain a 49 percent interest. From 2014 onwards economies are important drivers in the areas of human and DSM will discontinue the use of proportionate consolidation for animal nutrition and health. joint ventures and account for both DPP and DSP in accordance with the equity method. Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Growing via sustainable, innovative solutions Strengthening backward integration for DSM Engineering The Performance Materials cluster comprises three business Plastics groups: DSM Engineering Plastics (a global supplier of highThe Polymer Intermediates cluster contains the business group performance engineering thermoplastic solutions), DSM DSM Fibre Intermediates (DFI), a producer of caprolactam and Dyneema (the global supplier of Dyneema®, the world’s acrylonitrile. These products are raw materials for synthetic fibers strongest fiber™) and DSM Resins & Functional Materials (a and plastics. Caprolactam is a key feedstock for DSM global supplier of innovative high-quality resins solutions for Engineering Plastics’ polyamide production. Globally, DFI is the paints and coatings, composite materials and optical fiber largest merchant caprolactam supplier and the third largest coatings). End-use markets include automotive, aviation, merchant acrylonitrile supplier. electrical and electronics, marine, sports and leisure, paint and coatings, and construction. Sustainability is a business driver as well as an innovation driver for this cluster. DSM's materials portfolio is shifting towards a higher value-added mix by introducing innovative, more sustainable solutions, leveraging the megatrend Climate and Energy. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 4 www.dsm.com Innovation Center The Innovation Center is an enabler and accelerator of innovation. It facilitates DSM's strategic transition towards becoming an intrinsically innovative organization. The cluster also includes the three Emerging Business Areas (EBAs), growth engines that focus on new business areas outside the current scope of the company's business groups. DSM Biomedical produces novel materials-based solutions for the medical device and biopharmaceutical industries with coatings, drug delivery platforms and a wide range of biomedical materials for use in implantable medical devices. DSM Bio-based Products & Services creates solutions for bioconversion of feedstocks for the production of bio-energy including cellulosic biofuels as well as bio-based chemicals and materials. DSM Advanced Surfaces provides smart coatings and surface technologies to the solar industry. Sales per cluster in 2013, EBITDA per cluster in 2013, Workforce per cluster in 2013, continuing operations continuing operations continuing operations net sales in € million EBITDA in € million headcount at year-end 2013 excl. Innovation Center (-€ 17 million) ■ Nutrition ■ Nutrition ■ Nutrition ■ Pharma ■ Pharma ■ Pharma ■ Performance Materials ■ Performance Materials ■ Performance Materials ■ Polymer Intermediates ■ Polymer Intermediates ■ Polymer Intermediates ■ Innovation Center ■ Innovation Center 664 149 113 1,579 1,456 324 4,195 5,128 10,548 3 914 2,746 857 184 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 5 www.dsm.com Letter from the Chairman Dear reader, The megatrends that shape our world and markets became even vitamin E. Despite the exchange rate effects and the current more pronounced in the year, while the uncertainty regarding unrelated market headwinds, our Nutrition business remains well global economic growth persisted. This offers the context for our positioned to benefit from the structural global megatrends with company to develop and grow our business with the portfolio its unique, broad, integrated and global offering across the value we have created over the years. We live in extraordinary times; chain. As said, our Pharma business is repositioned in two new the race to find sustainable solutions to the world’s most ventures and will be deconsolidated as per 2014. Our pressing economic, social and environmental challenges has Performance Materials business performed well over the year in only intensified. all its businesses. We will continue to upgrade the portfolio in the period ahead to further improve performance. In Polymer At DSM our strategy has been to focus on the unmet needs we Intermediates, we continued to work on options to reduce our have identified, and translate them into compelling growth exposure to the merchant market for caprolactam, where there drivers for our business. To this end, we have undertaken a is greater volatility. successful transformation of our portfolio in recent years, offering innovative and sustainable solutions, while expanding our global We are pleased to report that in 2013 DSM delivered significant presence. Today, we are uniquely positioned to create value for increases in profitability across all its business clusters, resulting all stakeholders by contributing to our customers' success in in an EBITDA of € 1,314 million (€ 1,263 million from continuing meeting the challenges they increasingly face. operations), an 18 percent increase over 2012. We achieved this against a backdrop of challenging macro-economic conditions The megatrends that steer our roadmap for growth stem from a and adverse currency movements, especially in the fourth globally expanding and aging population, which is increasingly quarter of 2013. Growth remained stubbornly low in Europe, moving to urban areas. The trends we address are broadly while the modest recovery in the US continued and economic divided into three categories: (1) global shifts, which account for activity in Asia remained at a relatively good level. the sharp demographic changes and the emergence of a multispeed global economy; (2) increased attention to climate and Our expansion into High Growth Economies (HGEs) has made energy, which encompasses the world's growing efforts to us a truly global company, with almost 40 percent of our sales reduce pollution, achieve a more balanced consumption of originating from high growth economies, a proportion that will resources and energy, and develop new energy forms; and (3) continue to rise in the years ahead. At the same time, we have focus on improving health and wellness for all, which refers to increased our physical presence in these areas, with many of our the care for people's health, especially through nutrition. global business group headquarters and R&D facilities located there. In 2013, we continued to implement our DSM in motion: driving focused growth strategy which we launched in 2010 to deliver While HGEs experienced a slowdown in the second half of 2013 profitable and sustainable growth by addressing the abovecompared to previous periods, they will continue to be the mentioned trends. Although we still have much to achieve, we primary engines of global growth in the years ahead and an can say that our strategy has served us well. investment focus area for DSM via its products and businesses. In the year, we continued to make good progress against our In Innovation we are underway to deliver on our 20 percent stated targets in our four business growth drivers: High Growth innovation sales target for 2015. Innovation sales, which are Economies, Innovation, Sustainability, and Acquisitions & sales of products and solutions brought to the market within the Partnerships. These drivers remain unchanged for the years last five years, will strongly contribute to our growth in years ahead, and we have set ourselves new sales and profitability ahead. They also enjoy significantly higher than average EBITDA targets for 2015 to measure the success of our approach. margins, contributing not only to our sales growth but also to the quality of our profitability. We have a balanced approach Our Nutrition business clearly increased its profit during the year between incremental and process innovations on the one hand, and has shown its resilience as well. Acquisitions, organic and more radical innovations on the other. We are also focusing growth and harvesting synergies were the main drivers. In the more on local applications developed in our regional innovation last quarter(s) of the year the results were negatively influenced centers around the world. by the strong euro. In addition, Nutrition was impacted by weakness in the US dietary supplements market, soft demand We have also continued to invest heavily in our Emerging in Western food and beverage markets, and price pressures in Business Areas (EBAs), three important growth areas that tap Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 6 www.dsm.com Letter from the Chairman into attractive and fast-growing end markets. In DSM Having concluded the transformation of our portfolio, our focus Biomedical, we are making good progress with our product in the coming years will be on realizing its full potential through portfolio and have completed the integration of Kensey Nash. In operational performance and harvesting important synergy DSM Bio-based Products & Services, we are demonstrating benefits. This work is already well underway and will continue in technologies through strategic investments and partnerships, 2014. Consequently, major acquisitions are not expected for the such as the POET-DSM cellulosic bio-ethanol plant in coming year. Emmetsburg (Iowa, USA), which has begun to explore its licensing activities as we plan to become the leader in The almost € 3 billion we have spent on acquisitions since 2010 bioconversion technologies, capitalizing on our knowledge and has allowed us to create and strengthen our portfolio to a large capabilities in industrial biotechnology, for example in enzymes degree in North America but also in the high growth economies, and yeast. In DSM Advanced Surfaces we have increased our balancing our global presence and increasing our production capacity of anti-reflective solutions for the fast resilience. Today we are stronger and more stable, with more growing solar panels market, resulting in good growth rates. sustainable growth and profitability. Overall the performance of the acquired companies was clearly satisfactory. Sustainability continues to be an important business driver in addition to being our core value and responsibility. Our ECO+ In addition to the delivery of synergies from acquisitions, our solutions, which provide customers with clear ecological benefits success has also been due to our ongoing Profit Improvement over more conventional products, are growing faster and more Program (PIP). This initiative has continued to optimize functional profitably than non-ECO+ sales. They now account for 45 and business cost infrastructures across our company. percent of all DSM sales and over 90 percent of our innovation pipeline. In the year, we also began developing a comparable People+ strategy for those products that improve the lives of people. With the People+ program, we make the people element of People, Planet and Profit more tangible, transparent and comparable, as we have done for planet with ECO+. Over the recent years we have made significant progress in the development of our portfolio through Acquisitions & Partnerships. Our acquisition of Fortitech at the end of 2012 has strengthened our Human Nutrition & Health business, and once again expanded our value chain presence. This is in addition to earlier value creating acquisitions including Martek, Ocean Nutrition Canada, the enzymes business of Verenium and the Enzymes and Cultures activities of Cargill. In April, we concluded our acquisition of Tortuga, the Brazilian market leader in organic chelates and other feed ingredients, which has boosted DSM’s position in one of the world’s leading ruminant markets. These steps have been decisive in establishing DSM as a global leader in the field of human and animal nutrition. In November 2013, we announced our much anticipated strategic partnership for DSM Pharmaceutical Products with An equally important part of our organizational transformation Patheon via a joint ownership with the private equity firm JLL has been the attention to our culture, values, and mission that Partners to enable this Pharma business to accelerate growth drive our strategy. These efforts are embodied in the ONE DSM and create a global top Contract Development and Culture Agenda to optimize our company by developing the Manufacturing Organization (CDMO). This combination is culture we require to achieve our strategic ambitions, mirror the consistent with our strategy to maximize value for this business world that we operate in, and become a high performance as a standalone company and represents another major step in organization. In the year, we continued to roll out the ONE DSM the strategic transformation of our Pharma activities. After Culture Agenda throughout the organization, at all levels and in completion of the partnership we will have put both our Pharma all regions. While much more remains to be done, we are businesses in joint ventures, following the joint venture we encouraged by the progress we have made to date. established with Sinochem in the area of antibiotics in 2011. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 7 www.dsm.com In the year, we conducted our sixth worldwide Employee aligning our strategy and operations with the principles of the Engagement Survey, achieving a very high response rate of over United Nations Global Compact. 85 percent. This survey measures DSM’s Employee Engagement Index, the percentage of employees scoring I would like to thank all those who have helped to make 2013 favorably on a combination of four attributes: commitment, another successful year for DSM. I would like to take this pride, advocacy and satisfaction. The index level reached in opportunity to show my sincere appreciation and gratitude to 2013 was 71 percent (2012: 72 percent). This is higher than the Nico Gerardu, our valued Board member for 7 years who retired global average benchmark. We can be proud of such a result. on 1 September 2013, and Claudio Sonder, who retired from We will take the feedback and use this as input for making further our Supervisory Board in May 2013. improvements in order to become a truly high-performing company. As we look ahead, we are confident to further build on the strategic progress we have made so far contributing amongst We also achieved important improvements in the area of Safety others to a further improvement of our profitability. Our Nutrition and Health. The Frequency Index of Recordable injuries for 2013 business will continue to grow and we will take steps to further was 0.38 (a decrease of 14 percent), which for the second broaden and deepen our position, becoming ever closer to consecutive year is the lowest ever. This means that fewer customers and to end users. In Performance Materials, our aim people were injured in their work for DSM. Our ultimate aim is is to accelerate in markets where we have strong positions and that DSM be an injury and incident-free working environment. restructure those parts where we are weaker. In both cases, our emphasis will be on operational improvements, organic growth, We have also continued to make steady progress towards our innovations, sustainability and high growth economies. Inclusion & Diversity goals by addressing the geographical distribution of management and other key functions, looking to Our mission at DSM is to create brighter lives for people today achieve a representative balance of DSM’s leadership group in and for generations to come by connecting our unique gender and nationality. The number of women in executive competences in Life Sciences and Materials Sciences. This is a positions increased from 10 percent to 11 percent in 2013, and collective endeavor that would not be possible without the we saw as well a further growth in the number of non-European enormous talent and dedication of our employees around the executives. world and the continued support and trust of our customers, our shareholders and other stakeholders for which we are grateful. I We are very proud that in 2013 we were once again named look forward to reporting further progress as we continue to among the leaders in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index. create value for all our stakeholders. We are also proud that during 2013 we won several prestigious awards and received a great deal of recognition for our Feike Sijbesma achievements regarding our integrated Triple P approach. We CEO/Chairman of the Managing Board continue to further develop our integrated reporting based on the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative. Once again this feike.sijbesma@dsm.com integrated annual report, our fourth, merits the GRI A+ rating, representing a high level of transparency. We stay committed to Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 8 www.dsm.com Letter from the Chairman Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 9 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth is an effective response to the world’s most pressing social, environmental and economic challenges. In 2013, DSM completed the third year of its successful strategy DSM in motion: driving focused growth, which it launched in It is a strategy that has served the company well since 2010, 2010 to become a global leader in health, nutrition and materials. supported by a stakeholder engagement process and a risk and The strategy has provided the necessary framework to drive issue assessment that enabled it to determine how it could best sustainable and profitable growth in the company’s core help meet the world’s most pressing needs. activities, following the profound transformation of its portfolio of businesses in the preceding years. Many of the world’s social, environmental and economic challenges stem from the world’s rapidly expanding population, The transformation of DSM has been strengthened by its which is expected to reach 9 billion by 2050. Societies are also determined effort to cultivate organic growth, while tapping the experiencing fundamental changes in their demographics with synergy potential of acquisitions and partnerships. These actions people becoming older and increasingly urbanized and wealthy. have been supported by cultural and structural integration efforts These trends will put unprecedented pressure on the planet’s that have made it a truly global company. Today, the company resources and on the food chain, while also creating new enjoys greater resilience in the face of macro-economic consumption patterns and having an impact on the environment. movements, and higher quality and stability in its earnings. These megatrends can be summarized into three distinct DSM is uniquely positioned to deliver on its mission of creating categories: Global Shifts, Climate and Energy, and Health and brighter lives for people today and for generations to come. At Wellness. Through its innovative and sustainable solutions, DSM the heart of this mission is the core value of sustainability, a is able to address these areas and benefit from the opportunities fundamental business driver that defines DSM’s position in the that are arising from the increased spending that will result on a market and determines its ability to shape a stable and global scale. prosperous future for the benefit of People, Planet and Profit. Global Shifts Strategic focus The accelerating shift of wealth in a multiple-speed global economy is the basis for a series of global shifts that are creating With its focus on Life Sciences and Materials Sciences, and the a more urban, more prosperous and more connected world, but key growth drivers of High Growth Economies, Innovation, one that faces huge resource and cultural challenges as a result. Sustainability and Acquisitions & Partnerships, DSM’s strategy The DSM Managing Board (from left to right): Rolf-Dieter Schwalb (CFO), Stefan Doboczky, Feike Sijbesma (Chairman/CEO), Stephan Tanda and Dimitri de Vreeze Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 10 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement External recognition Sustainability Governance Framework People in 2013 Planet in 2013 Profit in 2013 These changes are influencing where demand comes from, how performance of its business groups. It has set itself ambitious and where people live, and how they interact with each other. targets for accelerated growth (above GDP growth levels) and Urbanization and economic prosperity are promoting dietary for increased profitability during the current strategy period. changes and increased spending on housing, transport, lifestyle These were formulated based on an assessment of and energy. The advent of new technology is also having a major opportunities in each of the growth drivers. impact on societies and their behavior. Following the rapid expansion of its global portfolio in recent Climate and Energy years, the company is now fully focused on operational The reality of man-made climate change must translate into performance, organic growth and improved profitability. It is also increased efforts to reduce fossil fuel dependencies and bring concentrating on regional R&D and innovations for local down harmful levels of greenhouse-gas emissions. This is applications that are better tailored to the needs of customers in accelerating the adoption of renewable energy sources and the its fastest growing markets, and which capture more use of chemicals and materials that are more sustainable. These opportunities and synergies. actions will help protect the planet’s limited resources, as the world enters an era of resource scarcity. Financial targets Despite the ongoing macro-economic challenges, DSM Efficiency is an important part of this focus, as customers look increased its EBITDA for 2013 to € 1.314 billion, representing a to create more sustainable value chains through higher yields, considerable increase of 18 percent over the previous year. In less waste, lower energy use and less pollution. 2013, DSM formulated profitability targets for 2015, including an EBITDA margin of 14-15 percent. Health and Wellness The impact of a growing, aging, increasingly urban population is Progress on the target for Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) becoming visible in remarkably different ways. On the one hand, of more than 15 percent was delayed as a result of the living standards are steadily rising, and there is a drive to improve company’s accelerated acquisition strategy and the well-being and increase life spans. On the other, the daily deterioration of global macro-economic conditions. In 2013, struggle to effectively nourish populations in the most ROCE from continuing operations reached 9.7 percent impoverished areas of the world, especially children below the compared to 10.1 percent in 2012. age of three, continues. Sales in High Growth Economies reached 39 percent of total There is an increasing need to address core health issues, sales in 2013, bringing the company closer to its stated goal of whether through nutrition, medicines or lifestyle improvements, having about 45 percent of total net sales from these markets. especially in high growth economies. In the West, healthcare Innovation sales, which are measured as sales from products cost pressures are rising because of aging populations. Nutrition and applications introduced within the last five years, reached security and access are also growing in importance, and there 19 percent of total net sales in 2013, putting the company well is a growing demand for safer and healthier solutions. on track to deliver on its 2015 target of 20 percent. By providing its customers with the innovations and sustainable There has been steady progress in the three Emerging Business products they need to meet the demands arising from these Areas (EBAs), DSM Biomedical, DSM Bio-based Products & trends, DSM stands to capitalize on these trends for many years Services, and the new area of DSM Advanced Surfaces. All three to come. areas provide significant growth potential for DSM. The 2020 target for these areas is € 1 billion in sales with a high EBITDA Strategic progress and aspirations margin. It is DSM’s ambition to leverage unique opportunities in Life Sciences and Materials Sciences by using the four growth drivers of High Growth Economies, Innovation, Sustainability and Acquisitions & Partnerships. It aims to maximize the potential of these drivers so they reinforce each other and generate further business opportunities. The company relies on regional organizations, functional excellence groups and shared services to enhance the Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 11 www.dsm.com Targets and aspirations as updated in September 2013 after deconsolidation of DSM Pharmaceutical Products (DPP)), which is a considerable increase compared to the approximately Financial targets 34 percent in 2010. Profitability targets 2015 EBITDA margin 14%-15% ECO+ solutions accounted for approximately 95 percent of the ROCE 11%-12% innovation pipeline (97 percent after deconsolidation of DPP), well on track for the 2015 aspiration of at least 80 percent. In Sales targets 2015 2013 about 90 percent of ECO+ innovation launches were Organic sales growth 5%-7% annually supported by comparative LCAs. China sales towards USD 3 bn High growth economies sales about 45% of total sales Data from the business groups DSM Engineering Plastics and Innovation sales 20% of total sales DSM Resins & Functional Materials show that ECO+ sales have ECO+ sales towards 50% of total sales grown by around 10 percent each year since 2010, while nonECO+ sales have slightly declined. Moreover, ECO+ sales have Cluster targets 2015 higher margins compared to non-ECO+ sales in both Materials Nutrition EBITDA margin 20%-23% Sciences and Life Sciences businesses. Sales growth GDP +2% Performance Materials EBITDA margin 13%-15% In 2013, DSM once again featured among the chemical industry Sales growth at double GDP leaders in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index (SAM Silver Class status). DSM improved its ranking and returned to SAM Aspiration regarding Emerging Business Areas for 2020 Gold Class status for 2014. EBA sales > € 1 bn From an operational standpoint, good progress has been made Sustainability aspirations 2011-2015 in terms of energy efficiency, which DSM is aiming to improve by Dow Jones Sustainability Index 20 percent by 2020 compared to 2008 levels. Between 2008 Top ranking (SAM Gold Class)1 and 2013, energy efficiency improved by 13 percent. ECO+ (innovation) At least 80% of pipeline is ECO+2 The company is also committed to a 25 percent reduction in ECO+ (running business) greenhouse-gas emissions by 2020 compared to 2008. Total From approximately 34% towards 50% emissions in 2013 came to 4.3 million tons of CO2 equivalents, Energy efficiency a 1 percent increase compared to 2008. However, on a like-for20% improvement in 2020, compared to 2008 like basis the total greenhouse-gas emissions of DSM decreased Greenhouse-gas emissions by 19% when comparing 2013 with 2008. 25% reduction (absolute) by 2020, compared to 2008 Employee Engagement Survey The sixth worldwide Employee Engagement Survey took place Towards High Performance Norm3 in the year to measure engagement levels for the DSM Employee Diversity 4 Engagement Index. This Index determines how employees score Increase percentage of women in executive positions on a combination of the following attributes: commitment, pride, Increase percentage of BRIC+ nationals in executive positions advocacy and satisfaction. In 2013, the Employee Engagement People+4 Index was measured at 71 percent (2012: 72), which is above DSM People LCA People+ framework defined the global standard of 69 percent. The score keeps DSM within a 9 percentage point range of the external benchmark of high 1 This means a total score within 1% of the SAM sector leader. performing companies (scoring 80 percent favorable), which 2 See page 221 for a definition of ECO+. DSM aims to be part of. 3 The High Performance Norm (80% favorable) is the composite of the top 25% employee responses of the selected external benchmark organizations. 4 See also the chapter People in 2013 on page 43 DSM’s People+ strategy is to deliver products with a measurable positive impact on people. In 2013, considerable progress was made towards this aim. Through the People+ program DSM Sustainability aspirations engaged with suppliers and customers in a number of joint DSM is on track with its sustainability aspirations, which are projects. central to its strategy. In 2013, DSM's ECO+ solutions as a percentage of running business reached 45 percent (46 percent Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 12 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement External recognition Sustainability Governance Framework People in 2013 Planet in 2013 Profit in 2013 Organization and culture In support of its global integration efforts, DSM continued to implement its ONE DSM Culture Agenda in 2013. This agenda is based around the themes of External Orientation, Accountability for Performance (and learning), Collaboration with Speed, and Inclusion & Diversity, and aims to develop the culture and organization the company requires to fulfill its strategic ambitions. The ONE DSM Culture Agenda introduction week took place in the first quarter and was followed by four ‘theme weeks’ in the second half of the year. These events were attended by thousands of employees. In December, a week-long event entitled Glass Half Full Week allowed employees to review the year, focusing on the many positives and on lessons learned. The cultural and organizational identity was further supported through the new corporate brand that DSM introduced in 2011. This brand has become a symbol of the company’s transition in recent years and demonstrates to stakeholders how the company has evolved. During 2013, the global roll-out of the brand was successfully completed. Within DSM, the business groups are the primary building blocks of the organization with their focus on customers and markets. Infrastructure and capabilities are provided by the regional organizations which also support local innovation in select countries and represent DSM to external stakeholders. These efforts are supported and optimized by shared services, which provide efficient, high quality services in designated areas, and functional excellence groups that offer functional expertise and implementation capabilities. Corporate staff departments are responsible for supporting the Managing Board in running the company. In 2013, the regional organizations were given a stronger mandate to support R&D and innovation with local applications, bringing DSM closer to its key markets and customers. There is clear board level accountability for regional performance. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 13 www.dsm.com My bright ideas help create a sustainable future Jacqueline Hazewinkel, Business Controller DSM Bio-based Products & Services DSM focuses its efforts on further developing biotechnological routes to make fuels, chemicals and materials from cellulosic biomass, rather than sugar or starch. This technology goes a long way to ensuring that demand for biofuel and chemicals can be met without any meaningful impact being made on food production or availability. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 14 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement External recognition Sustainability Governance Framework People in 2013 Planet in 2013 Profit in 2013 Growth Driver: High Growth Economies facility that will begin commercial production in early 2014. It also began construction on a new state-of-the-art animal nutrition From 'reaching out' to becoming truly global R&D center near Beijing that will significantly contribute to the nation’s food safety program for swine and poultry. The 29 A key element of the DSM in motion: driving focused growth percent stake acquired in Yantai Andre Pectin Co. Ltd, the strategy has been for DSM to broaden its international presence producer of texturing ingredients, was another important step to capture greater megatrend opportunities in high growth towards harvesting opportunities from this megatrend. economies such as Brazil, Russia, India and China. Although no longer growing at historical highs, these countries continue to be Sales in China continued to represent an important contribution the main growth engines for the world economy, with rapidly to DSM’s total sales in high growth economies. The company expanding urban populations and increasing domestic has stated its ambition to increase sales in China towards USD consumption. 3 billion by 2015, and it continues to invest there. In 2013, DSM’s sales in China remained stable at USD 1.7 billion, although they The share of sales in high growth economies as a portion of were still affected by lower prices for caprolactam in the Polymer DSM’s total sales has increased significantly in recent years, and Intermediates cluster. accounted for around 39 percent in 2013. It is DSM's aim to increase this share to about 45 percent by 2015. So far, these China sales in billion USD economies have accounted for around 60 percent of DSM’s organic growth since the launch of the strategy. 2.0 2.0 1.7 1.7 1.6 The transition to becoming a truly global company has been 1.5 marked by a shift of DSM’s operations (including four global 1.2 business group headquarters, and Innovation and R&D centers) 1.0 from Europe into other regions. Today more than 30 percent of DSM employees live and work in high growth economies. 0.5 With a structure of country presidents in China, India, Russia and 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Latin America, as well as in Japan and North America, DSM is also facilitating regional decision making and strengthening local R&D. Regional innovation centers have been established in India and China, while at Managing Board level, clear accountability Latin America has been established for regional growth. DSM has also grown in other high growth economies, mostly through acquisitions and partnerships. It seeks to double or even Sales in high growth economies triple sales in Latin America, India and Russia, where domestic as % of total sales consumption has become the biggest contributor to growth. 50 In Brazil, DSM finalized its acquisition of Tortuga, a leading 40 39 38 39 company in nutritional supplements with a focus on pasture 37 34 raised beef and dairy cattle, which has doubled DSM's 30 workforce in Latin America to approximately 2,000 people. In 20 human nutrition in Brazil, DSM expanded its forward integration capabilities for customers including packaging and branding and 10 plans are underway for a new innovation center in 2015. 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 DSM's presence in Latin America was also strengthened through the acquisition in late 2012 of Fortitech, which generates about 16 percent of its revenues in Latin America and 13 percent China in Asia. Similarly, the 2012 acquisition of Ocean Nutrition China has continued to be an important strategic investment Canada, which has a production site in Peru, in addition to focus area, as DSM establishes promising opportunities for Canada and the United States, has further expanded DSM's growth in the years ahead. In 2013, DSM Nanjing Chemical presence there. Company doubled its capacity for caprolactam, with a new Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 15 www.dsm.com Sustainability China Triple P Supplier project In 2013 DSM set up its Latin America Sustainability Forum. This DSM initiated the China Triple P Supplier Engagement and internal sustainability committee consists of representatives from Development project in July 2013, in partnership with DSM companies in Latin America. They meet quarterly to Solidaridad and Manpower. The aim of the project is to use the discuss the latest developments and initiatives in the areas of People, Planet and Profit angle to engage suppliers to create a People, Planet and Profit in the world and how these affect their more sustainable supply chain. A related goal is that suppliers in region and their business. China who sign on to the project start to apply the same approach to their own supply base and set up their own DSM India has defined a sustainability roadmap with specific sustainability programs. See also Sustainability Program on focus areas and these are being driven by an India Sustainability page 35. platform comprised of the different business groups led by the DSM India president. DSM India has defined six areas to Great Place to Work® award in Brazil positively impact via sustainability initiatives: energy efficiency, In 2013 DSM’s Tortuga was recognized as one of the best supply chain, water, innovation, marketing and sales, and companies to work for in Brazil. The Great Place to Work® award external stakeholder engagement. is a prize recognized all over the world with international and regional dimensions. The Great Place to Work Institute partners As part of the strengthening of the regional organizations, DSM with many of the most successful and innovative businesses established a regional China Sustainability Committee in 2012, around the world to create, study, and recognize great which helps to create more awareness of sustainability as a workplaces. In Brazil, Epoca Magazine does research into and business driver at DSM China. awards the most trustworthy companies. Biogas Sustentar Biogas derived from anaerobic fermentation of biodegradable In 2013 DSM Brazil participated in a large regional event on materials such as biomass, manure or sewage and green waste sustainability: Sustentar 2013. With an agenda consisting of 22 can be used to generate electricity and heat. In India DSM has simultaneous events, 240 speakers and 6,000 participants, invested in a biogas plant in the province of Punjab. The year Sustentar is the largest event about sustainability in Latin 2013 was the second year of association between DSM and the America. It is renowned for bringing together specialists and Punjab Energy Development Agency, an organization that executives, leaders and national and international authorities. Its promotes renewable energy in Punjab. The plant generates scope is promoting substantial improvements of social and 7,000 to 10,000 m3 of biogas a day from 235 tons of cow waste. environmental issues. The biogas is converted into electricity (1 MW) and fed into the state electricity grid. In 2013 DSM signed a special Memorandum of Understanding with the Punjab government for collaborative actions in the bio-energy space. With the demand for energy increasing around the world, DSM strives for alternative energy solutions. In 2013 the DSM Engineering Plastics site in Pune (India) entered into an agreement with a local wind energy producer that will supply 25 percent of the plant’s total energy need via wind power. In Pune DSM produces compounds of polyesters and polyamides and has established a strong track record of highly efficient water management systems. Thanks to increased process water recycling and rigorous monitoring of potential water leakages, the operation’s water footprint was reduced by two-thirds in 2013 in comparison to 2012. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 16 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement External recognition Sustainability Governance Framework People in 2013 Planet in 2013 Profit in 2013 Our bright ideas provide products that improve patient care Sanna Severins, Senior Marketing Manager (left) and Cheng Wei, Senior Scientist, Product Development, DSM Biomedical DSM Biomedical has been working with medical device companies for over 25 years. By offering the broadest portfolio of biomaterials and process manufacturing in the industry, we help our partners increase the performance of their medical devices. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 17 www.dsm.com Growth Driver: Innovation R&D expenditure (including associated IP expenditure), continuing operations From building the machine to doubling the output x € million 2013 2012 At DSM, innovation aims to turn ‘Bright Science’ into ‘Brighter Living’. It goes beyond having great ideas, state-of-the-art Nutrition 209 202 technology and high-tech laboratories. It is about discovering Pharma 6 4 and integrating the best, the most sustainable, and commercially Performance Materials 132 131 viable solutions, in order to meet market needs and create Polymer Intermediates 17 18 profitable growth and future value. Innovation Center 80 61 Corporate Activities 26 22 DSM creates innovative solutions that nourish, protect and improve performance, by combining its unique competences in Total 470 438 Life Sciences and Materials Sciences. In doing so, it delivers on Total as % of net sales 5.2 5.1 its mission of creating brighter lives for people today and for Staff employed in R&D activities 2,256 2,392 generations to come. Innovation sales Governance as % of total sales DSM has established best practices in innovation and manages its major innovation activities at a platform level. The platforms 20 19 18 18 are chosen within specific areas, such as food and nutrition 16 security, health, sustainable manufacturing and energy security. 15 10 This structure provides the basis for an effective management of company-wide competence building programs in Research and 5 Development that is directed by the team of the Chief Technology Officer. It also guides the exploratory activities for 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 DSM’s Business Incubator. The platform-based approach to innovation aims to develop larger initiatives. It also enables the company to improve By 2015, DSM wants innovative products and solutions to coordination between the various competences, projects and account for 20 percent of its total sales. The company is well on business development activities, and give its efforts greater track to deliver on this ambition. Innovation sales are defined as focus. sales of products and applications that have been introduced over the last five years. In 2013, these products and services Within the Innovation Center, DSM’s Emerging Business Areas accounted for 19 percent of total sales and strongly contributed (EBAs) are instrumental in turning innovations into major to DSM’s sales and EBITDA growth with gross margins over 5 businesses. The current EBAs are DSM Biomedical, DSM Biopercent higher than the average of the running business. based Products & Services and DSM Advanced Surfaces. The EBAs provide exciting growth platforms within the DSM aims to foster and sustain its innovative practices on an Innovation Center that focus on new business areas outside the ongoing basis. A benchmark of innovation processes developed scope of the company’s business groups. DSM aspires to with McKinsey that compared DSM’s innovation practices to achieve EBA sales of up to € 1 billion by 2020. In 2013, combined those of its peers during the 2006-2012 period showed that the EBA sales reached € 148 million. company has consistently increased its innovation score. It now ranks in McKinsey’s Top Quartile benchmark for best innovation Research and Development (R&D) is instrumental to the practices within its peer group. Looking to 2014 and 2015, DSM realization of DSM’s innovation strategy, and most of the will further intensify its innovation and R&D activities and seek to expenditure in this area is directed toward business-focused generate more opportunities for open innovation, especially programs. DSM also has a Corporate Research Program that radical innovations that offer higher returns and will come to helps build and strengthen technological competences within represent around one quarter of its total innovation efforts. the company to execute development projects. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 18 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement External recognition Sustainability Governance Framework People in 2013 Planet in 2013 Profit in 2013 Key technological competence areas are Materials Sciences, pool of ideas, know-how and expertise that are available outside Nutritional Sciences, Process Technology, Biotechnology, the company, DSM is better able to develop and discover Chemistry & Catalysis, Materials Chemistry and Analysis & solutions. Characterization. These form the scientific basis for the overarching innovation platforms. DSM is keen to continuously improve the quality of its Open Innovation practices and the licensing of its know-how and Collaboration expertise is one example of how this is driving new business The DSM science network is globally spread and consists of models. The company aims to accelerate its venturing and approximately 2,250 internal scientists who cooperate partnering activities, not only in its key business areas but also extensively with external R&D institutions. Academic in technology, so that it can broaden and further strengthen its collaboration efforts are normally specific and bilateral, while technological competence base. Also see DSM Venturing on DSM is also active in broader public-private partnerships that page 107 of this report. increase its scientific scope. DSM Bright Science Awards The Dutch Polymer Institute (DPI) is an example of a publicAs part of its commitment to promoting pioneering research that private partnership. Founded in 1997, this partnership is leads to products or solutions that help enhance people’s quality between polymer producing and processing industries and of life, DSM has put in place the Bright Science Awards program. knowledge institutes involved in polymer research. A new The program recognizes the achievements of DSM scientists as partnership that was shaped in 2013 is the Bio-based Industries well as those working outside the company that have Consortium, a public-private partnership between European demonstrated excellence in innovative research. The program is industries, scientific institutes and the EU. an integral part of the company’s open innovation approach. Patents The DSM Science & Technology Awards recognize outstanding, DSM filed more than 400 patents in 2013 (2012: 319). innovative PhD research. In 2013, DSM granted Science & Technology Awards in three regions: Europe, the Americas and Value creation through best practices Asia. In 2013 DSM continued its Excellence in Innovation program. This program aims to optimize DSM’s innovation infrastructure In April, Stijn van de Vyver from the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven by working to improve key innovation behaviors, including (Belgium), received the Science and Technology Award Europe leadership and teamwork skills, in order to secure an even more for his PhD research entitled ‘Rethinking the design of favorable innovation culture at DSM. The company will continue heterogeneous catalysts for the conversion of cellulose’. In May, the Excellence in Innovation program in order to maintain its the Science and Technology Award Asia was handed to Li leading position as an innovator (as indicated by its top ranking Songtao from the Harbin Medical University (China). He received in the McKinsey innovation diagnostic assessment) and to the award for his PhD research entitled ‘The effect of calcium improve its capabilities. supplementation on the endogenous cholesterol metabolism in estrogen deficiency’. In September, the Science and Technology Licensing Award Americas was won by Christopher M. Bates from the The company approaches licensing as an effective way of University of Texas in Austin (USA) with his PhD research on creating shared value with partners. The company’s center of block copolymer thin film orientation. excellence for creating value from intellectual property (IP) assists the business groups and EBAs with the initiation and Each year, DSM also grants a major award to an established management of collaboration that is based on IP (patents, scientist who has made a significant, peer-acknowledged trademarks and know-how). contribution to the advancement of science. This award alternates between Nutritional Sciences and Materials Sciences. Licensing is a fundamental aspect of the EBA business models, In 2013, DSM granted a Nutritional Sciences Award for research helping to enhance their value proposition and increasing the in human nutrition to Professor Maret G. Traber, Director, speed with which products can be brought to the market. Oxidative & Nitrative Stress Laboratory, Linus Pauling Institute, College of Public Health and Human Sciences in Corvallis Open Innovation (Oregon, USA). Professor Traber received the distinction for her An essential element of DSM’s approach to innovation is Open lifetime commitment and scientific achievements in the field of Innovation, which seeks to combine internal and external ideas vitamin E research. and capabilities. By combining its own capabilities with the vast Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 19 www.dsm.com Growth Driver: Sustainability footprint. The ecological benefits can be created at any stage of the product life cycle, from the raw materials through to From responsibility to a strong business driver manufacturing and potential re-use and end-of-life disposal. DSM uses comparative Life Cycle Assessments to determine At the heart of DSM's mission is the core value of sustainability whether a solution should be considered ECO+. and a commitment to helping to create a more sustainable world. As part of its 2010-2015 strategy DSM in motion: driving focused growth, the company has taken sustainability to the next level. Sustainability aspirations 2011-2015 Realization 2013 In addition to fulfilling its own responsibilities toward society, DSM has successfully developed sustainability as a strategic Dow Jones Sustainability Index growth driver. DSM believes that achieving sustainability means Top ranking (SAM Gold Class) SAM Silver Class1 pursuing activities that create value in the areas of People, Planet ECO+ (innovation) and Profit. They must meet the needs of the present generation, At least 80% of pipeline is ECO+2 95% without compromising the ability of future generations to meet ECO+ (running business) their own needs. From approximately 34% towards 50% 45% Energy efficiency By 2050 the world’s population will reach an estimated 9 billion 20% improvement in 2020, compared 13% improvement people, which will place an unprecedented pressure on societies to 2008 to develop innovative solutions to meet their needs, while Greenhouse-gas emissions protecting the planet’s environment and its natural resources. 25% reduction (absolute) by 2020, 1% increase4 Over this hangs the cloud of climate change, which is already compared having huge consequences. Scientific consensus is that the to 2008 world faces the risk of even more severe floods and droughts. In Employee Engagement Survey order to avoid economic, human and ecological damage the Towards High Performance Norm3 71% favorable world needs to keep global warming under two degrees Celsius Diversity 5 compared to the pre-industrial level. The global society also Women in executive positions 11% needs to address food and water security, for it is unacceptable BRIC+ nationals in executive positions 10% that 2 billion people are malnourished. People+5 DSM People LCA Draft framework The growing impact of business activities must lead to an in place increased responsibility to contribute to the real, higher goal of the economy − to serve society. The primary goal for business 1 DSM returned to Gold Class for 2014 2 See page 221 for a definition of ECO+ should be to create societal, ecological and economic value. For 3 The High Performance Norm (80% favorable) is the composite of the top 25% DSM, sustainability is a key differentiator and a value driver in its employee responses of the selected external benchmark organizations 4 On a like-for-like basis the total greenhouse-gas emissions of DSM decreased by 19% markets. The company is uniquely positioned to capitalize on the when comparing 2013 with 2008 many opportunities that this presents across the value chain. As 5 See People+ and Inclusion & Diversity in the chapter People in 2013 on page 43 an integral part of the company's operations, strategic actions and decisions, sustainability guides the activities of its global It is DSM’s ambition that at least 80 percent of its innovation business groups. These are charged with continuously pipeline be comprised of ECO+ solutions by 2015, and that they developing innovative science-based products and solutions generate approximately 50 percent of total net sales. At the end that contribute to a brighter future for people, while helping to of 2013, the innovation pipeline contained 95 percent ECO+ increase the company’s profitability. solutions (97 percent after deconsolidation of DSM See Review of business in 2013 on page 74 to page 109. Pharmaceutical Products (DPP)). ECO+ solutions as a percentage of running business increased to 45 percent in ECO+ 2013 (46 percent after deconsolidation of DPP). DSM is on its way towards the 50 percent aspiration for 2015. In 2013 about ECO+ is DSM’s program for the development of sustainable, 90 percent of ECO+ innovation launches were supported by innovative products and solutions with ecological benefits. comparative LCAs. Products qualify as ECO+ when their environmental impact is better compared with competing mainstream products fulfilling ECO+ solutions can be found across all of DSM's business the same function. When considered over their entire life cycle, groups with many more under development. For example, in ECO+ solutions offer superior performance and a lower ecoBright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 20 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement External recognition Sustainability Governance Framework People in 2013 Planet in 2013 Profit in 2013 Animal Nutrition, a product under development reduces combination with ECO+, DSM makes its mission ‘Bright methane emissions from livestock, one of the world’s largest Science, Brighter Living’ more tangible. People+ offers new contributors to greenhouse-gas emissions responsible for perspectives beneficial for new product development, value climate change. propositions and customer engagement. In the absence of a ready to use methodology to assess the impact of products on DSM is also investing in solutions for renewable energy. In 2010 people’s lives, DSM started to develop a new methodology in the DSM Innovation Center developed KhepriCoat™ anticonsultation with stakeholders in 2011. The methodology that reflective glass coating. It is applied on the cover glass of solar has been developed to define and quantify the impact that DSM modules and strongly reduces the reflection of sunlight. The solutions have on people, the DSM People Life Cycle result is an increase in the energy output of these modules of up Assessment (LCA) tool, was further road tested and improved in to 4 percent. In 2013 KhepriCoat™ was subjected to a 2013 in close connection with different stakeholders. DSM comparative life cycle assessment and was added to the actively strives to create a harmonized and broadly accepted portfolio of ECO+ products. The fast growing market for solar methodology, with the Products Social Metrics Roundtable energy has increased the need for additional coating supply. In (PSMR) with participants from a variety of industries and the April DSM opened a new manufacturing plant for KhepriCoat™ World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). at the Chemelot site in Sittard-Geleen (Netherlands). PSMR consists of close industry partners of DSM. The DSM People LCA tool enables the business groups to identify new levers for innovation, develop value propositions, and engage with partners in the value chain, by concentrating on the impact that DSM products have on the lives of people involved in making and using the product. This tool is now an incentive for innovation and research and development across the company. For example, DSM’s waterborne resins for paints reduce the health risks for professionals and do-it-yourself painters, in comparison with solvent-based paints on the market. By a continued focus on replacing less sustainable technologies and enlarging the applications for which waterborne resins can be applied, DSM continues to push the boundaries in this area in order to improve end-users' health and well-being without compromising on functionality and performance. A comprehensive description of the People+ program can be found in the 'People in 2013' chapter on page 43 of this report. Social entrepreneurship Data from the business groups DSM Engineering Plastics and DSM Resins & Functional Materials show that ECO+ sales have For DSM, social entrepreneurship means finding solutions to grown by around 10 percent each year since 2010, while nonmajor societal challenges by encouraging entrepreneurialism ECO+ sales have slightly declined. Moreover, ECO+ sales have and innovation through new business models and partnerships. higher margins compared to non-ECO+ sales in both Materials Besides profits, DSM generates social value by playing an Sciences and Life Sciences businesses. A comprehensive important role in fighting malnutrition and hidden hunger. In this description of the ECO+ program can be found in the 'Planet in complex world where billions are still undernourished, DSM 2013’ chapter on page 56 of this report. believes companies, governments, academia, NGOs and international institutions must work together in finding innovative People+ solutions and scaling up production. People+ is DSM’s sustainability program to develop solutions The Nutrition Improvement Program (NIP) aspires to make DSM that measurably improve the lives of consumers, employees and the partner of choice in the global fight against hidden hunger. communities across the value chains. With People+, in To this end, the company offers nutritious, safe and affordable Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 21 www.dsm.com solutions and sustainable business models tailored to the needs momentum for a circular economy and actively contributing, in of local communities in the developing world, with a special focus partnership, to the design of a more sustainable future. DSM on women and children. This initiative is underway in Latin believes CE100 is the right platform to scale up the circular America, Africa and Asia where it is aimed at the most economy as a real alternative to existing economic models. disadvantaged sectors of society. DSM's diverse knowledge of materials and compounds offers valuable insights into the sector for the conversion and In 2013 NIP focused on developing new sustainable and capitalization of agricultural and other organic waste, the inclusive business models. One example is the cooperation with development of materials free of hazardous substances, and the Mercy Corps to expand and improve Indonesia’s healthy food promotion of the use of recycling technologies. cart program KeBAL. Together with Rabobank Foundation, NIP is growing KeBAL to transform it into a viable franchise concept One example of environmental entrepreneurship and a move of affordable and more nutritious meals for children of lowforward to a circular economy is the foundation of Reverdia. income households in Jakarta. The business will be scalable for Reverdia is a joint venture of DSM and Roquette Frères and has replication in other parts of Indonesia and across the world. been set up for the production, commercialization and market development of Biosuccinium™ sustainable succinic acid. Biosuccinium™ is one of the new bio-based building blocks of the last decade. It allows customers in the chemical industry to choose a bio-based alternative with a lower eco-footprint for a broad range of applications, from packaging to footwear. At the end of 2012 Reverdia began operations in Cassano Spinola (Italy) in a plant which has a capacity of about 10,000 tons per year. Sustainability in manufacturing In DSM’s manufacturing organization, sustainability is embedded in Functional Excellence programs and expert networks for maintaining and improving specific competences. Functional Excellence programs help make DSM’s pooled manufacturing expertise available wherever and whenever it is needed throughout the global organization. Competence networks have been set up to develop shared solutions to DSMwide issues. The programs and networks help DSM achieve its objectives in the areas of People, Planet and Profit. Sustainability in supply chains Environmental entrepreneurship Together with its suppliers, DSM works to create value in the As a result of its various stakeholder engagements, DSM has areas of People, Planet and Profit simultaneously. In the People developed a broad understanding of societal needs in relation to area, this means actively pursuing better working conditions and environmental challenges. It is well positioned to develop a safe and healthy working environment for DSM's own and products that help grow its business in the long term and supplier and customer employees, as well as promoting local address immediate sustainable needs. community development and education across the world as part of the People+ program. In the Planet area, it means creating In 2013, DSM joined the Circular Economy 100 (CE100) products which, compared to alternative products in the market, platform, an initiative of the Ellen McArthur Foundation. A circular perform at least as well but have a lower eco-footprint as part of economy is an economic system in which resources in the value the ECO+ program. In the Profit area it means conducting cycle can be used and re-used again and again. This requires a business in an ethical and fair way and providing products that different way of thinking compared to linear value chains, since are not just carbon, energy and cost efficient but also of a high resource, production and waste management are integral parts quality and added value. in the design. Through engagement and cooperation with the See also: Sustainable value chains (3) and Suppliers on page other participating companies, DSM is committed to building 35. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 22 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement External recognition Sustainability Governance Framework People in 2013 Planet in 2013 Profit in 2013 Our bright ideas help to produce better feed and better food Doerte Laue, Global Marketing Manager, Promotions & Launches (left) and Elkin Amaya, Global Regulatory Affairs Manager, DSM Animal Nutrition & Health From chicken and ﬁsh to swine and cows, DSM is unique in animal nutrition. We provide the highest quality ingredients and additives for animal feed to produce healthier animals and better meat and eggs. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 23 www.dsm.com Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships From portfolio transformation to growth They should contribute to earnings per share from year two. They should support DSM’s other financial targets. Accelerating growth through acquisitions and partnerships is a fundamental element of the DSM in motion: driving focused In the exceptional case that a uniquely attractive acquisition growth strategy announced in 2010. Since the beginning of the opportunity arises that would put pressure on financial metrics, strategy period, DSM has successfully invested some € 2.85 DSM may consider a temporary deviation from its credit metrics billion in new businesses, primarily in Nutrition, and radically that is commensurate with its ratings objectives. DSM considers transformed its portfolio. It has also completed a number of its Single A rating to be the optimum way of ensuring the partnerships that have met the company’s strict criteria. company enjoys sufficient financial and strategic flexibility. Therefore, after completing such an acquisition, DSM would The company is now poised to capture the opportunities in the seek to manage its balance sheet and underlying financials to global megatrends it has identified in its main markets. While it realign ratios with Single A ratings within a short period of time. remains mindful of new opportunities in the years ahead, it is focusing its efforts on integrating its latest acquisitions to In 2013, DSM was involved in partnerships that serve clear enhance their operational performance and realize the full strategic objectives, in addition to regular contract arrangements synergy potential in terms of growth and profitability. with suppliers and customers. These business partnerships sometimes involve long-term supply agreements and are All acquisitions and partnerships are based on stringent strategic material to DSM's business performance. and financial criteria. The screening process begins with an initial selection based on strategic fit, which results in a shortlist to New acquisitions and partnerships in 2013 which DSM applies financial criteria. A key consideration is that In November 2013, DSM announced its much-anticipated the business or partner must add or improve a leadership strategic partnership for DSM Pharmaceutical Products via a position and create value for DSM in terms of technological and/ joint venture with private equity firm JLL Partners via their or market competences. majority-owned business Patheon. The combination will enable this Pharma business to accelerate growth and create a top The key financial criteria for acquisitions are: global contract development and manufacturing organization. This is consistent with DSM’s strategy to maximize value for this Acquisitions should enable DSM to remain within the business as a standalone company and represents another boundaries defined for maintaining its Single A credit rating. major step in the strategic transformation of the company’s They should contribute to cash earnings per share from the Pharma activities. beginning. Acquisitions since 2010 Enterprise Company Business group / EBA value in € m Year Martek DSM Nutritional Products 790 2011 Ocean Nutrition Canada DSM Nutritional Products 420 2012 Cultures and Enzymes business of Cargill DSM Food Specialties 85 2012 Fortitech DSM Nutritional Products 495 2012 Kensey Nash DSM Biomedical 275 2012 Tortuga DSM Nutritional Products 465 2013 Unitech DSM Nutritional Products 35 2013 Other acquisitions 285 Total enterprise value approx. 2,850 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 24 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement External recognition Sustainability Governance Framework People in 2013 Planet in 2013 Profit in 2013 Value creation via Acquisitions & Partnerships since 2010 Acquisitions & Partnerships Leadership Market Geographic Innovation/ Position Ambition Technology Microbia • • Martek • • • • DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals • • • • Vitatene • • Premix plants • • AGI Taiwan • • • • KuibyshevAzot • • Shandong ICD • • C5 Yeast Company • • • POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels • • • • Kensey Nash • • • • Verenium assets • • Ocean Nutrition Canada • • • • Tortuga • • • Enzymes and Cultures business of Cargill • • • • Fortitech • • • • Unitech • • • • Andre Pectin • • • SolarExcel • DSM Pharmaceutical Products joint venture1 • • •Life Sciences •Materials Sciences •Emerging Business Areas 1 Expected to close in first half of 2014 Andre Pectin Unitech DSM has acquired a 29 percent stake in this China-based DSM acquired Unitech Industries Limited (Unitech), a New manufacturer of apple and citrus pectin, a key food hydrocolloid Zealand-based producer of nutritional products for both human providing texture, as well as pectin related food products. Andre and animal markets. Unitech mainly focuses on the manufacture Pectin is the only significant pectin manufacturer in Asia with and sale of micronutrient premixes and macronutrient blends for premier access to the world’s fastest growing specialty food the rapidly growing Asian human nutrition and health markets. It ingredients market. DSM’s investment in Andre Pectin is also active in the animal nutrition and health markets including synergistically combines with the previously acquired gellan gum premixes for pet food. This acquisition fits in the strategy for assets based in China and creates a China-based hydrocolloids DSM’s Nutrition cluster as Unitech adds to DSM’s already strong growth platform, in line with DSM's Continued Value Growth geographic footprint and value chain presence. strategy for the Nutrition cluster. SolarExcel Animal health premix businesses in Philippines and China DSM acquired Netherlands-based SolarExcel, which has DSM acquired Bayer’s animal health premix business for feed developed a proprietary light trapping technology that can mills in the Philippines. DSM also acquired Bayer’s China custom significantly increase the efficiency of solar panels. With the and standard vitamin premix business in Chengdu (China). Both acquisition, DSM expanded its growing portfolio of solar energy acquisitions further strengthen DSM’s position as a leader in enabling technologies. The company will be integrated into DSM vitamin premixes. In China, DSM's animal nutrition business Advanced Surfaces, part of the DSM Innovation Center. DSM currently operates five vitamin blending facilities. Advanced Surfaces was established in 2010 to build a portfolio of technologies to enable and improve the capture of solar energy. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 25 www.dsm.com Tortuga DSM finalized its acquisition of Tortuga Companhia Zootécnica Agrária (Tortuga), a privately held Brazilian company with a leadership position in nutritional supplements with a focus on pasture-raised beef and dairy cattle. The company is headquartered in São Paulo (Brazil) with approximately 1,050 employees. Tortuga has three production sites in Brazil. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 26 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement External recognition Sustainability Governance Framework People in 2013 Planet in 2013 Profit in 2013 Our bright ideas make plastics safer, lighter and greener Ali Kök, Customer Service & Supply Assistant (left) and Marilyn Raat, HR Assistant, DSM Engineering Plastics DSM is a global supplier of high-performance engineering thermoplastic solutions. The most innovative developments in this ﬁeld are new bio-based polymers and bio-based building blocks. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 27 www.dsm.com Stakeholder engagement companies must focus their efforts on material issues that have a direct or indirect impact on their ability to create or preserve DSM seeks to address some of the world’s most pressing social, economic, environmental and societal value for stakeholders environmental and economic challenges by offering highly and society at large. innovative and sustainable solutions. By reaching out to all its stakeholders – customers, investors, employees, partners and In 2012, DSM mapped its material issues according to their public and private organizations – DSM engages in an ongoing relevance to society and their impact on the company. The dialogue to exchange thoughts and views. Stakeholder matrix plots the societal interests/concerns against the impact consultations help to deepen the company’s insights into the these issues have on DSM and indicates the level of influence drivers of its business and the needs of society across different the company can have on an issue through its operations, regions in the world. By working together, DSM and its products and solutions. stakeholders can create shared value and contribute to a more sustainable world. DSM's first materiality matrix was published in its Integrated Annual Report 2012. In 2013 this matrix was updated through In its more than 100 years of existence DSM has always been new research and a stakeholder consultation process. Twenty able to transform itself in response to societal changes, and its issues emerged as being material to the company from a focus has always been on innovation and the long-term sustainability perspective. The twenty issues were positioned in perspective, in response to stakeholder needs. Without this materiality matrix using an external and internal ranking innovation there can be no fundamental shift towards process, DSM’s corporate risk and issue assessment, feedback sustainability. That is why for DSM innovation is an essential from stakeholders and opinion leaders, and a media scan. starting point for a sustainable business model. The twenty issues have been clustered into four categories: Materiality Societal shifts, Eco limits, Business enablers and Trust and accountability. They are described below by category (the Beyond the economic wealth they help create, major number in brackets after each issue indicates its ranking in the corporations have a responsibility to serve society. To do so, matrix). Societal shifts Health and wellness (1) Growing populations, aging societies, increased urbanization, Health and wellness is seen as an area of opportunity for DSM, growing middle classes, and the ‘rise of the rest’ are important with stakeholders consistently listing it as a high priority topic. shifts leading to new societal needs in terms of nutrition, health, Some stakeholders have highlighted aging as a driver for growth, and safety, as well as a heightened focus on human rights. as an older but still healthy population would be in need of more high quality solutions that increase comfort and well-being. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 28 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement External recognition Sustainability Governance Framework People in 2013 Planet in 2013 Profit in 2013 Health and wellness can be increased by better nutrition and DSM in motion: driving focused growth is to broaden DSM's tasty food, a better environment and good healthcare solutions. international presence to capture greater megatrend DSM is active in all these areas. Improving health and well-being opportunities in fast-growing economies such as Brazil, Russia, is for example an important driver for DSM’s biomedical India and China, also known as the BRIC countries. business. DSM Biomedical’s mission is to be the leading development partner, trusted by the medical industry to shape DSM focuses on sustainable economic development creating a the future of biomaterials and regenerative medical devices that positive impact on the lives of people and the environment in high improve and brighten patients’ lives throughout the world. It growth and emerging economies. Both DSM China and DSM produces materials for medical devices and it also manufactures India have sustainability committees and locally developed medical devices on behalf of its customers. programs which help to create awareness of sustainability as a business growth driver. The sustainability committee of DSM Hidden hunger (2) China reports quarterly about its sustainability progress. Stakeholder engagement in 2013 showed that hidden hunger The committee from DSM India has defined a sustainability and malnutrition remain high on the priority list. One third of the roadmap with specific focus areas such as water and energy world’s people, the majority of them in developing countries, efficiency. In 2013 DSM Latin America installed its Sustainability either do not have access to or cannot afford a nutritious and Forum. The forum consists of senior executives from the regional healthy diet. Even a diet that provides sufficient calories may be DSM businesses, who will meet quarterly. See also Growth lacking important micronutrients (vitamins and minerals) – this is Driver High Growth Economies on page 16. what is called hidden hunger. Over time, hidden hunger has a devastating impact, not only on the health and productivity of Human rights (12) individuals but also on the social and economic development of DSM is committed to supporting the Universal Declaration of countries. There is plentiful evidence that improving nutrition in Human Rights of the United Nations and commits to the UN developing countries is fundamental to breaking the cycle of Framework and Guiding Principles on Business and Human poverty. Rights. DSM follows United Nations guidance on embargoed and sanctioned countries and adheres to national and DSM contributes to solving the problem of malnutrition by international legislation where relevant. The company blocks developing new products and combining technical and scientific customers and vendors from embargoed countries in its expertise with high-nutritional products to add much needed bookkeeping systems to ensure that no transactions can be micronutrients to the food baskets of organizations focused on made with blacklisted companies. combating malnutrition and hidden hunger. DSM's research and development on food fortification have created new nutritious DSM has been a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact products such as micronutrient powders and fortified rice. since 2007. The company remains committed to aligning its operations and strategy with the principles of the UN Global Food safety (8) Compact for human rights, labor, environment and antiIn 2013 different regions in the world were confronted with food corruption. By doing so, DSM helps ensure that markets, scandals. DSM stakeholders worldwide expressed their concern commerce, technology and finance advance in ways that benefit about food safety. As a leading food ingredients supplier, DSM economies and societies everywhere. The company fully considers it its duty to address concerns about issues related to supports the UN Global Compact’s principles and continues to food safety and quality. The company helps to develop programs integrate them further into its business. For example, DSM will together with various public and private stakeholders. DSM’s refrain from any form of corruption, including active or passive Quality for Life™ seal is an example of such a program. The seal bribery and extortion, even if it loses business as a consequence. reflects its commitment to create safer, fully traceable, reliable See Table Principles of the UN Global Compact on page 42. and sustainable business processes and products. It incorporates DSM’s commitment to the environment and Eco limits society, extending beyond products and services. Quality for The societal trends outlined previously and the continued impact Life™ symbolizes DSM’s pledge to uphold ethical values in of climate change put further pressure on the limited natural relationships with customers, employees and other resources (such as water, fossil fuels, land and biodiversity). New stakeholders. business models and supply chain approaches to production and consumption are required. High growth economies (9) Stakeholders indicated the importance for DSM to extend its activities in high growth economies. A key element of the strategy Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 29 www.dsm.com Sustainable value chains (3) interviewed stakeholders to understand the value of Sustainability is at the heart of all DSM’s operations. However, sustainability for DSM’s customers and end-users. They each DSM business is just one link in a large value chain. DSM developed a roadmap for 2014 and beyond, for how DSM can believes that true sustainability can only occur when all parts of start to use monetization for decision-making and the value chain work together towards the same goals. DSM communications. See DSM's Supplier Sustainability Program on works hard to make this a reality through continuous page 35. improvements and it engages in a continuous dialogue with suppliers, customers, NGOs and industry peers that seek to Bio-based and circular economy (4) and resource constraints increase the sustainability of the various value chains the (10) company operates in. With sustainability as a core value, DSM Significant steps are being taken around the world to move to a is committed to continuously improving the eco-footprint of its sustainable economy and decrease the world's dependency on own operations and the eco-footprint of the entire value chains finite resources and address climate change concerns. DSM in which the company operates. As part of this commitment, the believes that the transition to a circular economy can make an company (1) requires its suppliers to meet DSM’s sustainability important contribution to those objectives. A circular economy standards and to minimize their eco-footprint, and (2) focuses is an economic system in which resources in the value cycle can on providing solutions that enable all downstream players, from be used and re-used again and again. This requires new customers to end-users, to improve their eco-footprint as well. business models − for example a model where companies remain the owner of the products − and a different way of BrewersClarex™ is an example of a DSM product that thinking compared to linear value chains: resource use, decreases the eco-footprint of customers. It simplifies and production and end-of-life waste management all need to be shortens the beer stabilization process while enabling breweries taken into account in the product design stage. to reduce their overall CO2 footprint by between 5 and 8 percent. This equates to a potential energy cost saving of € 100,000 per The bio-based economy, where production relies on the use of million hectoliters. natural inputs, thus ensuring renewability of the raw material, contributes to the development of such a circular economy. BioIn 2013 a group of young DSM professionals explored the based products, such as biofuels, bio-based materials and biopossible monetization of sustainability. With their project they based chemicals, will play an increasingly important role in the built on DSM’s sustainability program ECO+ and carried out a world's energy, materials and chemicals supply: the world will pilot on DSM Resins & Functional Materials products to find the be ‘living off the land’ again. In addition, in order to really ‘close ‘true’ cost and price of producing resins for the paint industry. the loop’ and move to a circular economy it will be critical to use ‘True’ cost means attaching a monetary value to environmental safer ingredients. DSM is committed to promoting these impacts, such as energy and water usage. The team also developments. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 30 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement External recognition Sustainability Governance Framework People in 2013 Planet in 2013 Profit in 2013 An example of the company’s contribution to the development Biodiversity (11) of a circular economy is the partnership of DSM Engineering Different stakeholder groups see biodiversity as an area of Plastics with the Ravago Group. This partnership combines growing importance. Biodiversity is the term given to the variety DSM's expertise in Akulon® polyamide 6 (PA6) with the recycling of life on earth. The various life forms, and the ecosystems in know-how of Ravago to develop a portfolio of Akulon® which they interact with each other and with their non-living compounds with post-consumer recycle content. These grades environment, significantly impact the world’s climate and vice are well suited for e.g. automotive and furniture applications. versa. DSM’s strategy to mitigate climate change and thus See examples of circular, safer ingredients and bio-based preserve biodiversity, ecosystems and natural capital is first of all solutions on page 20, page 64 and page 65. aimed at improving the company’s own footprint impact (e.g. energy efficiency, reduction of greenhouse-gas emissions, See also DSM's position paper on Sustainable biomass at waste and water use). But beyond that, DSM is also looking to www.dsm.com. address the issue from a broader perspective by measuring and mitigating the impact of all stakeholders involved in the value Climate change (5) chains in which DSM operates across the world. Together with According to the International Energy Agency, the current three other companies (partners in the Inspirational Program of models are pointing to a long-term average global temperature the Leaders for Nature platform of the International Union for the increase of 3.6 degrees Celsius above the pre-industrial level in Conservation of Nature), DSM is working on the design and the coming decades, which is well above the two degrees future development for a biodiversity-friendly business estate. Celsius which the United Nations Framework Convention on See also the Biodiversity section in Planet in 2013 on page Climate Change has recognized as the upper limit to avoid 63 and the position paper on Biodiversity on www.dsm.com devastating and possibly irreversible natural and social consequences. DSM believes there is an urgent need to Renewable energy use and greenhouse-gas emissions (13) redesign the planet’s energy system from a fossil-based system In the discussions with stakeholders it became clear that the towards a more renewable energy mix and, at the same time, issue of renewable energy has three dimensions: the company’s secure a competitive energy supply. DSM supports efforts to own consumption of renewable energy, DSM's development of move to a circular economy where goods and services are used, products that lead to a decrease in energy use and greenhouseproduced and recycled in a sustainable manner. A renewable gas emissions and its efforts to increase the overall production energy system will form an important part of this. Society’s of renewable energy through advocacy. DSM advocates for current path, with an expected increase in global energy demand consistent, longer-term global governmental policies that enable with an accompanying potential high increase in energy-related a worldwide transition towards a more renewable energy mix. CO2 emissions, is unsustainable. Such policies should include (1) target setting at national, regional and global level for renewable energy use; (2) Water management (6) improvement of energy-efficiency and reduction of CO2 Many areas in the world are rapidly facing growing water stress: emissions for 2030 and beyond; and (3) stable, fair and too much, too little or too dirty. Sustainable water management controlled CO2 pricing on which a cap and trading system can is therefore a must, and both individual and collective action are be based. The development of new technologies and a right needed to achieve the Millennium Development Goals for water. balance between taxes on undesired practices and incentives DSM aims to achieve sustainable water management by for desired practices regarding CO2 emissions and energy use ensuring that its activities have no adverse effect on the and development should be promoted. Such policies should availability and quality of ground water and surface water in the also stimulate the much needed investments by the private regions where it operates. DSM executes water risk sector in renewable energy. See also DSM's energy perspective assessments at its sites in order to mitigate environmental, and its position paper on sustainable biomass as published on societal, operational, regulatory, reputational and financial risks, www.dsm.com. and promotes similar initiatives across the supply chains in which it operates. DSM’s CEO Feike Sijbesma has endorsed the UN Sustainable animal protein (14) Global Compact’s CEO Water Mandate, a public-private The world will reach a population of 9 billion by 2050. This initiative that helps develop and implement sustainable water population growth, combined with urbanization and growing practices and policies. DSM also takes part in the water task wealth, is resulting in increasing demand for animal protein, force of the World Business Council for Sustainable especially in high growth economies. To meet this growing Development (WBCSD). demand, more food must be produced while at the same time See also the Water section in Planet in 2013 on page 62 and constraints on the use of natural resources such as water and Partnership with WBCSD on page 37. soil must be respected. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 31 www.dsm.com With its product portfolio of vitamins, minerals, carotenoids, DSM started its sustainable employability program to encourage eubiotics and feed enzymes for the global feed industry, DSM is and enable employees based in the Netherlands to continue to able to provide solutions for all types of species and animal develop throughout their entire career in order to remain farming systems with a view to making them more resource employable. In this way DSM ensures that its employees use efficient and mitigating the environmental burden. This includes their talents and strengths to the full and that they work in the making more efficient use of feed, providing alternatives to job that best suits them or are working towards such a job, so antibiotic growth promoters, improving animal health and welfare that they make the best possible contribution to the organization. with the aid of micronutrients and reducing the environmental impact of animal farming in terms of for example greenhouseDSM encourages employees to become actively involved with gas emissions, air quality in stables and land use. some of the organizations in its partnership network, in particular with the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP). For Business enablers example, an employee volunteer program offers DSM Proactive management of both internal engagement with the employees the opportunity to take on WFP assignments. See workforce and external engagement with business partners and also People in 2013 on page 43. other stakeholders (including advocacy with policymakers and government authorities) can be beneficial to business and Advocacy (17) society. The term advocacy refers to the efforts made by companies, associations or individuals to influence the political decisionOpen innovation (7) making process. It plays an important role in getting important Innovation is one of the four growth drivers of DSM's business topics on the agenda of (non-)governmental organizations. strategy. Innovations are the lifeline for the company as well as Malnutrition and stunting are issues where DSM wants to take a for its stakeholders; innovative solutions keep DSM number one leading role in bringing them to the attention of a broader with its customers and partners and contribute to the company’s audience. DSM actively engages to build greater awareness profitable growth. about the importance of improved nutrition, which is one of its main businesses in both the developing and the developed There was a time when it was standard practice for large world. Through this active advocacy, DSM has emerged as one industrial companies to keep their innovations to themselves in of the industry leaders in this area, and it is often consulted by order to maintain their competitive edge. However, this ‘closed United Nations agencies, governments and NGOs. innovation’ model is increasingly giving way to open, collaborative innovation. There are various reasons for this. One CFO Rolf-Dieter Schwalb has joined the Chief Financial Officer is the increased availability and mobility of highly educated Leadership Network on behalf of DSM. The CFO Leadership people. Companies today are aware that there is a large pool of Network was established by Accounting for Sustainability (A4S), knowledge available outside their own research laboratories, an initiative of HRH The Prince of Wales. A4S aims to put and that it can be advantageous to tap into this pool. Another sustainability at the heart of business decision making and reason is the significant growth of venture capital, which offers strategy. The network seeks to embed sustainability within large companies the opportunity to have their promising ideas financial decision making and improve the modeling of future risk and technologies explored by start-ups. A third reason is that and uncertainty. other players in the value chain (suppliers, customers) play an increasingly important role in the innovation process. And the Social media (18) fourth reason is that the demands of society are such that DSM is actively using social media for stakeholder engagement, companies often have no choice but to work together in meeting reputation management and brand building purposes. The them. DSM is well aware of these developments and is working company wants to drive a proactive dialogue and conversation to find the right balance between open and closed innovation. with its stakeholders and wants to increase the number of key See growth driver Innovation on page 19. stakeholders acting as advocates for the company. With its social media efforts DSM is primarily focusing on customers, Careers and employment (15) governments, NGOs, local communities, its own employees and Attracting, developing and retaining bright talent worldwide is potential employees. DSM tailors its messages and very important for DSM. Finding talented employees is one of the conversations to stakeholder groups and specific channels. The elements of its human resources strategy Passion for People. It company is actively involved in a number of social media is also important to keep these employees engaged and ensure platforms including DSM channels on Twitter, Facebook, they remain up to the challenges of a complex and volatile world. LinkedIn, YouTube, Google+, Flickr and regional platforms One of the ways to achieve this is education and training. In 2013 including Weibo. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 32 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement External recognition Sustainability Governance Framework People in 2013 Planet in 2013 Profit in 2013 DSM’s social media engagement activities build further on standards. DSM is transparent about its practices and uses creating awareness and understanding of, and generating an science-based safety assessments, thus enabling the active conversation and engagement with, its stakeholders on competent authorities to assess and approve DSM’s use of key societal themes including hidden hunger, the bio-based innovative strain development technologies and the resulting economy, the role of business in society, sustainable innovation, genetically modified micro-organisms. DSM believes that diversity & inclusion and climate change. DSM actively measures biotechnology offers unique solutions to global challenges the level of engagement established and steers its actions related to a growing and aging population and the depletion of accordingly. fossil resources. For more information see DSM's position paper on Trade barriers (20) Biotechnology on www.dsm.com. In 2013 the role of free trade in encouraging sustainable innovation and development became clear when the European Tax (19) Union imposed tariff barriers on the import of solar cells and Fair share tax became a prominent issue in 2013 as some panels from China. With a looming solar trade war the multinational companies came under attack by civil society, the importance of a global level playing field became an issue that media and politicians because of the way they have minimized could have an impact on DSM’s solar energy related business. their tax contributions. At DSM’s Annual General Meeting, the Dutch Association of Investors for Sustainable Development DSM is pleased that the World Trade Organization accomplished (VBDO) raised the topic of tax policies of multinationals. At the an agreement on trade facilitation at the 9th ministerial meeting, DSM’s CEO Feike Sijbesma explained the company’s conference in Bali in December 2013. The implementation of this global tax policy. The stakeholder consultation process shows agreement will encourage free trade to a large extent, which can that taxation is seen as being related to broader issues under the help improve the global economy. umbrella of ethical financial behavior, including remuneration, transparency, and product prices. Trust and Accountability See DSM tax principles on page 110. Any business must be trusted by its stakeholders in order for it to function effectively. Transparency on company activities Fast changing world around key issues is the only way in which stakeholders can hold A materiality matrix is like a snapshot: it represents society's businesses to account and is a trend that is likely to grow. interests and concerns at a certain moment in time. DSM's materiality matrix of 2013 represents the material topics and their GMMs and bioethics (16) positioning as seen by the company’s stakeholders in 2013. The Biotechnology is a field of applied biology that involves the use matrix is based on research and stakeholder engagement. of cells and proteins derived from these cells in bioprocesses for Customers, suppliers, investors, civil society, academia and a broad range of applications such as pharmaceuticals, food, employees gave their opinion on what DSM should consider as agricultural products, bio-based chemicals and materials as well (top) priorities. They also assessed what issues had become less as fuels. Genetically modified micro-organisms (GMMs) are important in 2013 and gave their insight into what they thought organisms whose genetic material has been altered via would be emerging issues in the coming years. From an initial biotechnological means. A few years ago genetic modification list of 50 topics, 20 (three more than in 2012) found their way was the subject of a societal debate, DSM’s latest consultations into the materiality matrix because they were considered to be with stakeholders show that the debate now focuses on the the most pressing ones for the short term. Environmental question what role GMMs can play in nourishing the 9 billion Labeling, Poverty Alleviation, Disease and Health and people that will be living on this planet in 2050. New or unfamiliar Nanotechnology – topics from the 2012 materiality matrix– did technologies like genetic modification often raise concerns in not make it into the top 20 and were replaced by Sustainable society about their possible implications for public health or the Animal Protein, Open Innovation, Social Media, Sustainable environment, or trigger ethical discussions. Value Chains, Tax and Trade Barriers. GMM and bioethics were combined because of their overlap, as were Bio-based economy DSM is aware that consumer acceptance of new technologies and Circular economy. cannot be taken for granted, and therefore makes safety and other concerns a priority. DSM believes in engaging in an open DSM values its stakeholder engagement and open discussions dialogue and debate on benefits and risks with all stakeholders, with various parties in society on the various topics related to its including the scientific community, industry, NGOs, business activities and its role in society. If any topics emerge governments and the general public. DSM adheres to all that might become material because of societal, environmental applicable regulations and legislation and applies the highest Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 33 www.dsm.com or ecological events or trends, DSM will take these into account a company that values diversity in all its aspects. The main and assess their influence on and value for the company. elements of its human resources approach are recruitment, talent management, leadership development and performance Stakeholders management supported by the implementation of DSM’s ONE DSM Culture Agenda and the career management process. The DSM is committed to creating value for all stakeholders by fully company’s performance is linked directly to the health and wellleveraging the unique opportunities in Life Sciences and being of its employees. That is why DSM has a single, Materials Sciences for people today and generations to come. comprehensive health and safety policy that is consistent around DSM believes that in this ever more complicated world, the world. The policy includes Safety, Health and Environment companies, governments, academia, NGOs and international (SHE) training programs and vitality programs that help institutions have to work together to solve the big global issues employees assess their health risks and set personal goals. of today. These issues include the question of how to deal with See also: People in 2013 on page 43. the big demographic changes in the world, including the rise of new economies and an aging population, but also how to Investors address climate change and the development of alternative DSM actively engages with investors and financial analysts. It energy, and how to secure the health and well-being of all by does this by organizing conference calls following the publication resolving food and nutrition security and water issues. of quarterly results and announcements of major transactions such as acquisitions and divestments. In 2013 DSM participated Customers in investor conferences and interacted with investors in DSM embraces true customer centricity in its focus on roadshows in Europe, North America and Asia. The company excellence in marketing and sales. The company is committed also organized a capital markets day with a special focus on to becoming a part of the top quartile of customer-centric updating the markets on its 2015 targets. In 2013 DSM companies and therefore has developed a detailed roadmap to experienced a growing interest from so-called socially continuously improve its marketing and sales capabilities. To responsible investors and traditional investors with a larger support the movement towards greater customer centricity, interest in companies' environmental, social and governance DSM is using the Net Promoter Score® (NPS), a customer performance. interaction cycle that has become the lead performance indicator for loyalty and advocacy tracking. A better All relevant information was made publicly available via understanding of what drives customer behavior helps DSM to publication on the DSM Investor Relations website, ensuring that achieve its goals by securing longer lasting, more profitable such information was equally and simultaneously provided and relationships and enabling growth. The essence of the NPS accessible to all interested parties. methodology is creating a closed loop to continuously improve See also Information about the DSM share on page 140. the customer experience. DSM has developed a tailored NPS program that is used by all its business groups. Governments DSM believes that dialogue between business and government In 2014, DSM will focus on enhancing the use of NPS as the lead authorities is a constructive part of the legislative decisionperformance indicator of customer centricity in the organization. making process. An important goal of that dialogue is to create An e-learning tool has been developed to train all relevant a reliable regulatory framework and favorable conditions for employees on the basics of NPS. Additional initiatives have also business activities, and thus promoting business success. DSM been undertaken to build customer management skills encourages legislators to promote competitiveness and throughout the organization. A new customer management innovation as DSM and its customers need to be competitive program focused on strengthening strategic relationships was and innovative to stay successful. built using internal and external best practices. Furthermore, the capabilities of over 1000 marketing and sales professionals were DSM is committed to acting with responsibility and transparency assessed, resulting in a significant number of tailored when it comes to sharing its expertise with policymakers and development plans. government authorities in all markets. The company is for example registered in the European Commission's voluntary Employees register of lobbyists. DSM engages with policymakers worldwide DSM’s HR strategy is called Passion for People and stands for on various topics, including nutrition, energy and industrial the vision that the company wants its employees to reach their biotechnology. full potential everywhere in the world. This strategy is also important in supporting DSM’s internationalization goal, creating Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 34 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement External recognition Sustainability Governance Framework People in 2013 Planet in 2013 Profit in 2013 Civil society for creating shared value in the areas of innovation and Throughout the year DSM engaged with a wider audience to talk sustainability. about the challenges the world is facing, for example hidden hunger and climate change, and also about the opportunities for In 2013 changes were made to the compliance program: the sustainable development. DSM met with many nonSupplier Code of Conduct was updated to include DSM’s Life governmental organizations during the year. Greenpeace Saving Rules, the questionnaires used in compliance monitoring launched a campaign in which it expressed its doubts about were moved to a web-based platform hosted by a third party to DSM’s attitude towards renewable energy. This campaign led to facilitate information gathering and sharing in DSM’s supplier several meetings between representatives of Greenpeace and base, and the scope of the audit program was expanded. DSM and to a revision of Greenpeace's assessment of DSM’s renewable energy policy and a better mutual understanding. See The outcomes of self-assessments and audits continue to be also Public-Private Partnerships on page 36. input for the improvement programs for suppliers. For example, the Triple P project in China was initiated on the basis of audits Suppliers carried out over the last two years in China. In 2014, there will DSM increasingly takes into account the impact of the value be a continued focus on integrating sustainability compliance chains in which it is active. This impact reflects the wider impact into the standard Supply Risk Management and Supplier of DSM's activities both upstream and downstream in the value Approval processes as well as in the Strategic Sourcing chains. DSM is looking for suppliers who can support the Methodology and in Contracting. company in the areas of ECO+ and People+. Audit results / overview of supplier sustainability program Supplier Sustainability Program Sustainability audits 40 DSM’s global Supplier Sustainability Program (SSP) has Quality audits 299 changed in character over the last six years. Originally a Supplier solution projects 31 compliance driven process focusing on the integration of the Supplier Code of Conduct, self-assessments and audits, it has developed towards integration of the Triple P approach into China Triple P project standard sourcing practices like strategic sourcing and supplier DSM initiated the China Triple P Supplier Engagement and selection and contracting processes. Development project in July 2013, in partnership with Solidaridad and Manpower. The aim of the project is to use the People+ and Water are new topics that were added in 2013. The People, Planet and Profit angle to engage suppliers to create a SSP proactively focuses on dialogue with DSM’s suppliers. The more sustainable supply chain. The idea is that suppliers in China aim is to create shared value with suppliers and focus on true who sign on to the project will start to apply the same approach supplier development, in the areas of leveraging capabilities and to their own supply base and set up their own sustainability creating efficiencies and new solutions. In 2013, progress was programs. In the space of one year, veteran corporate social made on these three areas of the program. It is important to note responsibility, productivity, SHE and HR experts will organize that supplier requirements differ per business and there is a need workshops and training courses for the participating suppliers, to focus on those elements where the greatest benefits can be and offer rounds of in-house technical support to achieve achieved in terms of sustainable business practices. genuine improvements in the areas of People, Planet and Profit. In addition, to measure the potential impact and progress at Compliance each plant, an on-site baseline assessment has been carried out Building on the work done in previous years, DSM continued with and a system has been set up for continuously monitoring its three step approach: improvements. 1. Supplier Code of Conduct 2. Questionnaires Intermediate results indicate that the investments made in this 3. Audits project (by DSM and the participating suppliers) have an estimated payback time of six months. The evaluation to be The compliance program targets DSM’s 40,000 global carried out in April 2014 will capture the final value. suppliers. Special focus is given to 1,200 of these because they (1) are located in countries with high environmental, social and In 2014 the project will move to a next stage, based among other governance risks; (2) supply high volumes; (3) are DSM’s single things on an evaluation of whether it fits into the context of source for a certain product or service; or (4) have a high potential initiatives that the Dutch government has set up in China. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 35 www.dsm.com Supplier Sustainability Program and ECO+ integral part of the China Triple P project. In addition, eight In 2012 and 2013 more than 220 DSM participants, mainly in supplier projects were executed in this area in 2013. An example Purchasing but also in related disciplines, were trained in basic is ‘Picking up the gauntlet’. This is an initiative started by the and advanced sustainability topics. As a result, Life Cycle Technical Goods and Services team that targets training and the Assessments, supplier solutions and sustainability topics rose enforcement of Life Saving Rules and safety regulations on DSM high on the agenda of standard supplier meetings in this period. sites — not just for suppliers, but also for contractors and subAmong other things, this resulted in sustainability initiatives in contractors. The goal of the project is to move from a passive packaging and logistics as well as carbon footprint reduction approach (such as the enforcement of safety standards via initiatives such as the replacement of petrochemical-based raw contracting) towards a more proactive approach, to make sure materials by bio-based ones. that only the right people with the right (safety) attitude get to enter DSM sites. The active approach includes making safety In 2013, 28 supplier projects in the area of ECO+ were executed. performance an integral part of supplier qualification and The 20 by 2020 project of the Physical Distribution (PD) team selection; collecting and auditing track records on a continuous deserves a special mention. This project is a continuation of the basis; getting commitments from suppliers to do the same with Green Tender initiative that began in 2012 and focuses on DSM their sub-suppliers; and lastly, executing extensive know-how logistics and packaging suppliers. The goal of the project is to and best-practice sharing workshops. steer supplier selection in order to achieve a 20 percent reduction in emissions associated with logistics and packaging. Public-Private Partnerships At year-end 2013 the cumulative volume corrected scope 3 DSM-WFP Partnership reduction compared to 2010, the baseline year, was already 8 DSM joined forces with the World Food Programme (WFP) in percent. The aim is to achieve 10 percent in 2014. 2007 to form the Improving Nutrition, Improving Lives partnership, lending its expertise to help improve the nutritional In addition, the PD team is continuously thinking of ways to value of the food WFP distributes to those in need through more contribute to supply chain management from a People, Planet than 25 projects. With the partnership renewed in 2013 for an and Profit perspective. Many projects reported in the Purchasing additional three years, DSM and WFP will seek to double the Value Tracking System in 2013 contribute to one or more of the number of people who benefit from improved nutrition, from the three Ps. Another topic that the team worked on is Safety, which current annual reach of 16 million to 25-30 million by 2015. This is an important requirement at DSM. Safety is included in all year, partnership projects included improving nutrition capacity Sourcing tenders. The aim is to work towards an aggregated at WFP, scaling up Micronutrient Powder distribution and overview of the safety performance of PD suppliers and report continuing the roll-out of rice fortification in Bangladesh and this. Such an overview will help DSM to identify potential risks Cambodia. and drive safety to a higher level. In July and August 2013, WFP and DSM launched an online Together with CO2 reporting, Green Tender continues to act as campaign to grow WFP's Facebook community and raise an enabler to support data collection and steer supplier selection awareness about hunger − the world's greatest solvable and performance in the desired direction. In addition, ECO+ has problem. More than 30,000 new likes were added, making it one been integrated into strategic sourcing and supplier selection. In of WFP’s most successful Facebook campaigns. 2014, DSM Sourcing expects to focus on smart selection of raw materials in terms of their contribution to the carbon footprint, Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition and to continue engaging with packaging and logistics providers The Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition (GAIN) is an alliance to minimize the impact of those activities. driven by the vision of a world without malnutrition. Created in 2002 at a Special Session of the UN General Assembly on In 2013, water was added to the Planet part of the Supplier Children, GAIN supports public-private partnerships to increase Sustainability Program. DSM has sought to identify suppliers in access to the missing nutrients in diets necessary for people, water-scarce areas and set up an assessment of water scarcity communities and economies to be stronger and healthier. GAIN that can be completed by suppliers on the web-based platform has the lead in the public-private partnership Amsterdam used for self-assessments and audits. Initiative against Malnutrition (AIM) together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Netherlands, AkzoNobel, DSM, Unilever Supplier Sustainability Program and People+ and Wageningen University. The goal is to eliminate malnutrition As People+ is a new program to DSM, it is also new to DSM for 100 million people in Africa by 2015, focusing on six Sourcing. During 2013 and 2014, the main focus is on working countries: Ghana, Kenya, South Africa, Ethiopia, Mozambique conditions and safety improvements. These elements were an and Tanzania. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 36 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement External recognition Sustainability Governance Framework People in 2013 Planet in 2013 Profit in 2013 Sight and Life stunting and one-third of preventable child deaths. The Through its continued support of the non-profit humanitarian partnership will focus on fortifying staple foods like maize, wheat nutrition think tank Sight and Life, DSM is helping to improve the and rice with essential micronutrients. The Miller’s Pride project world’s knowledge, understanding and awareness of hidden in Dar es Salaam (Tanzania) will fortify maize flour with essential hunger. Sight and Life promotes nutrition research, shares best micronutrients, reaching a population of millions. In addition to practices and mobilizes support for the world’s undernourished. the fortification, DSM and World Vision will work with the millers With a number of new public-private partnerships added to its to build business expertise, improve food safety and increase nutrition portfolio in 2013, DSM recognizes the need for an open markets and profits for the millers. and transparent policy detailing its intentions with respect to these relationships. UNICEF In September 2013, DSM signed a one-year Memorandum of Vitamin Angels Understanding with UNICEF with a focus on home fortification in Vitamin Angels is a non-profit, non-governmental organization Africa. The partnership will focus on the delivery of micronutrients focused on bringing essential nutrition to children around the to pregnant and lactating women, joint advocacy for the world through vitamin supplementation. It helps at-risk importance of micronutrients, improved supply chain populations — specifically pregnant women, new mothers, and management of high nutrition foods and capacity building with children under five — gain access to micronutrients. Millions of African nutrition leaders. children worldwide are deprived of their childhood because their diet lacks essential vitamins and minerals. Instead of seizing Other partnerships opportunities, they are fighting diseases they may not survive. Through various partnerships DSM invests its scientific According to DSM and Vitamin Angels vitamin supplementation expertise, employee capability, broad network and funds, and is a simple and cost-effective way to give those vulnerable benefits from greater credibility, access to new markets and children a childhood and a future. In December 2013 Vitamin distribution channels and knowledge of consumer behavior. Angels launched the Give Childhood campaign to raise awareness for childhood undernutrition, a problem that is linked World Economic Forum to 45 percent of all childhood deaths worldwide, according to DSM is an active member of the World Economic Forum, an the World Health Organization (WHO). independent international organization based in Switzerland that is committed to “improving the state of the world”. This Forum Partners in Food Solutions brings together leaders from governments, businesses, Along with Cargill, an international producer and marketer of academia and non-governmental organizations to exchange food, agricultural, financial and industrial products and services, and synchronize thoughts and to work together on important DSM has become one of the first corporate partners of the nonagenda topics to make the world a better place. profit initiative Partners in Food Solutions. Linking the expertise of Cargill and DSM employees – in research and development, CEO Feike Sijbesma and Managing Board member Stephan nutrition, engineering, marketing, finance and more − with small, Tanda represented DSM at the World Economic Forum’s Annual growing food processors throughout Africa, this non-profit and Meeting in Davos from 22 to 25 January 2013. They spoke on a volunteer initiative is designed to share knowledge and couple of occasions and participated in several sessions on strengthen the capacity of local food manufacturers in Africa to subjects including nutrition, sustainability, innovation, the biohelp address the hunger problem. DSM’s collaboration with the based economy and the role of business in society. Partners in Food Solutions initiative emphasizes its longstanding commitment to developing sustainable partnership-based World Business Council for Sustainable Development approaches that address the global problem of malnutrition and DSM has a long-term relationship with the World Business hidden hunger, with a clear role for the private sector. Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). In the last two years DSM has chaired the work of the WBCSD Reaching Full World Vision International Potential project on product international metrics development. In May 2013, DSM signed a Memorandum of Understanding This is a joint initiative of key global players of the chemical sector with World Vision International, a global development aiming at developing consistent and harmonized guidance for organization. By 2016, the DSM-World Vision partnership aims applying LCA to their products. This will help DSM to improve its to contribute to the reduction of the 165 million children underECO+ and People+ assessments. The environmental guidance five across the globe who are stunted. The collaboration will see is expected to be publicly released early 2014. both organizations jointly leverage their expertise, resources and reach in order to address undernutrition – the root cause of Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 37 www.dsm.com In 2013 DSM became co-chair of Action2020, the new program An example of a donation is the World of Life project. In 2007, of the WBCSD that strives to find business solutions that can DSM entered into a partnership with WFP (see partnerships in solve the societal and planetary needs described in its this chapter). DSM Purchasing contributed to this partnership by Vision2020, the long-term goal setting plan developed in 2011. adopting the World of Life Community School in Lusaka DSM participates in three working groups: Food, Feed, Fiber and (Zambia). DSM has already provided a water pump and eating Biofuels; Sustainable Lifestyles; and Basic Needs and Rights. utensils, and will start building three classrooms in 2014. In 2013, a container full of second-hand bikes donated by DSM Dutch Sustainable Growth Coalition colleagues was shipped to the school, for the children to use to In 2013 DSM participated in several activities of the Dutch travel to and from the school. Sustainable Growth Coalition (DSGC). DSGC launched its second publication, ‘Leadership and Corporate Governance for After the earthquakes in 2008, DSM China and its employees Sustainable Growth Business Models’. DSM featured in this donated € 122,000 (RMB 1 million) to help two schools, one in publication with two best practices: Governance and Tone at the the province of Sichuan and one in the province of Gansu, to Top. The launch of the publication was celebrated with a special help the schools with their rebuilding efforts. DSM cooperated conference where DSM's CEO Feike Sijbesma gave a speech with China Youth Development Foundation to help 1000 on the developments in sustainability in relation to societal needs students return to school. DSM kept in contact with both and the role business can play in addressing those needs. schools. AkzoNobel, FrieslandCampina, Heineken, KLM, Philips, Shell and Unilever are the other Dutch partners of the DSGC. In 2013 the school in Gansu was opened and on that occasion DSM donated 20 computers and laptops, more than 1000 Science institutes books and sports equipment. At the end of 2013 a delegation DSM works together with various science institutes and from DSM China visited the second school in Sichuan and on universities. Some of these collaborations are based on long that occasion 20 computers were donated for the school's term contracts, others are directly linked to special projects or computer lab. DSM has a premix plant in Sichuan. related to business development, such as the bio-based economy or DSM’s People+ program. To stimulate the nutrition science agenda, DSM engages with the New York Academy of Sciences (USA), Johns Hopkins University School of Public Health in Baltimore (Maryland, USA), Tufts University in Medford (Massachusetts, USA), the University of Groningen (Netherlands), Wageningen University (Netherlands) and a number of other academic institutions. Donations and sponsoring By supporting special projects with money and expertise DSM has the opportunity to share its mission of using its bright science to create brighter living. Sponsoring is another means of showing that DSM is a sustainable and innovative partner, both worldwide and in local communities. In 2013, DSM donated more than € 2.8 million for a range of initiatives. DSM’s Code of Business Conduct creates an agenda for making a positive contribution not only to the world of business but also to society as a whole. In line with this Code, DSM does not make any payments nor donations in kind to political parties or their institutions, agencies or representatives. DSM focuses its donations and sponsorships on activities that are connected to its know-how and competence base, its business position or its present and future geographical presence. In some cases donations and sponsorships are part of 'being an active neighbor'. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 38 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement External recognition Sustainability Governance Framework People in 2013 Planet in 2013 Profit in 2013 External recognition Nutrition Innovation In December, the dean of the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health in Baltimore (Maryland, USA) awarded the In August, DSM’s heart health ingredient OatWell® oat betaDean’s Medal to DSM in recognition of its global corporate glucan was named one of the most innovative products of the leadership in efforts to mitigate food insecurity, prevent hidden year at the prestigious Food Ingredients South America (FISA) hunger and promote sustainable development in low-income awards 2013. Beta-glucan is a soluble fiber found in oats. countries. The school’s highest honor recognizes significant contributions to the field of public health. This is the first time the In November, DSM was recognized for innovation with three medal honored an organization, rather than an individual. separate awards. DSM’s Chief Innovation Officer, Rob van Leen, was named Innovator of the Year by Accenture. This year, the In May, DSM was recognized by the Chinese Nutrition Society award was presented for the first time to 'the person who has for its outstanding contribution to nutritional science by made an extraordinary contribution to innovation in the constantly enhancing and improving human nutrition and Netherlands over the past few years’. In the same month, DSM offering strong support to the academic community in product received the Kristal Award for the most innovative sustainability development and applications. DSM was also acknowledged for report. The prize is the outcome of a transparency benchmark its excellent contribution to providing innovative nutritional survey carried out by the Dutch Ministry of Economic Affairs. solutions to meet the needs of specific groups. Finally, DSM was recognized for the successful transformation of the company by winning the Erasmus Innovation Award 2013 In August, Feed & Food magazine (Brazil) awarded DSM a Troféu at the Annual Inscope Conference. Inscope is a research center Curuca de Sustentabilidade, the Brazilian ‘sustainability Oscar of Erasmus University Rotterdam (Netherlands). for the agribusiness’. The award was given in recognition of the technologies and solutions DSM has developed in the fight Bio-based economy against hunger around the globe, as published in the article “Vitamins for human development” in the 68th edition of the In March, at the prestigious Sustainable Biofuels Awards 2013 magazine. ceremony held in Rotterdam, DSM and its joint venture partners were presented with awards in two categories: the Global Deal Leadership of the Year (POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels) and the Partnership of the Year (Reverdia). In January, the University of Maastricht in the Netherlands conferred DSM's CEO, Feike Sijbesma, with an honorary th In August, at Sustentar 2013, the 6 International Forum for doctorate. Receiving the award, Mr. Sijbesma said: DSM, the Sustainable Development that took place in Minas Gerais company I represent, and to whom in fact my honorary doctorate (Brazil), DSM was recognized as one of the companies that most belongs, is using and developing technologies, based on contributed to sustainable development. EcoPaXX® was scientific work, to address the global challenges. awarded third place in the category Sustainable Products and Technologies 2013. In June, Mr. Sijbesma joined the Global CEO Council (GCC) of the Chinese People’s Association for Friendship with Foreign In October, DSM received top 10 honors in Biofuels Digest’s Countries (CPAFFC). This prestigious committee, consisting of prestigious ‘50 Hottest Companies In Bioenergy’ and ‘30 Hottest 14 CEOs from global, leading multinational companies, will In Renewable Chemicals’ polls, finishing in place 10 and 7 support the Chinese leadership on several topics, including respectively. The polls are based on votes by biofuels and bioinnovation, urbanization and sustainability. chemical industry professionals. In the same month, POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels, the joint venture between DSM and USIn 2013, a group of young professionals of DSM participated in based POET, was named the ‘Bio-based Deal of the Year at the Leaders for Nature, the International Union for Conservation of World Bio Markets USA conference in San Francisco. The award Nature (IUCN) NL business network of twenty multinationals and recognizes a deal that is of particular relevance for the long-term major Dutch enterprises working together on greening the development of the bio-based industries . economy. The team won IUCN's Award for best Action Plan 2013 on how to incorporate natural capital into the business. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 39 www.dsm.com Benchmarks In September, DSM was once again named amongst the leaders in the chemical industry sector in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index. Since 2004 DSM has ranked among the top leaders in the sector four times and has held the worldwide sustainability leader position in the Materials industry group (previously the Chemicals super sector) six times. In 2013 DSM was ranked Silver Class. Because of the improved results during the year DSM returned to the Gold Class. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 40 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement External recognition Sustainability Governance Framework People in 2013 Planet in 2013 Profit in 2013 Sustainability Governance Framework department, which is under the responsibility of the Executive Vice President Corporate Affairs, who reports directly to Feike Managing Board Sijbesma, the Chairman of the Managing Board. The aim of the corporate sustainability network is to support the business in Being both a core value and a business driver for the company, achieving its sustainability aspirations. Sustainability falls under the responsibility of the Managing Board, with CEO Feike Sijbesma as the primary point of contact. DSM also has a dedicated Corporate Operations & Responsible Other members of the Managing Board also chair sustainability Care department, which, among other areas, is responsible for areas and initiatives. Mr. Sijbesma also oversees the Inclusion all corporate issues related to Safety, Health and Environment and Diversity strategy. Managing Board member Stephan Tanda (SHE). The Vice President Corporate Operations & Responsible is the primary point of contact for DSM’s partnership with the Care reports directly to Managing Board member Stefan World Food Programme and other sustainability issues in relation Doboczky. to nutrition. Managing Board member Stefan Doboczky is responsible for Safety, Health and Environment. External Sustainability Advisory Board Supervisory Board DSM’s Sustainability Advisory Board has been set up as a sparring partner for the Managing Board and high level DSM’s Supervisory Board also recognizes sustainability as a executives in the company. It supports DSM in deepening its strategic value driver for the company and has appointed its own understanding of stakeholder needs and strategic issues such Corporate Social Responsibility Committee to oversee progress as the bio-based economy and malnutrition, sharpening its against targets and report on the embedding of sustainability focus, conducting advocacy efforts and handling dilemmas. The across the organization. For more details see the Supervisory board comprises a diverse international group of thought leaders Board Report on Corporate Social Responsibility on page on key sustainability topics. The company's external 124. Sustainability Advisory Board met twice in 2013 and discussed subjects such as the materiality matrix, renewable energy, At a corporate level, sustainability is organized across a network innovation and advocacy. of employees and supported by the Corporate Sustainability Sustainability Advisory Board Member Background Amir Dossal (m) Chairman of the Global Partnerships Forum, a platform for innovation and entrepreneurship through multi-stakeholder partnerships. From 1999 to 2010, he was executive director, United Nations Office for Partnerships in New York. (Nationality: British) Paul Gilding (m) Independent writer and corporate advisor on sustainability. Fellow at University of Cambridge (CPSL). In 2011 he published his book “The Great Disruption”. In the 1990’s, he was executive director of Greenpeace International. (Nationality: Australian) Pamela Hartigan (f) Director of the Skoll Centre for Social Entrepreneurship at Saïd Business School and founding partner of Volans Ventures. She has served as director of several programs and departments for multilateral organizations. (Nationality: American) David King (m) Special representative for climate change of the current UK coalition government. From 2008 to 2012, he served as the founding director of the Smith School of Enterprise and the Environment at the University of Oxford. (Nationality: British) Ye Qi (m) Cheung Kong professor of Environmental Policy and director of Climate Policy Institute at Tsinghua University. Before he joined Tsinghua, he taught at Beijing Normal University, and University of California at Berkeley. (Nationality: Chinese) Josette Sheeran (f) President and CEO of Asia Society. She has also served as vice chairman of the World Economic Forum. From 2007 to 2012, Sheeran was executive director of the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP). (Nationality: American) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 41 www.dsm.com Global network Reporting standards An internal network of corporate staff members and business DSM follows relevant best practice standards and international managers dedicated to sustainability, known as Sustainability guidelines when reporting on its sustainability performance. The Champions, support line management in all business and most important of these are the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) functional groups and at the DSM Innovation Center. At the same G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. With regard to the GRI time, SHE managers provide support at business group level. Application Levels system, DSM assessed itself at the A+ level. The DSM SHE Council, which includes all business group SHE The GRI Index 2013 can be found on the website managers, is instrumental in sharing experiences and developing www.dsm.com. practices and communications on SHE issues. DSM has set up internal regional sustainability networks in India, China and Latin DSM's external auditor Ernst & Young Accountants LLP (EY) has America. See also: Sustainability in high growth economies on reviewed compliance of the Sustainability Information with this page 16. application level. See also: Independent Assurance Report on Sustainability Information on page 213. Approach to sustainability reporting In 2007, DSM became a signatory to the United Nations Global DSM has an extensive track record in sustainability reporting that Compact. Like thousands of ompanies from around the world, began in the 1980s when it published its first environmental as well as international labor and civil society organizations, DSM annual reports. In 2002, DSM launched its first annual Triple P strives to get broader support for the 10 universal principles in report, which provided details of its social and economic the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and antiperformance together with its environmental results, according corruption. DSM’s sustainability mission and strategy, Code of to the triple bottom line (People, Planet and Profit). Business Conduct and global Supplier Sustainability Program are the basis for meeting the standards set by the Global In 2010, DSM decided to publish an integrated financial, social Compact. These areas are closely monitored and reported, as and environmental report, reflecting the progress it has made illustrated throughout this report, which is also the annual embedding sustainability in its business and making Communication on Progress that DSM submits to the UN Global Sustainability one of the four business growth drivers. Since then Compact Office. DSM has also reported a number of sustainability metrics on a semi-annual basis. This is DSM’s fourth Integrated Annual Report. Principles of the UN Global Compact1 DSM Code of Business Conduct and relevant page(s) in the Integrated Annual Report 2013 Principle 1 Support of human rights page 43 to page 54 Principle 2 Exclusion of human rights violation page 43 to page 54 Principle 3 Observance of the right to freedom of association page 43 to page 54 Principle 4 Abolition of all forms of forced labor page 43 to page 54 Principle 5 Abolition of child labor page 43 to page 54 Principle 6 Elimination of discrimination page 43 to page 54 Principle 7 Precautionary environmental protection page 18 to page 22, page 43 to page 65, page 226 Principle 8 Specific commitment to environmental protection page 18 to page 22, page 43 to page 65, page 226 Principle 9 Diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies page 18 to page 22, page 43 to page 65, page 226 Principle 10 Measures to fight corruption page 29, page 43 to page 54 1 In 2013 DSM once again renewed its commitment to the UN Global Compact's CEO Water Mandate; see the Planet chapter on page 63 DSM strives for full adherence to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, as defined in 2011 under the international Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition. This means the company reports emissions not only from its production processes and those related to the electricity and steam it purchases, but also the emissions present in value chains in which it operates. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 42 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement External recognition Sustainability Governance Framework People in 2013 Planet in 2013 Profit in 2013 People in 2013 The People dimension of DSM’s Triple P strategy is about of end-users, (3) the working conditions of employees that improving people’s lives through the company’s activities, produce it, and (4) the communities across the value chains in solutions and innovations. ‘People’ includes consumers, which DSM operates. workers and communities across the value chains in which DSM is active. This chapter includes both the People+ strategy, which The dimension Health Condition assesses how the product is the external component of the People dimension, and, under contributes to maintaining, improving and regenerating people’s 'People at DSM', the human resources strategy as the internal health. For example vitamin D is vital to bone health and muscle component. For DSM, sustainability provides both a growth strength, and it can reduce the risk of falls and fractures linked driver and a strong foundation for its human resources strategy. to osteoporosis. Comfort & Well-being measures whether a See also Growth Driver: Sustainability on page 21. product contributes to comfort and well-being. An example might be a product that smoothens the skin or reduces People+ perspiration. Working Conditions focuses on employees. People+ products are required to be made within a healthy and People+ is DSM’s program for the development of innovative safe working environment. This means that in every part of the products and solutions which can measurably improve the lives life cycle employees are not subject to excessive working hours of end-users, employees and communities across the value or other working conditions that can be detrimental to their health chains in which it is active. The benefits for consumers, workers or well-being. Community Development determines whether a and/or communities can be created at any stage of the product’s product contributes to local prosperity. Helping to improve life cycle, from the sourcing of raw materials through to education, creating jobs and purchasing locally are examples of manufacturing, distribution, use and disposal. The People+ community benefits that are measured as part of a People+ program uses the DSM People LCA tool to measure the social product assessment. impact of each product. People+ examples The DSM People LCA tool is based on international standards of the United Nations (UN), the World Health Organization (WHO) DSM’s Alpaflor®Edelweiss is based on edelweiss flower extract and the International Labour Organisation (ILO) and has been that is used in personal care products, such as moisturizer. It developed in cooperation with internal and external contributes to health, comfort and well-being because it stakeholders. With this tool, the social impact of a product on improves skin resistance and gives a better skin feel. It people's lives can be assessed, from raw materials extraction contributes to local prosperity because of local cultivation and until end-of-life disposal. By using this methodology the harvesting practices that have a positive effect on alpine flora People+ program improves DSM’s ‘people’ performance, in the diversity. same way that the ECO+ program already does for environmental and ecological performance. Both programs Waterborne resins for paints and coatings reduce the risk of provide a measurable way to enhance DSM’s ability to address diseases amongst professional and do-it-yourself painters. In sustainability as a business growth driver and strengthen its doing so, they improve the comfort and well-being of consumers leadership position in sustainability. in two ways and contribute to better working conditions of See also ECO+ on page 56. professional painters. In 2013, DSM’s People+ program made considerable progress DSM's Maxarome® is a yeast extract that can be used in food with the addition of several new products to the People+ products to reduce salt content without eliminating the taste that portfolio. By engaging with peer companies and other people experience when they eat something salty. This stakeholders, DSM has improved the tool that helps it to contributes to a healthier lifestyle with lower salt consumption. measure a product’s impact on people’s lives. The tool has proven to be highly effective in trials across a number of DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals has a site in Toansa (India) innovations and value proposition projects. These tests have where it makes active pharmaceutical ingredients. It actively also enabled it to be further refined and improved. engages with the local villages of Toansa and Bholewal where it seeks to raise levels of health and education in a sustainable way, The DSM People LCA tool has four dimensions. It takes into with a focus on children and adolescents. The site has also account the impact that the product has on (1) the health invested in and pays for streetlights along the 12 km highway condition of end-users, (2) the perceived comfort and well-being Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 43 www.dsm.com that crosses the site between the two villages, making a ONE DSM Culture Agenda significant contribution to road safety. In 2013, DSM further rolled out its ONE DSM Culture Agenda The DSM People LCA tool makes it possible for DSM to quantify across the organization. This initiative aims to ensure that DSM the Brighter Living part of its brand promise in a measurable way. remains aligned with the needs of an ever-changing world and In the coming years, it will continue to develop the methodology develops the behaviors and organization it requires to fulfill its in alignment with its stakeholders. The company is also looking strategic ambitions and to become a high performing forward to continuing working closely alongside its customers organization. ONE DSM is based around the themes of External and suppliers to create further value across the chain. Orientation, Accountability for Performance (and learning), Collaboration with Speed, and Inclusion & Diversity. A ONE DSM Culture Agenda introduction week took place in the first quarter of 2013, followed by four additional theme weeks during the year. Thousands of employees participated in the events which focused on specific behaviors related to each of the four themes, for example an online collaboration with employees and selected customers to see how to leverage social media to sustain DSM's business. This initiative led to more than 120 ideas. In addition, it promoted a different way of working. The ONE DSM Culture Agenda emphasizes that employees are bound together by the behaviors fostered by its four themes. The four themes are the glue that connects the organization into ONE DSM. More remains to be done, and the next focus is on ‘doing, acting and owning’. The ONE DSM Culture Agenda and its four themes remain a focal point during 2014, and will continue to support DSM's strategic business objectives. The themes of the ONE DSM Culture Agenda are described as follows: People at DSM External Orientation DSM's human resources strategy contributes to the DSM is convinced that in order to execute its development of inspiring and collaborative leaders, creates an growth strategy and adapt to changing customer engaged and competitive workforce and fosters an inclusive and industry requirements, its employees must be environment in which people trust and respect one another, and aligned with the realities of a rapidly changing where they encourage each other to achieve sustainable world. This means not just anticipating customer needs to drive focused business growth. The approach is supported by the marketing & sales and innovation priorities, but also being better ONE DSM Culture Agenda. able to track, learn and compete across all functions. External Orientation also helps to broaden DSM’s networks and engage DSM aims to further internationalize its business in order to bring with stakeholder groups. its organization closer to its key markets and customers, strengthen the business and stimulate inclusion, diversity and Accountability for Performance (and learning) innovation. DSM combines a strong regional infrastructure with DSM expects its employees to set themselves clear board level accountability for regional growth. The ambitious targets and to deliver on these. company’s human resources strategy supports its Accountability for Performance (and learning) is internationalization goal. about people taking responsibility for their actions and for the performance of their teams. It also means recognizing and celebrating successes, while viewing problems and mistakes as individual and collective learning opportunities. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 44 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement External recognition Sustainability Governance Framework People in 2013 Planet in 2013 Profit in 2013 Collaboration with Speed 2013 (2012: 68 percent). The 2013 results are in general at a In an ever more connected world, collaboration has good level. DSM will continue to use the Employee Engagement become an important competitive advantage. DSM Survey to guide its ONE DSM Culture Agenda. encourages employees to actively (co-)create, share and build on the ideas, information, Talent management knowledge and expertise of their colleagues and the outside world. By fostering collaboration, DSM taps the true potential of DSM strongly believes that successful talent management its global workforce and promotes faster decision making and requires leaders who have the right focus, mindset and capability execution. to identify, develop, engage and share diverse talent. Leaders who are inclusive and who are focused on growing their people, Inclusion & Diversity the business and themselves. In addition, the company believes Fostering an inclusive culture that embraces in creating opportunities for its talented employees to maximize differences is consistent with DSM’s corporate their development. In 2013 the company continued the initiatives values and helps it to create the high-performance aimed at (1) empowering employees to take ownership of their organization it requires as a truly global company. career and (2) empowering leaders to take accountability for A more balanced DSM leadership group (in terms of gender, both talent performance and talent development. This resulted nationality) is part of these efforts and will improve decisionin a stronger focus on Individual Development Plans for DSM's making processes and the implementation of its strategy. employees, as part of its yearly performance and development cycle and more attention for succession planning and the DSM Employee Engagement Survey implications for the company's diversity footprint. DSM’s Human Resources strategy is about helping employees DSM Leadership Model to successfully deal with the challenges of a changing company In 2012 DSM presented a new leadership model that specifies in a fast-moving global marketplace. The concept of employee the characteristics expected from leaders now and in the future engagement is very important in this regard. An engaged in a simple, understandable and compelling way. The DSM workforce is critical to DSM in realizing its ambitions. Leadership Model provides a common vision and language Engagement is about creating an inclusive and high-energy regarding the leadership DSM desires, and it describes an working environment, where employees are aligned and inspirational mindset to raise the bar on the performance of energized to contribute to the company’s success. leaders and to grow people. The model sets out the expectation for leaders to be role models and developers of a sustainable, In 2013, DSM executed its sixth worldwide Employee successful organization for the future. It is the basis for high Engagement Survey. A total of 19,259 employees, including 535 quality processes to hire people, to grow and develop talent and contractor employees, completed the questionnaire, which was build high performing teams. distributed online and on paper in 19 languages to all DSM employees. This represents a very high response rate of 85 percent. The main element in the survey is the measurement of DSM’s Employee Engagement Index, the percentage of employees scoring favorable on a combination of four attributes: commitment, pride, advocacy and satisfaction. The Employee Engagement Index measured in 2013 was 71 percent (2012: 72 percent). This is still above the global overall norm of 69 percent. The score of 71 percent takes DSM within a 9 percentage point range of the external benchmark of high performing companies (scoring 80 percent favorable), which is the league DSM aspires to be part of. The neutral responses amounted to 20 percent. DSM continued to create a more inclusive working environment for its employees. The Inclusion Index, a subset of survey items In 2013 DSM implemented the Leadership Model via model to measure inclusion, improved for the fourth year in a row. Of workshops for its executives, for them to internalize and the respondents 69 percent scored favorable on this index in Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 45 www.dsm.com personalize the Leadership Model. The Leadership Model is interactive knowledge sharing and stimulates peer-to-peer integrated in many HR processes for the top of DSM's networking in the organization. organization. It is used in DSM's executive recruitment, and is the basis for executive leadership assessments and 360° In 2013 DSM made further progress in designing and rolling out feedback. It also forms the basis for DSM's executive leadership the Bright Talent Program in Asia. In 2014 a similar program will programs. The leadership model forms an important element of be rolled out in North America. DSM's Performance Development Review. Leadership Model workshops were conducted across the globe In 2013, the regional Talent Management organization was for the executives population, and Project Management strengthened in order to build and develop DSM's talent base in programs were delivered throughout the organization to improve the regions. This has among other things resulted in more crossemployees’ project management skills. In 2014 these organizational transfers in the regions. Mentoring programs in workshops and programs will be offered to a wider population. North America and Asia were successfully implemented. In order to better serve regional learning and development needs, further progress was made consolidating available learning and development interventions. As a result three distinctive learning guides with global and regional offerings were published. One for each geographical area: Europe, Asia and North America. Learning and development continues to be an important source of innovation. However, in 2013 learning and development budgets were under pressure due to the challenging business environment. As a result, fewer programs were delivered in 2013, and fewer employees participated in them. A total of 2,188 DSM employees worldwide (from 27 different countries; 1509 male and 679 female) participated in the learning and development programs organized by the DSM Business Academy (2012: 3,706 participants from 35 countries, 2,239 Organizational learning male and 1,467 female). The total number of programs delivered by the DSM Business Academy in 2013 was 145, which is a DSM strongly believes in the need to invest in the knowledge, decrease of 32 percent compared to the 212 programs delivered skills and experience of its employees to ensure their long-term in 2012. employability. The company provides its employees with various kinds of learning opportunities, including classroom and virtual programs, on-the-job training, coaching and mentoring. The Program portfolio Available Available DSM Learning Architecture consists of four program clusters: programs programs executive programs, management programs, functional 2013 2012 programs and e-learning programs. Executive programs 10 8 This architecture creates a common and coherent concept of Management programs 64 31 learning and program design, facilitates the development of a Functional programs 58 45 DSM learning culture and provides enhanced learning for talent. e-Learning programs 14 12 The programs are designed and delivered in close cooperation with leading international business schools and global training Total 146 96 providers (IMD, Wharton Business School, Babson College, Erasmus University) and are supported by a diverse internal faculty, primarily consisting of DSM’s top management. Other In addition to the DSM Business Academy offering, DSM learning methods such as round table discussions, business employees at all levels in the organization are offered a wide simulations, virtual classrooms, webcasting and team variety of training opportunities (both on-the-job and classroom assignments are integrated into the programs. This enables training). The number of training hours per employee increased from 24 in 2012 to 25 in 2013. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 46 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement External recognition Sustainability Governance Framework People in 2013 Planet in 2013 Profit in 2013 Training per FTE The growth of the non-European executive population, relative in hours to the growth of DSM in high growth economies, will also continue to demand full attention from the businesses and 40 regional organizations. The number of BRIC+ nationals in executive positions (37) as a percentage of the total number of 30 28 25 24 25 executive positions increased from 9 to 10 percent in 2013. 21 20 DSM has defined inclusion and diversity aspirations (in terms of 10 gender and nationality) for its business groups for the period 2012-2015 to ensure that its organizational readiness is in line 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 with its stretched growth ambitions for 2015. DSM continues to address the geographical distribution of management and other key functions, with a keen eye on gender and nationality balance. Workforce composition The role of the DSM Inclusion & Diversity Council, chaired by Inclusion & Diversity1 DSM CEO Feike Sijbesma, is to facilitate inclusion and diversity The number of women executives (44) as a percentage of the at DSM and to support all DSM businesses in creating a total number of executive positions increased from 10 percent sustainable inclusive environment, where diversity is fully to 11 percent in 2013. This will require attention going forward. embraced. This Council is strongly aligned with DSM’s In addition to recruiting female executives from the external internationalization efforts to make further progress with the market, DSM also makes an effort to recruit female executives company-wide ONE DSM Culture Agenda. from its internal pool of women candidates. Gender diversity % women ■ 2009 ■ 2010 ■ 2011 ■ 2012 ■ 2013 40 30 27 27 27 25 26 23 23 20 21 21 20 10 10 11 10 8 9 0 Executives Management Other Workforce diversity % non-Dutch ■ 2009 ■ 2010 ■ 2011 ■ 2012 ■ 2013 100 75 76 78 75 71 71 63 65 59 58 47 50 49 50 42 39 32 25 0 Executives Management Other 1 Last year DSM formulated aspirations for 2015: women in executive positions 21% and BRIC+ nationals in executive positions 24%. In the coming period DSM will redefine its targets in these areas. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 47 www.dsm.com Executive hires Professional hires diversity in % diversity in % ■ 2009 ■ 2010 ■ 2011 ■ 2012 ■ 2013 ■ 2009 ■ 2010 ■ 2011 ■ 2012 ■ 2013 100 100 84 87 84 79 81 75 75 71 70 75 67 58 50 50 41 38 39 31 31 25 25 20 25 14 13 8 0 0 Non-Dutch Women Non-Dutch Women New hires by region in % ■ 2009 ■ 2010 ■ 2011 ■ 2012 ■ 2013 40 37 30 27 25 26 23 23 23 22 21 20 21 21 20 20 18 18 19 16 15 16 12 13 10 11 10 10 7 0 Netherlands Rest of Europe North America China Rest of Asia-Pacific New employees The total inflow of new employees into DSM in 2013 was 1,834, not including the inflow of employees due to acquisitions. As a result of acquisitions a total of 1,152 people were added to DSM's workforce in 2013. In 2013, DSM recruited a total of 420 professionals (graduates and experienced hires), of whom 31 percent were women. The company wants to keep its focus on the diversity of these hires (nationality/gender) and build a strong diverse talent pipeline to achieve sufficient 'diverse critical mass' in the organization. DSM wants to improve its labor market positioning as an employer of choice, to ensure that the company is an attractive career option for talented individuals across all groups of potential employees. Employees by age category in % ■ 2009 ■ 2010 ■ 2011 ■ 2012 ■ 2013 40 35 32 31 30 30 30 28 28 28 28 28 23 24 24 24 22 20 11 11 12 12 10 10 5 6 6 6 6 0 < 26 yrs 26-35 yrs 36-45 yrs 46-55 yrs > 55 yrs Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 48 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement External recognition Sustainability Governance Framework People in 2013 Planet in 2013 Profit in 2013 Net sales per employee Outflow of employees x € 1000, based on weighted average headcount in % of total workforce 405 410 402 ■ Resignations and other ■ Dismissed ■ Reorganization ■ Retirements 400 399 ■ Divestments 340 18 300 12 200 6 100 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Outflow of employees The total outflow of employees at DSM in 2013 was 1,968, excluding divestments. A total of 259 employees retired, 1,043 resigned of their own will and, sadly, 34 employees passed away. In 2013, a total of 224 employees were requested to leave the company for non-performance or non-compliance reasons. A further 408 were made redundant due to reorganizations that took place across DSM in 2013. Divestments accounted for an outflow of 78 employees. International labor standards Respect for people is an essential part of the business principles outlined in the DSM Code of Business Conduct that DSM launched in 2010. DSM supports and respects human values as outlined in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. DSM’s employees represent more than 80 different nationalities and the company supports the equal treatment of all employees irrespective of race, nationality, ethnic background, age, religion, gender, sexual orientation or disability. Respect for human rights is also integral to DSM’s sourcing policy and Supplier Code of Conduct. DSM utterly rejects and condemns any form of forced labor or child labor. This is clearly stated in the DSM Code of Business Conduct. DSM conducts due diligence before making any investment decisions in order to exclude, among other things, any relationships or practices which may be in contravention of human rights. DSM is unaware of any cases of breach of human rights or the use of forced or child labor within its operations in 2013. DSM is a Dutch signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. DSM also meets the recommendations made in the OECD (Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Furthermore, DSM supports the work-related rights defined by the ILO (International Labour Organisation) and recognizes the International Labour Standards. In countries or businesses where employees have third-party representation via a works council or collective bargaining, DSM respects these relationships and works with these third parties in a mutually respectful manner. See also: Stakeholder engagement page 28. In the event of an organizational restructuring that results in the loss of a significant number of jobs, DSM develops and implements either a social program (aimed at assisting employees to continue in employment, whether inside or outside the company) or else a severance program. DSM promotes employee empowerment and human rights protection and therefore seeks dialogue with its employees and their representatives (works councils, labor unions). See also: People at DSM page 44. DSM Code of Business Conduct Business principles The DSM Code of Business Conduct, as introduced and rolled out in 2010-2011, contains the company’s business principles across the three dimensions of People (11 principles), Planet (5 principles), and Profit (15 principles). These principles translate DSM’s mission and core value − Sustainability − into daily practice of business operations. All DSM employees are expected to act in accordance with the Code, and the Managing Board holds DSM’s unit management accountable for compliance with the Code. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 49 www.dsm.com Training and awareness Profit dimension: DSM uses the e-learning tools Global Trade In 2013, Code of Business Conduct refresher courses were Controls and Global Competition Law Principles and Practices. rolled out to employees who had completed their first course two Compliance on these subjects is structurally embedded in years earlier. Code of Business Conduct classroom training DSM’s systems and processes. For example, as part of the material was made available in 17 languages. This enabled global trade controls process, DSM master data is screened to employees that do not have individual access to a personal check customers and suppliers against embargoes and lists of computer to participate in the training. The implementation of the sanctioned parties. Furthermore, compliance with competition Code of Business Conduct training program also proceeded law and trade controls is addressed via regular classroom well: at year-end more than 90 percent of all DSM employees training sessions and e-learning. In addition, refresher courses had completed their training. The remaining portion are, to a are offered to all employees whose first e-learning course on large extent, employees of newly acquired businesses. The full competition law and global trade controls dates back more than text of the DSM Code of Business Conduct is available at two years. www.dsm.com. Those employees who are most exposed to competition laws Umbrella function have to complete an annual statement to confirm their The Code serves as an umbrella for several other DSM compliance with the rules set forth in the DSM Competition Law requirements, which are often supported by e-learning programs Compliance Manual. In this statement they confirm that they are to train relevant people within the company. Depending on the not aware of any violation of competition laws by DSM. Alleged subject, this concerns all employees or selected employees that breaches are reported to and discussed with DSM Legal Affairs. have a specific role in the organization. These regulations are in Over the year no breaches were reported. In 2013 DSM was not three dimensions: subject to any investigations by competition authorities related to potential anticompetitive behavior. People dimension: To support DSM’s ambition to create an incident-free and injury-free workplace, the Life Saving Rules DSM also has rules in place on the holding of and execution of specify the 12 most important rules that must be followed to transactions in DSM financial instruments and certain other prevent serious and/or fatal incidents. financial instruments related to trading in DSM shares, and if applicable, other company shares and related financial Planet dimension: In the basic course on Responsible Care®, the instruments, which apply to all DSM employees, including basic elements of the Responsible Care Program, which is members of the Managing Board and Supervisory Board. aimed at all functions within the company, are addressed. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 50 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement External recognition Sustainability Governance Framework People in 2013 Planet in 2013 Profit in 2013 Developments in 2013 Safety and health In 2013, the DSM Key Security Behaviors were introduced, Occupational safety accompanied by an extensive communication program. The rollThe improvement in safety performance that was reported in out of a new e-learning course to all employees will take place in 2012 continued in 2013. The Frequency Index of Recordable 2014. Injuries for 2013 was 0.38 and in October 2013 DSM reached the all-time low Frequency Index of 0.36. DSM’s safety An Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) Policy and Compliance performance in 2013 means that 38 fewer people (DSM Manual has also been developed, based on an internal risk employees or contractors) were injured in their work for DSM assessment and an external benchmark of peer companies. The than in 2010. ABC Policy and Compliance Manual has been approved by the Managing Board and will be rolled out to targeted DSM Notwithstanding this progress, the incidents that did occur (see employees in 2014. also: 'What still went wrong in 2013' on page 138 of this report), and the severity of their consequences, remain a cause for Living the Code of Business Conduct can sometimes bring concern for DSM. dilemmas that do not have a quick or clear answer. For this reason Dilemma Workshops were introduced in 2013, using the It is DSM's goal to have an injury and incident-free working UN Global Compact Dilemma Game as a tool. The workshops environment. DSM has set itself the target of reducing the build on DSM’s company culture, which is based on openness, Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries by 50 percent or more fairness and trust. The aim is to create an open-minded by the year 2020 compared to 2010. This will require an index atmosphere in which dilemmas can be discussed among score that is less than or equal to 0.25 by 2020, compared to employees and/or management. the 0.57 achieved in 2010. Consequence management This Index measures Lost Workday Cases (LWC), Restricted DSM applies zero-tolerance consequence management with Workday Cases, Medical Treatment Cases and/or fatalities per respect to deliberate violation of its Code of Business Conduct. 200,000 hours worked (based on 100 full-time equivalents A whistleblower procedure (DSM Alert) and consequence working 40 hours per week, 50 weeks per year) by DSM management practices are in place to support compliance with employees and contractor employees in a single year. At the end the Code. The DSM Alert Officer responsible for dealing with of 2013, the Frequency Index was 0.38 (2012: 0.44). The violations of the DSM Code of Business Conduct reports to the Frequency Index of Lost Workday Cases for DSM employees CEO and is invited to report independently to the Supervisory was 0.14 in the year (2012: 0.12). Board once a year. As of 2014 people who are not DSM employees but wish to raise a concern regarding a violation of DSM’s aim is that by 2020, the number of serious safety the DSM Code of Business Conduct can also contact the Alert incidents will be 65 percent lower than in 2010, when there were Officer at www.dsm.com. 15 such incidents. The figure for 2013 has given cause for concern as there were 14 such incidents reported, while another Proven serious violations of the Code can result in dismissal. In 2 occurred in recently acquired units still undergoing integration line with this policy, 33 employees were dismissed in 2013, as a and not yet consolidated. Contact with moving parts of result of breaches to the Code of Business Conduct or other machines or equipment and falls were the primary causes of legal or local company regulations. Most of these cases related serious injuries. to violation of the Life Saving Rules, inappropriate behavior, and fraud or theft. The focus on preventing serious accidents and any potential fatalities that began with the introduction of DSM's Life Saving Code of Business Conduct violations leading to dismissal Rules has resulted in a significant improvement in safety performance. The incidents that still occurred demonstrate that People Planet Profit Total a continued improvement of the company’s working practices is needed and that 'near misses' still happen too often. Improving Europe / Africa 14 0 1 15 these practices was one of the reasons behind the introduction Americas 11 0 4 15 of mandatory standards for LOTOTO (Lock Out, Tag Out and Try Asia / Pacific 1 0 2 3 Out; a way of safeguarding workers from the release of hazardous energy during equipment servicing or maintenance Total 26 0 7 33 activities) and for Confined Space Entry. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 51 www.dsm.com company that they implement the worldwide DSM approach to SHE as quickly as possible, as part of the integration process. A total of 31 new sites were added to DSM as a result of acquisitions in 2012 and 2013, in North America (12), Asia (8), South America (5), Europe (4) and the rest of the world (2). All these sites are required to meet the DSM SHE requirements. After the explosion at the AGI site in Taiwan in 2011, which took place just 14 days after DSM had acquired it, the company’s approach to the integration of new sites was evaluated. The result was that all new sites are now visited shortly after the acquisition by a specialized team to ensure there are no risks requiring immediate action beyond the ones identified during the acquisition process. This high risk assessment is now the first step in the integration approach. The second and third steps follow after some months once the management of the site has been established. Contractor safety Contractors that work at DSM are between two and three times The SHE leadership course and the zero SHE assessment are more likely to suffer a work-related accident than DSM executed by the corporate SHE department. In the SHE employees. Almost half the fatalities that have occurred at DSM leadership course, the management of the new sites is over the past 13 years have involved contractors. This can be familiarized with DSM’s values on SHE and its expectations from partly explained by the fact that contractors sometimes execute them as SHE leaders. During the assessment, the conditions of more hazardous activities. For this reason, DSM has sought to the site are compared with the SHE requirements to identify give special attention to the safety of contractors when they work potential gaps and required actions. Representatives of the site for DSM. The company strives for long-term partnerships with and the SHE integration manager take part in this assessment, its contractors as it sees this as the foundation for good SHE to understand where the gaps are and what actions can be performance. Contractors should be well informed about rules taken. The integration manager on SHE is an experienced DSM to be followed and adequately trained, which is only possible manager who guides and supports the new sites during the first when contractors and DSM employees work closely together two years. over a long period. This approach is paying off. Many sites have already started initiatives to achieve this. At its Sittard-Geleen The zero SHE assessment results in an action plan aiming at (Netherlands) site, DSM and contractors have launched an closing the gaps to DSM’s SHE requirements. Corporate initiative for coaching known as the Last Minute Risk Assessment support is given where needed during the execution of the action (LMRA). The LMRA is the final check to see if the job is safe to plan. Within 1.5 to 2 years after an acquisition, the Corporate start and whether everybody knows what to do, and it is also Operational Audit (COA) department will also assess the SHE used in cases of an emergency. This LMRA is actively coached situation. by someone who is not directly involved in the execution of the job, thereby preventing ‘tunnel vision’. It also ensures that all Process safety people are involved in the discussion. DSM follows the European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC) guidance in defining which incidents qualify as process safety This has resulted in a 70 percent reduction in such incidents in incidents (PSI). Of the total number of incidents reported in 2013, Sittard-Geleen since 2010. At the Delft (Netherlands) site, all 144 (2012: 162) have also been classified as process safety contractors and DSM have signed a SHE alliance document incidents. This translates into a Frequency Index for PSI of 0.46 whereby they are committed to achieving zero SHE incidents. All (2012: 0.55). DSM's targets for reducing the Frequency Index these actions have resulted in a reduction of 58 percent in the for PSI are 50 percent in 2015 and 75 percent in 2020, starting accident rate of contractors over the past five years. with a baseline Frequency Index of 0.68 (2010). SHE integration of new sites In 2013, the main causes of process safety incidents were In recent years, DSM has acquired a number of new companies analyzed. This led to the identification of several improvement with sites located in different countries. It is a high priority for the actions in operations, design and maintenance. Although the Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 52 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement External recognition Sustainability Governance Framework People in 2013 Planet in 2013 Profit in 2013 overall performance improvement in PSI is not yet on track, the success of some of these efforts is already visible. One of DSM's As a member of a DSM cycle team I’m required to have a business groups already achieved its 50 percent reduction target medical check-up. The results showed I had high blood in 2013. pressure and I was advised to have an ultrasound of my heart. It transpired that I was suffering from a serious lack DSM continues to contribute to developing a globally of oxygen, even though I didn’t have any symptoms, not harmonized process safety performance reporting standard. even when running a half marathon only a couple of days The primary objective of this standard is to enable companies to before the check-up. This is the sort of risk that the Vitality measure their performance and drive improvements. It also Health Check can detect, and I was lucky it was discovered enables benchmarking across regions or companies, thus in time to prevent it getting worse. Wil Fleurkens – creating better transparency on process safety performance. Process Manager Purchase to Pay Employee health management When I participated in the Vitality Health Check a few years Research shows that there is a direct link between employee ago there was a nurse who pointed out that I have a very vitality and an organization’s performance. Healthy employees light skin with many birthmarks, which often means it is allow for an organization that is more productive and sustainable. more susceptible to skin cancer. She advised me to have To increase vitality levels across the company, DSM has my skin checked regularly by a doctor and this is what I did introduced a global employee health management program for several years. Eventually, my doctor found a birthmark called Vitality@DSM. This program encourages employees to that was different in shape and color to the others. He optimize their health by raising awareness about the importance removed it and performed tests that found it was a severe of healthy lifestyle choices that contribute to a greater well-being type of skin cancer. It was the most frightening time of my and performance at work. life, but after further research and tests I was told that it could be cured and that I had checked it just in time. I am In addition to creating a personal lifestyle profile for every very grateful for being offered the possibility to participate employee, Vitality@DSM provides DSM with anonymous data on in the Vitality Health Check and my advice would be to have its employees' health. This enables it to monitor progress your health and body checked out on a regular through performance indicators such as knowledge of BMI, basis. Werner Vliex – Director DSM Business cholesterol and blood pressure. It compares results by region as Information Systems a basis for defining the content and priorities of health promotion campaigns at site and regional levels, and creates scorecards For DSM, vitality connects to our SHE values and to within relevant areas of the company. sustainable employability. In 2012 I was asked to take the lead in implementing an improvement program based on Results of Vitality@DSM in 2013 showed a positive trend; the rise the recommendations of the Vitality check for DSM in productivity, based on self-reported changes in lifestyle health Dyneema in Urmond. I have led the Vitality@Urmond risk factors such as unhealthy eating and lack of exercise, and campaign since then with great enthusiasm and am part of extrapolated to 1,000 employees per region, came to a a great team of passionate people who value vitality and combined USD 4.5 million for the three main regions (Europe, also support the campaign. In 2013 we focused on Asia and North America). activities for individuals, while for 2014, the theme is to ‘team up on vitality'. Margot van Wunnik – Application Development Specialist at DSM Dyneema At the end of 2013, more than 7,800 DSM employees worldwide had participated in the program. The year saw its roll-out in new sites including Kaiseraugst (Switzerland) and Delft (Netherlands). It also continues to be important at sites that already participate in the program, and where it is used to spontaneously launch health initiatives. DSM in India and China are encouraging their employees to make healthy lifestyle choices. In DSM North America, a HealthyRoads system, which is similar to the Vitality@DSM Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 53 www.dsm.com program, aims to increase awareness about the benefits of lifestyle risk factor in all three. This factor has the largest impact healthier habits. About 1,500 employees in North America on productivity and costs. Other high risks, according to participated in the HealthyRoads system. employees, relate to eating habits (40 percent), and a lack of exercise (39 percent). There are also differences between the It is widely accepted that high BMI levels, a lack of exercise and three regions with regard to health risks. In Asia the stress and an imbalance between stress and job satisfaction contribute exercise risks are significantly higher compared to North America towards an unhealthy lifestyle and potentially create future health and Europe. In these last two regions, the BMI risk is higher than problems, absenteeism and even work disability. As a growing in Asia. It is clear that further steps must include action plans and number of employees become aware of their health parameters, programs to reduce these risks. more are investing in their well-being. While this is a positive development, there is considerable room for improvement. Occupational health In 2013 a total of 6 (2012: 13) occupational health cases were Comparing the three regions (Asia, North America and Europe), reported. it is clear that stress risk (average 54 percent) is the largest Absenteeism in % ■ 2009 ■ 2010 ■ 2011 ■ 2012 ■ 2013 4 3.4 3.0 3.0 2.9 3.0 2.9 2.9 2.9 3 2.7 2.8 2.1 2 1.7 1.6 1.5 1.5 1.3 1.4 1.4 1.0 1.1 1 0.9 0.7 0.6 0.7 0.5 0 Netherlands Rest of North America China Rest of Europe Asia-Pacific Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 54 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement External recognition Sustainability Governance Framework People in 2013 Planet in 2013 Profit in 2013 My bright ideas help to harvest solar energy more efﬁciently Hugo Schoot, Business Development Manager, DSM Advanced Surfaces DSM Advanced Surfaces provides solutions for the development and application of smart coatings. Our product, KhepriCoatTM, reduces the amount of sunlight that is reﬂected off solar panels. This is an important efﬁciency gain – and a great example of how DSM is using its technology to help address climate change. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 55 www.dsm.com Planet in 2013 seafood with a lower environmental footprint. The product allows fish farms to be located in areas with optimum currents and wave Within the Planet dimension of its Triple P approach, DSM motion that help to dissipate waste more efficiently, much in the delivers activities, solutions and innovations that improve the same way that free range animal farming does on land. environmental footprint of its own business and that of its external stakeholders in the value chains in which the company The ecological impact of these farms can be further reduced with operates (customers, suppliers and consumers). This approach DSM’s innovative feed additives such as Ronozyme® phytase. includes the ECO+ program, in which DSM defines sustainability This additive increases the availability of phosphorus in vegetable as a strategic business growth driver. This chapter also reports feed ingredients, with the result that less additional inorganic on DSM’s environmental footprint and performance. See also: phosphorus is required in the feed. This means that less Growth Driver: Sustainability on page 20 of this report. phosphorus is excreted into the environment. ECO+ These examples can be characterized as being more ‘ecoefficient’ because they help minimize customers' environmental ECO+ is DSM’s program for the development of sustainable and impact. In the long term, DSM’s goal is to become fully ‘ecoinnovative products and solutions with measurable ecological effective’, by providing solutions that have a truly positive, rather benefits. ECO+ solutions create greater value with less than less negative, environmental impact. This is the principle environmental impact. The ecological benefits can be created at behind the creation of a truly circular economy. As such it is any stage of the product’s life cycle, from the raw materials essential that DSM continue to invest in the development of through to manufacturing, potential re-use, and end-of-life products that are made from renewable, bio-based raw disposal. The ECO+ framework uses the Life Cycle Assessment materials, rather than fossil fuels. (LCA) methodology to measure the environmental benefits of each product. For a full definition of ECO+, see page 221. DSM also develops safer alternatives to existing solutions. Many products that are on the market today contain ingredients that It is DSM’s ambition that at least 80 percent of its innovation have specific benefits during usage but which may for instance pipeline be comprised of ECO+ solutions by 2015, and that they cause problems at the end-of-life stage of a product, or make it generate approximately 50 percent of total net sales. At the end more difficult to recycle. The use of safer alternatives to of 2013, the innovation pipeline contained 95 percent ECO+ mainstream materials creates business opportunities for DSM solutions (97 percent after deconsolidation DSM Pharmaceutical that are not within the reach of companies that merely comply Products (DPP)). ECO+ solutions as a percentage of running with minimum requirements. Some examples of this are business increased to 45 percent in 2013 (46 percent after BluCure™, the 100 percent cobalt-free curing technology for deconsolidation of DPP). In 2013 about 90 percent of ECO+ composite resins, and Arnitel® XG and Stanyl® ForTii™, which innovation launches were supported by comparative LCAs. are halogen-free flame retardant plastics. The measurable benefits of ECO+ include lower requirements in Some DSM ECO+ solutions also carry an Environmental Product natural resources, such as water or minerals (including metals), Declaration (EPD). An EPD is a standardized way of the reduction or valorization of waste, shelf life preservation, yield communicating the environmental performance of a product or improvement, energy saving, bio-based solutions, weight system. It is based on ISO standard 14025/TR and Life Cycle reduction, raw material efficiency, and removal of hazardous Assessment. Some examples of products with an EPD include substances in the life cycle. ECO+ products can provide Pack-Age™ (2012), Brewers Clarex™ (2010) and Panamore® solutions that benefit society at large by responding to major (2009). societal issues such as climate change, resource constraints and scarcity, water management and biodiversity. These qualities In addition to their environmental advantages, most ECO+ can make an important difference across a number of industries. solutions also generate downstream cost benefits at various stages in the value chain. These may include qualities such as For example, together with net manufacturer NET Systems and lower waste generation during the use phase, greater durability the Cape Eleuthera Institute, a marine research center, DSM has of an application, and a reduction in the energy consumption developed a shark-resistant netting material. This innovative during the application or disposal phases. netting is called Predator-X and it combines Dyneema® polyethylene fibers and stainless steel wire. Cages made with In 2013 DSM launched new innovative ECO+ products. A Predator-X can be used in the open ocean to produce farmed selection of ECO+ innovative solutions is given in the next table. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 56 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement External recognition Sustainability Governance Framework People in 2013 Planet in 2013 Profit in 2013 Value chain benefits of innovative ECO+ solutions Applications Higher ecoRenewable Safer Environmental Downstream efficiency1 content alternative2 Product cost Declaration3 benefits Materials Akulon® Air intake manifold • • Akulon® Ultraflow Oil sump • • Akulon® Fuel Lock Gas tank • • • • Small engine fuel tank • • Arnitel® VT Breathable membrane • • Arnitel® Eco Pan liners • • • Arnitel® XG Electronic wire & cable • • EcoPaXX® Engine covers • • • Crank shaft cover • • • Snowboard bindings • • Film • • Window profiles • • Stanyl® Diablo Air ducts • • • Stanyl® ForTii™ LED lamp • • Stanyl® ForTii™ DDR4, SDRAM modules • • Stanyl® ForTii™ Connector • • Stanyl® ForTii™ 3D-MID Micro-electronics • • Dyneema®Force MT Law enforcement ballistic vest • • Dyneema®DT Comfortable cut resistant gloves • • • Dyneema® Air cargo pallet net • • • Cellulosic bio-ethanol Biofuel • • • • Biosuccinium™ Building block for broad range of • • materials Decovery® Waterborne paint • • • • Somos® 3D printing • • Uralac® Low temp. curing powder coating • • • NeoRez® Waterborne floor coating • • • Hybrane® Gas hydrate inhibitor • • • BluCure™ Technology Marine, Building & Construction • Beyone™ 1 Building, Marine & Wind Energy • • • KhepriCoat™ Solar panels • • Combined Pack-Age™ Cheese ripening • • • Akulon® XS Food packaging • • Health & Nutrition Puriclor™ Antibiotics • • • Multirome®LS Savory food • • • Brewers Clarex™ Beer • • • Brewers Compass™ Beer • • • Panamore® Bread • • • Delvo®Cid Food preservation • • Ronozyme® HiPhos Animal feed • • Alpaflor®Edelweiss Organic bioactive for personal care • • 1 Better resource efficiency and/or circularity and/or reduced GHG emissions thanks to e.g. higher energy efficiency in the product life cycle; use of renewable raw materials 2 Product can replace existing products that may contain substances of concern. 3 When applicable. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 57 www.dsm.com Environmental impact of DSM's operations DSM improved its energy efficiency by 13 percent compared to the reference year 2008, which is slightly below the improvement achieved in 2012 (14 percent). The benefits of energy saving initiatives at some sites were offset by non-recurring declines in energy efficiency at several larger sites. Greenhouse-gas emissions were slightly higher than in 2008 and amounted to 4.3 million tons in CO2 equivalents. This represents an increase over 2012, when greenhouse-gas emissions reached 4.2 millions of tons in CO2 equivalents. The increase was caused by higher production volumes at several units and the addition of recently acquired units. The N2O abatement system at DSM Fibre Intermediates in Nanjing (China), which started up in September 2012, was operational throughout the year and resulted in lower greenhouse-gas emissions at the site, despite its increased production volume. VOC emissions increased significantly from 3,500 tons in 2012 to 5,100 tons in 2013. This was mainly caused by increases at DSM Dyneema’s ICD facility in Laiwu (China) and process disturbances in the acrylonitrile plant in Sittard-Geleen (Netherlands). Landfilling of non-hazardous waste was significantly reduced from 29,900 tons in 2012 to 26,600 tons in 2013. Several units found alternative destinations for this material, such as composting, land farming or incineration. Changes in the other environmental indicators were relatively limited and largely non-structural. Key environmental indicators, total DSM 2013 20121 Energy use in petajoules (PJ) 43.0 40.6 Greenhouse-gas emissions in CO2 equivalents (x million tons) 4.3 4.2 Emission of volatile organic compounds (x 1000 tons) 5.1 3.5 Emission of NOx (x 1000 tons) 1.7 1.7 Emission of SO2 (x 1000 tons) 0.16 0.15 Chemical oxygen demand discharges to surface waters (x 1000 tons) 5.4 5.5 Water use (x million m3) 152 149 Landfilling non-hazardous waste (x 1000 tons) 26.6 29.9 1 In the 2012 column, differences compared to the numbers reported in the 2012 report are due to corrections that have been applied. Environmental targets In the framework of its corporate strategy, DSM has defined long-term Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) targets for the period 2010-2015, which include eco-efficiency targets. These targets are translated into plans and activities in a Corporate Multi-year Plan Responsible Care (CMP). The CMP provides necessary guidance to rolling three-year plans of each business group. The eco-efficiency targets for the period 2010-2015 are based on the principle that by 2015 all DSM sites in the world must meet minimum standards applied within the European Union or the USA, via the use of Best Available Techniques. All new plants and major plant modifications must meet this requirement right from the start, while existing plants have until 2015 to meet it. For an overview of the eco-efficiency targets and the progress made towards them in 2013 see the table on page 20. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 58 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement External recognition Sustainability Governance Framework People in 2013 Planet in 2013 Profit in 2013 Progress made in 2013 towards environmental reduction targets % Reduction realized Target compared to reference year1 2013 2010-2015 2008-2020 Climate change Energy efficiency 13% 20% Greenhouse gases (1%)2 25% Emissions to air VOC 24% 40% SO2 92% 70% NOx 42% 30% Discharges to water COD 13% 20% Water availability and use Total water consumption (1%) 15% Landfilling non-hazardous Waste waste 3% 15% 1 Numbers between brackets represent a negative number, i.e. a deterioration in performance. 2 On a like-for-like basis the total greenhouse-gas emissions of DSM decreased by 19% when comparing 2013 with 2008 All environmental targets (except the target for greenhouse-gas aims to reduce the difference between progress on relative emissions) are relative targets. This means that increases or targets and absolute DSM totals. decreases in the table above result from calculations that account for changes in production volumes. Acquisitions and A distinction is made in the graphs between continuing and divestments in the target period are excluded in order to create discontinued operations in view of the upcoming like-for-like comparisons with the reference year. deconsolidation of DSM Pharmaceutical Products. The target for greenhouse-gas emissions is an absolute target In addition to the consolidated graphs shown in this section, for DSM’s direct CO2 and N2O emissions and other gases, as DSM publishes detailed information on the environmental well as for indirect CO2 emissions. The base year for this target performance of all its production sites in the areas of emissions, (and the energy target) is 2008. The divested units DSM Agro, consumption and SHE highlights on www.dsm.com. DSM Melamine, DSM Elastomers, Citrique Belge and DSM Special Products were excluded from this base year, but the Data reporting by the sites is regularly audited by DSM’s impact of all other acquisitions and divestments is reflected in Corporate Operations Audit department. See also Reporting the total GHG emissions reported by DSM. policy on page 110. The graphs in this chapter show absolute totals for the years Emissions to air 2009-2013. This can give rise to some apparent differences with Volatile Organic Compounds the numbers for relative target performance, as the latter are Emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) grew from corrected for changes in production volumes and do not include 3,500 tons in 2012 to 5,100 tons in 2013. An increase in output companies that were acquired or divested in the target period at the recently acquired DSM Dyneema plant in Laiwu (China) (like-for-like comparison). accounted for 1,300 tons of the growth. A project to significantly reduce these emissions began in 2013. Another portion of the In 2013 Kensey Nash, Ocean Nutrition Canada, Fortitech, the increase (500 tons) was attributable to process upsets at the Enzymes and Cultures business acquired from Cargill and AGI DSM Fibre Intermediates acrylonitrile plant in Sittard-Geleen Taiwan were included in the DSM total for the first time. For more (Netherlands). A correction in the reported VOC data for DSM information, see Reporting policy on page 110. Sinochem Pharmaceuticals at Santa Perpetua (Spain), was applied for the period 2010-2013, causing relatively minor DSM intends to adapt its methods to determine progress on changes compared to numbers reported previously. environmental targets to include the performance of units that have been acquired or divested during the target-period. It also Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 59 www.dsm.com Reductions of around 100 tons each occurred at DSM Fibre Toansa (India) were offset by increases from several newly Intermediates in Augusta (Georgia, USA), as a result of acquired units that contributed to emissions in the year. improvements in incinerator operation; at DSM Nutritional Products in Dalry (UK), due to changes in the production SO2 tons/year process; and at DSM Fibre Intermediates in Nanjing (China), with the start-up of an improved incinerator. The recently acquired ■ continuing operations ■ discontinued operations plant at Tongxiang (DSM China) also reported a reduction but 1,500 this was the result of an over-estimation in 2012. 1,000 VOC tons/year ■ continuing operations ■ discontinued operations 500 8,000 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 6,000 4,000 Discharges to water and landfill 2,000 Chemical oxygen demand 0 The discharge of Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD), which is an 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 indicator of wastewater pollution by organic substances, decreased from 5,500 to 5,400 tons. Several non-structural decreases were offset by increases at other sites. No significant Nitrogen oxide structural changes were realized. Emissions of nitrogen oxide (NOx) remained almost constant at 1,700 tons. A structural reduction was achieved at DSM Fibre COD tons/year Intermediates in Nanjing (China) with the closure of an organic waste incinerator. Other changes were relatively small (<100 ■ continuing operations ■ discontinued operations tons) and non-structural. The newly acquired unit in Piura (Peru), 8,000 part of DSM Nutritional Products, added 20 tons. 6,000 NOx tons/year 4,000 ■ continuing operations ■ discontinued operations 2,000 3,000 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2,000 1,000 Non-hazardous waste The discharge of non-hazardous waste to landfill sites 0 decreased significantly, from 29,900 tons to 26,600 tons. A 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 reduction of 7,700 tons was achieved at DSM Nutritional Products in Kingstree (South Carolina, USA) through the introduction of composting to replace the discharge of organic Sulfur dioxide waste to landfill sites. Emissions of sulfur dioxide (SO2) remained relatively stable at around 150 tons. DSM Dyneema in Greenville (North Carolina, USA) achieved a reduction of 600 tons through increased recycling and the reSmall decreases in emissions at DSM Engineering Plastics Taiuse of materials. Further reductions in landfilled waste were Young Nylon in Taiwan and DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals in achieved at DSM Nutritional Products in Belvidere (New Jersey, USA), DSM Resins & Functional Materials in Frankfort (Indiana, Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 60 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement External recognition Sustainability Governance Framework People in 2013 Planet in 2013 Profit in 2013 USA), DSM Nutritional Products in Freeport (Texas, USA) and Ramos Arizpe (Mexico) of 0.3 PJ while non-structural process DSM Resins & Functional Materials in Waalwijk (Netherlands), changes at the caprolactam plant of DSM Fibre Intermediates in mainly by replacing landfilling by alternatives such as land Sittard-Geleen led to increases of 0.4 PJ. The inclusion of several farming or incineration. new units caused a combined additional increase of 0.7 PJ. A significant decrease of 1.0 PJ resulted from the deconsolidation Several newly acquired units reported for the first time in 2013, of DEXPlastomers, which was divested in early 2013. Relatively leading to significant increases in landfill levels. These included small changes, of around 0.1-0.2 PJ, occurred at several other DSM Nutritional Products in Piura (Peru), DSM Nutritional units. Products in Schenectady (New York, USA), DSM Nutritional Products in Ontario (California, USA), DSM Resins & Functional Energy consumption PJ Materials in Zhangbin (China) and DSM Food Specialties in La Ferté (France). Several other sites increased waste-to-landfill ■ continuing operations ■ discontinued operations levels through higher production, especially DSM Sinochem 50 Pharmaceuticals in Yushu (China). 40 At DSM Fibre Intermediates in Nanjing (China) a significant 30 correction was made to the number reported in previous years, 20 as the facility had erroneously included construction waste in this 10 category, which resulted in lower levels of landfill discharge being reported. 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Landfilling non-hazardous waste tons/year ■ continuing operations ■ discontinued operations Greenhouse-gas emissions DSM’s total greenhouse-gas emissions (direct and indirect), for 40,000 continuing and discontinued operations, increased from 4.2 million tons of CO2 equivalents in 2012 to 4.3 million tons in 2013. 30,000 On a like-for-like basis the total greenhouse-gas emissions of 20,000 DSM decreased by 19% when comparing 2013 with 2008. 10,000 Most changes reflect the variations in energy consumption 0 described previously, but the relative increase is significantly less 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 than the increase in energy consumption. This is caused by the fact that greenhouse-gas emissions at DSM Fibre Intermediates in Nanjing (China) decreased by 0.1 million tons, even though the Energy and greenhouse gases production volume and energy consumption of the site Energy consumption increased. This was the result of the new N2O-abatement system DSM’s total energy consumption increased from 40.6 petajoules that was operational through 2013. (PJ) in 2012 to 43.0 PJ in 2013. The energy consumption at DSM Fibre Intermediates in Nanjing (China) increased by 0.5 PJ. Greenhouse-gas emissions, continuing operations million tons Nevertheless, the energy-efficiency of this unit improved as the increase in energy consumption was proportionally less than the ■ direct CO2 ■ indirect CO2 ■ N2O and other gases increase of the caprolactam output. A significant contribution 5 (0.6 PJ) to the increase in energy consumption comes from the acrylonitrile plant of DSM Fibre Intermediates in Sittard-Geleen 4 (Netherlands), where operational issues and maintenance 3 shutdowns caused inefficiencies. The energy consumption of 2 DSM Fibre Intermediates in Augusta (Georgia, USA) increased 1 by 0.8 PJ, mainly because the energy consumption of the DSM Engineering Plastics polyamide unit on this site has been 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 included in the results as of 2013. Higher production levels resulted in increases at DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals in Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 61 www.dsm.com Greenhouse-gas emissions, discontinued operations Water use, continuing operations million tons 1000 m3, split between different sources ■ direct CO ■ indirect CO ■ N O and other gases 2 2 2 ■ surface water ■ groundwater ■ potable water 0.3 160,000 120,000 0.2 80,000 0.1 40,000 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Water use Water use, discontinued operations 1000 m3, split between different sources DSM’s global water use is divided into surface water, ■ surface water ■ groundwater ■ potable water groundwater and potable (tap) water. Total water use for 40,000 continuing and discontinued operations increased from 149 3 3 million m in 2012 to 152 million m in 2013. The increase was to a large extent due to higher production levels at DSM Fibre 20,000 Intermediates sites at Sittard-Geleen, Nanjing and Augusta. In addition, re-starting production facilities at DSM Nutritional Products in Belvidere (New Jersey, USA) and at DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals in Ramoz Arizpe (Mexico), as well as the 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 inclusion of new reporting units, contributed to the increase. Some sites achieved improvements in water efficiency by executing specific projects. Examples are the projects carried out at the DSM Nutritional Products sites in Dalry (United DSM’s water policy is to minimize the adverse effects that its Kingdom) and Sisseln (Switzerland) to prevent leakages of operations may have on the quality and quantity of available underground water pipelines and reduce specific water water in the regions where it operates. consumptions. The water policy is the basis for the DSM roadmap to sustainable A significant part of DSM’s total water use is for 'once-through water management. Water risk assessments began in 2012 and cooling' (about 100 million m3), particularly at sites located next continued in 2013, focusing on water scarcity areas, as well as to large rivers. These volumes fluctuate from year to year, on locations with a relatively large contribution to DSM’s because the required amounts depend on incoming river water discharge of pollutants (COD, nitrogen or phosphorus) or to temperatures and therefore on weather conditions. Water water consumption. In 2013, sites were included which use large assessments on sites with 'once-through cooling' water shows volumes of water for ‘once-through cooling’. These risk that thermal pollution is within accepted levels, which has been assessments, which will continue in 2014, comprise a range of confirmed by local authorities. factors, including water scarcity and pollution of the local river basin, the water management system, local stakeholder involvement, business risks related to existing and future operations and value chain and ecosystem impacts. The water risk assessments enable DSM to set priorities for local mitigation efforts, such as projects to reduce consumption or discharges of specific pollutants. Projects based on the results of the water risk assessments are included within business group roadmaps for 2015 2020. Water risk assessments give DSM a clear overview of its impact on water scarcity and pollution at a local level. They also provide Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 62 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement External recognition Sustainability Governance Framework People in 2013 Planet in 2013 Profit in 2013 indispensable insights into potential improvements that will the European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC) water day in enable DSM to achieve its 'no adverse effect' policy. There are Brussels in 2013. a number of smaller sites where water scarcity may occur for a few months each year, but the impact of these sites has been In India, DSM supported and contributed to the development of shown to be relatively small, as they consume less than one the India Water Tool, while making further contributions to the percent of available fresh water sources. On the other hand, World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) there are some larger sites where the risk of water scarcity is low, Action2020 agenda. but DSM’s potential impact is more significant. At these sites, DSM has prepared reduction plans for water consumption. Biodiversity DSM engages with its suppliers to gradually build more Biodiversity and healthy ecosystems are key conditions for a sustainable value chains and consistently improve its ecomore sustainable world. They sustain human life by providing footprint, including its water footprint. It increasingly requires what are known as ecosystem services, which meet essential suppliers to commit to targets and assessments that are similar human needs: food, materials, clean water and fresh air. DSM to those it applies to itself. The recently developed ‘supplier water aspires to prevent the degradation of biodiversity and contribute performance and risk assessment tool’ is based on the same to its preservation wherever possible. It believes that all tool that DSM uses internally for its water risk assessments. This companies have a central role to play in the conservation of tool is already helping DSM suppliers to develop sustainable natural capital, ecosystems and biodiversity. This task includes: water management. (1) a continuous building of awareness about natural capital, biodiversity and ecosystems; (2) the assessment and monitoring DSM has also been a signatory to the CEO Water Mandate since of DSM’s impact on protected areas within its vicinity; (3) the 2009. In addition, it has voluntarily reported its water policy and development of impact assessments with stakeholders; and (4) performance via the Carbon Disclosure Project since 2011. the development of measures that help mitigate this impact. DSM actively contributes to organizations that address and DSM supports UN CEO Water Mandate develop awareness and methodologies to determine the impact of activities on biodiversity, ecosystems and natural capital 'Water availability is a concern of worldwide interest. Many employment. Biodiversity and ecosystem service reviews have areas in the world are rapidly facing a growing water stress, been promoted by industry bodies like CEFIC, the Association expressed in water scarcity, water pollution and water of the Dutch Chemical Industry (VNCI), the governmental damages by natural disasters. Sustainable water organization platform Biodiversity Ecosystems and Economy in management is therefore a must in our society. Both the Netherlands and IUCN Leaders for Nature NL. DSM has individual and collective action in this respect is a necessity, piloted studies to apply and develop ecosystem service reviews. to have no adverse effect on water quality and quantity in The studies qualitatively highlight the pressure factors from local regions and businesses where we operate. DSM truly production facilities that impact the local (protected) neighboring values initiatives like the United Nations Global Compact areas, including local emissions to air, water and soil. Further CEO Water Mandate, to which principles I express my alignment with stakeholders such as neighboring companies continued support. The topic of water and sustainable and communities is still required in order to develop plans that water management has our continued full attention.' quantify measures to address or prevent local impact and degradation. Feike Sijbesma, CEO of Royal DSM Each year, DSM identifies and monitors the protected areas in the vicinity of its sites and the impact that it has on them. Some DSM has also completed a raw material water footprint analysis 40 percent of DSM's sites have been identified as being located that enables it to set priorities for potential improvements in its in or adjacent to high biodiversity value areas. In all cases, DSM water footprint. production sites are operating within applicable permit levels approved by local authorities. To further improve its methodology in water footprinting, DSM has continued to participate and collaborate with associations Together with partners from the Inspirational Programme of the and partnerships that address these issues. The methodology Leaders for Nature platform of the International Union for used for water risk assessments was externally presented during Conservation of Nature (IUCN), DSM has worked on a 'business Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 63 www.dsm.com area of the future' concept. This includes assessing a company's Renewable raw materials in % of total raw materials spend impact and dependency on biodiversity and ecosystem services. 10 Renewable energy 8 DSM acknowledges that the world must urgently shift its energy 6 mix from fossil-based fuels towards renewable energy, while continuing to secure its energy supply. DSM aims to be a 4 frontrunner in combating global warming and resource depletion 2 and seeks to develop and promote products and solutions that help to reduce GHG emissions and energy usage in its value 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 chain. DSM has also undertaken an advocacy role to cooperate with energy suppliers, co-leaders in industry and regulatory bodies, to bring about the necessary shift in the purchased energy mix towards a more renewable mix. Fines and sanctions A total of four environmental sanctions were paid by DSM sites, In 2013, DSM published a paper outlining its perspective on totaling approximately € 62,500, which is higher than the fines renewable energy on www.dsm.com. This paper is consistent paid in 2012 (€ 45,000). To the best of DSM’s knowledge, no with the goals of its current strategy, in which it has defined longfurther fines or non-monetary sanctions for environmental issues term environmental targets, including targets to increase energy were incurred in 2013. efficiency by 20 percent by 2020 compared to 2008, and to reduce GHG emissions by 25 percent over the same period. Environmental incidents and complaints The total number of registered environmental complaints was 45 DSM aims to contribute to global GHG reductions in the most (35 in 2012), of which 23 were about noise, 21 about odor and efficient way, and to report its targets and achievements within 1 related to water discharge. its Integrated Annual Report and as part of its commitment to the Carbon Disclosure Project. At the same time, it supports its The total number of environmental incidents was 271, compared customers’ efforts to reduce GHG emissions via innovative, to 316 in 2012. Of these, 8 were rated as serious (2 in 2012). sustainable solutions and through various dedicated renewable energy initiatives. These initiatives include the POET-DSM Sharing information on the safe use of chemicals Advanced Biofuels joint venture in the United States, and DSM's REACH business in solar panel coatings and composite resin-based REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction windmill blades, to name a few. DSM also encourages local of Chemicals) is a European regulation that aims to protect initiatives for on-site renewable energy generation, making human health and the environment from risks that can be posed optimal use of local circumstances. by chemicals, while enhancing the competitiveness of the EU chemicals industry. Compliance with REACH provides a license Raw materials to operate, while failure to register can have a serious impact on a company’s commercial interests and its ability to do business. In 2013 approximately 10 percent of DSM’s total spending on Manufacturers and importers of chemical substances, mixtures raw materials related to renewable raw materials. This represents and articles that contain chemical substances within the an increase over 2010, 2011 and 2012, which is in line with the European Economic Area must register these substances before DSM portfolio changes. Further increases are expected in the 2018. Registration includes providing information on the safety coming years, with programs in place to further develop of the substances that are intended for use. renewable raw materials. Within the scope of REACH, DSM is running a program to submit relevant data on the presence or absence of hazardous effects of all chemicals DSM produces and imports within the European Union. The total number of substances involved exceeds 400. DSM has successfully met all deadlines, thus contributing to the security of supply for its customers. The company is currently REACH compliant. DSM will now follow up on its 2010 and 2013 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 64 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement External recognition Sustainability Governance Framework People in 2013 Planet in 2013 Profit in 2013 dossiers and focus on the integration of REACH in its daily journey towards a proactive ingredient policy for gaining operations. effectiveness in the design of better products, which was published in June 2013. Safe ingredients policy DSM is bolstering its approach to safer ingredients by bringing GHS alternatives that are more environmentally friendly to the market DSM continuously monitors developments that relate to the UN in substitution of more hazardous chemicals. These actions are Globally Harmonized System (GHS) and to related national proactive and go beyond the legal requirements. They are regulations on classification and labeling, and takes any focused on substances that are expected to become reclassified necessary actions to ensure timely implementation. Products or that are less preferred by end customers because of their have been re-labeled and revised accordingly, and safety data anticipated health and safety risks. sheets are provided to reflect new requirements. National and regional deadlines are respected in this process and DSM In 2013, DSM brought several greener and safer alternatives to employees are informed and trained on new systems of the market: classification and labeling. To make a significant contribution to solutions that reduce the Sustainable value chains environmental impact of e-waste, DSM has developed a broad portfolio of halogen-free materials for electronics and electrical In 2012, DSM reported a first baseline for emissions from its applications that do not release carcinogenic compounds into supply chain, according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol for the environment during manufacturing, use and disposal. scope 3 emissions issued by the WBCSD and the World These materials meet performance and sustainability Resources Institute. The standard applies to 15 different requirements from regulators and consumers. categories, of which 11 have been found to be relevant to DSM’s DSM special grades of polyamide-6 provide producers of fuel operations, according to the Chemical Sector Working Group of tanks for vehicles and appliances with small engines with the the WBCSD. simplest and most cost-effective way of cutting evaporative emissions. Tanks made from these materials conform to newly In 2013, this baseline was used as a starting point for implemented regulations set by the US Environmental improvements in the methodology and data used for Protection Agency and the California Air Resources Board, calculations. There are a number of reasons for changes in the and to guidelines from other parts of the world. The materials reported values. Corrections were made in calculations for are also more cost effective and reliable than comparable categories 1 and 2. In several categories, DSM found ways to solutions. increase data accuracy and specificity (categories 2, 3, 6, 12 and DSM has developed a new material for ultrathin waterproof 15), and to better align with the Protocol (categories 1, 2, 4). and highly breathable membranes in outdoor clothing. The Furthermore, some numbers changed as a result of fluctuations material is PFC (perfluorinated chemicals) free and 100 in activity data, such as less business travel and reduced waste percent recyclable. generation in operations. Anticipating the increasing concerns about cobalt toxicity, DSM has been working for many years on the development of In addition to DSM’s focus on improving the quality of the figures, cobalt-free resin curing systems. The company has it conducted an analysis in 2013 to determine which suppliers successfully scaled up this technology and filed a broad range and raw materials contribute most to its scope 3 greenhouseof patents covering many types of accelerator systems and gas emissions, in order to identify further opportunities for materials. The company introduced five new cobalt-free prereduction in the supply chain. DSM also intensified its efforts in accelerated resins to the market in 2012-2013, and will deliver collecting supplier specific LCAs as a means of refining its more in the future. calculations and communicating DSM’s expectations and aspirations to suppliers. DSM has sought to expand knowledge DSM’s leading role in sustainability was also recognized by the about sustainable procurement across the organization, UK Royal Society of Chemistry, which invited the company to particularly within the purchasing function, so that it becomes a contribute to their series Issues in environmental science and natural way of thinking for people in relevant positions. See also technology with a chapter highlighting DSM’s sustainability DSM's Supplier Sustainability Program on page 35. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 65 www.dsm.com Scope 3 emissions under Greenhouse Gas Protocol Emissions (in kilotons of CO2 equivalent) Category 2013 2012 1 Purchased goods and services 12,2501 13,5001 2 Capital goods 300-600 1 1,000-1,7501 3 Fuel and energy-related activities 550 250-500 4 Upstream transportation and distribution 3952 1862 5 Waste generated in operations 159 1713 6 Business travel 431 771 7 Employee commuting 40-60 40-60 8 Upstream leased assets 311 291 9 Downstream transportation & distribution 19 2 10-252 10 Processing of sold products not relevant 4 not relevant4 11 Use of sold products not relevant 4 not relevant4 12 End-of-life treatment of sold products <10,000 3,000-4,000 13 Downstream leased assets not relevant4 not relevant4 14 Franchises not relevant4 not relevant4 15 Investments 90-1502 10-30 1 From Q4 previous year to Q3 reporting year. 2 Reported figures with 1 year delay. 3 The number represents an update compared to the previously reported number. 4 These categories are considered to be not applicable or not relevant for DSM, or cannot be estimated at this time due to the wide array of applications, based upon the WBCSD Guidance for Accounting & Reporting Corporate GHG Emissions in the Chemical Sector Value Chain. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 66 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement External recognition Sustainability Governance Framework People in 2013 Planet in 2013 Profit in 2013 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 67 www.dsm.com My bright ideas help to reduce food waste Loes Bevers, Associate Scientist Applied Biochemistry, DSM Food Specialties DSM is at the forefront of developing solutions to limit the amount of food waste and bring measurable natural and human beneﬁts as a result. Our preservation ingedredients play an increasingly important role in reducing food waste. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 68 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement External recognition Sustainability Governance Framework People in 2013 Planet in 2013 Profit in 2013 Profit in 2013 Financial results Within the Profit dimension of DSM’s Triple P approach, DSM delivers a sustainable financial return. This ensures business continuity and allows the company to grow, while at the same time providing a good financial return to its shareholders. This chapter reports DSM’s financial performance and provides an overview of the key financial metrics of the company. Income statement x € million, continuing operations 2013 2012 Net sales 9,051 8,588 Operating profit before depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) 1,263 1,073 Operating profit before exceptional items 749 651 Net finance costs (142) (109) Share of the profit of associates (2) 2 Income tax expense (108) (95) Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 2 (10) Net profit before exceptional items 499 439 Net profit from discontinued operations, excluding exceptional items 9 (12) Net result from exceptional items (237) (149) Total net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 271 278 ROCE, continuing operations (in %) 9.7 10.1 EBITDA / net sales, continuing operations (in %) 14.0 12.5 Net sales Operating profit At € 9.1 billion, net sales from continuing operations in 2013 were Operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional 6 percent higher than in 2012 when they reached € 8.6 billion. items increased by € 98 million (15 percent), from € 651 million Volume development accounted for a 5 percent increase in net in 2012 to € 749 million in 2013. The EBITDA margin (operating sales. On average, selling prices were 3 percent lower than in profit before depreciation and amortization as a percentage of 2012. Exchange rate fluctuations had a negative impact of 3 net sales) increased to 14.0 percent, compared to 12.5 percent percent, while acquisitions contributed 6 percent. in 2012. Net sales by business segment, continuing operations EBITDA / net sales, continuing operations in 2013 in % in % ■ Nutrition ■ Pharma ■ Performance Materials ■ Polymer Intermediates ■ Innovation Center ■ Corporate Activities 25 21.8 20 22 13 18 19 15 11.8 43 46 10 7.2 5 1.6 30 32 2 0 2 Nutrition Pharma Performance Polymer Materials Intermediates 2013 2012 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 69 www.dsm.com Net profit Net sales by origin, continuing operations in % Net profit from continuing operations before exceptional items increased by € 60 million to € 499 million. Expressed per ordinary ■ Netherlands ■ Rest of Western Europe ■ Eastern Europe share, net earnings from continuing operations before ■ North America ■ Latin America ■ China ■ Other exceptional items increased from € 2.59 in 2012 to € 2.84 in 5 5 2013. 11 11 33 35 6 4 Net finance costs increased by € 33 million compared to the previous year to a level of € 142 million. This increase was mainly 17 19 the result of unfavorable hedge results and higher interest 1 expenses due to higher net debt. The effective tax rate (before 1 25 27 exceptional items) of 18 percent in 2013 was in line with the 2013 2012 effective tax rate in 2012. Total net profit for the full year came to € 271 million compared Net sales by destination, continuing operations in % to € 278 million in 2012. The higher operating profit in 2013 was offset by higher finance costs and higher exceptional items (in ■ Netherlands ■ Rest of Western Europe ■ Eastern Europe ■ North America ■ Latin America ■ China ■ India ■ Japan particular restructuring and acquisition costs). ■ Rest of Asia ■ Rest of the world 2 7 3 7 9 9 Exceptional items 3 3 2 2 Full-year exceptional items before taxes resulted in a loss 27 28 of € 270 million (2012: loss of € 194 million), including an 14 15 impairment of € 152 million relating to the envisaged contribution of DSM Pharmaceutical Products to a new entity that will be 10 6 8 6 majority owned by private equity company JLL Partners, € 76 20 19 million in restructuring costs, € 35 million in acquisition related 2013 2012 costs and € 10 million in costs for restructuring to capture synergies. Net sales by end-use market, continuing operations in % ■ Health and nutrition ■ Pharmaceuticals ■ Metal / building and construction ■ Automotive/transport ■ Textiles ■ Agriculture ■ Electrical/electronics ■ Packaging ■ Other 11 12 7 7 6 43 7 2 48 2 9 9 8 9 2 7 2 9 2013 2012 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 70 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement External recognition Sustainability Governance Framework People in 2013 Planet in 2013 Profit in 2013 Cash flow At € 889 million, cash provided by operating activities (total DSM) was 9 percent of net sales. Cash flow statement x € million 2013 2012 Cash, cash equivalents and current investments at 1 January 1,133 2,147 Current investments at 1 January 12 89 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 1,121 2,058 Operating activities: Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization 1,314 1,109 Changes in working capital (87) (17) Interest and income tax (175) (163) Other changes (163) (199) Cash flow provided by operating activities 889 730 Investing activities: Capital expenditure1 (735) (686) Acquisitions (509) (1,262) Sale of subsidiaries 72 7 Disposals 6 39 Change in current investments 18 77 Other (22) (31) Cash from / used in investing activities (1,170) (1,856) Dividend (160) (210) Repurchase of shares (73) Proceeds from re-issued shares 145 90 Other cash from / used in financing activities 26 291 Cash used in financing activities (62) 171 Effect of exchange differences (2) 18 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 776 1,121 Current investments at 31 December 19 12 Cash, cash equivalents and current investments at 31 December 795 1,133 1 An amount of € 37 million included in capital expenditure was funded by customers Balance sheet The balance sheet total (total assets) reached € 12.0 billion at year-end (same as in 2012). Equity increased by € 56 million compared to the position at the end of 2012. The increase was due to the net profit for the year and the proceeds from reissued shares, which were partly offset by the dividend and the repurchase of shares. Equity as a percentage of total assets increased from 50 percent at the end of 2012 to 51 percent at the end of 2013. Compared to year-end 2012, net debt increased by € 194 million. The gearing was 23 percent at year-end. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 71 www.dsm.com Capital expenditure on intangible assets and property, plant and equipment amounted to € 793 million in 2013 and was above the level of amortization and depreciation. The operating working capital (continuing operations before reclassification to 'held for sale') was € 66 million higher than in the previous year and came to 21.1 percent of annualized fourth quarter net sales (2012: 20.7 percent). Cash and cash equivalents, including current investments, decreased by € 338 million and came to € 795 million. Capital employed by business segment at Equity at 31 December 31 December 2013, continuing operations x € billion as a % of balance sheet total 4.5 4 60 53 54 52 51 50 50 3 40 2 1.9 30 20 1 0.6 0.6 10 0.1 0.2 0 0 Nutrition Pharma Performance Polymer Innovation Corporate 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Materials Intermediates Center Activities Balance sheet profile 2013 2012 x € million in % x € million in % Intangible assets 2,705 22 2,793 24 Property, plant and equipment 3,822 32 3,811 32 Other non-current assets 615 5 521 4 Cash and cash equivalents 776 7 1,121 9 Other current assets 4,099 34 3,720 31 Total assets 12,017 100 11,966 100 Equity 6,098 51 6,042 50 Provisions 163 1 206 2 Other non-current liabilities 2,530 21 2,640 22 Other current liabilities 3,226 27 3,078 26 Total liabilities 12,017 100 11,966 100 Dividend DSM’s dividend policy is to provide a stable and preferably rising dividend. DSM proposes to increase the dividend by 10 percent from € 1.50 to € 1.65 per ordinary share. This will be the fourth consecutive increase. This will be proposed to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders to be held on 7 May 2014. An interim dividend of € 0.50 per ordinary share having been paid in August 2013, the final dividend would then amount to € 1.15 per ordinary share. The dividend will be payable in cash or in the form of ordinary shares at the option of the shareholder. Dividend in cash will be paid after deduction of 15 percent Dutch dividend withholding tax. The ex-dividend date is 9 May 2014. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 72 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement External recognition Sustainability Governance Framework People in 2013 Planet in 2013 Profit in 2013 Dividend per ordinary share in € 2013 dividend subject to approval by Annual General Meeting of Shareholders 2 1.65 1.45 1.50 1.35 1.20 1 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Outlook For 2014 DSM takes a prudent approach, assuming the unfavorable January 2014 foreign exchange rates are maintained for the year. Furthermore, DSM assumes a continued challenging macro-economic environment, with low growth in Europe, modest growth in the US, and a slowdown in the high growth economies. Based on the above, DSM targets for 2014 to improve its business performance to at least offset the negative currency impact of € 70 million at January 2014 exchange rates. Comparable EBITDA in 2013 from continuing operations after new accounting rules for joint ventures amounted to € 1,261 million. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 73 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2013 In 2013 DSM's activities were grouped into five clusters: Nutrition, Pharma, Performance Materials, Polymer Intermediates and Innovation Center. In addition, DSM reports separately on Corporate Activities. Results presented in this section (and elsewhere in the management report) are before exceptional items. Net sales Operating profit (EBIT) x € million 2013 2012 x € million 2013 2012 Nutrition 4,195 3,667 Nutrition 679 613 Pharma 184 183 Pharma (8) (3) Performance Materials 2,746 2,772 Performance Materials 185 146 Polymer Intermediates 1,579 1,596 Polymer Intermediates 71 97 Innovation Center 149 102 Innovation Center (53) (63) Corporate Activities 198 268 Corporate Activities (125) (139) Total continuing operations 9,051 8,588 Total continuing operations 749 651 Discontinued operations 567 543 Discontinued operations 10 (16) Total DSM 9,618 9,131 Total DSM 759 635 EBITDA Capital employed at 31 December x € million 2013 2012 x € million 2013 2012 Nutrition 914 793 Nutrition 4,494 4,122 Pharma 3 3 Pharma 146 162 Performance Materials 324 280 Performance Materials 1,910 2,026 Polymer Intermediates 113 129 Polymer Intermediates 570 447 Innovation Center (17) (38) Innovation Center 561 507 Corporate Activities (74) (94) Corporate Activities 183 216 Total continuing operations 1,263 1,073 Total continuing operations 7,864 7,480 Discontinued operations 51 36 Discontinued operations 439 604 Total DSM 1,314 1,109 Total DSM 8,303 8,084 EBITDA / net sales ROCE in % 2013 2012 in % 2013 2012 Nutrition 21.8 21.6 Nutrition 15.5 18.3 Pharma 1.6 1.6 Pharma (5.1) (2.1) Performance Materials 11.8 10.1 Performance Materials 9.4 7.2 Polymer Intermediates 7.2 8.1 Polymer Intermediates 14.0 23.3 Total continuing operations 14.0 12.5 Total continuing operations 9.7 10.1 Discontinued operations 9.0 6.6 Discontinued operations 1.9 (2.5) Total DSM 13.7 12.1 Total DSM 9.2 8.9 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 74 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2013 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Capital expenditure Workforce at 31 December x € million 2013 2012 headcount 2013 2012 Nutrition 255 195 Nutrition 10,548 9,489 Pharma 11 22 Pharma 857 851 Performance Materials 56 109 Performance Materials 5,128 5,354 Polymer Intermediates 235 214 Polymer Intermediates 1,456 1,474 Innovation Center 108 36 Innovation Center 664 668 Corporate Activities 87 89 Corporate Activities 3,204 3,199 Total continuing operations 752 665 Total continuing operations 21,857 21,035 Discontinued operations 41 50 Discontinued operations 2,492 2,463 Total, accounting based 793 715 Total DSM 24,349 23,498 Non-cash items (58) (29) Customer funding (37) (13) Total, cash based 698 673 R&D expenditure (including associated IP expenditure) x € million as % of net sales 2013 2012 2013 2012 Nutrition 209 202 5.0 5.5 Pharma 6 4 3.3 2.2 Performance Materials 132 131 4.8 4.7 Polymer Intermediates 17 18 1.1 1.1 Innovation Center 80 61 53.7 59.8 Corporate Activities 26 22 13.1 8.2 Total continuing operations 470 438 5.2 5.1 Discontinued operations 45 52 8.0 9.6 Total DSM 515 490 5.4 5.4 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 75 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2013 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 76 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2013 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Life Sciences DSM’s Life Sciences activities are bundled into two clusters: Nutrition and Pharma. In 2013, these two clusters represented 48 percent of DSM’s total net sales from continuing operations. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 77 www.dsm.com My bright ideas provide innovative feed additives Fidelis Fru, Director Research & Development, DSM Animal Nutrition & Health Ruminants and products derived from them are a major source of protein everywhere in the world. DSM enables increased efﬁciency of ruminant husbandry to go hand in hand with careful management of the environment. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 78 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2013: Review of business in 2013 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Nutrition Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Continued value Net sales growth € 4,195 m The first half of the year saw continued weakness in demand in x € million 2013 2012 Animal Nutrition & Health on the back of historically high grain prices in 2012. Recovery of demand was further delayed by the Net sales: outbreak of animal diseases such as bird flu in China and Mexico DSM Nutritional Products: and Early Mortality Syndrome (EMS) in shrimp in South East Asia. Animal Nutrition & Health 1,934 1,717 This demand weakness led to significant price pressures in Human Nutrition & Health 1,690 1,407 several Animal Nutrition & Health products, most notably in Personal Care 152 174 vitamin E, which continued in the second half of the year. Overall, 3,776 3,298 the organic growth of Animal Nutrition & Health was almost flat. DSM Food Specialties 419 369 In Human Nutrition & Health demand development was positive Total 4,195 3,667 in the first part of the year and through the summer. However, weakness in omega-3 based supplements, Western Food & Organic sales development (in %) 2 2 Beverage markets and North American dietary supplements as Operating profit 679 613 of late Q3 led to a disappointing performance with flat sales in Operating profit plus depreciation the fourth quarter. Infant Nutrition proved a strong driver of and amortization (EBITDA) 914 793 growth throughout the year. Overall, the organic growth of Capital expenditure 255 195 Human Nutrition & Health was 4 percent for the year. Capital employed at 31 December 4,494 4,122 ROCE (in %) 15.5 18.3 In Personal Care, demand development was especially EBITDA as % of net sales 21.8 21.6 impacted by weak sales for sun filters due to a very poor summer R&D expenditure 209 202 in the US and Europe, considered one of the worst years ever by the industry, and by increased competitive intensity. The unit Workforce at 31 December also focused on streamlining its distributor network and product (headcount) 10,548 9,489 line-up in skin care. In Food Specialties, growth was achieved in all market Business segments, supported by contributions from business acquired in cultures and enzymes. Demand was strong for innovative The Nutrition cluster consists of DSM Nutritional Products and yeast extracts and process flavors from high growth economies. DSM Food Specialties. These businesses serve the feed, food and beverage, pharmaceutical, dietary supplements and Total sales for 2013 of the Nutrition cluster came to € 4.2 billion, personal care industries. With an in-depth knowledge of local compared to about € 3.7 billion in 2012, which represents a and global market needs, they apply their unique capabilities to compounded annual growth rate of 10 percent since the start of the benefit of customers and other stakeholders. the current strategic period. In 2013, Nutrition faced challenging market conditions with a The Nutrition cluster has confirmed its targets for 2015 as fragile macro-economic environment in Europe and to a lesser organic sales growth of GDP +2 percent and an EBITDA margin extent the United States and price pressures in a number of range of 20-23 percent. markets. EBITDA increased 15 percent, driven by the positive impact of acquisitions, organic growth and operational Trends performance, despite a negative impact from currencies. The US dollar and several currencies in high growth economies, which Despite the challenges in the macro-economic environment in DSM is increasingly exposed to, weakened against the euro. 2013, the key global societal trends that drive the company’s Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 79 www.dsm.com growth in nutrition and health remained intact and provided which is also notable in countries with low-cost producers, has resilience to the cluster. With more than half the world’s become an important differentiator for DSM. population now living in cities, the need for convenience and processed food has never been higher, which matches the In the period ahead, DSM expects more demanding company’s ability to deliver tailor-made local applications and requirements from customers for deeper insights and blends. customized solutions. Growth will continue to shift towards high growth economies where the business will increase its At the same time, a rapid rise in living standards has continued, development of products tailored to local consumer preferences particularly in high growth economies, where it is driving and market and channel structures. increases in the demand for animal protein. This is boosting the demand for more and better animal feeds, which, combined with Value chain the rising scarcity of resources, is requiring more efficient feed conversion processes and a reduction of undesirable waste DSM's strategy for the Nutrition cluster, with a strong product components. In this regard, DSM offers solutions that help make portfolio leveraged across the value chain addressing attractive industrial farming systems more sustainable and have a lower markets, has served the company well. The cluster has a unique impact on the environment. business model that aims to capture opportunities arising from global megatrends by combining global production capabilities Global megatrends are fueling demand for health and wellness in active ingredients and formulations with customized local products such as infant nutrition products, dietary supplements, formulations, premix activities and distribution channels. and healthier choices in food and beverages. As populations continue to age and awareness about hidden hunger increases, As a global producer, DSM delivers a broad portfolio of high health consciousness is also prompting governments and health quality and competitive actives while offering maximum authorities to encourage the consumption of supplements and differentiation through industry and segment specific fortified foods. formulations. At the same time, as a local solutions provider, it is increasingly focusing on customer-driven solutions and Public concerns are also increasing around issues of quality, segment-specific products. By successfully managing the safety and sustainability, leading to a stronger regulatory focus interdependencies between active ingredients, formulations, on these areas. Authorities prefer producers to work with premixes and macro blends, it is able to drive innovation, suppliers that, like DSM, are rigorous in their application of optimize its logistics and ensure final value delivery to its science and have state-of-the-art quality assurance systems. customers and their end consumers. The growing awareness around environmental sustainability, Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 80 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2013 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities The cluster works from a strong base as a global market leader, technologies; expand premix networks and services through with a portfolio of key value-added nutritional ingredients that is nutritional science and advocacy; maintain its investments in the broadest in the industry, with particularly strong positions in state-of-the-art quality management; and build on its ability to vitamins, nutritional lipids, enzymes, cultures and carotenoids. It deliver more value, more efficiently. then leverages the potential of the value chain and establishes new growth platforms in adjacent areas that widen its global Acquisitions presence. Since the launch of the DSM in motion: driving focused growth strategy in 2010, the company has acquired businesses in The business addresses the needs of individual markets through Nutrition totaling € 2.4 billion in enterprise value. These have fermentation, chemical synthesis, and in key niches of active created attractive shareholder value. The Nutrition cluster now compounds derived from plant extracts. Specialist teams work accounts for approximately half of total company sales with an closely with customers to jointly develop ingredient formulations EBITDA margin target of between 20 and 23 percent. for a range of end products. All formulations are customized to Acquisitions have been the main vehicle for adding new growth ensure the best ingredient characteristics for each specific end platforms, including high growth economies. In the period product. ahead, DSM's primary focus will be on the full integration of its newest companies, and on reaping the benefits of these in terms Over the years, DSM has expanded and strengthened its value of growth, synergies and costs. chain presence and business model downstream, adding macro blends while strengthening its nutritional consultancy and Overall the acquisitions performed well in 2013. Martek, services. Its global footprint has grown to more than 60 Fortitech and Tortuga exceeded expectations. Ocean Nutrition countries, including a large number of high growth economies, Canada was confronted with market headwinds towards the end where it benefits from unparalleled customer access, a broader of the year. The integration of the acquisitions is well advanced, product portfolio, and new skills and capabilities. The expansion and synergies are being delivered according to plan. of DSM’s premix footprint in emerging economies has been one of the most important business drivers in the areas of human and The 2012 acquisition of Ocean Nutrition Canada (ONC), together animal nutrition and health. with the fully integrated Martek business, has created a strong leader in nutritional lipids. Significantly higher fish oil costs have DSM’s uniquely integrated business model and strong global caused steep price increases in omega-3 based supplements at position enables it to be a front-runner in quality and innovation, retail level, which led to softness in consumer demand in the US regulatory and technical expertise, sustainability, and customer in the second half of the year. With ONC DSM has considerably and consumer understanding. In the years ahead, the business strengthened its presence in the US dietary supplements will continue to provide solutions that capture macro-trend market, while leveraging its global network to grow the dynamic opportunities, while strengthening its core by improving omega-3 market category for dietary supplements and food and operations and the supply chain. It will innovate and upgrade beverages outside the US. delivery systems through application and formulation Nutrition acquisitions 2010-2013 Enterprise Company Business group value in € m Year Martek DNP 790 2011 Ocean Nutrition Canada DNP 420 2012 Cultures and enzymes business of Cargill DFS 85 2012 Fortitech DNP 495 2012 Tortuga DNP 465 2013 Unitech DNP 35 2013 Other acquisitions 110 Total enterprise value approx. 2,400 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 81 www.dsm.com The integration of Fortitech, acquired in late 2012, is well As an industry pioneer, DSM is also a key driver of the global underway with a new Human Nutrition & Health premix structure science agenda in the field of ingredients. As such, it is focused in place that preserves the very successful Fortitech operational on advancing the world's understanding of the intricate model and its customer base. The business has added a strong relationships between nutrition, health, product development position to DSM’s customized food ingredient blends and and food production processes. expanded its value chain presence with complete solutions globally. In 2013, it achieved double digit growth and significant The company is increasingly recognized as a thought leader in cost and ingredient supply synergies in all regions. the field of nutrition and health, which has become a key element in its development. Thought leadership enables DSM to engage The Cultures and Enzymes business acquired from Cargill in in discussions on nutrition guidelines, policies and practices with 2012 has now been fully integrated. It is offering a new high-level decision makers and authorities around the world. It proposition in the attractive market for Dairy Enzymes & Cultures also helps DSM to build institutional knowledge and create to leading global dairy players. The integration of its portfolio has confidence among its customers and other stakeholders. led to a rationalization of brands and products, while synergies have been achieved. In 2013, its Sight and Life think tank published a book entitled The Road to Good Nutrition, a part of its Vitamins in Motion DSM completed the acquisition of Tortuga, the Brazilian market campaign to combat hidden hunger. The book was broadly leader in minerals for animal nutrition and health, in 2013. The acclaimed by the UN and the development community. In the business has already delivered a strong contribution to DSM’s year, Sight and Life also published a global hidden hunger index growth and earnings and its integration is on track to be fully to help raise global awareness about the magnitude of hidden completed in 2014. It fundamentally strengthens DSM’s footprint hunger around the world and its devastating consequences. in Latin America and its ruminants position globally. Product registrations are now underway for expansion in Latin America, DSM Nutritional Products while the company’s growing trace mineral program for monogastric species is also underway. DSM Nutritional Products is organized around three marketfacing entities: Animal Nutrition & Health, Human Nutrition & DSM continues to implement further efficiency improvements in Health and Personal Care. In 2013, DSM Nutritional Products support of its unique business model in Nutrition. posted sales of € 3,776 million compared to € 3,298 million in 2012. EBITDA increased 15% in 2013, driven by the positive Sustainability impact of acquisitions, organic growth and operational Sustainability is a significant growth driver for the Nutrition performance, despite a negative impact of currencies. cluster, and it creates opportunities to develop and market solutions that are more efficient and have distinct environmental Despite challenges in several of its markets, the year saw advantages. The cluster contributes to the creation of ECO+ significant strategic progress for DSM Nutritional Products as it solutions within DSM, which is the term designated by DSM to continued to capture megatrend opportunities by leveraging its those products that provide a quantifiably better ecological broad range of active nutritional ingredients across the value performance than comparable mainstream products in the chain. Its global premix network expanded its development of market. tailored customer and market solutions, and strengthened DSM’s position as the innovation partner of choice for the food, DSM completed several assessments of the ecological and feed and personal care industries. carbon footprint of products, including vitamins C, B2 and B6. Many of these products and processes not only contribute to a As a result of its steady growth, stable margins, and value reduction in DSM’s ecological footprint, but also look to improve creating acquisitions, the business group is today twice the size the ecological footprint of end products and their application and of what it was 10 years ago. The global product portfolio has use. been significantly expanded around its core offering of vitamins and carotenoids focusing on Human and Animal Nutrition & DSM believes that good nutrition is indispensable to unlocking Health. It now includes fish-oil based as well as vegetable PUFAs the physical and mental potential of every man, woman and (polyunsaturated fatty acids, i.e. omega-3 and omega-6) and child. It views the elimination of malnutrition as a key priority and organic trace minerals. a shared global responsibility that it supports wholeheartedly. The merger of DSM’s human premix network with the leading blender Fortitech expands what was primarily a channel to Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 82 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2013 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities market DSM actives, towards one with more economies of During its first year as part of DSM, the Tortuga business in Brazil scale, flexibility and versatility. For both human and animal fully delivered on expectations. The acquisition was concluded applications, DSM’s premix network is by far the largest in the in April 2013 and the integration program is firmly on track. industry. Tortuga provides high-quality nutritional supplements including minerals for pasture-raised cattle as well as for dairy cows and The business group has emphasized customer proximity and feedlots. It specializes on ruminants with products to match further developed its market approach and identity. For the first specific requirements during the animal’s life cycle. With its vast time since 2003, it began building a new vitamin factory, in range of formulations and services, Tortuga has solutions for Xinghuo, Shanghai (China), where it started work on its new ruminants at all phases of development and in different state-of-the-art vitamin B6 facility in the autumn. environments, to help livestock farmers achieve greater efficiency, profitability, health benefits and sustainability in their Animal Nutrition & Health operations. Tortuga has developed its own exclusive minerals technology for ten different minerals (calcium, magnesium, sulfur, chromium, zinc, manganese, copper, iron, cobalt, Strategic progress 2013 selenium). This is a significant differentiator in the market, as Tortuga is the only mineral feed producer in the world that is fully HGEs: new premix plants in Vietnam and the Philippines, integrated in the supply chain and can apply those minerals in and other premix businesses acquired in China high inclusion. In addition, the business uses mineral technology Innovation: construction of new Animal Nutrition in products for dairy and feedlot-raised cattle, and for other Innovation and Science Application Center in China nears animals, such as swine, poultry, horses, sheep and goats. The completion combination of the DSM and Tortuga portfolios supports DSM’s Sustainability: several assessments completed on the strategy of becoming a global full solutions provider. It boosts its ecological and carbon footprint of products access to a ruminants market of around 35,000 Brazilian cattle Acquisitions & Partnerships: Tortuga business delivers farmers, and enables Tortuga’s minerals to reach other and integration is on track geographies and segments worldwide. In 2013, DSM opened two new premix plants, in Vietnam and the Philippines. It also took over two other premix businesses in The Animal Nutrition & Health (ANH) business achieved sales of China and the Philippines. In China, the construction of the new € 1,934 million in 2013 compared to € 1,717 million in 2012. Animal Nutrition Innovation and Science Application Center close to Beijing is nearing completion and the inauguration is This business holds a unique global position in the markets for planned for 2014. poultry, swine, aquaculture and ruminants. In all these species, DSM is a full value chain player, providing active ingredients, delivery systems, and nutritional and premix solutions globally and at a local level. Its focus is on the nutritional ingredients and additives segments of these markets. Despite some regional constraints, the challenges in the macroeconomic environment, and the ongoing price pressures in the animal protein market, the megatrends of population growth and rising living standards continued to drive the business in 2013. Demand in some high growth countries was impacted by diseases, such as bird flu in China and Mexico and EMS in shrimp in Asia. In the animal protein markets, decreasing agricultural commodity prices are supporting a steady but slow recovery in animal protein production. This fragility has created some price pressures, especially in vitamin E, which has led DSM to maintain its value-over-volume strategy. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 83 www.dsm.com Human Nutrition & Health leading innovation capabilities and the deepest portfolio of nutritional ingredients, the integrated global premix business has been recognized by customers as the leader in human nutrition Strategic progress 2013 blends. The company’s goal is to provide industry leading nutritional science-backed solutions and unmatched customer HGEs: leveraging global footprint to drive nutritional lipids service with the broadest global reach to help customers sales, while Unitech opens new channels for growth in differentiate and grow their brands. Asia Pacific Innovation: Oatwell® betaglucans receive EFSA The acquisition of Unitech Industries Ltd., located in Auckland endorsement for health claims and new innovation center (New Zealand) completed the strengthening of the premix designed for Brazil to open in 2015 business. Unitech is now ideally positioned to further penetrate Sustainability: several assessments completed on the the rapidly growing market in Asia Pacific. It manufactures highly ecological and carbon footprint of products targeted nutritional premixes with a focus on infant nutrition. It Acquisitions & Partnerships: acquisition of Unitech also produces complete nutritional blends for global and regional Industries Ltd. in New Zealand further strengthens the infant formula companies. This is a highly demanding market that premix business, while the previous acquisition of requires a total commitment to quality in all areas of the business. Fortitech has created a recognized leader in human nutrition blends The difficult market faced by DSM in Human Nutrition & Health have enabled it to prove its unique capabilities and high standards to customers. Its ongoing commitment to the four pillars of Quality, Reliability, Traceability and Sustainability has The Human Nutrition & Health (HNH) business reported 2013 remained the foundation of the business and a significant sales of € 1,690 million compared to € 1,407 million in 2012. differentiator in the market. This business largely addresses the nutritional ingredients part Personal Care of the food& beverage and dietary supplements market, with an DSM's sales in Personal Care in 2013 were € 152 million, additional focus on infant nutrition and aroma ingredients. Its compared to € 174 million in 2012. fundamental drivers are the link between nutrition and a number of global megatrends that have resulted from the world’s This market offers considerable long-term opportunities for DSM growing population, rapid urbanization and the rise of living to innovate for accelerated growth. Personal Care focuses on standards in developing countries. creating mutual value with its customers through a unique portfolio of transformational beauty care ingredients such as Overall conditions in 2013 were challenging, but remained peptides, natural bio-actives, vitamins, UV filters and polymers. favorable for infant nutrition. In the Food & Beverage segment, customers faced softer demand, particularly in Western markets. In 2013, DSM Personal Care launched a new identity entitled In the dietary supplement market, fish-oil based omega-3 was Revealing the Power of Beauty. This brand aspires to connect impacted by sharp price increases at retail level, as the entire and leverage DSM’s scientific capabilities in skin, sun and hair value chain pushed through higher crude fish oil costs. care products to develop transformational beauty care ingredients and concepts with superior performance, quality and As a result of the integration of Martek and Ocean Nutrition reliability. Canada, a new integrated organization in DSM Nutritional Products was implemented in the year. This organization now has the ability to provide both algal and marine-based lipid solutions to DSM’s customer applications in all market segments. Additionally, DSM is leveraging its broad global footprint to drive nutritional lipids sales in high growth economies. The combination of DSM and Fortitech in late 2012 has strengthened DSM’s premix offer with the fastest and highest quality customer-oriented capabilities in the industry, for which Fortitech is widely recognized. Together with DSM’s industryBright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 84 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2013 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities DSM Food Specialties sustainable and more efficient production processes. The market for cultures and probiotics is also expected to grow, driven by health trends and the growing consumption of Strategic progress 2013 fermented milk products. At the same time, the market for savory ingredients is expanding alongside a rising demand for authentic HGEs: increased global footprint through the integration ingredients and reduced sodium products. with the Cultures and Enzymes business acquired from Cargill Strategy Innovation: efforts are recognized by the industry and major steps forward are taken in the production of In Enzymes, DSM focuses on the food and beverage industry high purity steviol glycosides by means of fermentation where it helps customers innovate their products and production Sustainability: Multirome® has 81 percent lower carbon processes. footprint than regular yeast extracts according to LCA Acquisitions & Partnerships: the acquisition of a stake in In Savoury Ingredients, DSM applies yeast and enzyme Yantai Andre Pectin Co., Ltd. in China offers premier technology to capture a unique position in the market with a access to the world’s fastest growing specialty food and portfolio of yeast extracts and process flavors for authentic, ingredients market intense, natural tasting savory foods. In Cultures, DSM’s unique cultures and enzymes toolkit for the dairy industry helps manufacturers create the desired texture, Global distribution network in the food value chain surface and flavor characteristics for their products while increasing yields from their milk. In 2013, sales for DSM Food Specialties came to € 419 million, compared to € 369 million in 2012. The business realized growth The business completed the acquisition of a 29 percent equity in all market segments, supported by contributions from its interest in Yantai Andre Pectin Co., Ltd., the China-based acquired cultures and enzymes business. Its position as a global producer of texturing ingredients, and succeeded in increasing market leader in bio-ingredients for food and beverages was its global footprint in the year, through the integration of the further strengthened with high growth from emerging economies Cultures and Enzymes business acquired from Cargill. in Latin America and Asia, and new opportunities in Africa. Growth was especially fueled by a rising demand for innovative It also saw the completion of an additional dryer facility for the yeast extracts and process flavors. savory business in Delft (Netherlands) and a new office and laboratory opened in San Diego (California, USA) following the DSM Food Specialties is a leading global supplier of food acquisition of the Oils & Fats enzymes business from Verenium enzymes, cultures, taste and health ingredients and other in 2012. specialties for many of the leading global and local dairy, baking, beverages and savory food brands. Its advanced ingredients help customers differentiate their products to consumers in terms of taste, texture and appearance, while helping to optimize production processes and raw material and energy use. Trends The food industry is increasingly looking for sustainable and higher value-added products that are healthier, better tasting and more appealing to consumers. Producers are also looking to improve production processes and save costs. Specialty food ingredients represent approximately 2 percent of the cost of a final product, but can have a significant, direct impact on the end-product. The use of food enzymes is expected to grow in the years ahead as food manufacturers look for cost savings and more Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 85 www.dsm.com Our bright ideas improve the global pharmaceutical supply chain Elham Zolghadr, Downstream Process Development Technician (left) and Hernani Bernabela, Upstream Process Development Technician, DSM Pharmaceutical Products In pharmaceuticals the challenges are many. Which means the industry needs to ﬁnd new efﬁciencies and explore game-changing innovations like bio-pharmaceuticals. DSM is at the forefront of all these areas and more. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 86 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2013: Review of business in 2013 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Pharma Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Leveraging Net sales partnerships for growth € 751 m Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total x € million 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Net sales:1 DSM Pharmaceutical Products 567 543 567 543 DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals 184 183 184 183 Total 184 183 567 543 751 726 Organic sales development (in %) 7 7 5 10 6 9 Operating profit (8) (3) 10 (16) 2 (19) Operating profit plus depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) 3 3 51 36 54 39 Capital expenditure 11 22 41 50 52 72 Capital employed at 31 December 146 162 439 604 585 766 ROCE (in %) (5.1) (2.1) 1.9 (2.5) 0.3 (2.3) EBITDA as % of net sales 1.6 1.6 9.0 6.6 7.2 5.4 R&D expenditure 6 4 45 52 51 56 Workforce at 31 December (headcount) 857 851 2,492 2,463 3,349 3,314 1 DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals is a joint venture for which proportionate consolidation was applied in 2013. From 2014 onwards DSM will have to apply IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements and account for its interest in DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals in accordance with the equity method. In view of the contribution of DSM Pharmaceutical Products to a new entity that will be majority owned by private equity company JLL Partners, that business is presented as discontinued operations in this report. After completion of the transaction that is anticipated for the first half of 2014, DSM will also account for its interest in the new entity in accordance with the equity method. In both cases the companies will no longer contribute to DSM EBITDA whilst the net results will continue to contribute to net income and earnings per share. From 2014 onwards the Pharma cluster will cease to exist but DSM will continue to report on the financial performance of both companies in the notes to the financial statements and in earnings announcements. Business DSM Pharmaceutical Products is a leading provider of highquality custom manufacturing and development services to the The Pharma cluster includes the business group DSM pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and crop protection Pharmaceutical Products (DPP), one of the world’s leading industries. Many of today’s medicines around the world contain custom manufacturing organizations to the pharmaceutical ingredients produced by DPP. The business serves its industry, and DSM's 50 percent interest in the DSM Sinochem customers with clinical and commercial services from its two Pharmaceuticals (DSP) joint venture. research and development sites in the US and Europe. Its customers include nine of the top ten pharmaceutical companies In November 2013, DSM took a major step forward in its strategy as well as the leading crop protection companies. The business for the cluster, with the announcement of the formation of a new also serves a large number of biotech, specialty and emerging entity together with JLL Partners, a New York-based private pharma companies across the globe. DSM Pharmaceutical equity company, combining DPP and the US-based company Products’ facilities have been approved by the US Food and Patheon to create a leading global contract development and Drug Administration (FDA) and equivalent agencies in Europe, manufacturing company in which DSM will retain a 49 percent the Middle East, Africa and Japan. DSM Pharmaceuticals, Inc. interest. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 87 www.dsm.com is licensed by the US Drug Enforcement Administration to healthcare in these economies expands, and given that these manufacture scheduled drugs. products are very safe and cost-effective choices, DSP continues to grow in these markets. DSP is seen as an industry In 2013, sales in the Pharma cluster rose to € 751 million leader with clear market advantages, communicated via the compared to € 726 million in the previous year. Full year organic DSMPureActives™ brand. sales growth was 6 percent. Total Pharma EBITDA for the full year increased to € 54 million, compared to € 39 million in 2012. The Asian market accounts for only 7 percent of total global pharmaceutical spend, but this proportion is expected to reach Trends 20 percent by 2020 (Source: Credit Suisse/IMS). DSP is well positioned to benefit from this trend, and has two anti-infectives Business conditions in the pharmaceutical market continue to production sites in the region, one in China and the other in India, be challenging with a number of underlying trends that are which are supported by a network of sales offices. shaping the industry in a fundamental way. These challenges provide growth opportunities for companies with sufficient scale, Strategic context reach and sustainability capabilities. DSP will continue to focus on strengthening its position in betaFor DPP’s customers, mainly large innovative pharmaceutical lactams while increasing the share of new product launches and companies, it is becoming more difficult to discover new active strengthening its presence in formulations. DPP focuses on the molecules that offer sufficient patient benefits and an acceptable upcoming integration with Patheon. risk profile. Achieving the necessary approvals from the FDA and other regulatory bodies is a significant hurdle, and they have seen Sustainability a reduction in new product approvals over the last decade. To further reduce their environmental footprint, both DPP and DSP are deploying their technological toolbox to reduce the use Cost pressures continue to be high, with rising costs in molecule of scarce resources and energy where possible and are actively development, and healthcare spending by governments and implementing the use of renewable energy sources in their insurance companies continuing to be scrutinized. Medicines operations. typically account for around 10 percent of healthcare spending. In response, pharmaceutical companies are reviewing their The use of proprietary biotechnology makes DSP an industry business models and product ranges, and turning their attention leader in terms of sustainability. Emissions are considerably to specialist areas. These include biopharmaceutical products, lower than with conventional technology, while product quality where volumes are typically lower. is higher. The above offers opportunities for high quality Contract DSM Pharmaceutical Products Manufacturing Organizations (CMOs) and the market for outsourcing which is growing above GDP levels, especially for drugs nearing the end of their (patented) life cycle. Strategic progress 2013 Pharmaceutical companies optimizing their asset base are increasingly demanding experienced, cost-efficient and highly Innovation: DPC enters collaboration agreement with qualified partners to take on manufacturing challenges as their Chemtrix BV to augment DSM's expertise in microreactor core supplier. It is a challenging environment that offers technology opportunities for DSM, with its ability to provide innovative and Sustainability: technological toolbox to reduce resource sustainable solutions. and energy usage and increase the use of renewable energy The growing pharmaceutical outsourcing market is inherently Acquisitions & Partnerships: joint venture with Patheon volatile, and often subject to severe fluctuations in demand. In addition, there has been a steady rise in competition from Asian players, which is particularly the case for DSM Pharma Chemicals. DSM Pharmaceutical Products focuses on innovative and generic pharmaceuticals, biologics and biosimilars, agro For DSP, leader in beta-lactam anti-infectives, growth is arising chemicals, and markets for fine chemicals. The business group primarily in high growth economies where infectious diseases includes DSM Pharma Chemicals (DPC) (custom chemical continue to be a major life threat. As the coverage and quality of manufacturing services for complex registered intermediates Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 88 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2013 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities and active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs)); DSM Exclusive Opthea of Melbourne (Australia) to manufacture Opthea’s lead Synthesis (which caters to various fine-chemical customers product for eye disease. outside of the pharma industry); DSM Biologics (focusing on services and licenses for biopharmaceutical companies based DSM BioSolutions experienced a setback with the lead CMO on unique technological strengths); DSM Pharmaceuticals, Inc. product that had negative phase III clinical trial results, which (offering manufacturing services for final dosage with a strong subsequently led to a substantial restructuring project. Actions competence in sterile operations); and DSM BioSolutions to further improve DPP's business performance have triggered (focusing on custom manufacturing services based on microbial efficiency and cost reduction projects in the Capua (Italy) fermentation). operations. In 2013 sales at DPP amounted to € 567 million compared to Throughout the year, DPP strengthened its core business € 543 million in 2012. DPP's performance made significant through the Profit Improvement Program, which was progress in 2013, which will support a good start for the valuesuccessfully implemented and resulted in an improved cost creating joint venture with JLL Partners. position. Developing new ways of working Leveraging partnership for growth In 2013, DPC strengthened its technology offering by entering On 19 November DSM and private equity firm JLL Partners into a collaboration agreement with Chemtrix BV (Sittard-Geleen, announced that they intend to combine the US-based company Netherlands) that augments DSM's expertise in microreactor Patheon and DSM Pharmaceutical Products into a new technology. The agreement with Chemtrix helps to provide company that will be a leading global contract development and sustainable manufacturing solutions to customers. manufacturing organization (CDMO) for the pharmaceutical industry. The formation of the new company is expected to be DPP is focusing on serving customers with integrated and full finalized in the first half of 2014. With a global footprint of 23 solutions. Shire Pharmaceuticals, one of the world’s leading locations across North America, Europe, Latin America and specialty biopharmaceutical companies, has transitioned the Australia and about 8,300 employees, this new company will be manufacture of eight specialty pharma products, including a new global leader in contract development and manufacturing Vyvanse®, to DSM Pharmaceutical Products' facility in Greenville services for the pharmaceutical industry with anticipated sales (North Carolina, USA). of around USD 2 billion. DSM Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (DPI) further strengthened its project DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals pipeline, working closely with a number of strategic partners. It announced a 3-year master supply agreement with Eisai Inc. for the production of sterile products. DPI became part of the Strategic progress 2013 nation-wide Fill Finish Manufacturing Network established by the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority HGEs: captured additional value growth in the emerging within the US Department of Health and Human Services and to and developing economies of Asia be a supplier for the manufacture of influenza vaccine in the event Innovation: introduction of Puriclor™ of a flu pandemic. Sustainability: technological toolbox to reduce resource and energy usage while increasing the use of renewable DSM Biologics strengthened its biopharmaceutical operations in energy Groningen (Netherlands) and opened a new ‘biologics plant of the future’ in Brisbane (Australia) in conjunction with the government of Queensland and the federal government of Australia. This site serves the unmet need of the region for large DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals is the global market leader in scale cGMP (current Good Manufacturing Practice) mammalian beta-lactam APIs such as semi-synthetic penicillins (SSPs) and cell culture based manufacturing, and the global biopharma semi-synthetic cephalosporins (SSCs), which represent the markets. biggest class of APIs in anti-infectives. It is also a leader in other active ingredients such as nystatin and next generation statins. During 2013, notable growth was experienced in The joint venture manufactures nearly all its beta-lactam APIs biopharmaceutical services, including agreements with and the related intermediates using proprietary biotechnology. DecImmune Therapeutics of Cambridge (Massachusetts, USA) to develop the nitrogen pathway blocking antibody, and with Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 89 www.dsm.com Sales for DSP in 2013, on a 100 percent basis, increased 1985, it has topped the list of best-selling drugs worldwide for to € 368 million from € 366 million in the previous year, due to more than a decade. higher prices, offset by negative exchange developments, which intensified towards the end of the year. While results remained under pressure due to increased raw materials and energy costs, DSP has been able to strengthen its brand by supplying to the premium segment of the market. It benefits from differentiators in its value propositions that are based on unique product characteristics and excellence in additional services, such as technical after sales support. Industry dynamics remained challenging due to significant overcapacity, especially in China. The stronger focus of Chinese authorities on the responsible use of antibiotics and the environmental impact of production are expected to lower the demand and increase compliance pressures for producers. With its unique technology base and considerably smaller environmental footprint, DSP is well equipped to meet such requirements. In 2013, DSP was able to continue leveraging its position as a premium supplier, and capture additional value growth especially in the emerging and developing economies of Asia and Africa. DSP was able to convey the added value of high quality APIs and services, which led to more robust pricing in Asia, and to a lesser extent in Western markets where DSP is already positioned as a premium supplier. The year marked the introduction of Puriclor™, DSP’s first second-generation SSC API produced in a new facility in China’s Shandong province. The facility was opened in 2012 and uses DSP’s proprietary technologies. Generic pharmaceuticals other than beta-lactams showed continuous strong growth in the year. The new production base in Yushu (Jilin, China), which faced a number of challenges during the start-up phase in the previous year, made steady progress in 2013. The business took an important step in its strategy to expand its API portfolio with the start of construction work at a world class multi-product plant in Toansa (India). The new facility will help to meet the increasing demand for DSP’s existing high-quality products in cardiovasculars while also driving further expansion of its portfolio in defined therapeutic segments. To begin with, the facility will produce Atorvastatin using DSP’s proprietary biotechnology route that is already successfully in place at its partner sites in India. Atorvastatin is the most prescribed drug globally for high cholesterol and cardiovascular disease. First synthesized in Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 90 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2013 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Materials Sciences DSM's Materials Sciences businesses comprise the Performance Materials and Polymer Intermediates clusters. In 2013 the two clusters represented 48 percent of DSM’s total net sales from continuing operations. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 91 www.dsm.com My bright ideas create sustainable solutions for coatings Hans Zoontjens, Application Chemist Decorative, DSM Resins & Functional Materials Did you know that many of the ingredients for high-end decorative paints come from DSM? Or that our resins are the key component in paints for the very toughest of environments? And did you know that we’re creating successive generations of waterborne, powder and UV coating resins? Well, we are… Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 92 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2013: Review of business in 2013 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Growing via innovative Net sales sustainable solutions € 2,746 m for advanced performance materials. It delivered increased x € million 2013 2012 volumes and profitability across all business groups, despite the challenges it faced in the macro-economic environment and Net sales: foreign currency exchange effects. DSM Engineering Plastics 1,261 1,260 DSM Dyneema 252 235 The cluster has benefited from its investments and sales in high DSM Resins & Functional growth economies, most notably China and India, where it is a Materials 1,233 1,277 significant contributor to DSM’s growth in the region. Total 2,746 2,772 DSM has developed a portfolio of specialized performance materials with higher value-added businesses. In doing so, it has Organic sales development (in %) 2 (4) strengthened its global position as a leading provider of Operating profit 185 146 sustainable innovations, meeting end-market demands for Operating profit plus depreciation greater energy efficiency and improved environmental and amortization (EBITDA) 324 280 performance. Capital expenditure 56 109 Capital employed at 31 December 1,910 2,026 In 2013, sales in the Performance Materials cluster decreased to ROCE (in %) 9.4 7.2 € 2,746 million compared to € 2,772 million in the previous year, EBITDA as % of net sales 11.8 10.1 as organic growth of 2 percent was offset by unfavorable R&D expenditure 132 131 exchange rates. Total EBITDA for the full year increased to € 324 million, compared to € 280 million in 2012. Workforce at 31 December (headcount) 5,128 5,354 Trends Concerns over resource scarcity and climate change have Business become important macro drivers in the materials industry. Customers in virtually every market are demanding products that This cluster comprises DSM Engineering Plastics, DSM help to reduce energy consumption and harmful emissions, both Dyneema and DSM Resins & Functional Materials. These within their operations and across the value chain. DSM business groups manufacture technologically sophisticated addresses these needs through innovative materials that are high-quality products, and meet the needs of customers through lighter than metals and other conventional materials. It also specialized and sustainable value propositions. provides customers with polymer solutions that are based on bio-based raw materials, as an alternative to fossil-based DSM Engineering Plastics is a global player in polyamides and feedstocks. polyesters. These materials are used in components for the electrical & electronics, automotive, flexible food packaging and The use of hazardous substances is another area of concern for consumer goods industries. DSM Dyneema is the global consumers and regulators, and is driving demand for safer manufacturer of Dyneema®, the world’s strongest fiber™. DSM alternatives. In response to this concern, DSM Engineering Resins & Functional Materials supplies innovative high-quality Plastics and DSM Resins & Functional Materials are offering resins solutions for paints and coatings, composite materials and products and solutions that eliminate or reduce the use of optical fiber coatings. The business has a global presence. substances such as halogens, styrene, volatile organic compounds (VOC) or cobalt. In 2013, the cluster continued to expand its presence and leadership positions in selected segments of the global market Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 93 www.dsm.com In 2013 macro-economic conditions remained weak across The cluster’s differentiated strategy is based on a three-pronged several key markets. The European building and construction approach that aims to accelerate, strengthen or restructure the and automotive sectors were hit particularly hard. businesses. It is accelerating growth by leveraging its existing infrastructure to capture global megatrend opportunities with a Sustainability focus on fast sales growth and selective acquisitions and partnerships. To strengthen the business it is combining sales DSM is committed to creating innovative solutions that make a growth and margin optimization with cost management, positive difference to people’s lives and reduce the launching new applications and making selected and focused environmental footprint. At the same time, sustainability has investments. Finally, it is restructuring its Composite Resins become a significant driver of new business and innovations in business, so that it is aligned with market requirements. Materials Sciences. DSM has set its sales growth aspiration for the Performance This is leading to the development of new applications that Materials cluster at double GDP growth level and has set an address key sustainability challenges. In recent years, the EBITDA margin goal of 13-15 percent in 2015. company has shifted its materials portfolio towards a higher added-value mix by introducing innovative and more sustainable In addition to these activities, DSM's Emerging Business Areas solutions, some examples of which are outlined elsewhere in this (EBAs) also provide long-term growth platforms. DSM chapter and the report. Biomedical enjoys one of the broadest portfolios of medical materials, technologies and capabilities in the world. These Strategy include biomedical polyurethanes, biomedical polyethylenes, resorbable polymers, ceramics, collagens, extracellular Against this backdrop, DSM is seeking to accelerate growth and matrices, silicone hydrogels, device coatings, and drug delivery improve its performance in Performance Materials. It is platforms. DSM Advanced Surfaces is another important upgrading its portfolio and leveraging opportunities arising from Emerging Business Area, which provides solutions for the megatrends, implementing differentiated strategies for its development and application of smart coatings that enable and businesses to capture profitable growth. At the same time, it is enhance the capture of solar energy. See also: DSM Innovation implementing its Profit Improvement Program to further offset Center on page 105 of this report. macro-economic headwinds and actively manage its margins and costs. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 94 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2013 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities DSM Engineering Plastics Belgium and Russia. These centers house a wide range of highly specialized equipment for material and application testing and support the collaboration of local experts with local, regional and Strategic progress 2013 global customers. HGEs: new cooperation with the Electrical Research & In 2013, DSM Engineering Plastics further expanded its global Development Association in India presence via an agreement with Petropol Polímeros in Brazil, a Innovation: halogen-free flame-retardant Stanyl® ForTii™ leading engineering plastics compound producer in South for next generation memory connectors and sockets and America with more than 20 years experience. new research center underway in Sittard-Geleen (Netherlands) DSM Engineering Plastics targets four key industries: Sustainability: EcoPaXX® high-performance bio-based automotive, electrical & electronics, flexible food packaging and polyamide 410 used in the Mercedes A-class engine and consumer goods. In each of these, it aims to create shared value in crankshaft covers of VW engines by providing high performance materials and solutions to help Acquisitions & Partnerships: agreement with Petropol lower footprints over the life cycle, eliminate the use of Polímeros in Brazil and partnership with Ravago Group substances of concern, use recycled content or offer improved recyclability, and use content that is entirely or partly bio-based. In the automotive sector, manufacturers are looking to reduce Sales for DSM Engineering Plastics in 2013 came to € 1,261 vehicle fuel consumption and emissions by reducing weight and million compared to € 1,260 million a year earlier. The business friction, and through alternative propulsion technologies group delivered a strong underlying performance in its specialty (electrical, hybrid). They are also seeking to meet emerging business. This, and strong cost control, was offset by negative regulations on end-of-life vehicles, reduce vehicle footprints by currency effects and lower results in polyamide 6. using bio-based or recycled materials and improve safety and comfort. DSM meets this demand by providing a broad portfolio The markets for engineering plastics increasingly demand of more sustainable and advanced solutions that reduce weight sustainable and innovative solutions that make people’s lives and friction, allow footprint reduction and enable innovations safer, easier and healthier, while addressing climate change, further downstream, such as the high-performance, bio-based, ingredient safety and food waste. DSM Engineering Plastics has EcoPaXX® polyamide 410 used in the Mercedes A-class engine a focused portfolio with global leadership positions in many of its and in crankshaft covers of VW engines. products. It is the global number three in the overall market for semi-crystalline engineering plastics and the global market In the electrical and electronics industry, manufacturers leader in high-performance polyamides. In polyamide 6 and increasingly seek solutions that address the growing problem of thermoplastic copolyester the business holds a global number e-waste and offer improvements related to functionality, two position. DSM Engineering Plastics’ leadership is underlined miniaturization and productivity. DSM Engineering Plastics by its strong upstream integration in the polyamide 6 value chain addresses this need through its unique portfolio of highwith DSM Fibre Intermediates. All innovations in DSM performance, halogen-free flame-retardant materials with high Engineering Plastics launched in 2013 were classified as ECO+, flow, allowing lead-free soldering, thinner connectors and providing quantifiable environmental advantages to its sockets and offering a halogen-free alternative for consumer customers. electronics cables. An example is the high-performance polyamide Stanyl® ForTii™ that is used in next generation With its global headquarters and management based in memory connectors and sockets. Singapore since 2012, DSM Engineering Plastics is uniquely positioned to respond to the requirements of its customers in the In the flexible food packaging industry, where there are growing Asian market, which will account for the bulk of its growth in the demands for solutions that help reduce food waste, DSM’s period ahead. In 2013, the focus on Asia also resulted in the leadership in polyamide 6 for film and specialty packaging is opening of a new application development technical center in enabling customers to improve productivity, while better Japan and in a cooperation with the Electrical Research & protecting food and extending its shelf life. Development Association in India. In consumer goods, where there is a growing requirement for In addition, the business has production and R&D facilities in the more sustainable performance and improved functionality, DSM Netherlands, the United States, Japan, China, Taiwan, India, Engineering Plastics is moving towards a full range of innovative Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 95 www.dsm.com products with reduced content of substances of concern, DSM Dyneema increased bio-based content, increased recyclability and/or reduced environmental impact. Strategic progress 2013 Contributing to a more circular economy, in 2013 DSM Engineering Plastics announced an extended partnership with HGEs: good progress in establishing and commissioning Ravago Group to develop high performance Akulon® the Trevo™ brand in the Chinese market compounds with post-consumer recycled content for the Innovation: completed construction and commissioning automotive and consumer goods industries. of a regional technical development center in Singapore Sustainability: completed full value chain analyses of the Akulon® Fuel Lock™, a material used in small engine fuel tanks environmental impact of products in all major end-uses or compressed natural gas tanks, provides a simple and costAcquisitions & Partnerships: cooperation with Air Franceeffective way to reduce evaporative emissions from these tanks KLM and DSM's customer AmSafe Bridport for rapid by more than 99 percent. adoption of new air cargo nets made from Dyneema® In the year, DSM Engineering Plastics also established multiple partnerships for the development of innovative thermoplastic composites, the next generation materials to lightweight the DSM Dyneema reported sales of € 252 million in 2013 compared automotive and other performance-driven markets. to € 235 million in 2012. Solid growth was achieved in all enduse markets driven by the accelerated adoption of new products In an important step forward in its research capabilities, DSM under the Dyneema® Diamond Technology, Dyneema® Max Engineering Plastics began building a new research center at the Technology, and Dyneema® Force Multiplier Technology Chemelot Campus in Sittard-Geleen (Netherlands). This center platforms. In all cases, IP and brand licensing relationships were will be an important hub for research and development activities extended to further secure business for the long term. DSM within DSM’s Materials Sciences. It will also become the most Dyneema's results showed a strong improvement driven by important research center worldwide for DSM Engineering sales growth and operational performance. Plastics. The focus of DSM’s advanced materials research has historically been in Sittard-Geleen, which has led to a The Dyneema® brand is licensed for use across a wide and everconcentration of important technological competences and increasing range of applications such as medical sutures, unique expertise in that area. In addition, being located at the commercial fishing and aquaculture nets, ropes, slings, vehicle Chemelot Campus provides unique opportunities for open and personal ballistic protection, radomes and highinnovation thanks to the proximity of other (start-up) companies performance fabrics such as cut-resistant gloves. In 2013, DSM and research and educational institutions. The new building will Dyneema moved decisively into performance and fashion provide space for approximately 420 employees and will begin apparel, with new licensed applications at Reebok, Mammut and its activities in 2014. Levi’s. In the year, the business group also implemented the second In all cases, the benefits of high strength, comfort and safety, year of its Profit Improvement Program targeting reduced fixed combined with low weight, make Dyneema® a key contributor costs, improved operational efficiency and innovative growth. to DSM's customer and licensee products. Customer products made with Dyneema® are inherently more sustainable than the materials they replace. They weigh less, use less material, need less energy to process and deploy in their final application, and have longer lifetimes. By the end of 2013, DSM Dyneema had completed full value chain analyses of the environmental impact of its products in all the major end-uses. In every case, the environmental footprints were lower than the competitive alternatives. The Dyneema® brand is well known and valued in the industries it serves. DSM implements a comprehensive brand licensing strategy, which results in new licensees and enhances the Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 96 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2013 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities control of the brand. This strategy is particularly targeted at percent less material and are up to 30 percent lighter than the supporting key customers. previous best-in-class materials (also Dyneema®). The completion of the new, state-of-the-art commercial scale In the year, DSM Dyneema continued to support end-user UHMwPE tape manufacturing facility in Greenville (North educational initiatives aimed at creating greater awareness Carolina, USA) is supporting the adoption of the product in about key safety behaviors and the use of safety equipment existing applications and in new ones, especially for the amongst law enforcement officers and manufacturing industry telecommunications industry. An integral part of the value workers, together with key representatives from industry, media proposition for radomes is the replacement of PVC with a and educational sectors. material that has a significantly lower environmental footprint both in manufacture and in use. In 2013, DSM Dyneema implemented the second year of its Profit Improvement Program, to re-align the business to meet In China, the ICD business unit of DSM Dyneema continues to the changing needs of the market. It fully implemented the make progress in establishing the Trevo™ brand in the domestic changes to the organizational structure that it initiated in 2012, market. In addition to servicing customers in existing end-uses, resulting in a simplified functional organization with clearer ICD is developing several innovative new applications which decision rights and interfaces between functions. This translated support China’s drive towards a more sustainable future through into noticeable improvements in several areas, including changes to food production, power generation and planning, inventory management, operational effectiveness, telecommunications. quality management and innovation, while achieving significant savings. As part of DSM Dyneema’s commitment to innovation and application development support in high growth economies, it DSM Resins & Functional Materials recently completed the construction and commissioning of a regional technical development center in Singapore, which supports the Global Technical Research and Development Strategic progress 2013 Center in the Netherlands. This unique facility is providing crucial support in the region by providing development and test services HGEs: new state-of-the-art facilities in Zhangbin (Taiwan) for customers to evaluate their own products. Since the formal and Nanjing (China) opening ceremony in January 2013, the Singapore Technical Innovation: cooperation with China’s leading supplier of Center has hosted visits from over 30 regional customers and dental aligners to gain efficiencies in production to serve end-users. growing demand with the Somos® product line Sustainability: introduction of renewable materials in DSM is accelerating its innovations and bringing these to market existing product ranges, such as the Decovery® product more quickly by extending its co-creation partnerships with line, which reduces their environmental footprint leading value chain players. For example, cooperation with Air Acquisitions & Partnerships: innovation partner of the France-KLM and DSM's customer AmSafe Bridport, world Nuon Solar Team, which won the 2013 World Solar leader in aviation restraint technology, resulted in the rapid Challenge with their highly innovative solar powered adoption of new air cargo nets made from Dyneema® across the vehicle Nuna7 consortium’s fleet. Each lightweight net deployed will on average save 210 gallons of aviation fuel each year, reducing carbon emissions by over 2.5 tons per net per year. DSM Resins & Functional Materials reported 2013 sales of Building on a platform of high strength and low weight qualities, € 1,233 million compared to € 1,277 million in the previous year. DSM Dyneema is extending into new product applications (e.g. Through its business units, this business group is active across performance apparel) and adding functionalities to better serve a broad range of resins and functional materials. existing customers and open up new markets. One example is the recent launch of Dyneema® Force Multiplier Technology. This Despite ongoing subdued market conditions, DSM Resins & leverages the company's unique backward-integration into UH Functional Materials delivered improved results due to strong polymer, and is the result of innovation in the polymer, the fiber cost control and a one-off book profit. Having concluded major produced from it and the unidirectional (UD) sheets to create a cost restructuring initiatives in previous years that enabled it to major breakthrough in highly flexible ballistic vests that use 20 navigate challenging market conditions, in 2013 DSM Resins & Functional Materials continued to reap the benefits of its Profit Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 97 www.dsm.com Improvement Program. These measures, in combination with its DSM Coating Resins measures the carbon footprint of its ongoing innovation efforts, yielded a significant improvement in innovations to validate its qualities and has conducted multiple profits. LCA studies. The data acquired by these studies helps to foster cooperation across the value chain. In the coating industry, DSM is a global leader in the development and production of water-based coating resins and In water-based coatings, DSM focuses on expanding its field of powder coating resins that offer distinct sustainability properties to enlarge the range of applications in which its advantages. Since acquiring a majority stake in AGI Corporation technology can be used. In 2013, DSM made important steps of Taiwan, DSM has also become an emerging player in the in the introduction of high performance, low (to zero) VOC resins market for UV curing coating resins. for primers and topcoats and secured innovative product launches for its customers in the opening up of the water-based In the functional materials area, DSM has a global leadership coatings market in North America. In addition, it is further position in fiber-optic coatings, which protect over a billion reducing its footprint in this industry by the introduction of kilometers of fiber-optic cables around the world. In the additive renewable materials in its existing product ranges, such as the manufacturing industry, DSM offers the most efficient and Decovery® product line. effective prototyping technologies available, supporting the industry to design and bring new products to market with an In powder coatings DSM is developing sustainable technologies increased speed. that cure at lower temperatures, increasing efficiency, reducing energy consumption and, at the same time, enabling the DSM is the leading global innovator of high performance company to expand its portfolio of Uralac® applications to a sustainable composite solutions, beyond the capabilities of wider range of substrates. traditional material solutions. UV-curing coating technology is another sustainable technology While market conditions remained challenging in the year, the with a low carbon footprint, creating excellent durability on a strong focus on innovation in sustainable technology made DSM variety of substrates. To support the growth of this rapidly Resins & Functional Materials successful at addressing the developing technology, DSM Coating Resins has invested in a growing demand for more sustainable, efficient and state-of-the-art facility in Zhangbin (Taiwan), producing coatings environmentally friendly materials, leading to a strong increase and inks for wood, flooring, plastic and graphic arts applications. of its ECO+ sales versus non-ECO+ sales. DSM Functional Materials DSM Coating Resins DSM Functional Materials is a leading developer of formulated DSM Coating Resins seeks to grow the market for sustainable coatings designed to address the growing demand for more coating solutions with resins for three types of coatings: watersustainable, environmentally friendly and lighter-weight based coatings, powder coatings and UV-curing coatings. materials. These resins are used in a wide range of coating applications, such as architectural, industrial wood, flooring, graphic arts, can, In the telecommunications market, DSM’s UV-curable optical coil and powder coating applications. fiber materials set the standard for fiber protection and identification worldwide, helping ensure greater signal reliability The business has faced challenging macro-economic conditions and field performance within optical fiber networks. As in recent years, which continued in 2013. It has partly overcome bandwidth demand surges worldwide, there is an increased these challenges by focusing on innovations developed in close demand for performance from optical fiber networks. collaboration with its customers and other industry players. By innovating in its core segments and technologies, DSM Coating Desolite® Supercoatings, the latest generation of optical fiber Resins is also increasing the sustainability qualities of its coating coatings, helps network owners attain higher levels of signal solutions without compromising on quality and performance. reliability and field performance from their optical fiber. In 2013, DSM introduced several innovative products specifically The demand for more sustainable products is highest in Europe designed to meet the needs of global telecom providers. and the US, where it continues to rise, as awareness about the negative effects of non-sustainable coatings increases. This In the additive manufacturing industry (often referred to as 3D awareness is beginning to grow in high growth economies and printing), DSM’s Somos® stereolithography materials enable is expected to become a future driver of business. industries such as automotive, dental and consumer goods, to create new and better performing products. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 98 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2013 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities In 2013, the Somos® team worked with China’s leading supplier of dental aligners to gain efficiencies in production which allowed them to serve the growing demand in the region. The team also supported the World Solar Challenge, by providing expertise and support from design to manufacturing of the winning solar car Nuna7. DSM was the innovation partner of the Nuon Solar Team, who won the 2013 World Solar Challenge with their highly innovative solar powered vehicle. DSM Composite Resins DSM Composite Resins provides resins solutions for lightweight composites used in trucks and trains, bridges, building façades, trenchless pipe renovation and wind-turbine blades. Market conditions continued to be challenging in 2013 due to ongoing declines in the transportation and construction markets in the EU. The business partially offset the effects of lower volumes by maintaining tight cost controls. DSM’s new manufacturing plant in Nanjing (China), is the largest of its kind in the world, and is helping to introduce the latest DSM resins innovations in Asia. Operations commenced early 2013 in-line with plans and safety targets, yielding quality products for local customers. In the year, DSM Composite Resins presented Beyone™ 201A-01, a new styrene-free and cobalt-free resin (based on BluCure™ Technology), consisting of 40 percent bio-based raw materials. Because of its excellent fatigue resistance this resin is highly suitable for making resilient windmill blades, additionally bringing windmill manufacturers increased production output and cost savings. The business unit also introduced a new series of Daron® high performance resins to support large volume production series in automotive markets. A novel styrene-free Daron® resin was applied in the Nuna7 solar-powered car. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 99 www.dsm.com My bright ideas help customers to produce top class textiles Thijs Emck: Product Sales Manager Caprolactam, DSM Fibre Intermediates Our contribution to textiles covers everything from sporting and leisure clothing, to wool substitution, to tough industrial yarn, to next-generation textile adhesives and coatings for the fabric and leather industry. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 100 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2013: Review of business in 2013 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Polymer Intermediates Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Strengthening Net sales backward integration for DSM Engineering Plastics € 1,579 m load and provides security of supply to DSM Engineering Plastics x € million 2013 2012 and is an important element to DSM's Fibre Intermediates operations. Net sales: DSM Fibre Intermediates 1,579 1,596 In 2013, DSM Fibre Intermediates posted sales of € 1,579 million, compared to € 1,596 million in the previous year. Higher Total 1,579 1,596 volumes were offset by lower prices and negative currency effects. EBITDA decreased compared to 2012 given the lower Organic sales development (in %) (16) caprolactam prices and higher benzene prices since the second Operating profit 71 97 quarter of 2012. This impact could not be completely Operating profit plus depreciation compensated for by cost savings and license income. The and amortization (EBITDA) 113 129 business achieved major sustainable savings in variable costs Capital expenditure 235 214 and purchasing as part of its Profit Improvement Program. Capital employed at 31 December 570 447 ROCE (in %) 14.0 23.3 Volumes in DSM Caprolactam Europe were affected by a fire at EBITDA as % of net sales 7.2 8.1 the plant in Sittard-Geleen in April 2013, which interrupted R&D expenditure 17 18 production for just over one month. Otherwise, plant utilization rates were on track. Workforce at 31 December (headcount) 1,456 1,474 Ammonium sulfate (AS) is a co-product of caprolactam that generates a cost credit. The value of this credit fell over the year, following a decline in market prices for AS in the second half of Business the year. The Polymer Intermediates cluster comprises DSM Fibre At acrylonitrile, net sales were slightly lower compared to 2012, Intermediates, the global market and technology leader in due to some one-off production issues. caprolactam and the leading acrylonitrile supplier in Europe. Its head office is in Shanghai (China). DNCC saw the successful start-up of its 2nd line, which is part of the expansion project to double capacity to 400 kt. The startDSM Fibre Intermediates has three operating companies for up was achieved at premium grade product specifications and caprolactam with a combined annual capacity of over 900 kt: was the fastest ever build and start-up of a 200 kt caprolactam plant. DSM Caprolactam Europe: office and plant in Sittard-Geleen (Netherlands). Also in the year, construction began on the next generation DSM Chemicals North America: office and plant in Augusta ammonium sulfate plant in Sittard-Geleen, which will secure high (Georgia, USA). quality AS production in the most energy efficient way from 2015. DSM Nanjing Chemical Company (DNCC): office and plant in Nanjing (Jiangsu, China). DNCC is a 60/40 cooperation with Caprolactam Sinopec Nanjing Chemical Industries. Caprolactam is the raw material for polyamide 6 (PA6), also known as nylon 6, of which about 4.5 million tons are produced The company’s acrylonitrile plants are located in Sittard-Geleen. annually worldwide. The applications of PA6 are very diverse, covering many end-markets, from carpets and textiles to car DSM Fibre Intermediates supplies key intermediates to DSM parts, electrical devices and packaging film. Engineering Plastics. This backward integration secures a baseBright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 101 www.dsm.com DSM Fibre Intermediates is the major supplier to the merchant DSM Fibre Intermediates seeks to capitalize on the opportunities caprolactam market. A major part of all caprolactam produced in the caprolactam market by: globally is made using DSM’s proprietary technology, which it actively licenses. increasing sales from the doubling of production capacity in China; The business has established a strong caprolactam position implementing new sustainable technology; thanks to its local production facilities, reinforced by its strong further improving competitive position; and partnership with customers in the downstream PA6 industries. reducing merchant exposure. Acrylonitrile DSM is securing its technology leadership position by pursuing DSM Fibre Intermediates is the leading supplier in the European an assertive approach to licensing its proprietary caprolactam merchant acrylonitrile market with a share of approximately 25 technology and protecting its patents. In the year, it finalized a percent. Globally, it ranks third. licensing agreement with Shenyuan for two lines of 200 kt each for caprolactam, using HPO™ technology, and a license to Acrylonitrile is a raw material for acrylic fibers, plastics, rubber, produce the main raw material for caprolactam, cyclohexanone, water treatment chemicals and a wide range of specialty from phenol. A license agreement was also reached with Univex products. It is a key ingredient for bright, fashionable acrylic for improvements in the raw material consumption of their textile and carpet fibers and for materials such as acrylonitrileexisting plant in Mexico. butadiene-styrene (ABS) and styrene-acrylonitrile (SAN) that are used for automotive components, electronic devices, toys and DSM expects to maintain its global leadership position in sports equipment. The application of acrylonitrile across a wide caprolactam thanks to its focus on high growth economies, range of valuable specialty products like carbon fibers, water sustainability and technological innovation, and an unwavering treatment additives and detergents is rapidly growing. commitment to its customers. In the period ahead, DSM will also continue to work on options to reduce its exposure to the volatile Trends merchant caprolactam market. DSM Fibre Intermediates expects global demand for In acrylonitrile, it will maintain its sustainable position as one of caprolactam and acrylonitrile to grow by approximately 3 the leading players in Europe. percent each year in the coming period. The strongest growth of up to 6 percent per year will be seen in China. By comparison, Sustainability demand from the US and Europe is expected to remain relatively stable. Projects aimed at feedstock reduction, energy conservation and recovery and waste abatement were implemented at DSM's Strategic context caprolactam sites. This helped to reduce variable costs and improved sustainability, for example, through a more efficient use of hydrogen and ammonia. Strategic progress 2013 HGEs: HPO™ licensing agreement for two 200 kt lines The new N2O abatement facility that DSM Fibre Intermediates of caprolactam in China with Shenyuan inaugurated in August 2012 reduced nitrous oxide emissions by Innovation: new 2nd caprolactam line by DNCC, a 580 tons in 2013, which is equivalent to more than 170,000 tons cooperation with Sinopec of CO2 or the annual emissions of approximately 30,000 cars. Sustainability: N2O abatement facility reducing Emissions reached 410 tons in the year, compared to 990 tons greenhouse-gas emissions in China in 2012. The innovative second production line in Nanjing, Acquisitions & Partnerships: license agreement with designed for world class environmental performance, which Univex started up successfully in late 2013, has been classified as an ECO+ innovation by DSM, due to its lower energy needs and fewer emissions. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 102 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2013 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities My bright ideas help to create enjoyable foods Jan Kortes, Senior Process Flavorist, DSM Food Specialties Our range of enzymes help to create more efﬁcient and sustainable food production, using less resources and cutting waste and energy consumption. By making better use of enzymes, food producers can create enjoyable foods that beneﬁt People, Planet and Proﬁt. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 103 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2013 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 104 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2013: Review of business in 2013 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Innovation Center Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Connecting bright Net sales science to brighter living € 149 m DSM Biomedical x € million 2013 2012 DSM Biomedical is a leading development partner, trusted by Net sales 149 102 the medical industry to shape the future of biomaterials and regenerative medical devices that improve and brighten patients’ Organic sales development (in %) 15 8 lives throughout the world. Operating profit (53) (63) Operating profit plus depreciation From its facilities in the United States and Netherlands, DSM and amortization (EBITDA) (17) (38) Biomedical provides a product portfolio with a wide range of Capital expenditure 108 36 innovative biomedical materials that enable the replacement, Capital employed at 31 December 561 507 repair, enhancement and regeneration of tissue and organ R&D expenditure 80 61 functions in the body. Its novel, proprietary materials-based solutions are designed to meet the needs of the medical device Workforce at 31 December and pharmaceutical industries. (headcount) 664 668 The global market for medical devices saw a compound annual growth rate of 7 percent during 2008-2012 and is now worth an DSM Innovation Center estimated USD 170 billion. There is a growing demand for cost effective devices that improve the lives of patients in developed The DSM Innovation Center was originally set up in 2006 to help and emerging economies, while the need to contain rising facilitate the company’s strategic transition toward an intrinsically healthcare costs is also increasing. These trends give the global innovative organization. It serves as an enabler and accelerator biomedical market strong growth prospects in the period ahead. of sustainable innovation within DSM. See page 19 for the enabling activities within its Excellence in Innovation program. DSM Biomedical's products comprise implant materials, With its Emerging Business Areas (EBAs) and the Business components and sophisticated drug delivery materials that are Incubator, the Innovation Center has a business development used by customers to make medical devices. DSM Biomedical role, focusing on areas outside the current scope of the business also has a wide range of state-of-the-art capabilities to develop groups. The Innovation Center also includes DSM Venturing and and produce components, sub-assemblies or full medical Licensing. devices for its customers. Emerging Business Areas DSM entered the medical field more than a decade ago, starting with R&D efforts to develop medical applications based on DSM’s Emerging Business Areas provide strong long-term Dyneema®, which led to Dyneema Purity® fiber, a material first growth platforms based on the company’s core competences used in orthopedic sutures. DSM Biomedical was established in in Life Sciences and Materials Sciences. The company has three 2006 as an Emerging Business Area. Since 2006, it has been a Emerging Business Areas: leading biomedical business with an annual growth rate of 35 percent in the last four years, which includes a significant DSM Biomedical contribution through the 2012 Kensey Nash acquisition. DSM Bio-based Products & Services DSM Advanced Surfaces Today, DSM Biomedical enjoys one of the broadest portfolios of medical materials, technologies and capabilities in the world, DSM aspires to realize € 1 billion in sales by 2020 in its combined which includes biomedical polyurethanes, biomedical Emerging Business Areas. polyethylenes, resorbable polymers, ceramics, collagens, extracellular matrices, silicone hydrogels, device coatings, and Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 105 www.dsm.com drug delivery platforms. Millions of products are produced each enabling them to convert biomass in a commercially viable and year for applications in some of the most attractive high growth sustainable way. markets, including orthopedics, sports medicine, ophthalmology, general surgery and cardiology. POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels, DSM's major strategic joint This Emerging Business Area applies materials sciences to venture partnership with POET LLC (one of the world's largest create solutions that help the human body heal. Its investments bio-ethanol producers) to commercially demonstrate and license are focused on research and product development, building cellulosic bio-ethanol, will begin producing cellulosic bio-ethanol further opportunities for future growth. These products extend from corn crop residue through a biological process using the capabilities of physicians by providing tools that enhance enzymatic hydrolysis followed by fermentation. their skills and help them transform the quality of life for patients, replenishing mobility and vitality. With each innovation, DSM The first project (Project Liberty) will be a commercial-scale, Biomedical provides new opportunities for collaboration with cellulosic bio-ethanol plant utilizing POET process technology business partners, to help physicians and patients across the and DSM bio-conversion technology, and is scheduled to begin world. operations in Emmetsburg (Iowa, USA) in 2014. The initial capacity is expected to be 20 million gallons and is designed to In 2013, DSM Biomedical continued to benefit from increased grow to approximately 25 million gallons per year. This plant will sales growth, EBITDA margins and synergies resulting from the serve as the commercial scale demonstration project for corn 2012 acquisition of Kensey Nash and from previous acquisitions. crop residue to cellulosic bio-ethanol to be licensed by the joint venture (POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels) to interested parties. In 2013, DSM Biomedical signed new licenses to supply Bionate® II PCU for use in SpineVision®’s Flex+2™ Dynamic Most of 2013 was dedicated to the construction of the USD 250 Lumbar Stabilization System. It also received clearance from the million facility in Emmetsburg and preparing for the start-up. US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for two finished medical POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels is expected to be profitable devices: the Mesothelium Dental Membrane and the Meso within the first full year of production and to deliver substantial Bilayer Surgical Mesh. The business established a partnership revenues with an above-average EBITDA contribution in the mid with San Antonio-based medical products company BiO2 to long term. Medical to provide ComfortCoat® Coating for the Angel® Catheter, and extended its Dyneema Purity® product portfolio POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels intends to replicate and license with novel ultra high molecular weight polyethylene membrane the technology to additional plants built close to existing corn technology. ethanol facilities in the US, including the 26 corn ethanol facilities in POET’s network. It will also look for licensing opportunities DSM Bio-based Products & Services elsewhere in the world. DSM’s competences in industrial biotechnology are at the core Advanced biodiesel of its strategic focus on Life Sciences and Materials Sciences. In 2013, DSM met each of the program milestones for the year As the world increasingly moves away from its dependencies on for its partnership with BP on advanced biodiesel. It has greatly fossil raw materials and towards a more sustainable, bio-based expanded its intellectual property portfolio to support future economy, there are significant opportunities for the company in deployment of advanced biodiesel technology through the renewable energies such as cellulosic bio-ethanol, advanced partnership, and continued to develop relationships with key (microbial) biodiesel and biogas, and in renewable building technology providers that will be critical for future stages of the blocks like bio-based succinic acid. program. Drawing on DSM’s unique position in biotechnology, materials The partnership has created a leading biotechnology platform sciences and chemistry, DSM Bio-based Products & Services is that produces high yields of biodiesel from plant sugars. Around pioneering advances in biomass conversion and seeks to half of the world’s current demand for transport fuel is for diesel demonstrate the commercial viability of sustainable, renewable and this proportion is expected to grow in the coming decades. technologies in collaboration with strategic partners in the value Innovative solutions such as the conversion of sugars into diesel chain. The development and supply of high value knowledge, fuel, continue to represent a highly attractive business ingredients and expertise in the field of bio-conversion opportunity. Today, most biodiesel is produced from vegetable technology are critical success factors. DSM’s strategy is to oils such as palm oil, soy bean oil and rape seed oil. These oils license its technology and expertise to bio-based entrepreneurs, are increasingly associated with concerns about sustainability, Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 106 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2013 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities which is driving a growing need to find alternative and more DSM Venturing responsible ways to produce diesel from renewable sources. DSM Venturing invests in early to late stage innovative Bio-succinic acid companies in areas strategically relevant to DSM’s current and The world’s first large scale plant for bio-based succinic acid that future businesses. In 2013, four new direct and four follow-on was opened in Cassano Spinola (Italy) as part of the Reverdia investments were made. DSM Venturing ended its participation joint venture between DSM and Roquette successfully scaled up in four companies in 2013. its production in the year, using proprietary yeast technology that was earlier tested and validated in the demonstration plant. The New investments in the year included bioagriculture company first commercial shipments of Biosuccinium™ were realized. Marrone Bio Innovation Inc. based in Davis (California, USA), Reverdia is now considering a second large scale plant and which has since gone public, and Arecor Ltd. (United Kingdom), application development work is underway to develop new which is active in drug formulation methods. Follow-on business and open future markets. investments were made in biochemicals company Verdezyne, based in Carlsbad (California, USA), and CO2-based polymer DSM Advanced Surfaces developer Novomer in Waltham (Massachusetts, USA). An upto-date overview of the portfolio of published investments can DSM Advanced Surfaces provides solutions for the development be found at www.dsm.com. and application of smart coatings that enable and enhance the capture of solar energy. In April 2013, a newly constructed Building on more than a decade of corporate venturing manufacturing plant in Sittard-Geleen (Netherlands) for the unit's experience in Life Sciences and Materials Sciences, DSM flagship product, KhepriCoat™ anti-reflective coating, was Venturing expects to step up its deal flow and portfolio opened. The plant increases DSM’s production capacity and management in 2014 and beyond, and play an important part in enables it to meet the fast-growing market demand for solar the company’s open innovation strategy. energy. KhepriCoat™ provides state-of-the-art anti-reflective properties, allowing a higher amount of energy to pass through to the solar modules, which increases the energy production of solar cells by 4 percent. In 2013, DSM acquired SolarExcel, an innovative light trapping technology company based in Venray (Netherlands). This technology uses a textured surface on foil to prevent light from escaping the solar panel. The technology, which expands DSM’s growing portfolio in solar energy enabling technologies, will be scaled up and is expected to provide energy efficiency increases of approximately 10 percent on solar panels. Looking ahead, DSM Advanced Surfaces has identified potential partnerships that could address innovative surface technologies, which would help expand its product range. Partnerships and acquisitions will remain a critical factor for accelerated growth in advanced surfaces. DSM Business Incubator The DSM Business Incubator explores business opportunities in adjacent areas and future markets for DSM, with a strong link to DSM’s technologies and competence base. Platforms are created within the scope of securing food, health and energy requirements of society, in close collaboration with industry partners and existing and potential customers. DSM’s Business Incubator has been instrumental in feeding the pipeline with opportunities that address customer needs. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 107 www.dsm.com My bright ideas help to set new standards in food quality Esteban Freydell, Associate Scientist Downstream Processing, DSM Food Specialties Through advanced ingredients we make an important contribution to the world’s favorite food brands – in dairy, baking, fruit juice, beer, wine and savory products. We do this by applying our knowledge, technology and experience to provide better value to our customers. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 108 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2013 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Corporate Activities Any activities and businesses that are outside the five reporting clusters are reported as Corporate Activities. These comprise operating and service activities, as well as a number of costs that cannot be allocated to the clusters. This segment normally has a negative operating result. Corporate Activities includes various holding companies and corporate overheads. The most significant cost elements are corporate departments and the share-based compensation for the Group. x € million 2013 2012 Net sales 198 268 Operating profit (125) (139) Operating profit plus depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) (74) (94) Capital expenditure 87 89 R&D expenditure 26 22 Workforce at 31 December (headcount) 3,204 3,199 Sitech Services Sitech Services provides manufacturing services, park services and Safety, Health & Environment services for the Chemelot industrial site in Sittard-Geleen (Netherlands) and the DSM Pharma Chemicals site in Venlo (Netherlands). DSM Insurances The company retains a limited part of its material damage and business interruption and product liability risks via DSM Insurances BV, a captive insurance company. In 2013, the total retained damages were € 16 million. Corporate Research The total costs of the Corporate Research Program have been reported under Corporate Activities since 2011. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 109 www.dsm.com Financial and reporting policy Financial policy currency exposures are regularly reviewed and hedged when appropriate. As a basis for and contribution to effective risk management and to ensure that the company is able to pursue its strategies, even The most important acquisition criteria are strategic fit and during periods of economic downturn, DSM retains a strong financial condition. A business or partner should add value to balance sheet and limits its financial risks. DSM in terms of technological and/or market competences. Acquired companies are in principle required to contribute to The current strategy, DSM in motion: driving focused growth, DSM's cash earnings per share from the very beginning and to has ambitious strategic and financial targets that are outlined on earnings per share from year two. In addition, they are required page 10. In addition DSM aims to maintain its Single A long-term to meet the company's profitability, sustainability and growth credit rating. requirements. There are, however, exceptions to this rule. For instance, such requirements may not be appropriate in the case Most of DSM's external funding needs are financed through of small innovative growth acquisitions, although the long-term debt. Debt covenants are not included in the terms sustainability requirement will be upheld at all times. and conditions of outstanding bonds and financing arrangements. DSM aims to spread the maturity profile of DSM is transparent towards all tax authorities and collaborates outstanding bonds in order to have adequate financial flexibility. with them to determine the amount of tax due. DSM believes its obligation is to contribute the amount of tax owed to authorities DSM has a commercial paper program of € 1,500 million that is and to observe all applicable rules and regulations in the markets available and two committed credit facilities totaling € 1,000 where the company operates. Its tax reporting is fully compliant million, consisting of € 500 million until September 2018 and with all applicable rules and regulations. DSM’s Managing Board € 500 million until March 2018, but with two extension options, is responsible for securing the tax principles under the which can bring the final maturity to 2020. supervision of the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board. The planning of DSM’s tax position is consistent with the An important element of DSM’s financial policy is the allocation normal course of its business operations, reflects the corporate of cash flow. DSM primarily allocates cash flow to investments strategy and is consistent with international best practice aimed at strengthening its business positions and to dividend guidelines, such as the OECD Guidelines for Multinational payments to its shareholders. The cash flow is further used for Enterprises.The level of DSM’s effective tax rate as a percentage Acquisitions & Partnerships that strengthen DSM's of pretax profit reflects the geographic spread of the results over competences and market positions in Life Sciences and the years, also as a result of acquisitions and divestments, and/ Materials Sciences, supported by the other three strategic or the application of preferential tax regimes in countries where growth drivers: High Growth Economies, Innovation and DSM operates. Sustainability. DSM's policy in the various sub-disciplines of the finance Should the occasion arise, the company may choose to return function is strongly oriented toward solidity, reliability and cash to shareholders if excess cash is available over a longer protection of cash flows. The finance function plays an important period to such an extent that the above-mentioned cash flow role in business steering. priorities can be satisfied without affecting the credit rating. DSM aims to provide a stable, and preferably rising, dividend. In order Reporting policy to avoid dilution of earnings per share as a result of the exercise of management and employee options, DSM buys back shares Reporting policy and justification of choices made insofar as this is desirable and feasible. In 2013 1,266,945 In the sustainability information in this Integrated Annual Report, shares were repurchased (no shares were repurchased in 2012). DSM explains its vision and policy with respect to sustainable enterprise and reports on its activities in this field during 2013. It is DSM’s policy to hedge 100 percent of the currency risks Besides presenting developments and data for the three resulting from sales and purchases at the moment of recognition categories of People, Planet and Profit, DSM reports on its of trade receivables and payables. In addition, operating sustainability strategy, its stakeholder engagement activities, companies may – under strict conditions – opt for hedging and the organization of sustainability at DSM. Furthermore, DSM currency risks from firm commitments and forecasted discusses the global trends that drive its strategy. transactions. The currencies giving rise to these risks are primarily USD, CHF, JPY and GBP. The risks arising from It is DSM’s policy to proactively canvas the views of its employees on issues of material importance to the company. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 110 www.dsm.com Financial and reporting policy Financial policy Reporting policy The preparation of this report was facilitated by experts who on environmental targets but are included in absolute figures were supported by a review group comprising employees (unless stated otherwise). ECO+ data for newly acquired selected from across the DSM organization. companies are reported in line with the policy for Safety, Health and Environment data discussed above. Historical ECO+ data Global Reporting Initiative are not restated for divestments. DSM bases its sustainability reporting on the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). For this report, the company Quality of data used the GRI G3 guidelines (see www.dsm.com). DSM has The data for the DSM sites are based on these sites’ own determined that this report once again merits GRI application measurements and calculations, which are based on definitions, level A+, representing a high level of transparency. EY has methods and procedures established at corporate level. The reviewed compliance of the Sustainability Information with this year-on-year comparability of the data can be affected by application level. See also Independent Assurance Report on changes in the portfolio as well as by improvements made in the Sustainability Information on page 213. measurement and recording systems at the various sites. Whenever impact is relevant, it is stated in the report. Details for In its sustainability reporting DSM does not apply the framework the individual sites are published on www.dsm.com, together of the International Integrated Reporting Council. with an explanation of the definitions used. Selection of topics Manner of reporting The topics covered in this report were selected on the basis of Quantitative data are reported per business group. All data are input from stakeholders and the materiality analysis, GRI consolidated at corporate level by the relevant departments. The guidelines and DSM’s own management systems and their qualitative reports on various subjects were provided by experts relevance and impact for DSM and its various stakeholders. throughout the organization. See also Stakeholder engagement on page 28. Planet methodology On the basis of the principle of materiality (see the materiality Environmental indicators are evaluated and established on a matrix in the Stakeholder engagement chapter), DSM yearly basis by the experts and process owners involved. Data distinguishes between topics whose importance warrants on these indicators are collected on a yearly basis, while an publication in this Integrated Annual Report (relevant to both additional mid-year measurement is done for the most relevant DSM and its stakeholders), and topics whose importance indicators and reporting units. The methodology and warrants publication on the company website only (topics calculations can be found on www.dsm.com. important to either DSM or its stakeholders). The site managers of reporting units are responsible for the As in the 2012 report, DSM reports on its external recognition in quality of the data. Data are collected based on measurements a separate section. DSM also reports separately on its progress in the production processes, information from external parties in implementing the principles of the UN Global Compact. See (e.g. on waste and external energy) and estimates based on also page 42. expert knowledge. Reporting units have direct insight into their performance compared to previous years and are required to Scope provide justifications for deviations above the threshold. For The People, Planet and ECO+ data in this report cover all entities most parameters the threshold is set at 10 percent. that belong to the consolidation scope of the consolidated financial statements. Offices and R&D facilities are excluded from People methodology Planet reporting. All People and HR data are collected per business group and consolidated at corporate level. Acquisitions and divestments The HR data (People) for newly acquired companies are reported ECO+ from the first full month after the acquisition date. Historical HR All financial ECO+ data are collected from the relevant financial data are not restated for divestments. The Safety, Health and innovation systems by the controllers of the business groups (People) and Environment (Planet) data for newly acquired and the Innovation Center. All assessments of ECO+ involve companies are reported at the latest in the year following the first internal LCA experts. All data are internally validated with the full year after acquisition, because these companies’ reporting Corporate Sustainability department and consolidated in DSM procedures first have to be aligned with those of DSM. Acquired ECO+ key performance indicators. and divested units are excluded from the evaluation of progress Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 111 www.dsm.com Corporate governance and risk management Introduction1 DSM has a number of functional and regional organizations to support the Managing Board and the business groups. IntraKoninklijke DSM N.V. (Royal DSM) is a company limited by group product supplies and the services of a number of shared shares listed on NYSE Euronext, with a Managing Board and an service departments and research departments are contracted independent Supervisory Board. Members of the Managing by the business groups on an arm's length basis. Board and the Supervisory Board are appointed (and, if necessary, dismissed) by the General Meeting of Shareholders. Managing Board The Managing Board consists of three or more members, to be The Managing Board is responsible for the company's strategy, determined by the Supervisory Board. The current composition its portfolio policy, the deployment of human and capital of the Managing Board can be found in the chapter Supervisory resources, the company’s risk management system, the Board and Managing Board on page 137. Since 2005, company's financial performance and its performance in the members of the Managing Board have been appointed for a area of sustainability. period of four years. The Supervisory Board supervises the policy pursued by the The members of the Managing Board are collectively responsible Managing Board, the Managing Board's performance of its for the management of the company. Notwithstanding their managerial duties and the company's general course of affairs, collective responsibility within the Managing Board, certain tasks taking the interests of all the company's stakeholders into and responsibilities for business clusters and functional areas as account. The annual financial statements are approved by the well as regional responsibilities have been assigned to individual Supervisory Board and then submitted for adoption to the members. This distribution of tasks is published on the DSM Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, accompanied by an website. explanation by the Supervisory Board of how it carried out its supervisory duties during the year concerned. The remuneration of the members of the Managing Board is determined by the Supervisory Board based on the The company is governed by Dutch law and by its Articles of remuneration policy approved by the General Meeting of Association, which can be consulted at the DSM website Shareholders. The remuneration policy for the Managing Board (www.dsm.comwww.dsm.com). The General Meeting of can be found in the Supervisory Board report starting on page Shareholders decides on an amendment to the Articles of 126. Association by an absolute majority of the votes cast. A decision to amend the Articles of Association may only be taken at the The functioning of and decision making within the Managing proposal of the Managing Board, subject to approval of the Board are governed by the Regulations of the Managing Board, Supervisory Board. which have been drawn up in line with the Dutch corporate governance code and can be found on the company’s website. DSM fully informs its stakeholders about its corporate objectives, the way the company is managed and the company's In 2013 the Managing Board met 46 times. In eight meetings one performance. Its aim in doing so is to pursue an open dialogue member was excused due to another commitment. In two with its shareholders and other stakeholders. meetings two members were excused. In all cases, members who were unable to attend provided their input to the meeting in DSM has a decentralized organizational structure built around advance in writing. business groups that are empowered to carry out all short-term and long-term business functions. At the operational level, the Supervisory Board business groups are the primary organizational and The Supervisory Board consists of at least five members. The entrepreneurial building blocks. The business groups are current composition of the Supervisory Board can be found on grouped into clusters. Business groups within a cluster report to page 136. Members of the Supervisory Board are appointed for one and the same member of the Managing Board. The clusters a period of four years with a maximum of three four-year terms. are the main organizational entities for external strategic and financial reporting. This structure ensures a flexible, efficient and All current members of the Supervisory Board are independent fast response to market changes. in accordance with the Best Practice provisions of the Dutch corporate governance code. The remuneration of the members 1 This chapter contains, among other things, the information regarding corporate governance as referred to in Section 2 of the Dutch governmental decree of 23 December 2004 establishing further instructions concerning the content of the annual report (Besluit van 23 december 2004 tot vaststelling van nadere voorschriften omtrent de inhoud van het jaarverslag, Staatsblad [Bulletin of Acts and Decrees] 2004, 747) as amended in April 2009 (Staatsblad 2009, 154) and December 2009 (Staatsblad 2009, 545). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 112 www.dsm.com Corporate governance and risk management Introduction Dutch corporate governance code Governance framework Risk management Statements of the Managing Board of the Supervisory Board is determined by the General Meeting release from liability of the members of the Managing Board of Shareholders. The functioning of and decision making within and the Supervisory Board; the Supervisory Board are governed by the Regulations of the issuance of shares or rights to shares, restriction or exclusion Supervisory Board, which have been drawn up in line with the of pre-emptive rights of shareholders and repurchase or Dutch corporate governance code and can be found on the cancellation of shares; company’s website. amendments to the Articles of Association; and decisions of the Managing Board that would entail a significant In line with the Dutch corporate governance code the change in the identity or character of DSM or its business. Supervisory Board has established from among its members an Audit Committee, a Nomination Committee and a Remuneration The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders is held within six Committee. Given the strategic importance of sustainability, a months of the end of the financial year in order to discuss and, Corporate Social Responsibility Committee has also been set if applicable, approve the annual report, the annual accounts, up. any appointments of members of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board and any of the other topics mentioned above. The task of these committees is to prepare the decision making of the Supervisory Board. The functioning and tasks of these The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and, if necessary, committees are governed by charters that have been drawn up other General Meetings of Shareholders are called by the in line with the Dutch corporate governance code and can be Managing Board or the Supervisory Board. The agenda and found on the company’s website. explanatory notes are published on DSM’s website. Diversity According to the Articles of Association, shareholders who, Since 1 January 2013 Dutch legislation requires that a large individually or jointly, represent at least one percent (1 percent) company, when nominating or appointing members of the of the issued capital have the right to request to the Managing Managing Board or Supervisory Board, should strive to achieve Board or the Supervisory Board that items be placed on the a balanced composition of these Boards in terms of gender, to agenda. Such requests need to be received in writing by the the effect that at least 30 percent of the positions are held by chairman of the Managing Board or the Supervisory Board at women and at least 30 percent by men. least sixty days before the date of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. The current composition of the Supervisory Board is in line with this legislation. On 3 May 2013 the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders was held. The agenda was to a large extent similar to that of previous The current composition of the Managing Board deviates from years. Additional topics were the appointment of Dimitri de the above-mentioned percentages. For the appointment of a Vreeze as member of the Managing Board, the re-appointment successor to Nico Gerardu, who retired on 1 September 2013, of Pierre Hochuli as member of the Supervisory Board, the candidates of both genders were considered for the position. adoption of an amendment to the remuneration policy of the However, the Supervisory Board was unanimously of the opinion Managing Board and the evaluation of the Auditor. Further that its nominated candidate Dimitri de Vreeze was the best details can be found on the company’s website. candidate to succeed Mr. Gerardu. Mr. De Vreeze was appointed by the General Meeting of Shareholders on 3 May External auditor 2013. In accordance with the Dutch corporate governance code (V. 2.3), the Managing Board and the Audit Committee conducted General Meeting of Shareholders a thorough assessment of the functioning of the external auditor The main powers of the General Meeting of Shareholders relate EY in 2012. The main conclusions of the assessment were to: presented to the General Meeting of Shareholders on 3 May 2013. Based on the outcome of the assessment, the company the appointment, suspension and dismissal of members of the decided to continue the audit services of EY. In 2013 a process Managing Board and the Supervisory Board; was started to select a new audit firm to provide audit services approval of the remuneration policy of the Managing Board; as of 2015 in view of new legislation in the Netherlands with approval of the remuneration of the Supervisory Board; regard to mandatory audit firm rotation. the adoption of the annual financial statements and declaration of dividends; Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 113 www.dsm.com Article 10 of Directive 2004/25 following shareholders had disclosed that they owned between With regard to the information referred to in the Resolution of 3 percent and 10 percent of DSM’s total share capital on article 10 of the EC Directive pertaining to a takeover bid which 1 January 2014: is required to be provided according to Dutch law, the following can be reported: • ASR Nederland B.V. • Rabobank Nederland Participatie B.V. Information on major shareholdings can be found below • Delta Lloyd N.V. (Distribution of shares). • Capital Research and Management Company and Capital There are no special statutory rights attached to the shares of Group International the company. • Blackrock, Inc. There are no restrictions on the voting rights of the company’s shares. When convening a General Meeting of Shareholders, Repurchase of own shares the Managing Board is entitled to determine a registration date The company may acquire paid-up own shares by virtue of a in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Dutch Civil decision of the Managing Board, provided that the par value of Code. the acquired shares in its capital amounts to no more than one The applicable provisions regarding the appointment and tenth of the issued capital. Such a decision is subject to the dismissal of members of the Managing Board and the approval of the Supervisory Board. In the Annual General Supervisory Board and amendments to the Articles of Meeting of Shareholders of 3 May 2013 the Managing Board Association are set forth above. was authorized to acquire own shares for a period of 18 months The powers of the Managing Board regarding the issue and from said date. On 6 November 2013 DSM announced its repurchase of shares in the company can be found below intention to repurchase 2,500,000 ordinary shares for the (Issue of shares, Repurchase of own shares). purpose of covering the company’s commitments under existing Other information can be found in the notes to the management and personnel option plans. consolidated financial statements (15 Equity, 18 Borrowings, 26 Share-based compensation) and in the chapters Dutch corporate governance code Information on the DSM share and Other information. DSM supports the Dutch corporate governance code adopted Issue of shares in 2003 and amended in 2008, which can be found on The issue of shares takes place by a decision of the Managing www.commissiecorporategovernance.nl. Board. The decision is subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board. The scope of this power of the Managing Board shall be DSM confirms that it applies all of the code’s 113 Best Practices. determined by a resolution of the General Meeting of Shareholders and shall relate to at most all unissued shares of With respect to the appointment of members of the Managing the authorized capital, as applicable now or at any time in the Board for a period of at most four years (Best Practice II.1.1) it future. In the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of 3 May should be noted that DSM has adhered to this Best Practice 2013 this power was extended up to and including 3 November since the introduction of the corporate governance code in 2004. 2014, on the understanding that this authorization of the Managing Board is limited to a number of ordinary shares with a Since DSM respects agreements made before the introduction nominal value amounting to 10 percent of the issued capital at of said code, the current chairman of the Managing Board will the time of issue, and to an additional 10 percent of the issued remain appointed for an indefinite period. capital at the time of issue if the issue takes place within the context of a merger or acquisition within the scope of DSM's With respect to the Dutch corporate governance code it should strategy as published on DSM’s website. The issue price will be be noted that any substantial change in the corporate determined by the Managing Board and shall as much as governance structure of the company and in the company's possible be calculated on the basis of the trading prices of compliance with the code shall be submitted to the General ordinary shares on the Euronext Amsterdam Stock Exchange. Meeting of Shareholders for discussion under a separate agenda item. Distribution of shares Under the Dutch Financial Markets Supervision Act All documents related to the implementation at DSM of the Dutch shareholdings of 3 percent or more in any Dutch company must corporate governance code can be found in the Governance be disclosed to the Netherlands Authority for the Financial section of the corporate website (www.dsm.com). Markets (AFM). According to the register kept by the AFM the Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 114 www.dsm.com Corporate governance and risk management Introduction Dutch corporate governance code Governance framework Risk management Statements of the Managing Board Governance framework For the sake of clarity, a short summary of the main aspects of the framework at Managing Board / corporate level and Business groups are the main building blocks of DSM’s operational level is given here: organization; they have integral long-term and short-term business responsibility and have at their disposal all functions • The Managing Board adheres to the Regulations of the that are crucial to their business success. The business groups Managing Board. within a specific cluster report to one and the same member of • In addition, the Managing Board works according to the the Managing Board. This Board member manages the Management Framework for the corporate level. This implies coherence of operations and the leveraging of resources within among other things that it adheres to the DSM Code of the cluster and is accountable for the overall performance of the Business Conduct and applicable corporate policies and cluster within limits defined by the collective responsibility of the requirements. total Managing Board for the overall management of the • The Management Framework for the corporate level further company. The clusters are the main entities for external strategic provides a description of the most important (decisionand financial reporting. In order to ensure sufficient making) processes, responsibilities and 'rules of the game' at independence with regard to financial management, the Chief the Managing Board, functional and regional levels and Financial Officer has no business groups reporting to him. includes the governance relations with the next-higher levels (Supervisory Board and shareholders) and the operational The following figure depicts DSM's overall governance units. In particular, the framework defines the roles of framework and the most important governance elements and corporate staff departments, functional excellence regulations at each level. departments and shared service departments as follows: Corporate Staff departments: small, high level groups, supporting the Managing Board and reporting directly to a Managing Board member (in most cases CEO or CFO); Functional Excellence departments: groups in which expert capabilities in selected functions are concentrated and which are steered by Functional Excellence Advisory Boards, chaired by a Managing Board member; the Director of a Functional Excellence department reports to a Managing Board member; and Shared Service departments: groups in which selected service functions are leveraged and which are steered by Shared Service Boards, chaired by a business group director. The director of a Shared Service department reports to a Managing Board member, who is also a member of that Shared Service Board. The company’s strategic direction and objectives are set in a Corporate Strategy Dialogue. In 2010 such a Corporate Strategy Note: all internal regulations apply in addition to applicable national and international Dialogue was held, resulting in the current strategy DSM in laws and regulations. In cases where internal regulations are incompatible with motion: driving focused growth. As part of this strategy, the national or international laws and regulations, the latter prevail. regional functions have been further strengthened, especially in the high growth economies. Regional management reports directly to a Managing Board member. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 115 www.dsm.com The operational units conduct their business within the monitoring and reporting procedures and systems. The internal parameters of the Management Framework for operational units. controls for the goods and money flows have been ‘built into’ This implies among other things that they: business processes, and tools have been developed to support their implementation and to monitor their effectiveness in comply with the DSM Code of Business Conduct operation. In this way, a high level of internal control is achieved establish the strategy and objectives of their business efficiently. according to the Business Strategy Dialogue, aligned with the Corporate Strategy Dialogue, in which process various Upon the publication of this Integrated Annual Report, an scenarios and related risk profiles are investigated; updated version of the full description of DSM’s risk implement risk management actions according to an Annual management system and process together with a description of Risk Management Plan and in line with corporate policies and the identified risks will be placed on the company’s website. multi-year plans in several functional areas; These descriptions are to be considered an integral part of this comply with the Corporate Requirements and Directives; and Integrated Annual Report. monitor the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control system and regularly discuss the findings with the The functioning of the system in 2013 Managing Board. The important events in risk management in 2013 are reported On average once every three years, the operational units are below. This section is structured according to the elements of audited by Corporate Operational Audit (COA). The director of the COSO-ERM risk management framework. COA reports to the chairman of the Managing Board and has access to the external auditor and the chairman of the Audit Internal environment for risk management Committee of the Supervisory Board. Furthermore, the director Values and business principles are an important element of the of COA acts as the compliance officer with regard to inside internal environment for risk management. Directly related to its information and is the chairman of the DSM Alert Committee, mission to create brighter lives for people today and generations which is responsible for the DSM whistleblower policy, systems to come, DSM has chosen sustainability as its core value. and processes. DSM's business principles, which are defined in the DSM Code In the Fraud Committee, relevant corporate functions participate of Business Conduct, are based on this core value. The DSM under the chairmanship of the CFO. The objective of the Code of Business Conduct, which is available on the company’s committee is to ensure structural follow-up of fraud cases with website, describes principles in the areas of People (social and the aim of reducing fraud risks. humanitarian standards), Planet (principles with regard to the environment) and Profit (principles regarding fair and ethical Risk management business practices). In 2013, the mandatory biennial e-learning course on the Code of Business Conduct was completed by The Managing Board is responsible for risk management in the more than 90 percent of all eligible employees, including the company and, supported by the Corporate Risk Office, has personnel of newly acquired units. Classroom training is ongoing designed and implemented a risk management system and a for a limited group of employees who do not have access to erisk management organization. The system and the organization mail. A company-wide inventory was made of bribery and are documented in the DSM risk management policy, the DSM corruption risks. This inventory has been used to complement Code of Business Conduct, DSM policies in several functional the general policy against corruption and bribery with business areas and the DSM Corporate Requirements and Directives. The and region specific actions and practices. The Anti-Bribery and aim of the system is to ensure that the extent to which the Corruption policy and the e-learning tool are ready to be company’s strategic and operational objectives are being deployed to specific target groups in the various units. achieved is understood, that the company’s reporting is reliable and that the company complies with relevant laws and Another important factor determining the internal environment regulations. for risk management is the risk appetite. This risk appetite cannot be captured in one figure or formula, but varies per category of The DSM risk management system is based on the COSO-ERM risks. The Managing Board has reviewed the company’s desired framework. It has been designed to achieve maximum risk appetite. The main characteristics can be described as integration of the risk management process in the normal follows: business processes. It provides for risk assessment tools, controls for risks that commonly occur in the company and Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 116 www.dsm.com Corporate governance and risk management Introduction Dutch corporate governance code Governance framework Risk management Statements of the Managing Board To fulfill its strategic intent, DSM is prepared to accept risks that are relevant in relation to the achievement of the targets considerable risks in for example its drive to develop its people of the strategy DSM in motion: driving focused growth. Board and organizational base into a competitive advantage, its members individually identified and assessed risks, and during innovation programs and its expansion to high growth a Managing Board session they reached consensus on these economies, and in that same context the company also risks and related risk appetites. They identified any necessary accepts risks in developing sustainability as a business driver. responses to be made in addition to the mitigating actions Of course these risks will always be limited by defined hurdle already in place in order to bring the risks within the defined risk criteria and rigorous implementation programs. appetite. In risk areas such as intellectual property protection, acquisitions and joint ventures, production-process reliability, The preliminary outcomes of the CRA were reported to and business continuity, reputation and product liability the discussed with the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board in company is cautious to conservative. the meeting of 9 December 2013. These 'top-down' outcomes With regard to safety, health and environment, reporting were compared with the risks and incidents as reported 'bottomintegrity and internal and external non-compliance the up' by the operational units in their Letters of Representation and company is risk averse. with findings from internal and external audits. The final risk profile was reported to and discussed with the Audit Committee This risk appetite gives guidance for the responses to the risks of the Supervisory Board on 24 February 2014. It is the basis for identified in the Corporate Risk Assessment (see below). For the main risks and responses as reported on the following pages. specific units, the risk appetite may deviate from the overall company profile. The company’s top risks The CRA identifies the likelihood and impacts of events that Objectives and risk identification, assessment and response could jeopardize the achievement of the targets for 2014, 2015 In line with the mandatory risk management process, business and 2020 set in the DSM in motion: driving focused growth groups that updated their strategy in 2013 performed a business strategy. In setting these targets, assumptions were made about risk assessment to identify and assess the implementation risks the macro-economic and global financial developments (basic of the chosen strategy and agree on responses. At mid-year and scenario). at year-end, all units reviewed and reported their risks and incidents as part of the semi-annual risk reporting process, in The table on the next page shows the most important risks for which risks are reported in terms of exposure (impact multiplied DSM achieving its targets under the basic scenario, and the by probability). Additionally, risk assessments were performed remedial actions to mitigate them. by a number of units and regions, on major projects and as part of the compliance programs of new acquisitions. Following the Corporate Risk Assessment 2013, 'Growth and profitability in the Pharma cluster' no longer qualifies as a 'top In 2013, the Managing Board updated the Corporate Risk risk' or even an 'important risk'. As announced in November Assessment (CRA). Based on the results of the CRA conducted 2013, DSM and JLL Partners will create a new company which in 2012, input from the directors of corporate staff departments will be a leading global contract development and manufacturing and shared service departments, internal risk and incident organization for the pharmaceutical industry. This mitigates this reports and risk information from external sources, the Managing risk. Board, supported by the Corporate Risk Office, identified the Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 117 www.dsm.com The top risks and related mitigating actions Description of risks Mitigating actions Exposure to merchant market for caprolactam DSM has considerably reduced its exposure to cyclical and DSM will continue to work on options to reduce its exposure commodity markets. Volatility, cyclicality and supply-demand to the volatile merchant caprolactam market. imbalance in the merchant market for caprolactam may cause the profitability to deviate from the projected levels. Competition Price pressure due to intensified competition may cause the Cost reductions in all businesses are being continued to profitability of DSM's activities to deviate from the projected increase competitiveness. Further innovation is driving a focus levels. on high-end markets which will also mitigate this risk. Risks related to High Growth Economies In the current strategy, the relative importance of the High DSM has further detailed its country and region specific Growth Economies has further increased. There is, however, strategies. More power and freedom will be given to regions to always a risk that the markets will not grow as expected and/ achieve the strategic goals. or that opportunities in these markets will be missed. People, organization and culture The implementation of the business strategy is supported by DSM has launched the ONE DSM Culture Agenda focusing on: organizational measures to enhance regional and functional External Orientation effectiveness. However, the organization may lack the Accountability for Performance (and learning) resources in terms of quantity and quality to execute all the Collaboration with Speed programs and projects. Inclusion & Diversity Attention will be given to the implementation of stronger regional and functional talent efforts and career development. Focus and priority setting will secure proper project execution and implementation. Global financial and economic developments (including tax risks and currency effects) A further economic downturn and a higher impact of currency DSM will proceed with its profit protection plans as well as with volatilities could have a significant detrimental effect on the the execution of its hedging policy. Regional changes in tax achievement of DSM's targets. Furthermore, changing tax regimes will be closely monitored. regimes may also impact the realization of DSM's targets. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 118 www.dsm.com Corporate governance and risk management Introduction Dutch corporate governance code Governance framework Risk management Statements of the Managing Board Other important risks Business continuity risks Major disruptions, especially in the supply chain, in In addition to the top risks, the most recent risk assessment and manufacturing and in the ICT environment, remain a low reports show the following risks as being the most important: likelihood but possibly high impact risk. DSM recognizes these risks and has implemented contingency measures to prepare Acquisitions & Partnerships for the most important scenarios. This risk has been reduced significantly by realizing several key Safety, Health and Environmental (SHE) risks strategic acquisitions. The risk on Acquisitions & Partnerships After a number of fatalities in prior years, DSM has enhanced shifted from finding sufficient additional value adding its already strict safety policies even further, among other acquisitions to getting the recent acquisitions effectively things by strengthening the implementation of the Life Saving integrated. The company has developed good practices and Rules. Nevertheless, SHE risks cannot be excluded altogether structured processes to mitigate this, whereas quarterly and any accidents may have a deep impact in terms of human tracking of the progress of the various integration programs is suffering and (reputation) damage to the company. also securing the targets set. Product liability risks Innovation To reduce product liability risks, product risk evaluations have The Emerging Business Areas are developing well. The focus been carried out, contractual and quality procedures have and concentration of efforts, as well as the reinforcement of been updated and insurance policies have been reviewed. the talent base, ensure that DSM capitalizes on talent. The Unexpected effects of or undetected flaws in DSM's products current outlook is that DSM is on track to realize the innovation or services may, however, still cause considerable product ambitions as set in its strategy. At the same time DSM further liability exposures. invests in strengthening its innovation skills and competences as well as its innovation portfolio. For the management of all these categories of risks, strategies, ICT complexity controls and/or mitigating measures have been put in place as High ICT complexity (especially against the background of the part of DSM’s risk management practices. These nevertheless large number of acquisitions in recent years) may hamper involve uncertainties that may lead to the actual results differing DSM's competitive advantage. Decomplexing and leveraging from those projected. There may also be risks that the company operations will mitigate this risk. has not yet fully assessed and that are currently classified as Raw material and energy: price and availability risks ‘minor’ but that could have a material impact on the company's DSM implements various policies to avoid supply chain performance at a later stage. The company's risk management disruptions (e.g. multiple supplier strategy) and decrease price and internal control system has been designed to identify and volatility (e.g. commodity hedging). Nevertheless, the respond to these developments on time, but 100 percent increasing complexity and interdependence of worldwide assurance can never be achieved. supply streams as well as increasing (perceived) pressure on the availability of resources may lead to price fluctuations and Control activities availability issues, influencing DSM’s profitability. The Supplier Each business group and each major operational service unit Relationship program, aiming to obtain a number of strategic has an Audit Committee which, under the direction of the customer of choice positions, is another way to jointly optimize director of the group or unit, sets up annual risk management the value chains DSM is involved in. plans, monitors their implementation and reviews risk Intellectual property (IP) risks management issues on a regular basis. During the year under The policy of accelerated growth through speeding up review, major risk management events, such as business risk innovation and expansion in high growth economies holds the assessments, audits and the occurrence of control failures or risk of increased exposure in the IP area. Measures will weaknesses, were discussed with the responsible Managing continue to be taken to contain these risks, but these may not Board member. always be completely effective in mitigating IP risks. Security (including information security) Commonly occurring risks are mitigated through the Especially in the area of the security of and access to data in implementation of the Corporate Requirements and process ICT systems, a continued focus on monitoring and controls in the business processes. The operational units implementation of key security behaviors is required, given the regularly test compliance with these requirements and the increasing tension between the growing professionalism of effectiveness of the controls. Deviations from Corporate cybercrime and widespread use of (mobile) IT and social Requirements are only allowed temporarily, if sufficient media. alternative controls are in place and after approval by the Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 119 www.dsm.com responsible Board member. A limited number of waivers have Enhancements to the risk management system been granted. During 2013, the enhanced focus on risk controls in the safety area (Life Saving Rules) was continued. New and enhanced Information and communication controls were introduced in the field of security through the A continuous effort is being made to inform employees about the launch of key security behaviors. The Corporate Requirements DSM risk management system and train them in its use. In India in the field of Research, Technology and Development were and Russia specific regional risk assessments were performed separated from those in the field of Innovation. For joint ventures in 2013. To increase general awareness of risk management, the governance and risk management approach was reviewed internal webinars were held and dilemma discussions were and updated in line with DSM's interest in those partnerships. started. Strategic developments within DSM were supported by risk Monitoring and reporting management actions as follows: Information on the functioning of the system was collected on a continuous basis. Business groups tracked compliance with High Growth Economies: Enhancement of regional risk Corporate Requirements and the follow-up of actions arising management capabilities with a focus in 2013 on India and from risk assessments. They conducted assessments on the Russia. effectiveness of their internal controls and reported and Sustainability: Further implementation of the control investigated incidents. Independent audits on the effectiveness framework for ECO+ solutions, implementation of actions of risk management implementation were executed by the defined in the sustainability risk assessment and start of the Corporate Operational Audit department according to a program implementation of a framework for People+. agreed with the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board. Innovation: Improved risk assessment practices, including Information coming in via the DSM Alert whistleblowing channel Monte Carlo business simulations and value engineering. was also used as a source for reviewing the effectiveness of the Acquisitions & Partnerships: Creation of best practices for risk management system. Any critical findings were addressed (risk) management in the integration and operation of immediately. acquisitions and joint ventures. Enhancement of regional risk management capabilities in high growth economies and in By signing an affidavit, the business group controllers confirmed, North America, where many newly acquired businesses are among other things, that the quarterly financial statements had being integrated. been produced according to the internal accounting rules and reporting procedures. The implementation of a financial shared services center in line with DSM's strategy to leverage operations has created a need for more explicit continuous control monitoring (CCM) to support the units' statements. CCM for this scope has been successfully implemented. Based on developments within and external to the company, as well as findings from the various risk assessments, audits and monitoring and reporting efforts, the Corporate Risk Office drew up a consolidated risk report, including recommendations for further improvement of the risk management system. These recommendations were integrated into an update of the Corporate Risk Management Plan 2011-2015. At the end of the second quarter, the operational units were asked to provide an update of their material risks and incidents over the first half of 2013 and the status of the mitigation of the risks reported over 2012, and to specify any material risks or uncertainties for the rest of the year. The consolidated overview of these risks, incidents and mitigation measures was the basis for the risk section and the statements of the Managing Board as provided with the first-half figures in accordance with the requirements of the Dutch Financial Markets Supervision Act. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 120 www.dsm.com Corporate governance and risk management Introduction Dutch corporate governance code Governance framework Risk management Statements of the Managing Board Statements of the Managing Board On the basis of the above and in accordance with best practice II.1.5 of the Dutch corporate governance code of December 2008, and Article 5:25c of the Financial Markets Supervision Act, the Managing Board confirms that internal controls over financial reporting provide a reasonable level of assurance that the financial reporting does not contain any material inaccuracies, and confirms that these controls functioned properly in the year under review and that there are no indications that they will not continue to do so. The financial statements fairly represent the company's financial condition and the results of the company’s operations and provide the required disclosures. It should be noted that the above does not imply that these systems and procedures provide absolute assurance as to the realization of operational and strategic business objectives, or that they can prevent all misstatements, inaccuracies, errors, fraud and non-compliances with legislation, rules and regulations. In view of all of the above, the Managing Board confirms that, to the best of its knowledge, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company, and the management report includes a fair review of the position at the balance sheet date and the development and performance of the business during the financial year together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that the company faces. Heerlen, 24 February 2014 The Managing Board Feike Sijbesma, CEO/Chairman of the Managing Board Rolf-Dieter Schwalb, CFO Stefan Doboczky Stephan Tanda Dimitri de Vreeze Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 121 www.dsm.com Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board report members see the DSM website under Corporate Governance and page 137 of this report. Introduction The Supervisory Board is in charge of supervising and advising Meetings and business topics the Managing Board in setting and achieving the company’s In 2013 the Supervisory Board had six meetings and three objectives, strategy, policies and succession planning. In 2013 conference calls with the Managing Board. On three occasions, an important part of this task was focused on reviewing the one member was excused due to other commitments. In strategic progress, which, among other things resulted in an addition to the standard agenda items for the meetings, such as update of the 2015 targets as published at the Capital Markets the development of the financials and the running business Day held on 26 September 2013 and in this report on page performance, including the benefits of the Profit Improvement 11, reflecting a transformed portfolio and market dynamics. The Program, the Boards had in-depth discussions on the progress update included a new group EBITDA margin target of 14-15 of the execution of DSM’s strategy, an update of the 2015 percent with a ROCE target of 11-12 percent. In addition, targets to reflect the transformed portfolio and market dynamics, strategic actions for DSM Pharmaceutical Products and Polymer and the priorities for the coming two years. Intermediates were discussed as well as the integration of the acquired companies to capture full synergies and to drive For Nutrition the discussions were focused on the delivery of organic growth. Furthermore, the Supervisory Board discussed good organic growth and the integration of acquired companies the top 5 risks as reported in the Integrated Annual Report. such as Fortitech (global leader in food ingredient blends) and Tortuga (Brazilian market leader in organic trace minerals for In DSM's two-tier corporate structure under Dutch law, the animal nutrition and health), in such a way as to realize the full Supervisory Board is a separate body operating fully synergy potential. In addition, new acquisitions were discussed, independently of the Managing Board. Members of the such as the acquisition of Unitech (a New Zealand based Supervisory Board and the Managing Board are (re-)appointed producer of nutritional products for both human and animal by the General Meeting of Shareholders. markets) and the acquisition of a stake in Andre Pectin (headquartered in Yantai (China) and active in the manufacture Composition of Supervisory Board and sale of apple and citrus pectin, a key food hydrocolloid The composition of the DSM Supervisory Board is diverse in providing texture, as well as in pectin related food products). gender (4 male, 3 female), nationality (4 Dutch, 1 Swiss and 2 American), background, knowledge and experience. The For Pharma, discussions were focused on potential partnerships Board's current members are Rob Routs (chair), Ewald Kist for DSM Pharmaceutical Products. In the last quarter of 2013 (deputy chair), Pierre Hochuli, Tom de Swaan, Pauline van der this culminated in an approval to combine DSM Pharmaceutical Meer Mohr, Victoria Haynes and Eileen Kennedy. For detailed Products with US-based company Patheon, which resulted in information on their background, see the DSM website under the announcement that DSM and private equity firm JLL Partners Corporate Governance and page 136 of this report. The intend to combine Patheon and DSM Pharmaceutical Products targeted profile of the Supervisory Board is reflected in its into a new company that will be a leading global contract regulations, which are published on the DSM website under development and manufacturing organization for the Corporate Governance. Within the Supervisory Board four pharmaceutical industry. This represents a key step in the committees have been established to cover four key areas in strategic transformation of DSM’s Pharma activities into more detail, being auditing, nominations (of the Supervisory partnerships. Board and Managing Board), remuneration (of the Supervisory Board and Managing Board) and corporate social responsibility. Discussions on Materials Sciences were focused on improving More information on these four areas is given below. The the performance by upgrading the portfolio of Performance charters of the committees are published on the DSM website Materials and reducing the volatility of the results of Polymer under Corporate Governance. Intermediates. Regarding Innovation, discussions were in particular focused on the innovation pipeline and on the Composition of the Managing Board Emerging Business Areas (EBAs). EBA discussions included The composition of the Managing Board is diverse in nationality progress made with the cellulosic bio-ethanol plant (a joint (2 Dutch, 2 Austrian and 1 German), background, knowledge venture between DSM and POET), the integration of Kensey and experience, and provides a good foundation to support all Nash, accelerating progress in Biomedical and Advanced clusters and business groups in achieving their targets Surfaces, and partnerships in Bio-based Products & Services. contributing to the company strategy of driving focused growth. Sustainability discussions were focused on sustainability For detailed background information on all Managing Board aspirations and the next steps to be taken in the company's Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 122 www.dsm.com Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board report Remuneration policy for the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board positioning. It was established that the progress made was in The committee also discussed and evaluated cases submitted line with the aspirations. under DSM’s whistleblower policy (DSM Alert), and mitigating actions to prevent recurrence. As High Growth Economies are also an important business growth driver for DSM, one of the meetings was held in China In addition to the audit work, the external auditor of the company (Shanghai) as part of extensive site visits in the areas of (EY) carried out non-audit work, to the extent allowed under Shanghai, Nanjing and Beijing. During these site visits the applicable legislation (including new legislation in the Supervisory Board learned about the progress made in the China Netherlands) and regulations and the internal procedures of the based business activities in both Life Sciences and Materials company. Important areas where non-audit services were Sciences. The visits included DSM’s Shanghai R&D and provided by EY related to tax compliance work for certain foreign Innovation Center, the new, second caprolactam line of DNCC subsidiaries and expatriate tax services. All audit and non-audit (DSM Nanjing Chemical Company Ltd., the venture between work carried out by the external auditor for the company were DSM Fibre Intermediates and Sinopec) in Nanjing, a DSM performed in line with the conditions and instructions approved Engineering Plastics customer and the new Animal Nutrition R&D by the Supervisory Board on the recommendation of the Audit Center near Beijing. During this China visit the Supervisory Board Committee and after consultation with the Managing Board. For also met a number of external DSM relations from Chinese work that is not within the scope of the audit of the consolidated universities as well as people related to the Chinese government. financial statements individual assignments require pre-approval In China and in the subsequent meeting with the Managing from the Audit Committee prior to execution. Fees and Board in the Netherlands, the Supervisory Board extensively conditions of the external auditor for audit and non-audit work discussed DSM’s growth ambitions in China and the other high were approved by the Audit Committee. growth economies and the work that is being done to achieve these ambitions. With EY discussions were held about the financial statements for 2013. The Report by the Managing Board and the financial Financials and auditing statements for 2013 were submitted by the Managing Board to The Audit Committee met four times in 2013 and in addition had the Supervisory Board, in accordance with the provisions of four conference calls to discuss financial developments and Article 30 of the Articles of Association, and subsequently interim disclosures. On two occasions one member was approved by the Supervisory Board in its meeting on 25 February excused. As of 3 May 2013 the following Supervisory Board 2014. The financial statements were audited by EY, who issued members were a member of the Audit Committee: Tom de an unqualified opinion (see the Independent Auditor's Report on Swaan (chair), Pierre Hochuli and Victoria Haynes. All the Financial Statements of this report). The Supervisory Board Supervisory Board members have a standing invitation to attend established that the external auditor was independent of DSM. Audit Committee meetings, which they used on a regular basis. Besides the Supervisory Board members, the external auditor In accordance with the Dutch corporate governance code and the CFO and CEO participated in these meetings and (V. 2.3), the Managing Board and the Audit Committee whenever relevant, managers responsible for finance, internal conducted a thorough assessment of the functioning of the audit, risk management and compliance were invited to explain external auditor following an extensive external review of the their topics to the Audit Committee. All discussions were very activities of the external auditor in 2012 and reported the open and constructive. The highlights and the minutes of all outcome in the 2013 Annual General Meeting. meetings were always shared with the full Supervisory Board in its meetings with the Managing Board. This feedback included Based on a very positive outcome of the assessment of the advice and recommendations regarding topics to be approved external auditor in 2012, the audit services provided by EY were by the full Supervisory Board. continued in 2013 under a revised contract. In view of new legislation in the Netherlands with regard to the independence The committee had in-depth discussions on the financials, the of auditors (mandatory audit firm rotation by 2016 after eight financing and guarantee plan, the capital expenditure plan, the consecutive financial years of audit services), as well as dividend proposals, financial statements, accounting policy anticipated European legislation which may affect the audit changes, internal risk management and control systems, all profession in the coming years, in 2013 a process was started potential risks (including safety, health and environment and to select a new audit firm to provide audit services as of 2015. security risks), compliance with recommendations and observations made by internal and external auditors, and the role Financial statements 2013 and functioning of the operational audit department, including The Supervisory Board will submit the 2013 financial statements the endorsement of its proposed audit plan. to the 2014 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, and will Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 123 www.dsm.com propose that the shareholders adopt them and discharge the Board remuneration Managing Board from all liability in respect of its managerial The Remuneration Committee had three meetings and three activities and discharge the Supervisory Board from all liability in conference calls in 2013. On one occasion, one member was respect of its supervision of the Managing Board. The profit absent. Ewald Kist (chair), Rob Routs and Tom de Swaan are appropriation as approved by the Supervisory Board is members of this committee. Discussions were focused on the presented in the Profit appropriation section of the 2013 performance and the related remuneration of the members of Integrated Annual Report. The Supervisory Board wishes to the Managing Board and executives of DSM. Feike Sijbesma and express its sincere appreciation for the results achieved and Chris Van Steenbergen were fully involved in these would like to thank the employees and the Managing Board for discussions. Recommendations and minutes of the their efforts. Remuneration Committee meetings were shared with the full Supervisory Board and used to determine the final remuneration Board nominations of the members of the Managing Board. In 2013 nomination discussions were focused on the succession planning of the Managing Board. The Board extensively Furthermore, to align the Managing Board remuneration even discussed the further succession planning of the entire more with long-term stakeholder interests, the Supervisory Managing and Supervisory Board. The succession of Nico Board submitted to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders Gerardu, who retired from the Managing Board on of 3 May 2013 an updated remuneration policy for the Managing 1 September 2013, was discussed in particular. Dimitri de Board, as advised by the Remuneration Committee (with Vreeze was nominated on the basis of among other things his support from an independent external global reward consultancy broad experience in Materials Sciences, as demonstrated in his firm) and the DSM Corporate Human Resources department. successful tenure as Business Group Director DSM Resins & The aim of the update was to align the remuneration policy even Functional Materials. As usual, the composition of the Managing more with long-term stakeholder interests, and be in line with Board was taken into account during the selection process, market practices and benchmarks. The Annual General Meeting which therefore included an effort to find female candidates. In approved the policy as proposed. This policy is published on the the end, the best candidate was nominated and appointed DSM website under Corporate Governance/Managing Board during the Annual General Meeting on 3 May 2013. and on page 127 of this report. Further, the Nomination Committee discussed in 2013 the Corporate Social Responsibility succession of Rolf-Dieter Schwalb (Managing Board member The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee met twice and CFO) whose second term as Managing Board member in 2013; on one occasion one member was excused. As of 3 expires in 2014. In-depth discussions on the above were held May 2013 Pauline van der Meer Mohr (chair), Pierre Hochuli and within the Nomination Committee, which consists of Rob Routs Eileen Kennedy were members of this committee. The Chair of (chair), Ewald Kist and Pauline van der Meer Mohr. Feike the Supervisory Board, who has a standing invitation, Sijbesma and Chris Van Steenbergen, Executive Vice President participated in all meetings. In the first meeting the Sustainability of the Corporate Human Resources department, were also Information to be included in the Integrated Annual Report of involved in these discussions. 2012 including the auditors’ findings was extensively discussed, partly in the presence of the external auditor. The second Further, taking into account the Supervisory Board profile as laid meeting focused on the follow-up of the management letter of down in the Supervisory Board regulations, the Committee the external auditor relating to the assurance on the started discussions on the succession of Claudio Sonder, who Sustainability Information in the Integrated Annual Report and retired from the Supervisory Board on 3 May 2013. It was the progress made with the implementation of sustainability decided to postpone the appointment of a successor till later, aspirations set by the company as part of its strategy. Details of probably 2014. The Committee met three times in 2013; all the progress can be found on page 12 of this Integrated Annual members attended all meetings. Recommendations and the Report. In addition, DSM's safety performance, an important minutes of all Committee meetings were shared with the entire focus area for the company, was discussed in the CSR Supervisory Board. The reappointment of Rob Routs and Tom Committee meeting. The committee's view that DSM is doing de Swaan as members of the Supervisory Board for another well when it comes to corporate social responsibility is supported term of four years will be proposed to the Annual General by the fact that the company has been named among the leaders Meeting of Shareholders to be held on 7 May 2014. A proposal in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index for several years in for the succession of Mr. Schwalb as Managing Board Member a row. The chair of the CSR Committee also participated in one and CFO will also be submitted for approval to the Annual of the meetings of DSM’s external Sustainability Advisory Board, General Meeting. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 124 www.dsm.com Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board report Remuneration policy for the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board which acts as an external sounding board and meets with DSM's top management twice a year. The CEO, the Managing Board member responsible for Corporate Operations & Responsible Care, the Executive Vice President Corporate Affairs, the Vice President Corporate Operations & Responsible Care and the Director Sustainable Development were present during both meetings of the CSR Committee. The recommendations and minutes of both meetings were shared and discussed with the entire Supervisory Board during its meetings with the Managing Board. In view of the Board's supervision of corporate social responsibility issues relevant to the company, the sections 'DSM in motion: driving focused growth', 'Growth driver: Sustainability', 'Stakeholder Engagement', 'People in 2013' and 'Planet in 2013' (the Sustainability Information) in the Integrated Annual Report 2013 were reviewed and subsequently discussed by the full Supervisory Board in its meeting of 25 February 2014, based on the advice of the CSR Committee. Taking into consideration the Independent Assurance Report on the Sustainability Information by EY on page 213 of this Integrated Annual Report, the full Supervisory Board approved the reporting in these sections. The Sustainability Information is in compliance with the sustainability reporting guidelines of GRI (G3) and the internal reporting criteria of DSM included in this Integrated Annual Report. Supervisory Board meetings and performance evaluation As in previous years, an extensive Board evaluation was carried out in 2013 which this year was facilitated by an external consultant on the basis of written questionnaires and interviews. The review assessed the collective performance of the Board and its Committees and the performance of the Chairman. The consultant presented the results during the December meeting of the Supervisory Board. The overall feedback from the selfevaluation was that the Board is operating well and has acted on the outcomes of previous evaluations. The Board agreed on the recommendations to be followed up in 2014. The Board established that all of its members are committed to allocating sufficient time and attention to the Board's duties of supervising and advising the DSM Managing Board. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 125 www.dsm.com Remuneration policy for the Managing During 2013 the Remuneration Committee discussed and Board and the Supervisory Board further fine-tuned the adjustments, also based on the input of a number of external stakeholders. After due consideration, the This chapter comprises two parts. The first part outlines the Supervisory Board proposed to the Annual General Meeting of remuneration policy as approved by the Annual General Meeting Shareholders to make a number of adjustments to the current of Shareholders. The second part contains details of the remuneration policy for the Managing Board. These proposals remuneration in 2013 and changes expected in 2014. were approved by the AGM on 3 May 2013. Remuneration policy The adjustments do not change the overall remuneration The objective of DSM’s remuneration policy is to attract, model (philosophy) for the Managing Board. motivate and retain qualified and expert individuals that the company needs in order to achieve its strategic and operational This model is based on providing fair compensation approaching objectives, whilst acknowledging the societal context around the median, and consists of a base salary and a well-balanced remuneration and recognizing the interests of DSM's mix of Short-Term and Long-Term Incentives. stakeholders. The following elements are taken into consideration: Both the Short-Term Incentive (STI) and the Long-Term Incentive (LTI) consist of two equal parts, one of which is linked to financial The remuneration policy reflects a balance between the targets and the other to sustainability and – for STI only – interests of DSM’s main stakeholders as well as a balance individual targets. between the company’s short-term and long-term strategy. As a result, the structure of the remuneration package for the The aim of the adjustments is: Managing Board is designed to balance short-term operational performance with the medium and long-term to align the remuneration policy even more with long-term objective of creating sustainable value within the company, stakeholder interests, in line with DSM's stated philosophy of while taking into account the interests of its stakeholders. DSM creating long-term value for all stakeholders; strives for a high performance in the field of sustainability and to update the policy in line with the most recent prevalent aims to maintain a good balance between economic gain, market practices and benchmarks for executive and board respect for people and concern for the environment in line with compensation; and the DSM values and business principles as reflected in the to further strengthen pay for multi-dimensional, people-planetDSM Code of Business Conduct. profit driven performance within DSM. To ensure that highly skilled and qualified senior executives can be attracted and retained, DSM aims for a total The adjustments can be summarized as follows: remuneration level that is comparable to levels provided by other (Dutch and European) multinational companies that are Strengthen the link between the Short-Term Incentive (STI) similar to DSM in terms of size and complexity. and long-term value creation by requiring Managing Board The remuneration policies for the members of the Managing members to invest in conditional DSM shares 25 percent on Board and for other senior executives of DSM are aligned. a mandatory basis and 25 percent (maximum) on a voluntary In designing and setting the levels of remuneration for the basis of their yearly actual earned STI payment. These shares Managing Board, the Supervisory Board also takes into are required to be held for at least three years. In return for this account the relevant statutory provisions and provisions of the commitment, the Managing Board members can, at the Dutch corporate governance code, societal and market trends discretion of the Supervisory Board, be granted on a one for and the interests of stakeholders. one basis (as a maximum) shares matching the number of DSM’s policy is to offer the Managing Board a total direct shares they have purchased, if over this three-year period a compensation approaching the median of the labor-market number of long-term (LTI) performance conditions are met. As peer group. a result, the annual STI outcome will be partly converted into a long-term (risk taking) performance plan. Adjustments to remuneration policy for the Managing Board Establish as the main sustainability parameters in the STI the During 2011 and 2012 the Royal DSM Supervisory Board and introduction of ECO+ products, Safety Performance and its Remuneration Committee discussed and evaluated a number Employee Engagement, in addition to individual targets. The of adjustments to the remuneration policy for the Managing financial measures in the STI (EBITDA, gross free cash flow, Board, supported by an external global reward consultancy firm organic net sales growth) remain unchanged. The financial and by DSM’s Corporate Human Resources department. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 126 www.dsm.com Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board report Remuneration policy for the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board measures will amount to 50 percent of total STI and the nonwhich consists of a number of Dutch and European companies financial (sustainability and individual) measures also to 50 that are more or less comparable to DSM in terms of size, percent. international scope and business portfolio. The Supervisory Add a new provision to the policy, stating that no STI payout Board regularly reviews the peer group to ensure that its will occur (regardless of the performance on all other composition is still appropriate. measures) if the company’s financial performance is below a certain threshold. This threshold is to be determined annually The labor-market peer group currently consists of the following by the Supervisory Board. eleven companies: Introduce in the Long-Term Incentive (LTI) a second financial measure, being Return on Capital Employed (ROCE), in addition to total shareholder return (TSR), and introduce in the Aegon Nutreco LTI a second long-term sustainability measure, being Energy AkzoNobel Solvay Efficiency Improvement, in addition to the greenhouse-gas Clariant Syngenta emissions reduction measure already incorporated in the LTI. Heineken TNT Express Each measure will count for 25 percent. KPN Wolters Kluwer Align the Managing Board remuneration policy with current LANXESS market practices by (1) moving to a new relative TSR vesting schedule that is based on relative ranking within the TSR peer group, and (2) increasing transparency by adopting the face As part of its remuneration policy DSM will benchmark its value method to calculate the number of yearly LTI remuneration package against the packages offered by the performance shares (100 percent of base salary when on labor-market peer group once every three years. In addition, the target and 150 percent in the case of excellent performance), company may apply a yearly increase to the base salary based rather than the currently used discounted fair value method. on the ‘general increase’ (market movement) for DSM executives With the introduction of the face value method, the actual in the Netherlands. The remuneration policy was last number of shares granted will be kept at a similar level as benchmarked against the peer group in 2011. today. Introduce minimum shareholding guidelines for Managing Total Direct Compensation (TDC) Board members: a shareholding equivalent to three times the The total direct compensation of the Managing Board consists base salary in the case of the CEO and a shareholding of the following components: equivalent to one time the base salary for the other Managing Board members. These shareholdings can be built up over 5 (I) Base salary years. (II) Variable income Performance-related Short-Term Incentive (STI) It should be noted that no adjustments to the base salary policy Performance-related Long-Term Incentive (LTI) were made. In addition to this total direct compensation, the members of the The Annual General Meeting approved these proposals on Managing Board participate in the Dutch pension scheme for 3 May 2013, for application as per performance year 2013 DSM employees in the Netherlands and are entitled to other (except for the introduction of face value calculations which will benefits, such as a company car and representation allowance. apply as of the 2014 LTI grant). However the new 3-year vesting schedule for LTI will only have impact as of vesting in 2016 Value in percent of Total Direct Compensation (on target): related to the 2013 grant (under the new measures). For 2013 (and also 2014 and 2015) LTI vesting will still be based upon the previous measures and vesting schedules. A: Base Salary 50% B: Variable income (STI + LTI)1 50% Adjusted Remuneration Policy for Managing Board Labor-market peer group Total Direct Compensation (TDC) 100% In order to be able to recruit the right caliber of people for the Managing Board and to secure long-term retention of the current 1 LTI at discounted fair value Board members, DSM will take external reference data into account in determining adequate remuneration levels. For this purpose, a specific labor-market peer group has been defined Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 127 www.dsm.com Base salary On joining the Board, the Managing Board members receive a Target areas Total Shared Individual base salary that is comparable with the median of the labor market peer group. Every year, base salary levels are reviewed Financial 25% 25% 0% based on a three-year remuneration benchmark. Adjustment of Sustainability and the base salary is at the discretion of the Supervisory Board. In individual 25% 15% 10% addition, the company will, when appropriate, apply a yearly increase to the base salary based on the ‘general Total 50% 40% 10% increase’ (market movement) for DSM executives in the Netherlands. Short-Term Incentive (STI) linked to financial targets Variable income The part of the STI that is linked to financial targets (25 percent) The variable income part of remuneration consists of the Shortincludes elements related to operational performance, being Term and Long-Term Incentives. The distribution between EBITDA before exceptional items, gross free cash flow and net Short-Term and Long-Term Incentives for (on target) sales growth (organic), reflecting short-term financial results. The performance aims to achieve a proper balance between shortweighting given to the individual financial elements in the STI is term result and long-term value creation. The parameters relating as follows: EBITDA 10 percent, gross free cash flow 7.5 percent to the various elements of the variable income part of the and organic net sales growth 7.5 percent of annual base salary remuneration are established and where necessary adjusted by for on-target performance. and at the discretion of the Supervisory Board, taking into account the general rules and principles of the remuneration policy itself. Target areas On-target pay-out (% of base salary) Distribution of variable income (on target): Financial targets EBITDA before exceptional items 10.0 Gross free cash flow 7.5 A: Short-Term Incentive (STI) 50% Organic net sales growth1 7.5 B: Long-Term Incentive (LTI)1 50% Total 25.0 Total variable income as % of base salary 100% 1 Excluding currency fluctuations, divestments and acquisitions 1 LTI at discounted fair value The three financial-target-related Short-Term Incentive elements Short-Term Incentive (STI) can be derived from the financial statements. Managing Board members are eligible to participate in a ShortTerm Incentive (STI) scheme. The scheme is designed to reward Short-Term Incentive (STI) linked to sustainability and individual short-term operational performance with the long-term objective targets of creating sustainable value, taking into account the interests of The part of the STI that is linked to non-financial targets (25 all stakeholders. percent) relates to sustainability and individual targets. On a regular basis, following proper evaluation, further refinement/ The Short-Term Incentive opportunity amounts to 50 percent of adaptations of performance measures in the area of the annual base salary for on-target performance (100 percent sustainability and their weight will take place. in the case of excellent performance). The part of the STI that is related to financial targets accounts for 25 percent of base salary As from 2013 the following shared measures linked to and the other 25 percent relates to sustainability and individual sustainability for the STI are applicable: targets. ECO+: percentage of successful product launches that meet ECO+ criteria Employee Engagement Index: related to the High Performance Norm in industry Safety Performance (newly introduced in 2013) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 128 www.dsm.com Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board report Remuneration policy for the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board The STI measures on sustainability are defined as follows: 132). This will be linked to a one-for-one matching award on the total deferred amount under the condition that predefined ECO+ solutions performance targets and measures are met over the three-year ECO+ solutions are products and services that, when vesting period. The performance measures are equivalent to the considered over their whole life cycle, offer clear ecological measures under the Long-Term Incentive (LTI) Plan. benefits (in other words, a clearly lower eco-footprint) compared to the mainstream solutions they compete with. Long-Term Incentives (LTI) These ecological benefits can be created at any stage of the The Managing Board members will be eligible to receive product life cycle − from raw material through manufacturing performance-related shares. Under the performance share plan, and use to potential re-use and end-of-life disposal. ECO+ shares will conditionally be granted to Managing Board solutions, in short, create more value with less environmental members. Vesting of these shares is conditional on the impact. achievement of certain predetermined performance targets Employee Engagement Index during a three-year period. An Employee Engagement Survey is conducted annually, focusing on a combination of perceptions that have a Prior to the 2013 grant, two performance measures were applied consistent impact on behavior and create a sense of for the vesting of performance shares: ownership. Research has consistently shown that the four key elements (satisfaction, commitment, pride and advocacy) Comparable Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance define engagement and link engagement to business versus a peer group performance metrics. Greenhouse-gas emissions (GHGE) reduction over volumeSafety Performance related revenue Defined as Frequency Index (FI) for recordable injuries. As from the 2013 grant two new measures will apply in addition In addition to shared sustainability targets (15 percent), a limited to TSR and GHGE: number of individual non-financial targets (10 percent) will apply. Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) Energy Efficiency Improvement (EEI) Target area On-target pay-out (% of base salary) As a result, as from the 2013 LTI grant, four measures will apply Non-financial targets for the calculation of the vesting of the LTI performance shares. Sustainability 15 Each of these four will count for 25 percent of total, with 50 Individual 10 percent of total on financial measures and 50 percent of total on sustainability measures. Total 25 However, for the 2013 realization of the 2010 grant only TSR and GHGE will be taken into account, and this will also be the case The targets are determined each year by the Supervisory Board, (mutatis mutandis) for the 2014 and 2015 LTI realization (2011 based on historical performance, the operational and strategic and 2012 grant, respectively). outlook of the company in the short term and expectations of the company’s management and stakeholders, among other The LTI performance targets can be defined as follows: things. The targets contribute to the realization of the objective of long-term value creation. Total Shareholder Return (TSR) This is used to compare the performance of different The company does not disclose the actual targets, as they companies’ stocks and shares over time. It combines share qualify as commercially sensitive information. However, full price appreciation and dividends paid to show the total return transparency will be given on target areas and definitions. Target to shareholders. The relative TSR position reflects the market setting and realization are audited by external auditors. perception of overall performance relative to a reference group. Mandatory and voluntary deferral of STI Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) In 2014 (STI pay-out over 2013 performance) a mandatory and This is the operating profit as a percentage of weighted a voluntary deferral of the yearly earned STI into DSM shares will average capital employed. be introduced with a three-year vesting period (see also page Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 129 www.dsm.com Greenhouse-gas emissions (GHGE) reduction The definition of greenhouse gases (GHG) according to the The TSR peer group currently consists of the following Kyoto Protocol includes carbon dioxide (CO2), methane, companies: nitrous oxide (N2O), sulfur hexafluoride, hydrofluorocarbons and perfluorocarbons. The scope for calculation of GHGE AkzoNobel EMS Chemie Holding reduction is as follows: Arkema Kerry BASF LANXESS (I) DSM’s direct emissions (on site or from DSM assets) Christian Hansen Lonza Group mainly comprise CO2 and N2O (scope 1). Clariant Novozymes (II) DSM’s indirect emissions (emissions created on behalf DuPont Solvay of DSM in the generation of electricity or the delivery of energy via hot water or steam) relate to electricity from the grid. DSM relies on local suppliers (scope 2). The TSR peer group reflects the relevant market in which DSM competes for shareholder preference. It includes sector-specific Energy Efficiency Improvement (EEI) competitors that the Supervisory Board considers to be suitable This is the reduction of the amount of energy that is used per benchmarks for DSM. unit of product (known as energy efficiency) on a three-year rolling average basis. The peer group is verified by the Supervisory Board each year based on market circumstances (such as mergers and In determining the number of shares to be conditionally granted, acquisitions) that determine the appropriateness of the the Supervisory Board from the 2014 grant onwards takes into composition of the performance peer group. No changes were account the face value of the DSM share instead of the made to the TSR peer group for 2013. discounted value. This is in line with best practice and provides total transparency to shareholders. The policy for the value of the GHGE reduction as a performance measure Long-Term Incentive is set as from 2014 at 100 percent of base GHGE reduction over volume-related revenues in percentage salary when on target and 150 percent in the case of excellent points (over a 3-year period) is used as a basis for the vesting of performance. The number of conditionally granted shares is 25 percent of the performance shares (versus 50 percent for the set by dividing the policy level at maximum (150 percent of base 2011, 2012 and 2013 LTI vesting). salary as from 2014) by a share price at the beginning of the year of the conditional grant. The annual grant level will fluctuate as a ROCE and EEI as a performance measure consequence of this mechanism. With the introduction of the ROCE and EEI, too, each count for the vesting of 25 percent of face value method, the actual number of shares granted will be the performance shares. kept at a similar level as when calculated on the basis of the discounted fair value method. Performance Incentive Zones Up to and including the 2012 LTI grant, the number of shares Granting date that become unconditional after three years ('vesting') is As of 2014 the grant date of the conditional performance shares determined on the basis of two equally weighted factors: DSM's will be the last working day of March. performance relative to the average TSR performance of the peer group and DSM's GHGE reduction over volume-related TSR as a performance measure revenue. As from the 2013 grant (vesting in 2016) the vesting will DSM’s TSR performance is compared to the average TSR be based on four measures as outlined above. performance of a set of predefined peer companies. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 130 www.dsm.com Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board report Remuneration policy for the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board Notice period TSR vesting scheme GHGE vesting scheme Termination of employment by a member of the Managing Board Rank % of DSM GHGE reduction % of is subject to three months’ notice. A notice period of six months shares that over volume-related shares will for legal reasons be applicable in the case of termination by vest revenue in % points that vest the company. 1 100 5.27 100 Severance arrangement 2 89 4.68 89 There are no specific contractual exit arrangements for the 3 78 4.09 78 members of the Managing Board appointed before 1 January 4 67 3.50 67 2005. Should a situation arise in which a severance payment is 5 56 2.91 56 appropriate for these Board members, the Remuneration 6 45 2.32 45 Committee will recommend the terms and conditions. The 7 34 1.73 34 Supervisory Board will decide upon this, taking into account 8-13 0 <1.73 0 usual practices for these types of situations, as well as applicable laws and corporate governance requirements. ROCE and EEI targets and vesting schemes are not being The employment contracts of newly appointed members of the disclosed given their business-sensitive nature. Managing Board (appointed after 1 January 2005) include an exit-arrangement provision which is in accordance with the The retention period for performance shares expires five years Dutch corporate governance code (that is, a sum equivalent to after the three-year vesting period or at termination of the fixed annual salary, or if this is manifestly unreasonable in the employment if this occurs earlier. The final TSR performance of case of dismissal during the first term of office, two times the DSM versus its peers will be determined and validated by a bank fixed annual salary). and audited by the external auditor at the end of the vesting period. Claw-back / change-of-control As of January 2014 new legislation has entered into force Pensions regarding the revision and claw-back of bonuses and profitThe members of the Managing Board are participants in the sharing arrangements of board members of Dutch listed Dutch pension fund Stichting Pensioenfonds DSM Nederland companies. Part of this new legislation was already covered in (PDN). PDN operates similar pension plans for various DSM comparable rules of the Dutch corporate governance code and companies. The pension scheme for the Managing Board is consequently already included in the employment contracts of equal to the pension scheme for the employees of DSM the members of the Managing Board. This regards in particular Executive Services B.V. and DSM employees in the Netherlands. the possibility (1) to revise a bonus/incentive prior to payment, if unaltered payment of the bonus/incentive would be Employment contracts unreasonable and unfair, and (2) to claw back a bonus/incentive, Term of employment if payment took place on the basis of incorrect information on The employment contracts of the members of the Managing the fulfilment of the bonus/incentive targets or the conditions for Board appointed before 1 January 2005 have been entered into payment of the bonus/incentive. In addition, it is enacted that in for an indefinite period of time. Members of the Managing Board the case of a change-of-control event a related increase in value appointed between 1 January 2005 and 1 January 2013 were of the securities that have been granted to a board member as also offered an employment contract for an indefinite period of part of his/her remuneration will be deducted from the time. Managing Board members appointed from outside the remuneration to be paid to the board member at the time of company and after 1 January 2013 do not have a contract for selling these securities or when his/her board membership ends. an indefinite period of time. Share ownership Term of appointment The Supervisory Board will encourage the Managing Board to Members of the Managing Board appointed before 1 January hold shares in the company to emphasize their confidence in the 2005 are appointed for an indefinite period of time. New strategy and the company. members of the Managing Board (appointed after 1 January 2005) are appointed for a period of four years. Newly appointed As of 2013 minimum shareholding guidelines for the members members are eligible for reappointment by the General Meeting of the Managing Board are applicable, equivalent to three times of Shareholders after a period of four years. the base salary in the case of the CEO and one time the base Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 131 www.dsm.com salary for the other MB members. These shareholdings can be The Supervisory Board has established the extent to which the built up over five years. targets for 2013 were achieved. The realization of the 2013 financial STI targets has been reviewed by EY. Furthermore, EY Loans has reviewed the process with respect to the target realization DSM does not provide any loans to members of the Managing of the non-financial STI targets. The average realization Board. percentage was 55.5 percent of base salary. Scenario analysis See the next page for a tabular overview of the actual Short-Term The amended Dutch corporate governance code requires that Incentive pay-out per individual Board member in 2013. the Supervisory Board ‘shall analyze possible outcomes of the variable income components and the effect on Managing Board Performance shares in 2013 remuneration’. Within DSM this analysis is conducted at least Performance shares were granted to the Managing Board on every three years. 7 May 2013. The following table shows the number of performance shares granted to the individual Board members: Managing Board remuneration in 2013 Number of stock incentives granted As part of its remuneration policy for the Managing Board, DSM will benchmark its remuneration package against the packages Performance shares offered by the labor-market peer group once every three years. 2013 2012 Benchmarking of the Managing Board remuneration policy was conducted in Q1 2011 and clearly showed that the remuneration Feike Sijbesma 24,000 31,000 of the members of the Managing Board, particularly the variable Stefan Doboczky 16,000 20,000 part, was well below the median at target level of the peer group. Nico Gerardu 16,000 20,000 Rolf-Dieter Schwalb 16,000 20,000 Base salary in 2013 Stephan Tanda 16,000 20,000 In view of the above-mentioned market comparison and given the fact that the last salary increase dated from July 2011, the base salaries of the Managing Board members were increased For an overview of all granted and vested stock options and with effect from 1 July 2013: performance shares see page 209 and page 210. CEO: from € 840,000 to € 855,000 (+1.8 percent). Other Managing Board members: from € 545,000 to € 560,000 Revision and claw-back of bonuses (+2.8 percent). In 2013 no revision or claw-back of bonuses occurred. Short-Term Incentives (STI) for 2013 Pensions in 2013 STI targets are revised annually so as to ensure that they are The members of the Managing Board are participants in the stretching but realistic. Considerations regarding the Dutch pension fund Stichting Pensioenfonds DSM Nederland performance targets are influenced by the operational and (PDN). PDN operates similar pension plans for various DSM strategic course taken by the company and are directly linked to companies. The pension scheme for the Managing Board is the company’s ambitions. The targets are determined at the equal to the pension scheme for the employees of DSM beginning of the year for each Board member. Executive Services B.V. and DSM employees in the Netherlands. Target STI level and pay-out As already mentioned in previous Integrated Annual Reports, a When they achieve all their targets, Managing Board members new pension plan for DSM in the Netherlands has been agreed receive an incentive of 50 percent of their annual base salary. with labor unions with effect from 1 January 2011. The plan, Outstanding performance can increase the STI level to 100 which also applies to the Managing Board, comprises the percent of the annual base salary. following elements: The 2013 Integrated Annual Report presents the Short-Term • Career-average pay plan, with annual accrual of pension rights Incentives that have been earned on the basis of results achieved (old-age pension) over base salary exceeding € 13,227 in 2013. These Short-Term Incentives will be paid out in 2014. (reviewed annually) at a rate of 2 percent. • Retirement age 66 years for accrual from 2012 onwards. Until 2011 the accrual was linked to a pensionable age of 65 years. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 132 www.dsm.com Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board report Remuneration policy for the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board • The scheme includes a partner pension as well as a disability Short-Term Incentives pension. • Employee's contribution of 3.5 percent of base salary up to in € 20131 20122 € 59,235 and 7.5 percent of pensionable salary above this amount (reviewed annually). Feike Sijbesma 480,938 231,000 • Collective defined contribution: indexation of pensions and Stefan Doboczky 315,000 117,175 pension rights, depending on PDN's coverage ratio. Nico Gerardu3 309,400 128,075 • For participants who started participating before 2006, Rolf-Dieter Schwalb 315,000 138,975 transitional arrangements related to the plan changes in 2006 Stephan Tanda 298,200 163,500 apply as described in previous annual reports. Dimitri de Vreeze4 90,719 Purchasing shares 1 Based on results achieved in 2013 and therefore payable in 2014 All members of the Managing Board have purchased shares in 2 Based on results achieved in 2012 and therefore payable in 2013 3 Retired as of 1 September 2013 the company to emphasize their confidence in the strategy and 4 Board Member as of 1 September 2013 the company. At 31 December 2013 the members of the Managing Board together held 147,296 shares in Koninklijke DSM N.V., compared to 139,012 at 31 December 2012. These Pensions shares were bought through private transactions with private funds, and obtained through vested performance shares. Pension costs (employer) Accrued pension1 31 Dec. 31 Dec. Total remuneration in € 2013 2012 2013 2012 The remuneration and related costs of the Managing Board (including pension costs and costs relating to the Dutch ‘crisis Feike Sijbesma 124,169 124,123 449,658 433,123 levy’ of 16 percent imposed on employers for salary and bonus Stefan Doboczky 81,394 81,348 27,889 17,253 payments made in the year to employees whose salary Nico Gerardu 2 137.394 81,348 357.494 346,858 exceeded € 150,000) amounted to € 9.6 million in 2013 (2012: Rolf-Dieter Schwalb 81,394 81,348 74,887 64,252 € 6.6 million). The increase was mainly caused by costs in Stephan Tanda 81,394 81,348 92,879 82,244 relation to the early retirement of Mr. Gerardu to facilitate Dimitri de Vreeze3 17,240 134,074 succession planning for the Managing Board and the Dutch crisis levy. 1 Pensions built up in the Dutch Pension Plan. The accrual is linked to a retirement age of 66 years. 2 Retired as of 1 September 2013 Overview of remuneration awarded to the Managing Board in 3 Board Member as of 1 September 2013 2013 The tables below show the remuneration awarded to the Managing Board in 2013. Long-Term Incentives (LTI) For 2014, the number of conditionally granted ordinary shares under the LTI program will be: Fixed annual salary Chairman 24,000 Members 16,000 in € 1 July 2013 1 July 2012 Loans Feike Sijbesma 855,000 840,000 DSM did not provide any loans to members of the Managing Stefan Doboczky 560,000 545,000 Board in 2013. Nico Gerardu1 560,000 545,000 Rolf-Dieter Schwalb 560,000 545,000 Adjustments to remuneration policy Managing Board in 2014 Stephan Tanda 560,000 545,000 For 2014 no other adjustments will be implemented except the Dimitri de Vreeze2 492,500 introduction of the face value calculation method for the 2014 grant of performance shares. 1 Retired as of 1 September 2013 2 Board Member as of 1 September 2013 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 133 www.dsm.com Supervisory Board remuneration in 2013 The remuneration package for the Supervisory Board comprises an annual fixed fee and an annual committee-membership fee. The fixed fee for the Chairman of the Supervisory Board is € 70,000. The other members of the Supervisory Board each receive a fixed fee of € 50,000. Audit Committee membership is awarded € 10,000 per member and € 12,500 for the Chairman. Nomination Committee, Corporate Social Responsibility Committee and Remuneration Committee membership is awarded € 5,000 per member and € 7,500 for the Chairman. In addition, Supervisory Board members receive an intercontinental travel allowance of € 3,000 for each meeting that they attend outside their continent of residence. Overview of remuneration awarded to the Supervisory Board in 2013 The following table provides an overview of the remuneration awarded to the Supervisory Board in 2013. Annual Supervisory Board remuneration in 2013 Fee in € Supervisory Audit Corporate Nomination Remuneration Total Board Committee Social Committee Committee Responsibility Committee Rob Routs, chairman 70,000 7,500 5,000 82,500 Ewald Kist, deputy chairman 50,000 5,000 7,500 62,500 Victoria Haynes 50,000 10,000 60,000 Pierre Hochuli 50,000 10,000 5,000 65,000 Eileen Kennedy 50,000 5,000 55,000 Pauline van der Meer Mohr 50,000 7,500 5,000 62,500 Claudio Sonder (retired 3 May 2013)1 50,000 10,000 5,000 65,000 Tom de Swaan 50,000 12,500 5,000 67,500 Total 420,000 42,500 22,500 17,500 17,500 520,000 1 Remuneration paid to Mr. Sonder covered the period up to his resignation and is specified in Note 9 Remuneration of key personnel in the Parent company financial statements on page 208 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 134 www.dsm.com Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board report Remuneration policy for the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board Shares and loans Supervisory Board If any shares in DSM are held by Supervisory Board members, they serve as a long-term investment in the company. At year-end 2013 two members of the Supervisory Board held shares in Koninklijke DSM N.V.: Pierre Hochuli (7,210) and Victoria Haynes (300). At year-end 2012 the members of the Supervisory Board held no shares in Koninklijke DSM N.V. DSM does not provide any loans to its Supervisory Board members. Heerlen, 25 February 2014 The Supervisory Board Rob Routs, Chairman Ewald Kist, Deputy Chairman Victoria Haynes Pierre Hochuli Eileen Kennedy Pauline van der Meer Mohr Tom de Swaan Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 135 www.dsm.com Supervisory Board and Managing Board Supervisory Board Rob Routs (1946, m), chairman Ewald Kist (1944, m), deputy First appointed: 2010. End of current term: 2014. chairman Position: retired; last position held: executive First appointed: 2004. End of current term: 2016. director Downstream and member of the Board Position: retired; last position held: chairman of of Royal Dutch Shell plc. Nationality: Dutch. the Managing Board of the ING Group. Supervisory directorships and other positions Nationality: Dutch. Supervisory directorships and held: chairman of the Supervisory Board of other positions held: member of the Supervisory Aegon N.V., member of the Supervisory Board of Boards of Royal Philips Electronics N.V., Stage Royal KPN N.V. (until April 2014), member of the Entertainment and Moody’s Investor Services. Board of Directors of Aecom Technology Corporation, ATCO Group Ltd. and A.P. MoellerMaersk Group. Victoria Haynes (1947, f) Pierre Hochuli (1947, m) First appointed: 2012. End of current term: 2016. First appointed: 2005. End of current term: 2017. Position: retired; last position held: President and Position: retired; last position held: chairman of CEO of the Research Triangle Institute the Board of Directors of Devgen N.V. Nationality: International. Nationality: American. Supervisory Swiss. Supervisory directorships and other directorships and other positions held: member positions held: member of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of PPG, Nucor and, as of Domes of Silence Holdings Ltd. of 2013, Axiall. Eileen Kennedy (1947, f) Pauline van der Meer Mohr (1960, f) First appointed: 2012. End of current term: 2016. First appointed: 2011. End of current term: 2015. Position: Professor of Nutrition Friedman School Position: President of the Executive Board of of Nutrition Science and Policy at Tufts University Erasmus University Rotterdam. Nationality: in Boston (USA). Nationality: American. Dutch. Supervisory directorships and other Supervisory directorships and other positions positions held: member of the Supervisory Board held: Dean of Nutrition Friedman School of of ASML N.V., chair of the Supervisory Board of Nutrition Science and Policy at Tufts University in the Rotterdam School of Management, chair of Boston (USA), Global Executive Director of the the Board of the Fulbright Center, director of the International Life Sciences Institute, Washington Hollandsche Maatschappij van Wetenschappen, D.C. (USA), Deputy Under Secretary for member of the Economic Development Board of Research, Education and Economics at the US Rotterdam and member of the Duisenberg Department of Agriculture. School of Finance Board. Tom de Swaan (1946, m) First appointed: 2006. End of current term: 2014. Position: retired; last position held: member of the Managing Board and Chief Financial Officer / Chief Risk Officer ABN AMRO. Nationality: Dutch. Supervisory directorships and other positions held: non-executive director of the Board of GlaxoSmithKline plc, chairman of the Board of Zurich Insurance Group, chairman of the Supervisory Board of Van Lanschot Bankiers, chairman of the Board of Trustees of Netherlands Cancer Institute-Antoni van Leeuwenhoek Hospital and chairman Advisory Board Rotterdam School of Management. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 136 www.dsm.com Supervisory Board and Managing Board Managing Board Feike Sijbesma (1959, m), CEO/ chairman Position: CEO/chairman of DSM’s Managing Board since May 2007; member of DSM’s Managing Board since July 2000. Nationality: Dutch. Supervisory directorships and other positions held: member of the Supervisory Board of De Nederlandsche Bank N.V. (Dutch Central Bank), board member of CEFIC (European Chemical Industry Council), member of the Supervisory Board of the Dutch cancer institute/hospital NKI/ AVL, member of the CEO Council of the Chinese Association for Friendship with Foreign Countries e-mail: feike.sijbesma@dsm.com Rolf-Dieter Schwalb (1952, m), CFO Stefan Doboczky (1967, m) Position: member of DSM’s Managing Board and Position: member of DSM’s Managing Board CFO since October 2006. End of current term: since May 2011. End of current term: 2015. 2014. Nationality: Austrian. Nationality: German. Supervisory directorships and other positions Supervisory directorships and other positions held: none. held: none. e-mail: stefan.doboczky@dsm.com e-mail: rolf-dieter.schwalb@dsm.com Stephan Tanda (1965, m) Dimitri de Vreeze (1967, m) Position: member of DSM’s Managing Board Position: member of DSM’s Managing Board since May 2007. End of current term: 2015. since September 2013. End of current term: Nationality: Austrian. 2017. Supervisory directorships and other positions Nationality: Dutch. held: board member of EuropaBio (European Supervisory directorships and other positions Biotechnology Industry Association), board held: board member of “Fonds voor de member of scienceindustries (Swiss association topsport” (NOC*NSF; Dutch Olympic Committee for the chemical, pharmaceutical and biotech Fund for top sport). industries) and BIO (US Biotechnology Industry e-mail: dimitri.vreeze-de@dsm.com Organization). e-mail: stephan.tanda@dsm.com Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 137 www.dsm.com What still went wrong in 2013 While DSM strives to continuously improve its performance in all process, the change in the sequence of dosing into the reactor areas of its operations, sometimes things can still go wrong. led to an unidentified hazardous combination. The disc was ruptured and the glass tube was broken, but fortunately there Despite its strong focus on Safety, Health and Environment were no injuries. (SHE) and on learning from incidents, the company did not At DSM Fibre Intermediates in Nanjing (China), an employee succeed in lowering the number of serious incidents in 2013 was hit by a piece of steel falling from a height of 10 meters, compared to 2012. This emphasizes the need to continue but was not injured. paying the utmost attention to SHE. See also: Safety and health At DSM Nutritional Products Fortitech Premix EMEA in Isando (page 51). (South Africa), a contractor fell 8 meters from a concrete-slab roof during the construction of a new warehouse. The injuries SHE incidents fall into five categories: safety, occupational were relatively minor, given the seriousness of the incident. health, environment, containment and process safety. For each At DSM Food Specialties in Germantown (Maryland, USA), a category DSM has established detailed threshold criteria. liquid nitrogen supplier who was conducting a bulk unload Examples are incidents leading to a fatality, occupational health over-pressured the storage tank and piping, which caused a incidents leading to job transfer, incidents causing perceptible cloud of N2 inside the manufacturing building. No injuries damage to ecosystems or any SHE incident resulting in damage resulted. of more than € 100,000. In 2013 two serious traffic incidents occurred. At DSM Nutritional Products Animal Nutrition & Health Sales in Latin The following overview summarizes the most important incidents America, an employee got involved in a traffic incident while in 2013, across the three dimensions of People, Planet and returning from a business trip, resulting in injuries to his face, Profit. In line with DSM’s reporting policy, the company includes arms and eye. At DSM Food Specialties in Delft (Netherlands), in this overview some serious near-misses. These are incidents an employee was involved in a road accident while returning that did not result in an injury, illness or damage, but had the from a business trip during winter conditions. Fortunately this potential to do so and are therefore used as a learning incident did not lead to serious injuries. opportunity. At DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals in Yushu (China), a dust explosion occurred in the packaging area of the site. For the first time, the overview includes occurrences that are not Fortunately there were no injuries, but this incident has been directly related to SHE but represent significant breaches of the classified as a serious near-miss. DSM Code of Business Conduct. See also: DSM Code of At DSM Ahead in Sittard-Geleen (Netherlands), an employee Business Conduct (page 49). had his work restricted because his skin had been sensitized by the substances he had been working with. People An employee in Asia was sanctioned for sexual harassment. Despite DSM’s efforts to prevent safety incidents resulting in Planet serious hand injuries, five such incidents still occurred: at DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals in Yushu (China), at DSM At DSM Pharmaceutical Products in Linz (Austria), a tanker hit Nutritional Products Animal Nutrition & Health Premix in North the rear of another truck, causing a fire and a spill of 6 tons of America, at DSM Nutritional Products in Village Neuf (France), maleic anhydride onto the highway. The spill was cleaned up at the newly acquired facilities of DSM Nutritional Products in with no environmental consequences. Mairinque (Brazil), and at DSM Nutritional Products Fortitech At DSM Nutritional Products Manufacturing in Kingstree (USA). (South Carolina, USA) a corn syrup train did not stop on time, At DSM Resins & Functional Materials in Filago (Italy), an causing the last railcar to be pushed on top of the car stop. employee suffered second and third degree burns on his right This incident was classified as a near-miss, taking into account wrist, caused by hot resin. the potential serious consequences. At DSM Pharmaceutical Products in Greenville (North Carolina, USA), a contractor performing demolition work Profit moved a lift, which fell towards the glass wall of a building. No injuries resulted, but it was a near-miss. An employee who asked and accepted a personal loan from At DSM Resins & Functional Materials in Zhangbin (Taiwan), a supplier was sanctioned because he had a conflict of an explosion occurred inside a reactor during the first trial of a interest. new recipe. Although none of the substances were new to the DSM Sourcing procedures were not respected in the purchase of a company car. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 138 www.dsm.com What still went wrong in 2013 Three potential new hires in Asia turned out to have submitted falsified pay slips and other information about their previous employers, in order to get a higher salary. At DSM Dyneema in Laiwu (China), a fire occurred during a maintenance shutdown. The fire did not lead to injuries but resulted in financial damage. DSM Engineering Plastics was confronted with a new customer that did not pay for goods received. An on-site visit in Italy showed that the customer had disappeared. The money could not be recovered. At DSM Fibre Intermediates in Sittard-Geleen (Netherlands), a fire occurred due to leakage of a pump. Nobody was injured, but the fire resulted in financial damage. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 139 www.dsm.com Information about the DSM share Shares and listings Ordinary shares in Koninklijke DSM N.V. are listed on the NYSE Euronext stock exchange in Amsterdam, the Netherlands (Stock code 00982, ISIN code NL0000009827). Options on ordinary DSM shares are traded on the European Option Exchange in Amsterdam, the Netherlands (Euronext.liffe). In the US a sponsored unlisted American Depositary Receipts (ADR) program is offered by Deutsche Bank Trust Co. Americas (Cusip 780249108), with four ADRs representing the value of one ordinary DSM share. Besides the ordinary shares, 44.04 million cumulative preference shares A (cumprefs A) are in issue, which are not listed on the stock exchange; these have been placed with institutional investors. The cumprefs A have the same voting rights as ordinary shares, as their nominal value of € 1.50 per share is equal to the nominal value of the ordinary shares. Transfer of the cumprefs A requires the approval of the Managing Board, unless the shareholder is obliged to transfer his shares to a previous shareholder by virtue of the law. The average number of ordinary shares outstanding in 2013 was 172,183,369. All shares in issue are fully paid. On 31 December 2013 the company had 173,963,412 ordinary shares outstanding. Development of the number of ordinary DSM shares 2013 2012 Issued Repurchased Outstanding Outstanding Balance at 1 January 181,425,000 12,740,912 168,684,088 163,257,388 Changes: Reissue of shares in connection with exercise of option rights (4,300,163) 4,300,163 3,049,509 Repurchase of shares 1,266,945 (1,266,945) Dividend in the form of ordinary shares (2,246,106) 2,246,106 2,377,191 Balance at 31 December 181,425,000 7,461,588 173,963,412 168,684,088 DSM share prices on Euronext Amsterdam (€ per ordinary share): Highest closing price 59.75 46.29 Lowest closing price 43.93 36.33 At 31 December 57.16 45.79 Market capitalization at 31 December (€ million)1 10,370 8,307 1 Source: Bloomberg Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 140 www.dsm.com Information about the DSM share Trading volume DSM shares 2013 x million shares as reported by NYSE Euronext 25 20 15 10 5 0 January February March April May June July August September October November December Geographical spread of DSM shares outstanding in % (excl. cumprefs A) 2013 2012 Netherlands 21 23 United Kingdom 18 19 North America 26 19 Germany 7 8 Switzerland 5 6 France 9 9 Asia Pacific 5 5 Other countries 9 11 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 141 www.dsm.com Dividend program for shareholders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. DSM offers shareholders the opportunity to receive dividends in cash or in the form of ordinary shares. DSM proposes to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders for the total dividend for the financial year 2013 to be € 1.65 per ordinary share. An interim dividend of € 0.50 per ordinary share having been paid in August 2013, the final dividend would then amount to € 1.15 per ordinary share. The dividend will be payable in cash or in the form of ordinary shares, at the option of the shareholder. Dividend in cash will be paid after deduction of 15 percent Dutch dividend withholding tax. The ex-dividend date is 9 May 2014. Managing Board holdings of DSM shares 31 December 2013 31 December 2012 Board member Shares Vested Total Shares Vested Total purchased performance holdings purchased performance holdings with private shares with private shares money money Feike Sijbesma, CEO/chairman 38,600 35,900 74,500 33,000 24,500 57,500 Rolf-Dieter Schwalb, CFO 13,000 23,600 36,600 10,000 16,000 26,000 Stefan Doboczky 6,500 6,500 5,000 5,000 Nico Gerardu 1 n.a. n.a. n.a. 8,556 20,000 28,556 Stephan Tanda 8,000 21,556 29,556 8,000 13,956 21,956 Dimitri de Vreeze2 140 140 Total holdings 66,240 81,056 147,296 64,556 74,456 139,012 1 Retired as of 1 September 2013 2 Board Member as of 1 September 2013 At year-end 2013 two members of the Supervisory Board , Pierre Hochuli (7,210) and Victoria Haynes (300) held shares in Koninklijke DSM N.V. At year-end 2012 the members of the Supervisory Board held no shares in Koninklijke DSM N.V. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 142 www.dsm.com Information about the DSM share Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 143 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting Segmentation policies Segment information is presented in respect of the group’s operating segments about which separate financial information Basis of preparation is available that is regularly evaluated by the chief operating DSM’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared in decision maker. DSM has determined that the Nutrition, Pharma, accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Performance Materials, Polymer Intermediates and Innovation (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union. The accounting Center clusters represent reportable segments in addition to policies applied by DSM comply with IFRS and the Corporate Activities. The Managing Board decides how to pronouncements of the International Financial Reporting allocate resources and assesses the performance of the Interpretation Committee (IFRIC) effective at 31 December 2013. clusters. Cluster performance is reported and reviewed down to the level of operating profit before exceptional items. The clusters Consolidation are organized based on the type of products produced and the The consolidated financial statements include Royal DSM and nature of the markets served. The same accounting policies that its subsidiaries as well as the proportion of DSM’s ownership of are applied for these consolidated financial statements are also joint ventures (together ‘DSM’ or ‘group’). A subsidiary is an applied by the operating segments. Prices for transactions entity over which DSM has control. Control is the power to between segments are determined on an arm’s length basis. govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly obtain benefits from its activities. The financial data of attributable to a segment as well as those that can reasonably subsidiaries are fully consolidated. Non-controlling interests in and consistently be allocated. Selected information on a country the group’s equity and profit and loss are stated separately. A and regional basis is provided in addition to the information about joint venture is an entity in which DSM holds an interest and operating segments. which is jointly controlled by DSM and one or more other venturers under a contractual arrangement. Joint ventures are Foreign currency translation included in the consolidated financial statements according to The presentation currency of the group is the euro. the method of proportionate consolidation. Each entity of the group records transactions and balance sheet Subsidiaries and joint ventures are consolidated from the items in its functional currency. Transactions denominated in acquisition date until the date on which DSM ceases to have currency other than the functional currency are recorded at the control or joint control, respectively. From the acquisition date spot exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transactions. onwards, all intra-group balances and transactions and Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other unrealized profits or losses from intra-group transactions are than the functional currency of the entity are translated at the eliminated, with one exception: unrealized losses are not closing rates. Exchange differences resulting from the settlement eliminated if there is evidence of an impairment of the asset of these transactions and from the translation of monetary items transferred. In such cases a value adjustment for impairment of are recognized in the income statement. the asset is recognized. Non-monetary assets denominated in a currency other than the Business combinations functional currency continue to be translated against the rate at Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition initial recognition and will not result in exchange differences. method. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, including liabilities incurred On consolidation, the balance sheets of subsidiaries and joint toward the former owners, measured at acquisition date fair ventures whose functional currency is not the euro are translated value, and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the into euro at the closing rate. The income statements of these acquiree. Acquisition costs incurred are expensed. entities are translated into euro at the average rates for the relevant period. Goodwill paid on acquisition is recorded in the As of the acquisition date identifiable assets acquired, liabilities functional currency of the acquired entity. Exchange differences assumed and any non-controlling interest in the acquiree are arising from the translation of the net investment in entities with recognized separately from goodwill. Identifiable assets acquired a functional currency other than the euro are recorded in Other and the liabilities assumed are measured at acquisition date fair comprehensive income. The same applies to exchange value. For each business combination, DSM elects whether it differences arising from borrowings and other financial measures the non-controlling interest in the acquiree at fair value instruments in so far as they hedge the currency risk related to or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net the net investment. On disposal of an entity with a functional assets. currency other than the euro, the cumulative exchange Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 144 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM differences relating to the translation of the net investment are Property, plant and equipment are systematically depreciated recognized in the income statement. over their estimated useful lives. The estimated remaining lives of assets are reviewed every year, taking account of commercial Distinction between current and non-current and technological obsolescence as well as normal wear and An asset (liability) is classified as current when it is expected to tear. The initially assumed expected useful lives are in principle be realized (settled) within 12 months after the balance sheet as follows: for buildings 10-50 years, for plant and machinery date. 5-15 years, for other equipment 4-10 years. Land is not depreciated. Intangible assets Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognized upon DSM’s share in the net fair value of the identifiable assets and disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to liabilities of an acquired subsidiary, joint venture or associate. arise from the continued use or the sale of the asset. Any gain Goodwill paid on acquisition of subsidiaries and joint ventures is or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is recorded in the included in intangible assets. Goodwill paid on acquisition of income statement. associates is included in the carrying amount of these associates. Goodwill is not amortized but tested for impairment Leases annually and when there are indications that the carrying amount Finance leases, which transfer to the group substantially all the may exceed the recoverable amount. A gain or loss on the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are disposal of an entity includes the carrying amount of goodwill capitalized at inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased relating to the entity sold. property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. All other leases are operating leases. Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recognized at fair value on the date of acquisition and Lease payments for finance leases are apportioned to finance subsequently amortized over their expected useful lives, which charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a vary from 4 to 20 years. constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are included in interest costs. Capitalized Acquired licenses, patents and application software are carried leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated at historical cost less straight-line amortization and less any useful life of the asset or the lease term. Operating lease impairment losses. The expected useful lives vary from 4 to 15 payments are recognized as an expense over the lease term. years. Costs of software maintenance are expensed when incurred. Capital expenditure that is directly related to the Associates development of application software is recognized as an An associate is an entity over which DSM has significant intangible asset and amortized over its estimated useful life influence but no control, usually evidenced by a shareholding (5-8 years). that entitles DSM to between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in associates are accounted for by the equity Research costs are expensed when incurred. Development method, which involves recognition in the income statement of expenditure is capitalized if the recognition criteria are met and DSM’s share of the associate’s profit or loss for the year. DSM’s if it is demonstrated that it is technically feasible to complete the interest in an associate is carried in the balance sheet at its share asset, that the entity intends to complete the asset, that the entity in the net assets of the associate together with goodwill paid on is able to sell the asset, that the asset is capable of generating acquisition, less any impairment loss. future economic benefits, that adequate resources are available to complete the asset and that the expenditure attributable to When DSM’s share in the loss of an associate exceeds the the asset can be reliably measured. Development expenditure is carrying amount of the associate, including any other amortized over the asset’s useful life. receivables, the carrying amount is reduced to zero. No further losses are recognized, unless DSM has responsibility for Property, plant and equipment obligations relating to the associate. Property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less depreciation calculated on a straight-line basis and less any Other financial assets impairment losses. Interest during construction is capitalized. Other financial assets comprise other participations, other Expenditures relating to major scheduled turnarounds are receivables and other deferred items. capitalized and depreciated over the period up to the next turnaround. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 145 www.dsm.com Other participations comprise equity interests in entities in which cost formula, in which case the weighted average cost method DSM has no significant influence; they are accounted for as is used. The cost of intermediates and finished goods includes available-for-sale securities. These other participations are directly attributable costs and related production overhead measured against fair value, with changes in fair value being expenses. Net realizable value is determined as the estimated recognized in Other comprehensive income (Fair value reserve). selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the A significant or prolonged decline of the fair value of an equity estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs interest below cost represents an impairment, which is necessary to make the sale. Products whose manufacturing cost recognized in the income statement. On disposal, the cumulative cannot be calculated because of joint cost components are fair value adjustments of the related other participations are stated at net realizable value after deduction of a margin for released from equity and included in the income statement. If a selling and distribution efforts. reliable fair value cannot be established, the other participations are recognized at cost. The proceeds from these other Current receivables participations and the gain or loss upon their disposal are Current receivables are measured at amortized cost, which recognized in the income statement. generally corresponds to nominal value, less an adjustment for bad debts. Loans and long-term receivables are measured at fair value upon initial recognition and subsequently at amortized cost, if Current investments necessary after deduction of a value adjustment for bad debts. Deposits held at call with banks with a remaining maturity The proceeds from these assets and the gain or loss upon their between 3 and 12 months are classified as current investments. disposal are recognized in the income statement. They are measured at amortized cost. Proceeds from these deposits are recognized in the income statement. Impairment of assets When there are indications that the carrying amount of a nonCash and cash equivalents current asset (an intangible asset or an item of property, plant Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and equipment) may exceed the estimated recoverable amount and deposits held at call with banks with a maturity of less than (the higher of its value in use and fair value less costs to sell), the three months at inception. Bank overdrafts are included in possible existence of an impairment loss is investigated. If an current liabilities. Cash and cash equivalents are measured at asset does not generate largely independent cash flows, the nominal value. recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs. In assessing the value in use, the Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value Non-current assets and disposal groups (assets and liabilities using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market interest relating to an activity that is to be sold) are classified as ‘held for rates and the risks specific to the asset. sale’ if their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sales transaction rather than through continuing use. When the recoverable amount of a non-current asset is less than The reclassification takes place when the assets are available for its carrying amount, the carrying amount is impaired to its immediate sale and the sale is highly probable. These conditions recoverable amount and an impairment charge is recognized in are usually met as from the date on which a first draft of an the income statement. An impairment loss is reversed when agreement to sell is ready for discussion. Non-current assets there has been a change in estimate that is relevant for the held for sale and disposal groups are measured at the lower of determination of the asset’s recoverable amount since the last carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Non-current impairment loss was recognized. assets held for sale are not depreciated or amortized. For the sake of clarity, non-current assets and disposal groups that will All financial assets are reviewed for impairment. If there is be contributed to joint ventures are reported separately from objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more other assets and liabilities held for sale. events after initial recognition, an impairment loss is recognized in the income statement. Impairment losses for goodwill and Discontinued operations other participations are never reversed. Discontinued operations comprise those activities that were disposed of during the period or which were classified as held Inventories for sale at the end of the period, and represent a separate major Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realizable line of business or geographical area that can be clearly value. The first in, first out (FIFO) method of valuation is used distinguished for operational and financial reporting purposes. unless the nature of the inventories requires the use of a different Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 146 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Royal DSM Shareholders’ equity licensing of technologies or technological expertise is recognized DSM’s ordinary shares and cumulative preference shares are in profit or loss as of the effective date of the respective classified as Royal DSM Shareholders’ equity. The price paid for agreement if all rights relating to the technologies and all repurchased DSM shares (treasury shares) is deducted from obligations resulting from them have been relinquished under the Royal DSM Shareholders’ equity until the shares are cancelled contract terms. However, if rights to the technologies continue or reissued. Dividend to be distributed to holders of cumulative to exist or obligations resulting from them have yet to be fulfilled, preference shares is recognized as a liability when the the payments received are deferred accordingly. Interest income Supervisory Board approves the proposal for profit distribution. is recognized on a time-proportion basis using the effective Dividend to be distributed to holders of ordinary shares is interest method. Dividend income is recognized when the right recognized as a liability when the Annual General Meeting of to receive payment is established. Shareholders approves the profit appropriation. Government grants Provisions Government grants are recognized at their fair value if there is Provisions are recognized when all of the following conditions reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all are met: 1) there is a present legal or constructive obligation as related conditions will be complied with. Cost grants are a result of past events; 2) it is probable that a transfer of recognized as income over the periods necessary to match the economic benefits will settle the obligation; and 3) a reliable grant on a systematic basis to the cost that it is intended to estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. compensate. If the grant is an investment grant, its fair value is initially recognized as deferred income in Other non-current The probable amount required to settle long-term obligations is liabilities and then released to the income statement over the discounted if the effect of discounting is material. Where expected useful life of the relevant asset by equal annual discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the amounts. passage of time is recognized as interest costs. However, the interest costs relating to pension obligations are included in Share-based compensation pension costs. The costs of option plans are measured by reference to the fair value of the options on the date on which the options are Borrowings granted. The fair value is determined using the Black-Scholes Borrowings are initially recognized at cost, being the fair value of model, taking into account market conditions linked to the price the proceeds received, net of transaction costs. Subsequently, of the DSM share. The costs of these options are recognized in borrowings are stated at amortized cost using the effective the income statement (Employee benefits costs) during the interest method. Amortized cost is calculated taking into account vesting period, together with a corresponding increase in equity any discount or premium. Interest expenses are accrued and in the case of equity settled options or Other non-current recorded in the income statement for each period. liabilities in the case of cash-settled options (Share Appreciation Rights). No expense is recognized for options that do not Where the interest rate risk relating to a long-term borrowing is ultimately vest, except for options whose vesting is conditional hedged, and the hedge is regarded as effective, the carrying upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting, amount of the long-term loan is adjusted for changes in fair value irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, of the interest component of the loan. provided that all other performance conditions are met. Other current liabilities Performance shares are granted free of charge and vest after Other current liabilities are measured at amortized cost, which three years on the achievement of previously determined targets. generally corresponds to the nominal value. The cost of performance shares is measured by reference to the fair value of the DSM shares on the date on which the Revenue recognition performance shares were granted and is recognized in the Revenue from the sale of goods is recognized when the income statement (Employee benefits costs) during the vesting significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the period, together with a corresponding increase in equity. buyer. Net sales represent the invoice value less estimated rebates and cash discounts, and excluding indirect taxes. Emission rights DSM is subject to legislation encouraging reductions in Royalty income is recognized in Other operating income or in Net greenhouse-gas emissions and has been awarded emission sales on an accrual basis in accordance with the substance of rights (principally CO2 emission rights) in a number of the relevant agreements. Income that relates to the sale or outjurisdictions. Emission rights are reserved for meeting delivery Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 147 www.dsm.com obligations and are recognized at cost (usually zero). Revenue is recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting recognized when surplus emission rights are sold to third parties. nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in When actual emissions exceed the emission rights available to subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in DSM, a provision is recognized for the expected additional costs. the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset and presented net when there is a legally Exceptional items enforceable right to set off, and the assets and liabilities relate to Exceptional items relate to material non-recurring items of income taxes levied by the same taxation authority. income and expense arising from circumstances such as: Financial derivatives write-downs of inventories to net realizable value or of The group uses financial derivatives such as foreign currency property, plant and equipment to recoverable amount, as well forward contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge risks as reversals of such write-downs associated with foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations. acquisition costs incurred and integration costs in the first year Financial derivatives are initially recognized in the balance sheet after a business combination at fair value and subsequently measured at their fair value on non-recurring inventory value adjustments related to business each balance sheet date. Changes in fair value are recognized combinations in the income statement unless cash flow hedge accounting or restructurings of the activities of an entity net investment hedge accounting is applied. releases of provisions disposals of property, plant and equipment Changes in the fair value of financial derivatives designated and disposals of associates or other financial assets qualifying as cash flow hedges are recognized in Other book results on discontinued operations comprehensive income (Hedging reserve) to the extent that the onerous contracts hedge is effective. Upon recognition of the related asset or litigation settlements liability the cumulative gain or loss is transferred from the Hedging reserve and included in the carrying amount of the To provide a better understanding of the underlying results of the hedged item if it is a non-financial asset or liability. If the hedged period, exceptional items are reported separately if the item is a financial asset or liability, the cumulative gain or loss is aggregate amount of the event or project exceeds € 10 million. transferred to profit or loss. Changes in the fair value of financial derivatives designated and qualifying as net investment hedges Income tax expense are recognized in Other comprehensive income to the extent that Income tax expense is recognized in the income statement the hedge is effective and the change in fair value is caused by except to the extent that it relates to an item recognized directly changes in currency exchange rates. Accumulated gains and within Other comprehensive income or Shareholders’ equity. losses are released from Other comprehensive income and are included in the income statement when the net investment is Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income disposed of. Changes in the fair value of financial derivatives for the year, using tax rates enacted at the balance sheet date, designated and qualifying as fair value hedges are immediately and any adjustment to tax payable in respect to previous years. recognized in the income statement, together with any changes Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the in the fair value of the hedged assets or liabilities attributable to expected tax consequences of temporary differences between the hedged risk. the carrying amount of assets and liabilities and their tax base. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates Pensions and other post-employment benefits and under the tax laws that have been enacted or substantially DSM has both defined contribution plans and defined benefit enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply plans. In the case of defined contribution plans, obligations are when the related deferred tax assets are realized or the deferred limited to the payment of contributions which are recognized as tax liabilities are settled. Deferred tax assets, including assets Employee benefits costs. In the case of defined benefit plans, arising from losses carried forward, are recognized to the extent the aggregate of the value of the defined benefit obligation and that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available the fair value of plan assets for each plan is recognized as a net against which the deductible temporary differences and unused defined benefit liability or asset. Defined benefit obligations are tax losses can be utilized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined using the projected unit credit method. Plan assets stated at nominal value. are recognized at fair value. If the fair value of plan assets exceeds the present value of the defined benefit obligation, a net Deferred taxes are not provided for the following temporary asset is only recognized to the extent that the asset is available differences: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial for refunds to the employer or for reductions in future Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 148 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM contributions to the plan. Defined benefit pension costs consist Amendments to IAS 36, ‘Impairment of assets’, which remove of three elements: service costs, net interest, and the unintended consequences of IFRS 13 on the disclosures remeasurements. Service costs are part of Employee benefits required under IAS 36. In addition, these amendments require costs and consist of current service costs, past service costs disclosure of the recoverable amounts for the assets or CGUs and results of plan settlements. Net interest is part of Other for which an impairment loss has been recognized or reversed financial income and expense and is determined on the basis of during the period. These amendments affect disclosure only and the value of the net defined benefit asset or liability at the start of had no impact on DSM’s financial position or performance in the year and the interest on high quality corporate bonds. 2013. Remeasurements are actuarial gains and losses, the return on plan assets excluding amounts included in net interest and Effect of forthcoming accounting standards not yet applied changes in the effect of the asset ceiling. These remeasurements The following new standards are not yet being applied by DSM. are recognized in Other comprehensive income as they occur and not recycled through profit or loss at a later stage. Amendments to IAS 32, ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation' address the offsetting of financial assets and Effect of new accounting standards financial liabilities and clarify the meaning of ‘currently has a The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and IFRIC legally enforceable right to set-off’ and the criteria for nonhave issued new standards, amendments to existing standards simultaneous settlement mechanisms of clearing houses to and interpretations, some of which are not yet effective or have qualify for offsetting. The standard will be applied for annual not yet been endorsed by the European Union. Those that are periods beginning on 1 January 2014 and is not expected to relevant for DSM are discussed below. DSM has introduced have a material impact on DSM’s financial position or standards and interpretations that became effective in 2013. performance. The following new or amended standards became effective in IFRS 10, 'Consolidated Financial Statements', establishes a 2013. single control model that applies to all entities, including special purpose entities. DSM is in the process of verifying which entities Amendments to IAS 1, ‘Presentation of Items of Other meet the new criteria for control and therefore have to be Comprehensive Income’, which changed the grouping of items consolidated. The standard will be applied for annual periods presented in Other comprehensive income into items that will be beginning on 1 January 2014 and is not expected to have a reclassified (or ‘recycled’) to profit or loss at a future point in time material impact on DSM’s financial position or performance. and items that will never be reclassified. The amendment affects presentation only and had no impact on DSM’s financial position IFRS 11, 'Joint Arrangements', removes the option to apply or performance in 2013. proportionate consolidation for joint ventures and mandates the use of the equity method for jointly controlled entities that meet Amendments to IAS 19, ‘Employee Benefits’, which, among the new definition of a joint venture. The introduction of this new other things, resulted in the removal of the corridor mechanism standard will change DSM’s financial position and reported and the termination of the application of the expected return on performance because the equity method will replace plan assets. The new requirements have been applied from proportionate consolidation for these entities. Information on 1 January 2013 onwards and had a limited impact on DSM’s joint ventures that are affected is provided in note 27: Interests financial position and performance in 2013. Information on the in joint ventures. The standard will be applied for annual periods related changes is provided in note 23: Post-employment beginning on 1 January 2014. benefits. IFRS 12, 'Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities', provides IFRS 13, 'Fair Value Measurement', became the single source disclosure requirements with respect to interests in subsidiaries, of guidance in IFRS for all fair value measurements. The standard joint arrangements, associates and structured entities. It is the is effective from 1 January 2013. The impact of this standard on complement of the two new standards discussed in the DSM’s financial position and performance was not material preceding paragraphs and will be applied at the same time as because the standard principally clarified requirements that these standards. already existed. New IFRIC interpretations are not expected to have a material The following amended standard was adopted early and applied effect on the consolidated financial statements. in 2013. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 149 www.dsm.com Consolidated statements Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2013 x € million Notes Continuing operations Discontinued Total Before Exceptional Total operations exceptional items items (note 6) Net sales 4 9,051 9,051 567 9,618 Cost of sales 4 (6,565) (12) (6,577) (505) (7,082) Gross margin 2,486 (12) 2,474 62 2,536 Marketing and sales (987) (987) (24) (1,011) Research and development (351) (18) (369) (162) (531) General and administrative (458) (74) (532) (25) (557) Other operating income 93 39 132 12 144 Other operating expense (34) (39) (73) (15) (88) 4 (1,737) (92) (1,829) (214) (2,043) Operating profit 749 (104) 645 (152) 493 Interest costs 5 (126) (4) (130) (130) Other financial income and expense 5 (16) (16) (16) Share of the profit of associates (2) (2) (2) Profit before income tax expense 605 (108) 497 (152) 345 Income tax expense 7 (108) 31 (77) 1 (76) Profit for the year 497 (77) 420 (151) 269 Reclassification of the net result from activities disposed of (160) (160) 160 Total 497 (237) 260 9 269 Of which: Profit attributable to non-controlling interests (2) (2) (2) Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 499 (237) 262 9 271 Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 499 (237) 262 9 271 Dividend on cumulative preference shares (10) (10) (10) Net profit available to holders of ordinary shares 489 (237) 252 9 261 Earnings per share (in € ) (see note 16 Earnings per ordinary share): Basic 2.39 1.52 Diluted 2.38 1.51 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 150 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 20121 x € million Notes Continuing operations Discontinued Total Before Exceptional Total operations exceptional items items (note 6) Net sales 4 8,588 8,588 543 9,131 Cost of sales 4 (6,220) (21) (6,241) (507) (6,748) Gross margin 2,368 (21) 2,347 36 2,383 Marketing and sales (924) (924) (28) (952) Research and development (372) (2) (374) (9) (383) General and administrative (457) (57) (514) (38) (552) Other operating income 68 3 71 12 83 Other operating expense (32) (94) (126) (12) (138) 4 (1,717) (150) (1,867) (75) (1,942) Operating profit 651 (171) 480 (39) 441 Interest costs 5 (117) (117) (117) Other financial income and expense 5 8 8 8 Share of the profit of associates 2 2 2 Profit before income tax expense 544 (171) 373 (39) 334 Income tax expense 7 (95) 38 (57) 11 (46) Profit for the year 449 (133) 316 (28) 288 Reclassification of the net result from activities disposed of (16) (16) 16 Total 449 (149) 300 (12) 288 Of which: Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 10 10 10 Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 439 (149) 290 (12) 278 Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 439 (149) 290 (12) 278 Dividend on cumulative preference shares (10) (10) (10) Net profit available to holders of ordinary shares 429 (149) 280 (12) 268 Earnings per share (in € ) (see note 16 Earnings per ordinary share): Basic 1.79 1.62 Diluted 1.77 1.61 1 Restated due to retrospective application of amendments to IAS 19: ‘Employee Benefits’ which are explained in note 23: Post-employment benefits. This restatement also impacts the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated balance sheet, the Consolidated statement of changes in equity and the Consolidated cash flow statement for 2012 as well as the Parent company income statement for that year. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 151 www.dsm.com Consolidated statement of comprehensive income in € million 2013 2012 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans 21 (123) Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations Change for the year (248) (27) Reclassification adjustment to the income statement related to discontinued operations 16 Fair value reserve Change for the year 9 (8) Reclassification adjustment to the income statement Hedging reserve Change for the year 69 (45) Reclassification adjustment to the income statement (28) 23 Reclassification adjustment to the shares in subsidiaries (10) Other comprehensive income, before tax (171) (180) Income tax expense (14) 47 Other comprehensive income, net of tax (185) (133) Profit for the year 269 288 Total comprehensive income 84 155 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 152 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December x € million Notes 2013 2012 Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets 8 2,705 2,793 Property, plant and equipment 9 3,822 3,811 Deferred tax assets 7 369 340 Associates 10 67 40 Other financial assets 10 179 141 7,142 7,125 Current assets Inventories 11 1,675 1,803 Trade receivables 12 1,526 1,569 Other current receivables 12 116 230 Financial derivatives 22 126 62 Current investments 13 19 12 Cash and cash equivalents 14 776 1,121 4,238 4,797 Assets held for sale 2 637 44 4,875 4,841 Total 12,017 11,966 Equity and liabilities Equity 15 Shareholders' equity 5,908 5,874 Non-controlling interests 190 168 6,098 6,042 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 7 376 236 Employee benefits liabilities 23 326 388 Provisions 17 97 125 Borrowings 18 1,750 1,922 Other non-current liabilities 19 78 94 2,627 2,765 Current liabilities Employee benefits liabilities 23 34 42 Provisions 17 66 81 Borrowings 18 843 642 Financial derivatives 22 190 299 Trade payables 20 1,328 1,453 Other current liabilities 20 601 628 3,062 3,145 Liabilities held for sale 2 230 14 3,292 3,159 Total 12,017 11,966 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 153 www.dsm.com Consolidated statement of changes in equity (note 15) x € million Share Share Treasury Other Retained earnings Total NonTotal capital premium shares reserves Actuarial Other controlling equity gains and interests losses Balance at 1 January 2012 338 489 (686) 274 88 5,281 5,784 190 5,974 Dividend (254) (254) (48) (302) Options / performance shares granted 18 18 18 Options / performance shares exercised / cancelled and SARs cancelled (13) 13 Proceeds from reissued shares 207 (25) 182 182 Change in DSM's share in subsidiaries 15 15 Total comprehensive income (44) (90) 278 144 11 155 Balance at 31 December 2012 338 489 (479) 235 (2) 5,293 5,874 168 6,042 Dividend (271) (271) (5) (276) Options / performance shares granted 20 20 20 Options / performance shares exercised / cancelled and SARs cancelled (24) 24 Proceeds from reissued shares 258 10 268 268 Change in DSM's share in subsidiaries 33 33 Repurchase of shares (73) (73) (73) Total comprehensive income (196) 15 271 90 (6) 84 Balance at 31 December 2013 338 489 (294) 35 13 5,327 5,908 190 6,098 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 154 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Consolidated cash flow statement (note 25)1 x € million 2013 2012 Operating activities Profit for the year 269 288 Income tax 76 46 Profit before income tax expense 345 334 Share of the profit of associates 2 (2) Net finance costs 142 109 Exceptional items 270 194 Operating profit 7592 635 Depreciation, amortization and impairments 555 474 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) 1,314 1,109 Adjustments for: (Gain) or loss from disposals (18) (13) Restructuring and other costs (45) (56) Change in provisions (75) (68) Defined benefit plans (21) (28) (159) (165) Interest received 93 103 Interest paid (203) (196) Income tax received 24 9 Income tax paid (89) (79) Other (4) (34) Changes, excluding working capital (338) (362) Operating cash flow before changes in working capital 976 747 Changes in operating working capital: Inventories (95) (140) Trade receivables (13) 41 Trade payables 34 83 (74) (16) Changes in other working capital (13) (1) Changes in working capital (87) (17) Cash provided by operating activities 889 730 1 The presentation of the cash flow statement has been amended to better reflect the cash flow consequences of EBITDA and exceptional items reported in operating activities. This does not change the total cash provided by operating activities but the allocation of changes to individual line items. The presentation for the year 2012 has been aligned. 2 This consists of the operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional items (€ 749 million) and discontinued operations (€ 10 million; see also Assets and liabilities held for sale in note 2 Change in the scope of the consolidation). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 155 www.dsm.com Consolidated cash flow statement (note 25) continued x € million 2013 2012 Cash provided by operating activities 889 730 Investing activities Capital expenditure for:1 Intangible assets (85) (82) Property, plant and equipment (650) (604) Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 4 36 Acquisition of subsidiaries and associates (509) (1,262) Cash from net investment hedge (30) Proceeds from disposal of subsidiaries and businesses 72 7 Change in fixed-term deposits 18 77 Other financial assets: Capital payments and acquisitions (9) (12) Change in loans granted 17 (19) Proceeds from disposals 2 3 Cash used in investing activities (1,170) (1,856) Financing activities Capital payments from/to non-controlling interests 36 15 Loans taken up 381 30 Repayment of loans (152) (114) Change in debt to credit institutions (89) 60 Repayment / issue of commercial paper (150) 300 Dividend paid (160) (210) Proceeds from reissued shares 145 90 Repurchase of shares (73) Cash used in / from financing activities (62) 171 Change in cash and cash equivalents (343) (955) Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 1,121 2,058 Exchange differences relating to cash held (2) 18 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 776 1,121 1 An amount of € 37 million included in capital expenditure was funded by customers Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 156 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 1 General information Unless stated otherwise, all amounts are in € million. In conformity with article 402, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, a condensed income statement is included in the separate financial statements of the parent company. A list of DSM participations has been filed with the Chamber of Commerce for Limburg (Netherlands) and is available from the company upon request. The list can also be downloaded from the company’s website. The preparation of financial statements requires estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements. The policies that management considers to be the most important to the presentation of the financial condition and results of operations are discussed in the relevant notes. The same holds for the issues that require management judgments or estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Management cautions that future events often vary from forecasts and that estimates routinely require adjustment. Areas of judgment that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognized in the financial statements relate to the categorization of certain items as 'exceptional', the identification of cash generating units and the classification of activities as 'held for sale' and 'discontinued operations'. Key assumptions and estimates that need to be made by management relate to the useful lives of non-current assets (notes 8 and 9), the establishment of provisions for retirement and other post-employment benefits (note 23), the recognition and measurement of income taxes (note 7) and the determination of fair values for financial instruments (note 22) and for share-based compensation (note 26). Estimates are based on historical quoted market prices, experience and assumptions that are considered reasonable under the circumstances. Exchange rates The currency exchange rates that were used in preparing the consolidated statements are listed below for the most important currencies. 1 euro = Exchange rate at balance sheet date Average exchange rate 2013 2012 2013 2012 US dollar 1.38 1.32 1.33 1.29 Swiss franc 1.23 1.21 1.23 1.21 Pound sterling 0.84 0.82 0.85 0.81 Brazilian real 3.22 2.69 2.87 2.51 Chinese renminbi 8.40 8.29 8.23 8.11 Presentation of consolidated income statement DSM presents expenses in the consolidated income statement in accordance with their function. This allows the presentation of gross margin on the face of the income statement, which is a widely used performance measure in the industry. The composition of the costs allocated to the individual functions is explained below. Cost of sales encompasses all manufacturing costs (including raw materials, employee benefits, and depreciation and amortization) related to goods and services captured in net sales. They are measured at their actual cost based on FIFO, or weighted average cost. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 157 www.dsm.com Marketing and sales relates to the selling and marketing of goods and services, and also includes all costs that are directly related to the sale of goods, but that are not originated by the manufacturing of the goods (e.g. freight). Research and development consists of: research, which is defined as original and planned investigation undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding; development, which is defined as the application of research findings or other knowledge to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved materials, devices, products, processes, systems or services before the start of commercial production or use. General and administrative relates to the strategic and governance role of the general management of the company as well as the representation of DSM as a whole in the financial, political or business community. It also relates to business support activities of staff departments that are not directly related to the other functional areas. 2 Change in the scope of the consolidation Acquisitions 2013 On 5 April 2013 DSM obtained control of Tortuga Companhia Zootécnica Agrária Z.A. (Tortuga) by acquiring 100% of the shares in an all cash transaction. From that date onwards the financial statements of Tortuga have been consolidated by DSM and reported in the Nutrition segment. The acquisition will strengthen and complement DSM’s position in nutritional supplements for animal nutrition. Tortuga is a Brazilian company with a leading position in nutritional supplements with a focus on pasture raised beef and dairy cattle. Tortuga has annual sales of approximately € 385 million and employs about 1,050 people. In accordance with IFRS 3 the purchase price of Tortuga needs to be allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. Goodwill paid for the acquisition of Tortuga amounted to € 152 million. The goodwill primarily resulted from buyer specific synergies due to DSM’s unique value chain proposition in animal nutrition and from the skills and knowledge of the workforce. On 1 July 2013 DSM obtained control of Unitech Industries Limited (Unitech), by acquiring 100% of the shares in an all cash transaction. From that date onwards the financial statements of Unitech have been consolidated by DSM and reported in the Nutrition segment. Unitech, based in Auckland (New Zealand), was founded in 1970 and focuses primarily on the manufacture and sale of micronutrient premixes and macronutrient blends for the rapidly growing Asian human nutrition and health markets. The acquisition of Unitech helps DSM to expand its value chain presence, geographical reach and customer base in Asia. Unitech has annual sales of approximately € 30 million and employs about 100 people. In accordance with IFRS 3 the purchase price of Unitech needs to be allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. Goodwill paid for the acquisition of Unitech amounted to € 16 million. The goodwill primarily resulted from buyer specific synergies due to DSM’s broad portfolio of micronutrients, science-based expertise, and customer relationships with multinational and regional infant nutrition and food customers. Up to one year from the acquisition date the initial accounting for business combinations needs to be adjusted to reflect additional information that has been received about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date and would have affected the measurement of amounts recognized as of that date. As a result of such adjustments the values of assets and liabilities recognized may change in the one year period from the acquisition date. On 18 December 2012 DSM obtained control of Fortitech, Inc. In 2013 the purchase price allocation for Fortitech was completed. The value of assets and liabilities was adjusted to fair value and the final goodwill was established at € 265 million. The impact of all acquisitions made in 2013, including adjustments to the initial accounting for Fortitech, on DSM's consolidated balance sheet, at the date of acquisition, is summarized in the following table. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 158 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 2013 Tortuga Unitech Fortitech (final PPA)1 Other acquisitions Total Change Book Fair Book Fair Book Fair in fair Book Fair Fair value value value value value value value value value value Assets Intangible assets 1 94 11 1 201 200 2 15 320 Property, plant and equipment 80 107 2 3 53 59 6 1 116 Other non-current assets 12 12 6 6 2 26 26 40 Inventories 34 45 4 4 37 40 2 51 Receivables 94 94 4 4 28 28 (1) 1 98 Cash and cash equivalents 3 3 1 1 8 8 4 Total assets 224 355 11 23 133 342 209 29 42 629 Non-controlling interests Liabilities Non-current liabilities 12 27 3 7 84 79 1 2 111 Current liabilities 130 130 7 7 48 49 (10) 1 2 129 Total non-controlling interests and liabilities 142 157 7 10 55 133 69 2 4 240 Net assets 82 198 4 13 78 209 140 27 38 389 Acquisition price (in cash) 350 29 474 42 421 Acquisition price (payable) (1) 4 3 Consideration 350 29 474 (1) 46 424 Goodwill 152 16 265 (141) 8 35 Goodwill available for tax purposes (included in the above) 152 152 Acquisition costs recognized in exceptional items2 1 1 1 2 4 Contingent liabilities included in fair value 1 Due to the fact that Fortitech was acquired just before the end of the year in 2012, the unadjusted balance sheet of Fortitech in accordance with local GAAP was consolidated at the end of 2012. Sales and profit or loss between the acquisition date and the end of 2012 were immaterial. In 2013 the purchase price allocation for Fortitech was performed and fair values were allocated to the acquired assets and liabilities. The required changes are presented in the table above. These changes resulted in a € 141 million reduction in goodwill, which was the net effect of additions to other intangible assets for an amount of € 200 million, to property plant and equipment for € 6 million, to other assets for € 3 million and to deferred tax liabilities for € 79 million, and a reduction in current liabilities of € 11 million. These changes were recognized at the beginning of 2013 and the closing balance sheet of 2012 was not restated because the changes were deemed not material. 2 Included in General and administrative: other costs The acquisition of Tortuga contributed € 242 million to net sales in 2013. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2013, additional net sales would have been approximately € 325 million. The acquisition contributed € 42 million to EBITDA; this would have been approximately € 55 million if the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2013. Tortuga related exceptional items amounted to € 17 million before tax (see note 6: Exceptional items). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 159 www.dsm.com The acquisition of Unitech contributed € 13 million to net sales in 2013. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2013, additional net sales would have been approximately € 26 million. The acquisition did not yet contribute to EBITDA; this would have been approximately € 2 million if the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2013. Unitech related exceptional items amounted to € 1 million before tax (see note 6: Exceptional items). Other acquisitions comprise the Bayer vitamin premix business in China and the Philippines and SolarExcel (Netherlands). Together, the acquisitions in 2013 contributed € 255 million to net sales. If all acquisitions had occurred on 1 January 2013, additional net sales would have been approximately € 351 million. The acquisitions in 2013 contributed € 42 million to EBITDA; this would have been approximately € 62 million if they had all occurred on 1 January 2013. 2012 On 22 June 2012 DSM obtained control of Kensey Nash Corporation by acquiring 100% of the shares. From that date onwards the financial statements of Kensey Nash have been consolidated by DSM and reported in the segment Innovation Center. The acquisition has strengthened and complemented DSM’s biomedical business, one of the Emerging Business Areas of DSM. Kensey Nash is a US based, technology-driven biomedical company, primarily focused on regenerative medicine utilizing its proprietary collagen and synthetic polymer technology. Kensey Nash has annual sales of approximately USD 90 million and employs about 325 people. In accordance with IFRS 3 the purchase price of Kensey Nash needs to be allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. Goodwill paid for the acquisition of Kensey Nash amounted to € 128 million. The goodwill primarily resulted from the skills and knowledge of the workforce, sales synergies in relation to the opportunities for cross-selling and certain fixed cost synergies that are unique to DSM. On 18 July 2012 DSM obtained control of Ocean Nutrition Canada (ONC) by acquiring 100% of the shares. From that date onwards the financial statements of ONC have been consolidated by DSM and reported in the Nutrition segment. The acquisition has expanded DSM’s Nutritional Lipids growth platform. ONC is a leader in fish-oil derived omega-3 fatty acids for dietary supplements, highly complementary to DSM’s acquisition of Martek in 2011. ONC has annual sales of approximately CAD 190 million and employs about 415 people. In accordance with IFRS 3 the purchase price of ONC needs to be allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. Goodwill paid for the acquisition of ONC amounted to € 238 million. The goodwill primarily resulted from the skills and knowledge of the workforce, sales synergies in relation to the opportunities for cross-selling and certain operating and variable cost synergies that are unique to DSM. On 18 December 2012 DSM obtained control of Fortitech, Inc. by acquiring 100% of the shares. From that date onwards the financial statements of Fortitech have been consolidated by DSM and reported in the Nutrition segment. The acquisition has strengthened DSM’s Human Nutrition & Health business, by expanding the company’s value chain presence and adding additional capabilities. Fortitech has annual sales of approximately USD 270 million and employs about 520 people. The purchase price allocation was completed in 2013. The impact of all acquisitions made in 2012 on DSM's consolidated balance sheet, at the date of acquisition, is summarized in the following table. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 160 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Ocean Nutrition Other Total 2012 Kensey Nash Canada Fortitech, Inc. acquisitions Book Fair Book Fair Book Fair Book Fair Fair value value value value value value value value value Assets Intangible assets 18 136 114 1 1 35 286 Property, plant and equipment 45 55 57 63 53 53 30 33 204 Other non-current assets 3 2 4 4 6 Inventories 12 16 35 47 38 38 14 16 117 Receivables 25 12 41 49 29 29 8 8 98 Cash and cash equivalents 29 29 10 10 8 8 47 Total assets 132 250 143 283 133 133 52 92 758 Non-controlling interests Liabilities Non-current liabilities 5 39 5 48 5 5 1 93 Current liabilities 71 72 84 84 46 46 5 5 207 Total non-controlling interests and liabilities 76 111 89 132 51 51 5 6 300 Net assets 56 139 54 151 82 82 47 86 458 Acquisition price (in cash) 216 390 474 120 1,200 Acquisition price (payable) 51 (1) 13 2 65 Consideration 267 389 487 122 1,265 Goodwill 128 238 405 36 807 Goodwill available for tax purposes (included in the above) 32 32 Acquisition costs recognized in exceptional items 3 2 1 2 8 Contingent liabilities included in fair value The acquisition of Kensey Nash contributed € 35 million to net sales in 2012. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2012, additional net sales would have been approximately € 67 million. The acquisition contributed € 14 million to EBITDA. Kensey Nash related exceptional items amounted to € 8 million (see note 6: Exceptional items). The acquisition of ONC contributed € 60 million to net sales in 2012. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2012, additional net sales would have been approximately € 131 million. The acquisition contributed € 15 million to EBITDA. ONC related exceptional items amounted to € 20 million before tax (see note 6: Exceptional items). Other acquisitions comprise Verenium, Cilpaz & Laba, the Cultures and Enzymes business of Cargill and Oatwell. Together, the acquisitions in 2012 contributed € 103 million to net sales. If all acquisitions had occurred on 1 January 2012, additional net sales would have been approximately € 253 million (excluding Fortitech). The acquisitions in 2012 contributed € 26 million to EBITDA; this would have been approximately € 53 million (excluding Fortitech) if they had all occurred on 1 January 2012. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 161 www.dsm.com Disposals 2013 In the first quarter of 2013 DSM completed the sale of DSM's share in DEXPlastomers V.o.F. to Borealis for € 55 million on a cash and debt-free basis. Furthermore the Euroresins business in Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Poland and the Baltic states was sold. In view of the limited importance of the activities they are not presented as discontinued operations. These activities were reported under Corporate Activities and DSM Resins & Functional Materials prior to disposal. The impact of the deconsolidation of these activities on the DSM financial statements is presented in the following table: DEX Compact Euroresins Other Total Plastomers Solution x € million Technology Assets Intangible assets (8) (8) Property, plant and equipment (7) (7) Other non-current assets (3) (3) Inventories (26) (2) (28) Receivables (8) (2) (10) Cash and cash equivalents (4) (2) (6) Total assets (45) (9) (8) (62) Non-controlling interests (4) (4) Liabilities Provisions (1) (1) Non-current liabilities Current liabilities (13) (5) (18) Total non-controlling interests and liabilities (13) (10) (23) Net assets (32) 1 (8) (39) Consideration (net of selling costs, translation differences and net debt) 55 5 8 11 79 Book result 23 5 9 3 40 Income tax Net book result 23 5 9 3 40 2012 There were no material disposals in 2012. Deconsolidation and other changes In 2013 there were no material deconsolidations or material changes in the percentage of ownership of subsidiaries (same as in 2012). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 162 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Assets and liabilities held for sale DSM Pharmaceutical 2013 x € million Products In view of the contribution of DSM Pharmaceutical Products to Assets a new entity that will be majority owned by private equity Intangible assets (197) company JLL Partners, the related assets and liabilities of the Property, plant and equipment (297) business have been classified as held for sale. DPP constitutes Other non-current assets (14) a major line of business for DSM and is therefore presented as Inventories (196) discontinued operation upon held for sale classification. After Receivables (85) completion of the transaction that is anticipated for the first half Cash and cash equivalents of 2014, DSM will account for its interest in the new entity in Total assets (789)1 accordance with the equity method. Upon reclassification, the business was valued at fair value less costs to sell. This Liabilities represents the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit Provisions (8) (CGU) and is the basis for the determination of the book loss on Non-current liabilities (55) the transaction which is charged against the Catalytica goodwill Current liabilities (167) that is now reported in discontinued operations. After Total liabilities (230) impairment, the remaining value of the Catalytica goodwill is € 7 million. The fair value is based on the price that was agreed Net assets (559) between DSM and JLL Partners in an arms’ length transactions that was publicly announced on 19 November 2013. The final Fair value 412 amount of the impairment loss will only be known when the Transaction costs (5) transaction is closed and the final net asset value can be Fair value less costs to sell 407 established. The impact of the reclassification of these activities on the DSM financial statements is presented in the following Impairment of intangible assets (against table: goodwill Catalytica) (152) 1 Assets held for sale in the balance sheet amount to € 637 million, which includes the impairment of intangible assets of € 152 million The impact of the business that has been reclassified to held for sale on the cash flow statement is presented in the following table: 2013 2012 Net cash provided by/used in: Operating activities 33 159 Investing activities 247 (52) Financing activities 11 (111) Net change in cash and cash equivalents 291 (4) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 163 www.dsm.com The impact of the business that has been reclassified as held for sale on the income statement (before exceptional items), is presented in the following table: 2013 2012 Net sales 567 542 Cost of sales 506 498 Gross margin 61 44 Marketing and sales 24 28 Research and development 10 9 General and administrative 21 35 Other operating income (4) (12) 51 60 Operating profit 10 (16) EBITDA 51 36 2012 DSM stopped actively trying to dispose of the Maleic Anhydride and Derivatives business of DSM Pharmaceutical Products in Linz (Austria) in 2012 and this business is no longer classified as ‘assets/liabilities held for sale’. The activities were re-integrated into the Pharma cluster and reported in that segment from the first quarter of 2012 onwards. The activities are included in assets and liabilities held for sale in 2013 because they are part of DSM Pharmaceutical Products. In view of the agreements reached regarding the sale of DEXPlastomers and parts of Euroresins, these businesses were reclassified as held for sale. Before reclassification these activities were reported under Corporate Activities and DSM Resins & Functional Materials, respectively. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 164 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 3 Segment information Business segments1 Continuing operations DisconEliminaTotal Nutrition Pharma PerformPolymer InnoCorpo2 EliminaTotal tinued tions 2013 ance Intermevation rate tions operaMaterials diates Center Activities tions Financial performance Net sales 4,195 184 2,746 1,579 149 198 9,051 567 9,618 Supplies to other clusters 106 6 22 450 3 (577) 10 28 (38) Supplies 4,301 190 2,768 2,029 152 198 (577) 9,061 595 (38) 9,618 EBITDA 914 3 324 113 (17) (74) 1,263 51 1,314 Operating profit 679 (8) 185 71 (53) (125) 749 10 759 Exceptional items (within operating profit) (71) 11 (21) (10) 1 (14) (104) (162) (266) Operating profit including exceptional items 608 3 164 61 (52) (139) 645 (152) 493 Depreciation and amortization 232 11 135 38 36 50 502 40 542 Impairments 3 4 4 1 12 1 13 Impairments in exceptional items 22 (4)5 18 1505 168 Additions to provisions 23 31 17 5 2 78 78 Share of the profit of associates 2 2 2 R&D costs3 133 4 100 10 72 32 351 10 361 Wages, salaries and social security costs 743 19 317 73 64 329 1,545 175 1,720 Financial position Total assets 5,501 329 1,976 1,082 673 1,819 11,380 637 12,017 Total liabilities 1,344 131 604 482 103 3,025 5,689 230 5,919 Capital employed at year-end 4,494 146 1,910 570 561 183 7,864 439 8,303 Capital expenditure 255 11 56 235 108 87 752 41 793 Share in equity of associates 2 2 9 5 36 54 54 EBITDA / net sales (in %) 21.8 1.6 11.8 7.2 14.0 13.7 Workforce4 Average in fte 10,376 851 5,076 1,450 697 3,120 21,570 2,462 24,032 Year-end (headcount) 10,548 857 5,128 1,456 664 3,204 21,857 2,492 24,349 1 For a description of the types of products and services of each segment please refer to the Review of business in the Report by the Managing Board. Supplies from DSM Polymer Intermediates to DSM Engineering Plastics were executed at cost. Transfers between other segments were fairly limited and were generally executed at market-based prices. 2 Corporate Activities also includes costs for regional holdings, corporate overhead and share-based compensation. 3 R&D costs relate to the functional area Research and development and exclude R&D cost included in the functional areas Cost of sales and Marketing and sales as well as R&D expenditure capitalized. 4 The workforces of joint ventures have been included on a proportionate basis. 5 Including the reversal of previously recognized impairment losses of € 6 million at DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals and € 2 million at DSM Pharmaceutical Products Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 165 www.dsm.com Business segments1 Continuing operations DisconEliminaTotal Nutrition Pharma PerformPolymer InnoCorpo2 EliminaTotal tinued tions 2012 ance Intermevation rate tions operaMaterials diates Center Activities tions Financial performance Net sales 3,667 183 2,772 1,596 102 268 8,588 543 9,131 Supplies to other clusters 85 6 25 448 3 1 (550) 18 38 (56) Supplies 3,752 189 2,797 2,044 105 269 (550) 8,606 581 (56) 9,131 EBITDA 793 3 280 129 (38) (94) 1,073 36 1,109 Operating profit 613 (3) 146 97 (63) (139) 651 (16) 635 Exceptional items (85) 4 (40) (11) (39) (171) (23) (194) Operating profit including exceptional items 528 1 106 86 (63) (178) 480 (39) 441 Depreciation and amortization 177 6 128 30 24 43 408 43 451 Impairments 3 6 2 1 2 14 9 23 Impairments in exceptional items 23 (6)5 1 18 8 26 Additions to provisions 30 25 24 3 40 122 122 Share of the profit of associates 1 1 2 2 R&D costs3 151 3 105 12 66 35 372 9 381 Wages, salaries and social security costs 657 18 338 75 53 327 1,468 168 1,636 Financial position Total assets 5,157 295 2,174 964 559 2,061 11,210 756 11,966 Total liabilities 1,324 135 666 446 75 3,079 5,725 199 5,924 Capital employed at year-end 4,122 162 2,026 447 507 216 7,480 604 8,084 Capital expenditure 195 22 109 214 36 89 665 50 715 Share in equity of associates 3 2 10 2 10 27 27 EBITDA / net sales (in %) 21.6 1.6 10.1 8.1 12.5 12.1 Workforce4 Average in fte 9,208 871 5,359 1,444 622 3,012 20,516 2,410 22,926 Year-end (headcount) 9,489 851 5,354 1,474 668 3,199 21,035 2,463 23,498 1 For a description of the types of products and services of each segment please refer to the Review of business in the Report by the Managing Board. Supplies from DSM Polymer Intermediates to DSM Engineering Plastics were executed at cost. Transfers between other segments were fairly limited and were generally executed at market-based prices. 2 Corporate Activities also includes costs for regional holdings, corporate overhead and share-based compensation. 3 R&D costs relate to the functional area Research and development and exclude R&D costs included in the functional areas Cost of sales and Marketing and sales as well as R&D expenditure capitalized. 4 The workforces of joint ventures have been included on a proportionate basis. 5 Including the reversal of previously recognized impairment losses of € 12 million at DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 166 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Geographical information Continuing operations The Rest of Eastern North Latin China India Japan Rest of Rest of Total 2012 NetherWestern Europe America America Asia the lands Europe world Net sales by origin In € million 3,001 2,317 119 1,468 309 939 95 118 172 50 8,588 In % 35 27 1 17 4 11 1 1 2 1 100 Net sales by destination In € million 582 2,430 535 1,607 659 1,317 157 295 780 226 8,588 In % 7 28 6 19 8 15 2 3 9 3 100 Workforce at year-end1 5,756 5,127 438 3,714 978 3,449 541 145 746 141 21,035 Intangible assets and Property, plant and equipment Capital expenditure 220 105 2 117 6 174 3 2 33 3 665 Carrying amount 1,527 1,251 30 2,373 53 672 18 36 119 14 6,093 Total assets (total DSM) 3,613 2,556 109 3,554 347 1,187 90 134 310 66 11,966 2013 Net sales by origin In € million 2,943 2,257 122 1,707 581 1,033 77 52 237 42 9,051 In % 33 25 1 19 6 11 1 1 3 100 Net sales by destination In € million 644 2,444 520 1,777 932 1,291 166 234 821 222 9,051 In % 7 27 6 20 10 14 2 3 9 2 100 Workforce at year-end1 5,484 5,068 388 3,684 1,948 3,376 633 153 884 239 21,857 Intangible assets and Property, plant and equipment Capital expenditure 251 137 2 148 12 183 6 1 10 2 752 Carrying amount 1,654 1,212 36 2,257 346 812 18 30 138 24 6,527 Total assets (total DSM) 3,438 2,528 114 3,209 776 1,337 93 96 328 98 12,017 1 The workforces of joint ventures have been included on a proportionate basis DSM has no single external customer that represents 10 percent or more of revenues and therefore information about major customers is not provided. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 167 www.dsm.com 4 Net sales and costs Depreciation, amortization and impairments Net sales 2013 2012 2013 2012 Continuing operations before exceptional items Continuing operations before Amortization of intangible assets 150 105 exceptional items Depreciation of property, plant Goods sold 8,713 8,306 and equipment 352 303 Services rendered 305 270 Impairment losses 12 14 Royalties from ordinary activities 33 12 Total 514 422 Total 9,051 8,588 The increase in amortization and depreciation in 2013 is mainly Total costs due to acquisitions. These contributed € 38 million to Amortization of intangible assets and € 19 million to Depreciation In 2013 total operating costs of continuing operations before of property, plant and equipment. exceptional items amounted to € 8.3 billion, € 0.4 billion higher than in 2012, when these costs stood at € 7.9 billion. Total Other operating income operating costs in 2013 included Cost of sales to an amount of € 6.6 billion (2012: € 6.2 billion); gross margin in % of net sales stood at 27% (2012: 28%). 2013 2012 Employee benefits costs Continuing operations before exceptional items Release of provisions 16 2013 2012 Gain on sale of assets and activities 18 13 Continuing operations before Gain on scrap, waste material, exceptional items emission rights, royalties and Wages and salaries 1,320 1,256 licenses sold 30 13 Social security costs 202 187 Insurance benefits 11 8 Pension costs (see also note 23) 116 114 Claims 11 Share-based compensation (see Earn-out payments 5 also note 26) 23 25 Sundry 18 18 Total 1,661 1,582 Total 93 68 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 168 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Other operating expense 6 Exceptional items 2013 2012 2013 2012 Continuing operations before Cost of sales: exceptional items Impairments of property, plant Additions to provisions 2 1 and equipment and business Loss from the disposal or closure activities 3 (25) of assets and activities 2 1 Other costs (14) (4) Exchange differences 6 7 (11) (29) Costs of financial instruments 3 7 Research and development: Earn-out payments 5 Impairment of intangible assets (170) Damages 13 9 Other costs (2) Sundry 8 2 (170) (2) General and administrative: Total 34 32 Impairment of property, plant and equipment (1) (1) Other costs (78) (59) 5 Net finance costs (79) (60) Other operating income: Release of provisions 18 3 2013 2012 Book gain on disposals 24 Other income 5 Continuing operations before 47 3 exceptional items Other operating expense: Interest costs Additions to provisions (53) (106) Interest expense 122 107 Other costs Interest relating to defined benefit (53) (106) plans 12 15 Capitalized interest during Operating profit (266) (194) construction (9) (6) Other financial income and Interest charge on discounted expense (4) provisions 1 1 Total, before income tax Total 126 117 expense (270) (194) Income tax expense 33 45 Other financial income and expense Net result from exceptional Interest income (2) (12) items (237) (149) Exchange differences 6 4 Result from other securities 9 1 Sundry 3 (1) Total 16 (8) Net finance costs 142 109 In 2013 the interest rate applied in the capitalization of interest during construction was 5% (2012: 5%). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 169 www.dsm.com 2013 2012 The exceptional items in 2013 are listed below: The exceptional items in 2012 are listed below: The impairments of property, plant and equipment and The impairments of property, plant and equipment and business activities within Cost of sales relate to DSM business activities in Cost of sales mainly relate to DSM Nutritional Products for an amount of € 4 million. Also included Nutritional Products, DSM Pharmaceutical Products and DSM are the reversals of an impairment at DSM Sinochem Sinochem Pharmaceuticals. Also included is the reversal of an Pharmaceuticals of € 5 million and of an impairment at DSM impairment at DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals of € 12 million. Pharmaceutical Products of € 2 million. For further information For further information see note 9 Property, plant and see note 9 Property, plant and equipment. equipment. The other costs in Cost of sales mainly relate to the inventory Other costs in Cost of sales mainly relate to restructuring step up of the acquisitions. costs. The impairment in Research and development mainly relates Other costs in General and administrative relate to acquisition to the impairment of the goodwill in DSM Pharmaceutical and integration costs (€ 34 million) and restructuring costs Products of € 152 million (for details see Assets and liabilities (€ 25 million). held for sale in note 2 Changes in the scope of the Additions to provisions relate to the costs of restructuring as consolidation). Furthermore an impairment of development part of the Profit Improvement Program (€ 95 million) and to costs in DSM Nutritional Products of € 18 million has been legal costs (€ 11 million). For further information see note 17 included. For further information see note 8 Intangible assets. Provisions. Other costs in General and administrative relate to restructuring costs (€ 50 million) and acquisition, integration and divestment costs (€ 27 million). The release of provisions in Other operating income relates to restructuring provisions (€ 12 million) and other Provisions (€ 6 million). For further information see note 17 Provisions. The book gain on disposals in Other operating income relates to the disposal of DEXPlastomers. For further information see note 2 Change in the scope of consolidation. Additions to provisions relate to restructuring provisions (€ 41 million) and other provisions (€ 12 million). Other financial income and expense mainly relates to the waiver of a loan. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 170 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 7 Income tax Effective tax rate The income tax expense on the total result was € 76 million, in % 2013 2012 which represents an effective income tax rate of 21.9% (2012: € 46 million, representing an effective income tax rate of Domestic income tax rate 25.0 25.0 13.8%) and can be broken down as follows: Tax effects of: Deviating rates (1.2) (3.8) 2013 2012 Tax-exempt income and nondeductible expense (5.5) (5.6) Current tax expense: Other effects (0.4) 1.9 Current year (74) (87) Prior-year adjustments 5 Effective tax rate continuing operations 17.9 17.5 (74) (82) Discontinued operations (0.2) (0.3) Deferred tax expense: Exceptional items 4.2 (3.4) Originating from temporary Total effective tax rate 21.9 13.8 differences and their reversal 12 (5) Prior-year adjustments 7 11 Change in tax rate 1 6 The balance of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities Change in tax losses and tax decreased by € 111 million owing to the changes presented in credits recognized (22) 24 the table below: (2) 36 Deferred tax assets and liabilities Total (76) (46) 2013 2012 Of which related to: Balance at 1 January The result from continuing Deferred tax assets 340 292 operations before exceptional Deferred tax liabilities (236) (192) items (108) (95) The result from exceptional Total 104 100 items, continuing operations 31 38 The result from discontinued Changes: operations 1 11 Income tax expense in income statement (2) 31 Income tax expense in other The effective income tax rate on the result from continuing comprehensive income (17) 47 operations before exceptional items was 17.9% in 2013 (2012: Acquisitions and disposals (96) (78) 17.5%). The tax rate for continuing operations for 2014 will be Exchange differences 17 4 about 18%. The relationship between the income tax rate in the Reclassification to held for sale (13) Netherlands and the effective tax rate on the result from continuing operations is as follows: Balance at 31 December (7) 104 Of which: Deferred tax assets 369 340 Deferred tax liabilities (376) (236) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 171 www.dsm.com In various countries DSM has taken standpoints regarding its tax position which may at any time be challenged, or have already been challenged, by the tax authorities because the authorities in question interpret the law differently. In determining the probability of realization of deferred tax assets and liabilities these uncertainties are taken into account. The deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to the following balance sheet items: Deferred tax assets and liabilities by balance sheet item 2013 2012 Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax assets liabilities assets liabilities Intangible assets 26 (218) 30 (170) Property, plant and equipment 26 (267) 22 (266) Financial assets 4 (3) 2 (2) Inventories 49 (37) 56 (34) Receivables 17 (9) 10 (18) Equity (1) Other non-current liabilities 43 (1) 46 (2) Non-current provisions 68 (5) 81 (5) Non-current borrowings 1 Other current liabilities 42 (7) 73 (5) 276 (548) 320 (502) Tax losses carried forward 265 286 Set-off (172) 172 (266) 266 Total 369 (376) 340 (236) No deferred tax assets were recognized for loss carryforwards amounting to € 111 million (2012: € 91 million). Unrecognized loss carryforwards amounting to € 32 million will expire in the years up to and including 2018, (2012: € 32 million up to and including 2017), € 42 million between 2019 and 2023 (2012: € 29 million between 2018 and 2022) and the remaining € 37 million between 2024 and 2028 (2012: € 30 million between 2023 and 2027). The valuation of deferred tax assets depends on the probability of the reversal of temporary differences and the utilization of tax loss carryforwards. Deferred tax assets are recognized for future tax benefits arising from temporary differences and for tax loss carryforwards to the extent that the tax benefits are likely to be realized. In the Netherlands tax losses may be carried forward for 9 years. For the entities in the Dutch tax consolidation, losses will start to expire in 2019. DSM has to assess the likelihood that deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable profits. Deferred tax assets are reduced if, and to the extent that, it is not probable that all or some portion of the deferred tax assets will be realized. In the event that actual future results differ from estimates, and depending on tax strategies that DSM may be able to implement, changes to the measurement of deferred taxes could be required, which could impact on the company’s financial position and profit for the year. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 172 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 8 Intangible assets Goodwill Licenses Under Development Other Total and patents construction projects Balance at 1 January 2012 Cost 1,281 134 115 22 841 2,393 Amortization and impairment losses 169 71 4 363 607 Carrying amount 1,112 63 115 18 478 1,786 Changes in carrying amount: Capital expenditure 1 76 5 82 Put into operation 32 (59) 1 26 Acquisitions 807 1 7 278 1,093 Amortization (11) (1) (99) (111) Impairment losses (1) (4) (9) (5) (19) Exchange differences (31) (1) (1) (11) (44) Other reclassifications 1 18 1 (14) 6 776 36 9 6 180 1,007 Balance at 31 December 2012 Cost 2,052 185 131 28 1,123 3,519 Amortization and impairment losses 164 86 7 4 465 726 Carrying amount 1,888 99 124 24 658 2,793 Changes in carrying amount: Capital expenditure 2 75 7 1 85 Put into operation 4 (85) 21 60 Acquisitions 35 29 6 285 355 Amortization (12) (1) (142) (155) Impairment losses (152) (3) (18) (4) (177) Exchange differences (104) (7) (1) (43) (155) Reclassification to held for sale (7) (28) (2) (8) (45) Other reclassifications (2) 6 4 (228) (15) (13) 13 155 (88) Balance at 31 December 2013 Cost 1,660 164 111 59 1,356 3,350 Amortization and impairment losses 80 22 543 645 Carrying amount 1,660 84 111 37 813 2,705 In 2013 an impairment on Intangible assets of € 177 million was recognized. This mainly related to an impairment of € 152 million at DSM Pharmaceutical Products against goodwill relating to Catalytica (for details see Assets and liabilities held for sale in note 2 Changes in the scope of the consolidation). Furthermore an impairment of development costs in DSM Nutritional Products of € 18 million has been included where certain new production techniques that had been developed were not been taken into operation. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 173 www.dsm.com Over the past few years DSM has acquired several entities in business combinations that have been accounted for by the acquisition method, resulting in recognition of goodwill and other intangible assets. The amounts assigned to the acquired assets and liabilities are based on assumptions and estimates about their fair values. In making these estimates, management consults independent, qualified appraisers if appropriate. A change in assumptions and estimates could change the values allocated to certain assets and their estimated useful lives, which could affect the amount or timing of charges to the income statement, such as amortization of intangible assets. The breakdown of the carrying amount of goodwill at year-end 2013 is as follows: Goodwill Acquisition 2013 2012 Cash generating unit Functional Year of currency acquisition NeoResins 358 358 DSM Resins & Functional Materials EUR 2005 Martek 337 352 DSM Nutritional Products USD 2011 Fortitech1 252 405 DSM Nutritional Products USD 2012 Ocean Nutrition, Canada 202 227 DSM Nutritional Products CAD 2012 Tortuga2 121 DSM Nutritional Products BRL 2013 Kensey Nash 117 123 DSM Biomedical USD 2012 The Polymer Technology Group 63 66 DSM Biomedical USD 2008 Pentapharm 31 32 DSM Nutritional Products CHF 2007 Cargill Culture and enzymes business 27 23 DSM Food Specialties EUR/USD 2012 Shandong ICD 23 23 DSM Dyneema CNY 2011 Unitech2 16 DSM Nutritional Products NZD 2013 AGI Corporation 15 17 DSM Resins & Functional Materials TWD 2011 Novamid 12 15 DSM Engineering Plastics JPY 2010 Syntech Far East 10 10 DSM Resins & Functional Materials HKD 2005 Zhejiang Zhongken Biotechnology 9 10 DSM Food Specialties CNY 2010 C5 Yeast Company 9 9 DSM Bio-based Products & Services EUR 2011 Verenium 8 9 DSM Food Specialties USD 2012 Crina 8 8 DSM Nutritional Products CHF 2006 DSM Japan Engineering Plastics 6 6 DSM Engineering Plastics EUR 2003 Fatrom 5 5 DSM Nutritional Products RON 2011 Catalytica 7 166 DSM Pharmaceuticals, Inc. USD 2001 Other acquisitions 31 24 1,667 1,888 Included under Assets held for sale Catalytica (7) Total 1,660 1,888 1 Including adjustment to Purchase Price Allocation of -€ 141 million (see also note 2 Change in the scope of the consolidation) 2 Goodwill related to the acquisition of Tortuga and Unitech is a provisional amount The cash generating unit DSM Pharmaceutical Products including the goodwill relating to Catalytica has been reclassified to assets held for sale and is discussed in note 2. The annual impairment tests of goodwill are performed in the fourth quarter. The recoverable amount of the cash generating units concerned is based on a value-in-use calculation. The cash flow projections for the first five years are derived from DSM’s business plan (Corporate Strategy Dialogue) as adopted by the Managing Board. Cash flow projections beyond the five year planning period are extrapolated taking into account the growth rates that have been determined to apply for the specific cash generating unit in Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 174 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM the Annual Strategic Review. The key assumptions in the cash flow projections relate to the market growth for the cash generating units and the related revenue projections. DSM Nutritional Products, DSM Resins & Functional Materials and DSM Biomedical are three cash generating units to which significant amounts of goodwill are allocated. The growth assumptions for these cash generating units are based on the growth of the global food and feed markets, the demand for advanced coating resins that is influenced by growth in the building and construction markets and the growth of the market for medical devices. Growth rates generally are between 0 and 5 % (same as previous year) with the exception of DSM Biomedical where about 10 % growth is expected.The terminal value for the period after ten years is determined with the assumption of no growth in all cases. The pre-tax discount rate is between 8.5% and 11.5% (2012: between 7.5% and 11.5%) depending on the risk profile of the cash generating unit. A stress test was performed on the impairment tests of the cash generating units. This showed that the conclusions of these tests would not have been different if reasonably possible adverse changes in key parameters had been assumed. The value-in-use of cash generating units with significant amounts of goodwill clearly exceeded their carrying amount. The market capitalization of DSM at 31 December 2013 amounted to € 10,370 million (31 December 2012: € 8,307 million) and was clearly above the carrying amount of net assets, providing an additional indication that goodwill was not impaired. The other intangible assets are listed in the following table: Other intangible assets 2013 2012 Cost Amortization Carrying Of which Of which amount acquisitionacquisitionrelated related Application software 191 (133) 58 15 10 Marketing-related 72 (14) 58 58 50 Customer-related 437 (96) 341 328 245 Technology-based 564 (291) 273 235 236 Other 92 (9) 83 56 25 Total 1,356 (543) 813 692 566 Total 2012 1,123 (465) 658 566 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 175 www.dsm.com 9 Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant and Other Under Not used Total buildings machinery equipconstrucfor operating ment tion activities Balance at 1 January 2012 Cost 1,943 4,867 221 593 27 7,651 Depreciation and impairment losses 883 3,182 159 1 21 4,246 Carrying amount 1,060 1,685 62 592 6 3,405 Changes in carrying amount: Capital expenditure 21 34 5 573 633 Put into operation 136 423 34 (593) Acquisitions 97 92 1 14 204 Disposals (20) (3) (23) Depreciation (68) (256) (16) (340) Impairment losses (10) (29) (1) (2) (42) Impairment reversals 12 12 Exchange differences (8) (13) (4) (25) Reclassification to held for sale (1) (3) (3) (7) Other reclassifications 1 3 (3) (6) (5) Other changes 2 (3) (1) 148 262 20 (24) 406 Balance at 31 December 2012 Cost 2,155 5,271 252 570 17 8,265 Depreciation and impairment losses 947 3,324 170 2 11 4,454 Carrying amount 1,208 1,947 82 568 6 3,811 Changes in carrying amount: Capital expenditure 8 65 3 632 708 Put into operation 94 186 23 (303) Acquisitions 90 21 5 116 Disposals (2) (2) (4) Depreciation (75) (292) (20) (387) Impairment losses (3) (8) (1) (12) Impairment reversals 8 8 Exchange differences (45) (46) (3) (21) (115) Reclassification to held for sale (69) (169) (10) (49) (297) Other reclassifications 6 (1) (9) (4) Other changes (1) 2 (3) (2) (3) (229) (4) 247 11 Balance at 31 December 2013 Cost 2,063 4,650 222 818 19 7,772 Depreciation and impairment losses 858 2,932 144 3 13 3,950 Carrying amount 1,205 1,718 78 815 6 3,822 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 176 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Property, plant and equipment includes assets acquired under In 2013 impairment losses on Property, plant & equipment of finance lease agreements with a carrying amount of € 12 million were recognized. This mainly related to impairments € 17 million (31 December 2012: € 4 million). The related of € 6 million at DSM Nutritional Products and impairments of commitments are included under Borrowings and amount to € 3 million at DSM Fibre Intermediates. Furthermore an € 17 million (31 December 2012: € 4 million). The total of the impairment of € 1 million was recognized in a cash generating minimum lease payments at the balance sheet date amounts to unit of DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals, which was more than € 17 million (31 December 2012: € 4 million) and their present offset by a reversal of a previous impairment in another cash values to € 15 million (31 December 2012: € 3 million). generating unit of DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals of € 6 million. In all cases the recoverable amount was determined Overview of minimum lease payments in time: on the basis of the value in use of the assets or cash generating units. 2013 2012 In 2012 an impairment on Property, plant & equipment of € 42 million was recognized. This mainly related to an impairment of 2013 1 € 18 million at DSM Nutritional Products and an impairment of 2014 2 3 € 7 million at DSM Pharmaceutical Products. Furthermore an 2015-2018 5 impairment of € 6 million was recognized in a cash generating After 2018 10 unit of DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals, which was more than offset by reversals of previous impairments in three other cash Total 17 4 generating units of € 12 million. In all cases the recoverable amount was determined on the basis of the value in use of the assets or cash generating units. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 177 www.dsm.com 10 Associates and other financial assets Associates Other Other Other Total participations receivables deferred items Balance at 1 January 2012 35 47 70 18 170 Changes: Share of profits 2 2 Charged to the income statement (3) (3) (7) (13) Acquisitions 2 2 Capital payments 4 8 12 Disposals (3) (3) Loans granted 9 9 Repayments (1) (1) Exchange differences (1) (2) (3) Transfers (17) 35 18 Changes in fair value (8) (8) Dividend received (1) (1) Other changes (1) (3) 1 (3) Balance at 31 December 2012 40 42 54 45 181 Changes: Share of profits (2) (2) Charged to the income statement (10) 3 (3) (10) Acquisitions 26 9 35 Capital payments 5 4 9 Disposals (2) (2) Loans granted 17 17 Repayments (2) (2) Exchange differences (1) (3) (1) (5) Transfers 24 (6) 18 Changes in fair value 9 9 Dividend received (1) (1) Other changes 3 (4) (1) Balance at 31 December 2013 67 46 98 35 246 DSM's share in its most important associates and the financial information on all associates on a 100% basis are disclosed in note 28: Interests in associates. Other participations relate to equity instruments in companies whose activities support DSM’s business and which can be quoted or unquoted. In Other participations an amount of € 29 million is included that relates to equity instruments whose fair value cannot be measured reliably (2012: € 31 million). These instruments are therefore measured at cost. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 178 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Other receivables include a deferred receivable of € 39 million 12 Current receivables excluding accrued interest of € 1 million from Sinochem Group (the joint venture partner in DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals) that is due when the new Yushu factory is ready for full 2013 2012 commercial production. In 2012 this receivable was included under Other current receivables. The receivable has been Trade receivables reclassified to non-current assets in view of the fact that it is not Trade accounts receivable 1,502 1,544 expected that the Yushu factory will be ready for full commercial Deferred items 26 26 production in 2014. DSM has received confirmation from the Receivables from associates 18 22 counterparty that the amount is owed and is confident that 1,546 1,592 technical specifications will be met in due course. Adjustment for bad debts (20) (23) 11 Inventories Total Trade receivables 1,526 1,569 Other current receivables 2013 2012 Income taxes receivable 25 42 Other taxes and social security Raw materials and consumables 346 533 contributions 10 18 Intermediates and finished goods 1,379 1,320 Government grants 22 21 Loans 25 41 1,725 1,853 Receivables from joint venture Adjustments to lower net partners 54 realizable value (50) (50) Interest 2 20 Other receivables 26 29 Total 1,675 1,803 Deferred items 6 5 Total Other current receivables 116 230 The carrying amount of inventories adjusted to net realizable value (before reclassification to held for sale) was € 186 million (2012: € 161 million). Deferred items comprise € 32 million (2012: € 31 million) in prepaid expenses that will impact profit or loss in future periods. The carrying amount of inventories before reclassification to held for sale was € 1,871 million. In 2012, receivables from joint venture partners included a deferred receivable of € 39 million excluding accrued interest Changes in the adjustment to net realizable value from Sinochem Group (the joint venture partner in DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals) that is due when the new Yushu factory is ready for full commercial production. In 2013 this 2013 2012 receivable was included under Other financial assets. Balance at 1 January (50) (43) Additions charged to income statement (48) (57) Utilization / reversals 35 50 Exchange differences 1 Reclassification to held for sale 13 Acquisitions (1) Balance at 31 December (50) (50) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 179 www.dsm.com With respect to trade accounts receivable that are neither 13 Current investments impaired nor past due, there are no indications that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations. An aging overview of trade receivables related to commercial transactions amounting 2013 2012 to € 1,379 million (2012: € 1,372 million) is provided below. The remaining balance reported as trade receivables amounting to Fixed term deposits 19 12 € 123 million (2012: € 172 million) is excluded from this analysis because it principally concerns reclaimable VAT and accruals Total 19 12 that are not related to the payment behavior of customers. Aging overview 14 Cash and cash equivalents in % 2013 2012 2013 2012 Neither past due nor impaired 85 84 1-29 days overdue 10 12 Deposits 73 75 30-89 days overdue 3 2 Cash at bank and in hand 673 1,034 90 days or more overdue 2 2 Payments in transit 20 4 Bills of exchange 10 8 The changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts receivable Total 776 1,121 are as follows: Cash at year-end 2013 was not being used as collateral (same 2013 2012 as in 2012). It was restricted for an amount of € 5 million (in 2012: € 5 million). Balance at 1 January (23) (20) Additions charged to income statement (8) (11) Deductions 13 8 Acquisitions (3) Exchange differences 1 Balance at 31 December (20) (23) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 180 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 15 Equity 2013 2012 Balance at 1 January 6,042 5,974 Net profit 269 288 Net exchange differences (232) (26) Net actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit obligations 15 (90) Dividend (276) (302) Proceeds from reissue of ordinary shares 268 182 Repurchase of shares (73) Other changes 85 16 Balance at 31 December 6,098 6,042 After the balance sheet date the following dividends were declared by the Managing Board: Dividend 2013 2012 Per cumulative preference share A: € 0.23 (2012: € 0.23) 10 10 Per ordinary share: € 1.65 (2012: € 1.50) 287 253 Total 297 263 The proposed final dividend on ordinary shares is subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and has not been deducted from Equity. Shareholders will be provided with the opportunity to receive dividends in cash or in the form of ordinary shares. For a description of the rules of profit appropriation and of the statutory rights attached to preference shares B, see page 214. Share capital On 31 December 2013 the authorized capital amounted to € 1,125 million (2012: € 1,125 million), distributed over 330,960,000 ordinary shares, 44,040,000 cumulative preference shares A and 375,000,000 cumulative preference shares B. All shares have a nominal value of € 1.50 each. The changes in the number of issued and outstanding shares in 2012 and 2013 are shown in the following table. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 181 www.dsm.com Overview shares Issued shares Treasury shares Ordinary Cumprefs A Ordinary Balance at 1 January 2012 181,425,000 44,040,000 18,167,612 Reissue of shares in connection with share-based payments (3,049,509) Repurchase of shares Dividend in the form of ordinary shares (2,377,191) Balance at 31 December 2012 181,425,000 44,040,000 12,740,912 Number of treasury shares at 31 December 2012 (12,740,912) Number of shares outstanding at 31 December 2012 168,684,088 44,040,000 Balance at 1 January 2013 181,425,000 44,040,000 12,740,912 Reissue of shares in connection with share-based payments (4,300,163) Repurchase of shares 1,266,945 Dividend in the form of ordinary shares (2,246,106) Balance at 31 December 2013 181,425,000 44,040,000 7,461,588 Number of treasury shares at 31 December 2013 (7,461,588) Number of shares outstanding at 31 December 2013 173,963,412 44,040,000 The average number of ordinary shares outstanding in 2013 was 172,183,369 (2012: 165,543,091). All shares issued are fully paid. The cumulative preference shares A have been classified as equity because there is no mandatory redemption and distributions to the shareholders are at the discretion of DSM. On 31 December 2013 no cumulative preference shares B were outstanding. Share premium Of the total share premium of € 489 million (2012: € 489 million), an amount of € 110 million (2012: € 112 million) can be regarded as entirely free of tax. Treasury shares On 31 December 2012 DSM possessed 12,740,912 ordinary shares (nominal value € 19 million, 5.7% of the share capital). The average purchase price of the ordinary treasury shares was € 37.61. As at 31 December 2012, 3,869,841 of the total number of treasury shares outstanding were held for servicing management and personnel share-option rights. The remainder, 8,871,071 shares, is the balance of shares that were purchased under the company's share buy-back program in 2007 and 2008 and shares that were reissued as stock dividend in 2011 and 2012. On 31 December 2013 DSM possessed 7,461,588 ordinary shares (nominal value € 11 million, 3.3% of the share capital). The average purchase price of the ordinary treasury shares was € 39.43. As at 31 December 2013, 836,623 of the total number of treasury shares outstanding were held for servicing management and personnel share-option rights. The remainder, 6,624,965 shares, is the balance of shares that were purchased under the company's share buy-back program in 2007 and 2008 and shares that were reissued as stock dividend in 2011, 2012 and 2013. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 182 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Other reserves in Shareholder's equity Translation Hedging Reserve for Fair value Total reserve reserve share-based reserve compensation Balance at 1 January 2012 271 (21) 40 (16) 274 Changes: Fair-value changes of derivatives (44) (44) Release to income statement 22 22 Fair-value changes of other financial assets (8) (8) Exchange differences (28) (28) Options and performance shares granted 18 18 Options and performance shares exercised/cancelled (13) (13) Income tax 1 13 14 Total changes (27) (9) 5 (8) (39) Balance at 31 December 2012 244 (30) 45 (24) 235 Changes: Fair-value changes of derivatives 68 68 Release to income statement (27) (27) Release to shares of subsidiaries (acquisition) (10) (10) Fair-value changes of other financial assets 9 9 Exchange differences (228) (228) Options and performance shares granted 20 20 Options and performance shares exercised/cancelled (24) (24) Income tax (8) (8) Total changes (228) 23 (4) 9 (200) Balance at 31 December 2013 16 (7) 41 (15) 35 The significant reduction in the translation reserve in 2013 amounting to € 228 million is the result of the strengthening of the Euro in 2013. As a consequence the value of the US and Brazilian subsidiaries of DSM decreased which is the main cause of the negative exchange difference. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 183 www.dsm.com 16 Earnings per ordinary share Continuing operations Discontinued Total in € operations Before Exceptional Total exceptional items items 2012 Net profit available to holders of ordinary shares (in € million)1 429 (149) 280 (12) 268 Basic earnings 2.59 (0.80) 1.79 (0.17) 1.62 Impact of reclassification of net result from activities disposed of (0.10) (0.10) 0.10 Basic earnings after reclassification of net result from discontinued operations to exceptional items 2.59 (0.90) 1.69 (0.07) 1.62 Diluted earnings 2.57 (0.80) 1.77 (0.16) 1.61 Impact of reclassification of net result from activities disposed of (0.10) (0.10) 0.10 Diluted earnings after reclassification of net result from discontinued operations to exceptional items 2.57 (0.90) 1.67 (0.06) 1.61 Dividend distributed in the period (including stock dividend) 1.48 Dividend for the year 1.50 Average number of ordinary shares outstanding (x 1000) 165,543 Effect of dilution due to share options (x 1000) 1,345 Adjusted average number of ordinary shares (x 1000) 166,888 2013 Net profit available to holders of ordinary shares (in € million)1 489 (237) 252 9 261 Basic earnings 2.84 (0.45) 2.39 (0.87) 1.52 Impact of reclassification of net result from activities disposed of (0.93) (0.93) 0.93 Basic earnings after reclassification of net result from discontinued operations to exceptional items 2.84 (1.38) 1.46 0.06 1.52 Diluted earnings 2.82 (0.44) 2.38 (0.87) 1.51 Impact of reclassification of net result from activities disposed of (0.92) (0.92) 0.92 Diluted earnings after reclassification of net result from discontinued operations to exceptional items 2.82 (1.36) 1.46 0.05 1.51 Dividend distributed in the period (including stock dividend) 1.52 Dividend for the year 1.65 Average number of ordinary shares outstanding (x 1000) 172,183 Effect of dilution due to share options (x 1000) 1,200 Adjusted average number of ordinary shares (x 1000) 173,383 1 Reconciliation to profit for the year is provided in the consolidated income statement Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 184 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 17 Provisions The total of non-current and current provisions decreased by € 43 million. This is the balance of the following changes: Restructuring costs and Other longtermination Environmental term employee Other benefits costs benefits provisions Total Balance at 1 January 2012 42 34 42 41 159 Of which current 16 4 4 19 43 Changes in 2012: Additions 99 1 10 12 122 Releases (2) (1) (3) Uses (51) (5) (3) (23) (82) Acquisitions 1 1 Exchange differences 1 1 Reclassifications from/to held for sale Other Reclassifications 5 3 8 Total changes 52 (1) 7 (11) 47 Balance at 1 January 2013 94 33 49 30 206 Of which current 62 6 4 9 81 Changes in 2013: Additions 53 3 6 16 78 Releases (26) (1) (6) (33) Uses (54) (3) (4) (22) (83) Acquisitions 7 7 Exchange differences (1) (1) (2) (4) Reclassifications from/to held for sale (8) (8) Other Reclassifications Total changes (28) (2) (6) (7) (43) Balance at 31 December 2013 66 31 43 23 163 Of which current 50 5 4 7 66 In cases where the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation. The discount rate used is based on swap rates for various terms, increased by 57 to 100 basis points depending on those terms. The balance of provisions measured at present value increased by € 1 million in 2013 in view of the passage of time and decreased by € 2 million due to the change in the discount rate. The provisions for restructuring costs and termination benefits mainly relate to the costs of redundancy schemes connected to the dismissal and transfer of employees and costs of termination of contracts. These provisions have an average life of 1 to 3 years. The provisions for environmental costs relate to soil clean-up obligations, among other things. These provisions have an average life of more than 10 years. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 185 www.dsm.com The provisions for other long-term employee benefits mainly relate to length-of-service and end-of-service payments. Several items have been combined under Other provisions, for example onerous contracts and legal settlements. These provisions have an average life of 1 to 3 years. The additions to the provisions for restructuring costs and termination benefits in 2013 mainly relate to the restructuring projects in connection with the Profit Improvement Program. 18 Borrowings The schedule of repayment of borrowings (excluding debt to 2013 2012 credit institutions and commercial paper) is as follows: Total Of which Total Of which current current Borrowings by maturity Debenture loans 2,040 500 1,734 2013 2012 Private loans 245 50 320 135 Finance lease 2013 136 liabilities 17 2 4 1 2014 552 544 Credit institutions / 2015 655 618 commercial paper 291 291 506 506 2016 9 9 2017 and 2018 779 751 Total 2,593 843 2,564 642 After 2018 307 Total 2,302 2,058 In agreements governing loans with a residual amount at yearend 2013 of € 2,149 million, of which € 500 million of a shortterm nature (31 December 2012: € 1,962 million, of which USD A breakdown of the borrowings by currency (excluding debt to 150 million of a short-term nature), clauses have been included credit institutions and commercial paper) is given in the following which restrict the provision of security. The documentation of the table: € 300 million bond issued in November 2005 (which was increased by € 200 million in September 2008), the Borrowings by currency documentation of the € 750 million bond issued in October 2007, the documentation of the € 500 million bond issued in March 2013 2012 2009 and the documentation of the € 300 million bond issued in November 2013 include a change-of-control clause. This clause EUR 2,072 1,753 allows the bond investors to request repayment at par if 50% or USD 132 231 more of the DSM shares are controlled by a third party and if the CNY 56 48 company is downgraded below investment grade (< BBB-). In Other 42 26 November 2013 Moody's confirmed their A3 credit rating for DSM with a positive outlook. Standard & Poor's reconfirmed Total 2,302 2,058 DSM's credit rating in 2013, being A with a stable outlook. At 31 December 2013, there were € 307 million in borrowings outstanding with a remaining term of more than five years (at 31 December 2012 there were no borrowings outstanding with a remaining term of more than five years). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 186 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM On balance, total borrowings increased by € 29 million owing to At the end of 2013 an amount of € 300 million (year-end 2012: the following changes: € 325 million) of the 5.25% EUR loan 2007-2017 was swapped into CHF to hedge the currency risk of net investments in CHFMovements borrowings denominated subsidiaries. In 2006 and 2007 the loan had been partly pre-hedged (cash flow hedge) by means of forward 2013 2012 starting swaps, leading to a lower effective fixed interest rate of 4.89% for the full loan. Balance at 1 January 2,564 2,189 Of the € 500 million 5.75% EUR loan 2009-2014, € 300 million Loans taken up 386 35 was swapped to floating rates in September 2009 by means of Repayments (152) (114) an interest rate swap (fair value hedge). In August 2011 the swap Acquisitions/disposals 52 103 to floating was unwound and an interest advantage of 1.31% per Changes in debt to credit annum was locked in for the remaining life time. The effective institutions/commercial paper (239) 361 interest now amounts to 5.1% for the whole loan. Exchange differences (18) (10) In November 2013 a new 1.75% EUR bond of € 300 million was Balance at 31 December 2,593 2,564 issued. The full amount of this bond has been swapped to USD. In November 2010 pre-hedge contracts were concluded for an The average effective interest rate on the portfolio of borrowings intended refinancing in 2014 of the 5.75% EUR loan 2009-2014 outstanding in 2013, including hedge instruments related to at a 10 year interest rate of 3.42% excluding DSM spread. these borrowings, amounted to 4.2% (2012: 4.3%). In November 2011 pre-hedge contracts were concluded for an A breakdown of debenture loans is given below: intended refinancing in 2015 of the 4% EUR loan 2005-2015 at a 10 year interest rate of 3.20% excluding DSM spread. At yearDebenture loans end 2013 the fair value of the pre-hedge contracts amounted to € 77 million negative (year-end 2012: € 112 million negative), 2013 2012 which is recognized in the hedging reserve. EUR loan 4.00% 2005-2015 494 490 A breakdown of private loans is given below: EUR loan 5.25% 2007-2017 746 745 EUR loan 5.75% 2009-2014 500 499 Private loans EUR loan 1.75% 2013-2019 300 2013 2012 Total 2,040 1,734 TWD loan floating 2013-2018 32 (1 month) All debenture loans have a fixed interest rate. CNY loan floating 2008-2014 37 36 (12 months) The original amount of € 300 million of the 4% EUR loan USD loan 5.51% 2003-2013 114 2005-2015 was swapped into CHF to hedge the currency risk USD loan 5.61% 2003-2015 109 114 of net investments in CHF-denominated subsidiaries. This Other loans 67 56 original amount of the loan was pre-hedged (cash flow hedge) in 2005 by means of a forward starting swap, which led to a lower Total 245 320 effective fixed interest rate of 3.66%. The loan increase of € 194 million (after discount and fair value adjustments), was swapped to floating rates in August 2009 by means of an interest rate swap (fair value hedge). In August 2011 the swap to floating was unwound and an interest advantage of 1.54% per annum was locked in for the remaining life time. The effective interest rate for the increase now amounts to 3.67%. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 187 www.dsm.com The fixed interest rate of the 5.51% USD loan 2003-2013 was 20 Current liabilities swapped into a floating rate by means of an interest rate swap (fair value hedge). During 2005 this interest rate swap was unwound. The gain from this transaction is recognized in income 2013 2012 over the remaining life of the bond, leading to an effective fixed USD interest rate of 4.29% for the loan. This 5.51% USD loan Trade payables was assigned as a net investment hedge to hedge the currency Received in advance 12 41 risk of net investments in USD-denominated subsidiaries until Trade accounts payable 1,269 1,374 June 2013. Notes and cheques due 21 19 Owing to associates 26 19 The currency component of the 5.61% USD loan 2003-2015 was swapped into euros (cash flow hedge). The resulting EUR Total Trade payables 1,328 1,453 liability was swapped into CHF to hedge the currency risk of net investments in CHF-denominated subsidiaries (net-investment Other current liabilities hedge). Income taxes payable 41 55 Other taxes and social security DSM’s policy regarding financial-risk management is described contributions 44 54 in note 22. Interest 37 51 Pensions 5 5 19 Other non-current liabilities Investment creditors 172 141 Employee related liabilities 286 290 Other liabilities 15 28 2013 2012 Deferred items 1 4 Investment grants 45 49 Total Other current liabilities 601 628 Deferred items 24 40 Other non-current liabilities 9 5 21 Contingent liabilities and other financial obligations Total 78 94 The contingent liabilities and other financial obligations in the following table are not recognized in the balance sheet. The decrease in deferred items mainly relates to the reclassification to held for sale. 2013 2012 Operating leases and rents 61 76 Guarantee obligations on behalf of associates and third parties 151 158 Outstanding orders for projects under construction 11 15 Other 33 10 Total 256 259 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 188 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Guarantee obligations are principally related to value added tax effects of fluctuations in currency-exchange and interest rates and duties on the one hand and to financing obligations of on its results in the short term and following market rates in the associates on the other. Most of the outstanding orders for long term. DSM uses financial derivatives to manage financial projects under construction will be completed in 2014. Property, risks relating to business operations and does not enter into plant and equipment under operating leases primarily concerns speculative derivative positions. DSM does not hold financial catalysts, buildings and various equipment items. instruments with embedded derivatives. DSM's financial policy, including policies and processes for managing capital, is The commitments for operating leases and rents are spread as discussed more extensively on page 110 of the Report by the follows: Managing Board. Operating leases and rents Liquidity risk DSM has two committed credit facilities: one of € 500 million 2013 2012 maturing in April 2018 and one of € 500 million refinanced in September 2011 and maturing in September 2016. The latter 2013 16 had an extension option in 2012, which was utilized, bringing the 2014 12 12 maturity to September 2017. In 2013 the second extension 2015 11 11 option was executed (to extend the final maturity by another 2016 10 10 year), which was accepted by all banks but one, i.e. the facility 2017 and 2018 3 3 amount in the last year will be € 445 million. Together, the After 2018 25 24 facilities amount to a total of € 1,000 million (2012: € 900 million). Furthermore, DSM has a commercial-paper program amounting Total 61 76 to € 1,500 million (2012: € 1,500 million). The company will use the commercial-paper program to a total of not more than € 1,000 million (2012: € 900 million). The agreements for the Litigation committed credit facilities neither have financial covenants nor DSM has a process in place to monitor legal claims periodically material adverse changes clauses. At year-end 2013 no loans and systematically. had been taken up under the committed credit facilities. DSM has no derivative contracts to manage currency risk or interest DSM is involved in several legal proceedings, most of which are rate risk outstanding under which margin calls by the related to the ordinary course of business. DSM does not expect counterparty would be permitted. these proceedings to result in liabilities that have a material effect on the company's financial position. In cases where it is probable Floating-rate and fixed-rate borrowings and short-term that the outcome of the proceedings will be unfavorable, and the monetary liabilities analyzed by maturity are summarized in the financial outcome can be measured reliably, a provision has following table. Borrowings excluding credit institutions are been recognized in the financial statements and disclosed in shown after taking into account related interest rate derivatives note 17 Provisions. in designated hedging relationships. DSM manages financial liabilities and related derivative contracts on the basis of the 22 Financial instruments and risks remaining contractual maturities of these instruments. Therefore the remaining maturities presented in the following table provide Policies on financial risks an appropriate understanding of the timing of the cash flows General related to these instruments, and amounts are not expected to The main financial risks faced by DSM relate to liquidity risk and differ from those reported. Financial assets are not linked to market risk (comprising interest rate risk, currency risk, price risk financial liabilities in order to meet cash outflows on these and credit risk). DSM’s financial policy is aimed at minimizing the liabilities. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 189 www.dsm.com Borrowings and short-term monetary liabilities by maturity Fixed-rate Floating-rate Short-term Subtotal Interest Cash at1 Total cash borrowings borrowings monetary payments redemption out 2012 liabilities Within 1 year 121 16 2,587 2,724 95 2,819 Within 1 to 2 years 505 38 543 69 2 614 Within 2 to 3 years 618 618 57 9 684 Within 3 to 4 years 1 8 9 37 46 Within 4 to 5 years 751 751 30 5 786 After 5 years Total 1,996 62 2,587 4,645 288 16 4,949 2013 Within 1 year 508 44 2,220 2,772 78 2,850 Within 1 to 2 years 612 43 655 67 6 728 Within 2 to 3 years 3 6 9 46 55 Within 3 to 4 years 762 6 768 39 4 811 Within 4 to 5 years 8 3 11 8 19 After 5 years 307 307 7 314 Total 2,200 102 2,220 4,522 245 10 4,777 1 Difference between nominal redemption and amortized costs Interest rate risk DSM’s interest rate risk policy is aimed at minimizing the interest rate risks associated with the financing of the company and thus at the same time optimizing the net interest costs. This policy translates into a certain desired profile of fixed-interest and floatinginterest positions, including cash and cash equivalents, with the floating-interest position in principle not exceeding 60% of net debt. On 31 December 2013, DSM had no outstanding fixed-floating interest rate swaps other than the pre-hedges for refinancing in 2014 and 2015, respectively (see note 18). The following analysis of the sensitivity of borrowings and related financial derivatives to interest rate movements assumes an instantaneous 1% change in interest rates for all currencies and maturities from their level on 31 December 2013, with all other variables held constant. A 1% reduction in interest rates would result in a € 4 million pre-tax loss in the income statement on the basis of the composition of financial instruments on 31 December 2013 as floating-rate borrowings are more than compensated for by floating-rate assets (mainly cash). The opposite applies in the case of a 1% increase in interest rates. The sensitivity of the fair value of financial instruments on 31 December 2013 to changes in interest rates is set out in the following table. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 190 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Sensitivity of fair value to change in interest rate 2013 2012 Carrying Fair value Sensitivity of fair value Carrying Fair value Sensitivity of fair value amount to change in interest of: amount to change in interest of: +1% (1%) +1% (1%) Current investments 19 19 12 12 Cash and cash equivalents 776 776 1,121 1,121 Short-term borrowings (843) (849) 1 (1) (642) (646) 1 (1) Long-term borrowings (1,750) (1,927) 61 (64) (1,922) (2,142) 63 (66) Interest rate swaps (fixed to floating and prehedges) (77) (77) 87 (99) (112) (112) 90 (104) Currency risk It is DSM’s policy to hedge 100% of the currency risks resulting from sales and purchases at the moment of recognition of the trade receivables and trade payables. In addition, operating companies may – under strict conditions – opt for hedging currency risks from firm commitments and forecasted transactions. The currencies giving rise to these risks are primarily USD, GBP and JPY. The risks arising from currency exposures are regularly reviewed and hedged when appropriate. DSM uses average-rate currency forward contracts, currency forward contracts, spot contracts, and average-rate currency options to hedge the exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. At year-end, these instruments had remaining maturities of less than one year. To hedge intercompany loans, receivables and payables denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the subsidiaries, DSM uses currency swaps or forward contracts. Only for some larger internal loans with a total notional amount of € 1,414 million, hedge accounting is applied for these instruments. On 31 December 2013, the notional amount of the currency forward contracts was € 3,713 million (2012: € 3,458 million). In 2013 DSM hedged USD 707 million (2012: USD 919 million) of its projected net cash flow in USD in 2014, of which USD 257 million against EUR and USD 450 million against CHF by means of average-rate currency forward contracts at an average exchange rate of USD 1.33 per euro and CHF 0.93 per US dollar, respectively, for the four quarters of 2014. In 2013 DSM also hedged JPY 5,100 million (2012: JPY 5,100 million) of its projected net cash flow in JPY in 2014, of which JPY 4,000 million against Swiss franc and JPY 1,100 million against the euro by means of average-rate currency forward contracts at an average exchange rate of JPY 104 per Swiss franc and JPY 128 per euro, respectively, for the four quarters of 2014. DSM also continued the hedge of projected GBP cash obligations against CHF: GBP 50 million at an average exchange rate of CHF 1.42 per British pound. These hedges have fixed the exchange rate for part of the USD and JPY receipts and GBP payments in 2014. Cash flow hedge accounting is applied for these hedges. As a result of similar hedges concluded in 2012 for the year 2013, in 2013 € 24 million positive (2012: € 25 million negative) was recognized in the operating income of the segments involved in accordance with the realization of the expected cash flows. There was no material ineffectiveness in relation to these hedges. The currency risk associated with the translation of DSM's net investment in entities denominated in currencies other than the euro was partially hedged at year-end 2013. CHF-denominated net assets have been partially hedged by currency swaps (2013: CHF 994 million; 2012: CHF 1,061 million). With the redemption of the USD loan 2003-2013 USD-denominated net assets are no longer being hedged (2012: USD 150 million). There was no material ineffectiveness in relation to these hedges. The following analysis of the sensitivity of net borrowings and derivative financial instruments to currency movements against the euro assumes a 10% change in all foreign currency rates against the euro from their level on 31 December, with all other variables held constant. A +10% change indicates a strengthening of the foreign currencies against the euro. A -10% change represents a weakening of the foreign currencies against the euro. In 2013 no gains or losses relating to fair value hedges were included in Other financial income and expense (2012: no gains or losses). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 191 www.dsm.com Sensitivity of fair value to change in exchange rate 2013 2012 Carrying Fair value Sensitivity of fair value to Carrying Fair value Sensitivity of fair value to amount change in all exchange amount change in all exchange rates of: rates of: +10% (10%) +10% (10%) Current investments 19 19 12 12 Cash and cash equivalents 776 776 38 (38) 1,121 1,121 56 (56) Short-term borrowings (843) (849) (12) 12 (642) (646) (24) 24 Long-term borrowings (1,750) (1,927) (20) 20 (1,922) (2,142) (20) 20 Interest rate swaps (77) (77) (112) (112) Cross currency swaps 58 58 (236) 236 (53) (53) (216) 216 Currency forward contracts 13 (13) 14 14 29 (29) Cross currency swaps related to net investments in foreign entities1 (73) (73) (89) 89 (113) (113) (92) 92 Average-rate forwards used for economic hedging2 28 28 (17) 17 27 27 (28) 28 1 Fair-value change reported in Translation reserve 2 Fair-value change reported in Hedging reserve Fair-value changes on these positions will generally be recognized in profit or loss, with the exception of the instruments for which cash flow hedge accounting or net-investment hedge accounting is applied. Cash flow hedge accounting is applied for the average rate forwards and average-rate currency options used for economic hedging; the fair value changes of these derivatives are recognized in the Hedging reserve in equity until recognition of the related cash flows. Net-investment hedge accounting is applied for the cross currency swaps used to protect net investments in foreign entities; the fair-value changes of these derivatives are recognized in the Translation reserve in equity until the net investment is disposed of, to the extent that the changes in fair value are caused by changes in currency-exchange rates. Price risk Financial instruments that are subject to changes in stock exchange prices or indexes are subject to a price risk. At year-end 2013 price risks related to investments in securities were limited. Credit risk DSM manages the credit risk to which it is exposed by applying credit limits per institution and by dealing exclusively with institutions having a high credit rating. At the balance sheet date there were no significant concentrations of credit risk. With regard to treasury activities it is ensured that financial transactions are only concluded with counterparties that have at least a Moody's credit rating of A3 for long-term instruments. At business group level, outstanding receivables are continuously monitored by the management of the operating companies. Appropriate allowances are made for any credit risks that have been identified (as listed in note 12). It is therefore unlikely that significant losses will arise in relation to receivables that have not been provided for. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 192 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amounts of financial assets that are recognized in the balance sheet, including derivative financial instruments. No significant agreements or financial instruments were available at the reporting date that would reduce the maximum exposure to credit risk. Information about financial assets is presented in note 10 Associates and Other financial assets, note 12 Current receivables, note 13 Current investments, note 14 Cash and cash equivalents and note 22 Financial instruments and risks. Fair value of financial instruments In the following table the carrying amounts and the estimated fair values of financial instruments are disclosed: 31 December 2013 31 December 2012 Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Assets Other participations 46 46 42 42 Other non-current receivables 98 98 54 54 Current receivables 1,642 1,642 1,799 1,799 Financial derivatives 126 126 62 62 Current investments 19 19 12 12 Cash and cash equivalents 776 776 1,121 1,121 Liabilities Non-current borrowings 1,750 1,927 1,922 2,142 Other non-current liabilities 78 78 94 94 Current borrowings 843 849 642 646 Financial derivatives 190 190 299 299 Other current liabilities 1,929 1,929 2,081 2,081 The following methods and assumptions were used to determine the fair value of financial instruments: cash, current investments, current receivables, current borrowings and other current liabilities are stated at carrying amount, which approximates fair value in view of the short maturity of these instruments. The fair values of financial derivatives and long-term instruments are based on calculations, quoted market prices or quotes obtained from intermediaries. The portfolio of derivatives consists of average rate forward contracts that are valued against average foreign exchange forward rates obtained from Bloomberg and other derivatives that are valued using a discounted cash flow model, applicable market yield curves and foreign exchange spot rates. All inputs for the fair value calculations represent observable market data that are obtained from external sources that are deemed to be independent and reliable. DSM uses the following hierarchy for determining the fair value of financial instruments measured at fair value: Level 1: quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly Level 3: techniques that use inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value that are not based on observable market data. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 193 www.dsm.com The following table shows the carrying amounts of the financial derivatives recognized, broken down by type and purpose: Carrying amounts financial derivatives Fair value hierarchy Assets Liabilities Total Interest rate swaps Level 2 (112) (112) Currency swaps Level 2 16 (182) (166) Total financial derivatives related to borrowings 16 (294) (278) Currency forward contracts Level 2 46 (5) 41 Balance at 31 December 2012 62 (299) (237) Interest rate swaps Level 2 (77) (77) Currency swaps Level 2 91 (106) (15) Total financial derivatives related to borrowings 91 (183) (92) Currency forward contracts Level 2 35 (7) 28 Balance at 31 December 2013 126 (190) (64) During the year there were no transfers between individual levels of the fair value hierarchy. 23 Post-employment benefits Pension costs The group operates a number of defined benefit plans and 2013 2012 defined contribution plans throughout the world, the assets of which are generally held in separately administered funds. The Defined benefit plans: pension plans are generally funded by payments from Pension plans included in employees and from the relevant group companies. The group operating profit 22 17 also provides certain additional healthcare benefits to retired Healthcare plans 1 2 employees in the US. Other post-employment benefits 1 2 Post-employment benefits relate to obligations that will be settled in the future and require assumptions to project benefit Defined contribution plans 92 93 obligations. Post-employment benefit accounting is intended to reflect the recognition of post-employment benefits over the Total continuing operations 116 114 employee’s approximate service period, based on the terms of Discontinued operations 9 11 the plans and the investment and funding. The accounting Pension plans included in financial requires management to make assumptions regarding variables income and expense 12 15 such as discount rate, future salary increases, life expectancy, and future healthcare costs. Management consults with external Total 137 140 actuaries regarding these assumptions at least annually for significant plans. On 1 January 2013 accounting for defined benefit pension plans Changes in these key assumptions can have a significant impact changed as a result of the introduction of the revised IAS 19, on the projected defined benefit obligations, funding ‘Employee Benefits’. The changes have been applied requirements and periodic costs incurred. retroactively and 2012 was restated in accordance with the amended standard. The impact of the restatement on the The charges for pension costs recognized in the income opening balance of the previous year is immaterial and therefore statement (note 4) relate to the following: Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 194 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM not disclosed. Three important changes were introduced by IAS The Employee benefits liabilities of € 360 million 19R. (2012: € 430 million) consist of € 322 million (2012: € 386 million) related to pensions, € 25 million (2012: € 31 million) related to The application of the corridor mechanism was abolished, healthcare and other costs and € 13 million (2012: € 13 million) which means that all actuarial gains and losses had to be related to other post-employment benefits. recognized in other comprehensive income immediately. This change will not impact DSM because immediate recognition Pensions of actuarial gains and losses has already been applied since The DSM group companies have various pension plans, which 2006. are geared to the local regulations and practices in the countries The expected returns on pension assets were no longer used in which they operate. As these plans are designed to comply for the determination of annual pension costs. Instead, interest with the statutory framework, tax legislation, local customs and costs or benefits were calculated on the net balance of economic situation of the countries concerned, it follows that the pension assets and liabilities. Because the expected return on nature of the plans varies from country to country. The plans are plan assets was usually higher than the discount rate, this based on local legal and contractual obligations. change has increased the annual defined benefit pension costs. Defined benefit plans are applicable to certain employees in Net interest expense which used to be presented in operating Germany, the UK, Switzerland and the US. The rights that can profit is now reported in financial income and expense. As a be derived from these plans are based primarily on length of consequence € 12 million was included in financial income and service and the majority of the plans are based on final salary. expense in 2013 (2012: € 15 million) which was previously The majority of the obligations are funded and have been reported in operating profit. transferred to independent pension funds and life-insurance companies. For 2014, costs for the defined benefit plans relating to pensions and healthcare will be € 46 million (2013: € 36 million). The most important unfunded plans are in Germany. They amount to € 252 million (2012: € 250 million). Changes in Employee benefits liabilities recognized in the balance sheet are disclosed in the following overview: The changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations and in the fair value of plan assets of the major plans Employment benefits liabilities are listed below: 2013 2012 Present value of defined benefit obligations Balance at 1 January (430) (328) 2013 2012 Changes: Balance at 1 January 1,317 1,105 Balance of actuarial gains/(losses) 21 (133) Changes: Employee benefits costs (39) (24) Service costs 31 27 Contributions by employer 47 53 Interest costs 36 42 Exchange differences 4 1 Contributions by employees 12 12 Reclassification from/to held for Actuarial (gains)/losses (9) 183 sale 37 (2) Past service costs (6) (8) Other changes 3 Curtailments (1) Exchange differences (23) 2 Total changes 70 (102) Benefits paid (42) (45) Balance at 31 December (360) (430) Balance at 31 December 1,316 1,317 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 195 www.dsm.com Fair value of plan assets The changes in the net assets / liabilities recognized in the balance sheet are as follows: 2013 2012 Balance at 1 January 931 817 2013 2012 Changes: Balance at 1 January (386) (288) Interest income on plan assets 23 40 Expense recognized in the Actuarial gains/(losses) 7 54 income statement (37) (20) Actuarial gains/(losses) Actual return on plan assets 30 94 recognized directly in Other Contributions by employer 46 50 comprehensive income during the Contributions by employees 13 12 year 16 (129) Exchange differences (20) 3 Contributions by employer 46 50 Benefits paid (42) (45) Exchange differences 3 1 Balance at 31 December 958 931 Balance at 31 December (358) (386) The amounts recognized of these major plans in the balance In 2014 DSM is expected to contribute € 44 million (actual 2013: sheet are as follows: € 47 million) to its defined benefit plans. The major categories of pension-plan assets as a percentage of 2013 2012 total plan assets are as follows: Present value of funded Pension-plan assets by category obligations (1,031) (1,036) Fair value of plan assets 958 931 2013 2012 (73) (105) Bonds 54% 59% Present value of unfunded Equities 34% 27% obligations (285) (281) Property 7% 7% Other 5% 7% Funded status (358) (386) Effect of asset ceiling The pension-plan assets include neither ordinary DSM shares Net liabilities / net assets (358) (386) nor property occupied by DSM. Of which: Liabilities (Employee benefits liabilities) (358) (386) Assets (Prepaid pension costs) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 196 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM The total expense recognized in the income statement is as The main actuarial assumptions for the year (weighted averages) follows: are: Costs major defined benefit plans Actuarial assumptions 2013 2012 2013 2012 Plans outside the1 Plans outside the1 Current service costs 29 26 Netherlands Netherlands Net interest costs 12 15 Past service costs (7) (8) Discount rate 3.14% 2.80% (Gains)/losses on curtailments (1) Price inflation 1.92% 1.82% Salary increase 2.72% 2.69% Costs related to defined benefit Pension increase 2,25-2,6% 2.13% plans 34 32 1 In the Netherlands there is only one defined benefit plan which is immaterial for the group Year-end amounts for the current and previous periods are as follows: Major defined benefit plans per year 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Defined benefit obligations (1,316) (1,317) (1,105) (5,543) (4,942) Plan assets 958 931 817 5,440 4,876 Funded status of asset/(liability) (358) (386) (288) (103) (66) Experience adjustments on plan assets, gain/(loss) 7 55 (18) 245 485 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities, gain/(loss) 16 (27) (8) 35 (40) Gain/(loss) on liabilities due to changes in assumptions (25) (157) (12) (466) (336) Sensitivities of significant actuarial assumptions The discount rate, the future increase in wages and salaries and the pension increase rate were identified as significant actuarial assumptions. The following impacts on the defined benefit obligation are to be expected: A 0.25% increase/decrease in the discount rate would lead to a decrease/increase of 3.1% in the defined benefit obligation. A 0.25% increase/decrease in the expected increase in salaries/wages would lead to an increase/decrease of 0.6% in the defined benefit obligation. A 0.25% increase/decrease in the expected increase in the rate of pension increase would lead to an increase/decrease of less than 0.9% in the defined benefit obligation. The sensitivity analysis is based on realistically possible changes as of the end of the reporting year. Each change in a significant actuarial assumption was analyzed separately as part of the test. Interdependencies were not taken into account. Healthcare and other costs In some countries, particularly in the US, group companies provide retired employees and their surviving dependants with postemployment benefits other than pensions, mainly allowances for healthcare expenses and life-insurance premiums. Some of these are unfunded; in these cases, approved expense claims are reimbursed out of the financial resources of the group companies concerned. These plans are not sufficiently material to warrant the individual disclosures required by IAS 19. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 197 www.dsm.com 24 Net debt The development of the components of net debt is as follows: Cash and Current Non-current Current Credit Derivatives Total cash investments borrowings borrowings institutions x € million equivalents Balance at 1 January 2012 2,058 89 (2,030) (15) (145) (276) (319) Change from operating activities 730 28 758 Change from investing activities (1,856) (77) (4) (99) 6 (2,030) Change from financing activities Transfers 276 114 (29) (361) Dividend (210) (210) Proceeds from reissued shares 90 90 Capital payments of non-controlling interests 15 15 Derivatives 5 5 Other (2) (2) Change from financing activities 171 112 (29) (361) 5 (102) Exchange differences 18 7 25 Total changes (937) (77) 108 (121) (361) 39 (1,349) Balance at 31 December 2012 1,121 12 (1,922) (136) (506) (237) (1,668) Change from operating activities 889 30 919 Change from investing activities (1,170) 7 (24) (28) 36 (1,179) Change from financing activities Reclassification from non-current to current 539 (539) Transfers (10) (369) 140 239 Dividend (160) (160) Proceeds from reissued shares 145 145 Repurchase of shares (73) (73) Capital payments of non-controlling interests 36 36 Derivatives 107 107 Other (5) (5) Change from financing activities (62) 165 (399) 239 107 50 Exchange differences (2) 7 7 4 16 Total changes (345) 7 172 (416) 215 173 (194) Balance at 31 December 2013 776 19 (1,750) (552) (291) (64) (1,862) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 198 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 25 Notes to the cash flow statement The cash flow statement provides an explanation of the changes in cash and cash equivalents. It is prepared on the basis of a comparison of the balance sheets as at 1 January and 31 December. Changes that do not involve cash flows, such as changes in exchange rates, amortization, depreciation, impairment losses and transfers to other balance sheet items, are eliminated. Changes in working capital due to the acquisition or disposal of consolidated companies are included under Investing activities. Most of the changes in the cash flow statement can be traced back to the detailed statements of changes for the balance sheet items concerned. For those balance sheet items for which no detailed statement of changes is included, the table below shows the link between the change according to the balance sheet and the change according to the cash flow statement: Change in operating working capital 2013 2012 Operating working capital Balance at 1 January 1,919 1,776 Balance at 31 December 1,873 1,919 Balance sheet change (46) 143 Adjustments: Exchange differences 81 20 Changes in consolidation (including acquisitions and disposals) (84) (169) Reclassification from / to held for sale 117 (2) Transfers / non cash value adjustments 6 24 Total change in operating working capital according to the cash flow statement 74 16 In 2013 the operating working capital of continuing operations, was € 1,873 million, which amounts to 21.1% of annualized fourth quarter net sales (2012: 20.7%). Besides the business impact this increase was due to acquisitions, disposals and an exchange rate effect. 26 Share-based compensation Under the DSM Stock Incentive Plan, performance-based and non-performance-based stock options or Share Appreciation Rights (SARs) are granted to senior management. Such a grant takes place on the first day on which the DSM stock is quoted ex-dividend following the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. The opening price of the DSM stock on that day is the exercise price of the stock options and SARs. Since 2011 only stock options have been granted, and Share Appreciation Rights are no longer used as share-based compensation. Stock Options and SARs have a term of eight years and are subject to a vesting period of three years. After this three-year period one third of the stock options and SARs (non-performance-related) will vest and two thirds of the stock options and SARs that are performance based will become exercisable in whole, in part, or not at all, depending on the total shareholder return (TSR) achieved by DSM in comparison with a peer group. Non-vested performance based stock options and SARs will be forfeited. If employment is terminated prior to the vesting date, specific rules regarding vesting and forfeitures apply. The exercise of stock incentives is regulated. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 199 www.dsm.com Since 2010 only performance shares have been granted to the members of the Managing Board (no longer stock options). Performance shares vest after three years upon the realization of a predefined performance measure. The performance schedule is the same as that for stock options. All stock options and performance shares are settled by physical delivery of DSM shares, while SARs are settled in cash. Overview of stock options and Share Appreciation Rights for management Year of issue Outstanding In 2013 Outstanding Fair value Exercise Expiry date at 31 Dec. Granted Exercised Average Forfeited/ at 31 Dec. on grant price (€ ) 2012 price (€ ) expired 2013 date (€ ) 2005 32,400 (32,400) 45.65 6.15 29.05 8 Apr. 2013 2006 384,900 (339,675) 50.44 45,225 8.95 38.30 31 Mar. 2014 2007 693,751 (534,313) 51.23 159,438 7.69 33.60 30 Mar. 2015 2008 866,601 (493,322) 50.57 373,279 5.73 29.79 28 Mar. 2016 2009 896,075 (510,375) 50.87 (13,500) 372,200 2.83 21.10 27 Mar. 2017 20101,2 2,599,438 (1,139,500) 50.39 (844,813)3 615,125 6.07 33.10 6 Apr. 2018 20111 3,018,438 (205,200) 52.24 (251,125)3 2,562,113 9.60 46.20 2 May 2019 20121 3,280,813 (84,250) 53.15 (278,500)3 2,918,063 6.88 40.90 15 May 2020 2013 1 3,442,563 (24,000) 57.77 (110,500) 3 3,308,063 9.23 48.91 7 May 2021 2013 Total 11,772,416 3,442,563 (3,363,035) (1,498,438) 10,353,506 Of which vested 3,382,177 1,823,017 at 31 Dec. at 31 Dec. 2011 2012 2012 Total 12,546,766 3,304,813 (2,786,326) 43.23 (1,292,837) 11,772,416 Of which vested 4,104,602 3,382,177 1 Stock options will partly vest, and may therefore be immediately exercised, upon termination of employment in connection with retirement or early retirement. The remaining term to exercise stock options or SARs after their vesting as a result of retirement or early retirement is limited to three years (the remaining term to exercise in the case of regular vesting is five years). 2 Based on TSR performance, the stock incentives tied to performance granted in 2010 did only partially vest; the remaining part has been forfeited. 3 Number of forfeited options: 844,813 (2010), 243,625 (2011), 267,250 (2012) and 99,250 (2013). Certain employees in the Netherlands are entitled to employee stock options that are granted on the first day on which the DSM stock is quoted ex-dividend following the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. The opening price of the DSM stock on that day is the exercise price of the stock options. Employee stock options can immediately be exercised and have a term of 5 years. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 200 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Overview of stock options for employees Year of issue1 Outstanding In 2013 Outstanding Fair value Exercise Exercise at 31 Dec. Granted Exercised Average Forfeited/ at 31 Dec. on grant price (€ ) period 2012 price (€ ) expired 2013 date (€ ) until 2008 78,804 (69,741) 45.68 (9,063) 3.27 29.79 Mar. 2013 2009 105,449 (63,397) 50.95 (130) 41,922 2.31 21.10 Mar. 2014 2011 574,010 (301,185) 53.11 (18,380) 254,445 10.35 46.20 May 2016 2012 579,805 (360,835) 51.39 (6,890) 212,080 6.79 40.90 May 2017 2013 284,935 (81,770) 56.05 (3,225) 199,940 6.51 48.91 May 2018 2013 Total 1,338,068 284,935 (876,928) 51.93 (37,688) 708,387 2012 Total 1,015,276 636,810 (246,183) 43.18 (67,835) 1,338,068 1 Based on the 2009 result, no employee option rights were granted in 2010. Measurement of fair value The costs of option plans are measured by reference to the fair value of the options at the date at which the options are granted. The fair value is determined using the Black-Scholes model, taking into account market conditions linked to the price of the DSM share. Stock-price volatility is determined on the basis of historical volatilities of the DSM share price measured each month over a period equal to the expected option life. The costs of these options are recognized in the income statement (Employee benefits costs). The following assumptions were used in the Black-Scholes In the costs for wages and salaries an amount of € 23 million is model to determine the fair value at grant date: included for share-based compensation (2012: € 25 million). In the following table the share-based compensation is specified: 2013 2012 Share-based compensation Management options Risk-free rate 0.56% 0.80% 2013 2012 Expected option life in years 6 6 Nominal option life in years 8 8 Stock options 17 17 Share price 48.91 40.90 Share appreciation rights 4 7 Exercise price 48.91 40.90 Performance shares 2 1 Volatility 29% 28% Expected dividend 3.07% 3.55% Total expense 23 25 Fair value of option granted 9.23 6.88 Employee options Risk-free rate 0.13% 0.25% Expected option life in years 2.5 2.5 Nominal option life in years 5 5 Share price 48.91 40.90 Exercise price 48.91 40.90 Volatility 27.5% 34% Expected dividend 3.07% 3.55% Fair value of option granted 6.51 6.79 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 201 www.dsm.com 27 Interests in joint ventures 28 Interests in associates DSM’s share in its most important joint ventures (joint ventures DSM’s share in its most important associates (associates with a with a net asset value higher than € 25 million on a 100% basis) net asset value higher than € 25 million on a 100% basis) is is disclosed below: disclosed below: Company DSM interest Company DSM interest 2013 2012 2013 2012 DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals, Xinhui Meida DSM Nylon Chips Ltd. (Hong Kong, China) 50% 50% Co., Ltd. (Guangzhou, China) 25% 25% DEXPlastomers V.o.F. (Heerlen, Yantai André Pectin Co., Ltd. Netherlands)1 50% (Yantai City, China) 29% POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels LLC (Sioux Falls, US) 50% 50% Investments in associates are accounted for by the equity method. The following table provides summarized financial 1 The stake in this joint venture was divested on 1 March 2013. information on all associates on a 100% basis. Associates (100% basis) The financial data of all joint ventures are included in the consolidated financial statements according to the method of 2013 2012 proportionate consolidation. DSM’s interests in the assets and liabilities, income and expense of all these joint ventures, are Non-current assets 169 79 disclosed below (on a proportionate basis): Current assets 128 145 Non-current liabilities (19) (48) Joint ventures (proportionate basis) Current liabilities (108) (123) 2013 2012 Net assets 170 53 Non-current assets 243 168 Net sales 420 460 Current assets 161 233 Net result 3 Non-current liabilities (42) (31) Current liabilities (161) (183) 29 Related parties Net assets 201 187 Koninklijke DSM N.V. is the group holding company that is listed Net sales 211 256 on the NYSE Euronext stock exchange in Amsterdam. The Expenses (222) (266) financial statements of the company are included in the chapter Parent company financial statements. Net profit (11) (10) In the ordinary course of business, DSM buys and sells goods and services to various related parties in which DSM has From 2014 onwards proportionate consolidation for joint significant influence. Transactions are conducted under terms ventures will be terminated and replaced by the equity method. and conditions that are equivalent to those that apply to arm's DSM’s interest in the net assets of the joint ventures will be length transactions. reported on the line Associates and DSM’s interest in profit and loss will be reported in Share of the profit of associates. Comparative information presented in 2014 will be adjusted accordingly. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 202 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Transactions and relationships with related parties are reported incentives) of the current members of the Managing Board in the table below. amounted to € 9.6 million (2012: € 6.6 million). The increase was mainly caused by costs in relation to the early retirement of Transactions with related parties Mr. Gerardu to facilitate succession planning for the Managing Board and the Dutch crisis levy. Total remuneration and related 2013 1 2012 1 costs includes fixed annual salary including other items to the amount of € 3.9 million (2012: € 3.3 million), short-term Sales to related parties 170 147 incentives to the amount of € 1.8 million (2012: € 0.8 million), Purchases from related parties 244 266 pension expenditure amounting to € 0.5 million (2012: € 0.5 Loans to related parties 12 33 million) and long-term incentives amounting to € 2.2 million Receivables from related parties 22 32 (2012: € 1.3 million). In 2013 the costs included an amount of € Payables to related parties 39 40 1.2 million in respect of the Dutch crisis levy (2012: € 0.7 million). For further information about the remuneration of the members 1 Relates to continuing operations. of the Managing Board see note 9 to the Parent company financial statements. DSM has provided guarantees to third parties for debts of Members of the Supervisory Board received a fixed associates for an amount of € 82 million (2012: € 85 million). remuneration (included in General and administrative) totaling € 0.5 million (2012: € 0.5 million). Other related-parties disclosure relates entirely to the key management of DSM, being represented by the company's Further information about the remuneration of Managing Board Managing Board and Supervisory Board. members and Supervisory Board members and their share option rights is given in the report by the Supervisory Board, from The total remuneration and related costs (including pension page 122 onwards. expenditures, other commitments, short-term and long-term 30 Service fees paid to external auditors The service fees recognized in the financial statements 2013 for the service of EY amounted to € 8.0 million (2012: € 7.9 million). The amounts per service category are shown in the following table. Total service fee Of which Ernst & Young Accountants LLP (Netherlands) 2013 2012 2013 2012 Audit of the Group financial statements 4.1 4.8 2.2 2.2 Audit of other (statutory) financial statements 1.6 0.8 Other assurance services 0.3 0.5 0.1 0.5 Total assurance services 6.0 5.3 3.1 2.7 Tax services 2.0 2.1 Sundry services 0.5 Total 8.0 7.9 3.1 2.7 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 203 www.dsm.com Parent company financial statements Balance sheet at 31 December of Koninklijke DSM N.V. x € million Notes 2013 2012 Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets 2 432 424 Property, plant and equipment 3 18 18 Financial assets 4 9,980 12,335 Deferred tax assets 129 114 Other non-current assets 7 2 10,566 12,893 Current assets Receivables 5 14 131 Cash and cash equivalents 15 41 29 172 Total 10,595 13,065 Shareholders' equity and liabilities Shareholders' equity 6 Share capital 338 338 Share premium 489 489 Treasury shares (294) (479) Other reserves 36 439 Retained earnings 5,068 4,809 Profit for the year 271 278 5,908 5,874 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 7 1,649 1,848 1,649 1,848 Current liabilities Borrowings 7 650 414 Financial derivatives 185 262 Other current liabilities 8 2,203 4,667 3,038 5,343 Total 10,595 13,065 Income statement x € million 2013 2012 Share in results of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates (after income tax expense) 319 405 Other income and expense (48) (127) Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 271 278 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 204 www.dsm.com Parent company financial statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Notes to the parent company financial statements 1 General Unless stated otherwise, all amounts are in € million. The Parent company financial statements are the financial statements of Koninklijke DSM N.V., which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the Netherlands. The accounting policies used are the same as those used in the consolidated financial statements, in accordance with the provisions of article 362-8 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. In these separate financial statements investments in subsidiaries are accounted for using the net asset value. The balance sheet presentation is aligned with the consolidated financial statements in order to enhance transparency and facilitate understanding. In conformity with article 402, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, a condensed income statement is included in the separate financial statements of the parent company. A list of DSM participations has been filed with the Chamber of Commerce for Limburg (Netherlands) and is available from the company upon request. The list can also be downloaded from the company’s website. Information on the use of financial instruments and on related risks for the group is provided in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM. 2 Intangible assets The carrying amount of intangible assets mainly comprises goodwill on the acquisition of NeoResins in 2005 (€ 358 million), Crina in 2006 (€ 8 million) and Pentapharm in 2007 (€ 31 million). For further information on these assets including the discussion of the related impairment tests please refer to note 8: Intangible assets in the Consolidated financial statements. 3 Property, plant and equipment This item mainly relates to land and buildings and corporate IT projects. Capital expenditure in 2013 was € 2 million (2012: € 9 million), while the depreciation charge in 2013 was € 2 million (2012: € 1 million). The historical cost of property, plant and equipment as at 31 December 2013 was € 59 million (2012: € 57 million); accumulated depreciation amounted to € 41 million (2012: € 39 million). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 205 www.dsm.com 4 Financial assets Subsidiaries Other loans Total Share in equity Loans Balance at 1 January 2012 11,794 315 9 12,118 Changes: Share in profit 405 405 Dividend received (557) (557) Capital payments 442 442 Net actuarial gains/(losses) (100) (100) Change in Fair value reserve (7) (7) Change in Hedging reserve 62 62 Exchange differences (23) (23) New loans 1 1 Transfers (6) (6) Balance at 31 December 2012 12,016 315 4 12,335 Changes: Share in profit 319 319 Dividend received (2,901) (2,901) Capital payments 1,854 1,854 Net actuarial gains/(losses) 15 15 Change in Fair value reserve 9 9 Exchange differences (231) (231) New loans 1 1 Transfers (1,461) 40 (1,421) Balance at 31 December 2013 9,620 315 45 9,980 Transfers and the main part of dividend received and capital payments relate to the restructuring of the legal set-up of financing companies (Corporate Treasury) within DSM. 5 Receivables 2013 2012 Receivable from subsidiaries 4 113 Other receivables / deferred items 10 18 Total 14 131 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 206 www.dsm.com Parent company financial statements Notes to the parent company financial statements 6 Shareholders' equity The repayment schedule for borrowings (excluding commercial paper) is as follows: 2013 2012 Borrowings by maturity Balance at 1 January 5,874 5,784 2013 2012 Net profit 271 278 2013 114 Exchange differences, net of 2014 500 499 income tax (228) (27) 2015 603 604 Net actuarial gains/(losses) on 2016 defined benefit obligations 15 (90) 2017 and 2018 746 745 Dividend (271) (254) 2019 through 2023 300 Repurchase of shares (73) Proceeds from reissue of ordinary Total 2,149 1,962 shares 268 182 Other changes 52 1 In agreements governing loans with a residual amount at yearBalance at 31 December 5,908 5,874 end 2013 of € 2,149 million, of which € 500 million of a current nature (31 December 2012: € 1,962 million, of which € 114 million of a current nature), clauses have been included which For details see the consolidated statement of changes in equity restrict the provision of security. More information on borrowings (note 15). is provided in note 18 (Borrowings) to the consolidated financial statements. Legal reserve Since the profits retained in Koninklijke DSM N.V.'s subsidiaries 8 Other current liabilities can be distributed, and received in the Netherlands, no legal reserve for retained profits is required. Profits attributable to joint ventures and associates are not material and therefore any 2013 2012 related legal reserve is also not material. In Shareholders' equity an amount of € 16 million (2012: € 244 million) is included for Owing to subsidiaries 2,133 4,585 Translation reserve, -€ 7 million (2012: -€ 30million) for Hedging Other liabilities 34 38 reserve and -€ 15 million (2012: -€ 24 million) for Fair value Deferred items 36 44 reserve. Total 2,203 4,667 7 Borrowings The decrease of current liabilities, owing to subsidiaries, is mainly 2013 2012 caused by the restructuring of the legal set-up of financing Total Of which Total Of which companies. See also note 4 Financial assets. current current Contingent liabilities Debenture loans 2,040 500 1,734 Guarantee obligations on behalf of affiliated companies and third Private loans 109 228 114 parties amounted to € 164 million (31 December 2012: Commercial paper 150 150 300 300 € 199 million). Koninklijke DSM N.V. has declared in writing that it accepts several liabilities for debts arising from acts in law of a Total 2,299 650 2,262 414 number of consolidated companies. These debts are included in the consolidated balance sheet. At 31 December 2013, there was one debenture loan (€ 300 million, maturing in 2019) with a remaining term of more than 5 years (none at 31 December 2012). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 207 www.dsm.com 9 Remuneration of key personnel Remuneration Managing Board The remuneration of the members of the Managing Board is determined by the Supervisory Board within the framework of the remuneration policy as approved by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. More details about the remuneration policy are included in the Report by the Supervisory Board from page 122 onwards. The remuneration and related costs (including pension expenditure and other commitments and costs related to long term incentives) of the current members of the Managing Board amounted to € 9.6 million (2012: € 6.6 million). The remuneration of the individual members of the Managing Board was as follows: Remuneration Managing Board x € thousand Salary including other1 Short-term incentive Pension expenditure Long-term incentives Total items 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Feike Sijbesma 931 9902 481 231 124 124 458 388 1,994 1,733 Stefan Doboczky 639 586 315 117 81 81 281 166 1,316 950 Nico Gerardu 9613 583 309 128 137 81 8524 258 2,259 1,050 Rolf-Dieter Schwalb 587 579 315 139 81 81 302 258 1,285 1,057 Stephan Tanda 589 583 298 164 81 81 302 258 1,270 1,086 Dimitri de Vreeze5 177 91 17 285 Subtotal 3,884 3,321 1,809 779 521 448 2,195 1,328 8,409 5,876 Crisis levy 1,215 698 Total 9,624 6,574 1 Other items include company cars and expense allowance 2 Including a one-time payment in 2012 with respect to 25 years of service 3 Includes a payment of one year fixed salary to Nico Gerardu as a compensation for his willingness to retire early to facilitate succession planning for the Managing Board 4 Includes the impact of early vesting of performance shares 5 As of 1 September 2013 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 208 www.dsm.com Parent company financial statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Outstanding and exercised stock incentives The following table shows the stock incentives of the individual members of the Managing Board and the rights exercised. Overview of stock options Year of issue Outstanding In 2013 Outstanding Average Exercise Expiry date at 31 Dec. Granted Exercised Forfeited/ at 31 Dec. share price at price (€ ) 2012 expired 2013 exercise (€ ) Feike Sijbesma 2006 15,000 (15,000) 45.73 38.30 31 Mar 2014 2007 22,500 (22,500) 57.84 33.60 30 Mar 2015 2008 28,125 28,125 29.79 28 Mar 2016 2009 18,750 18,750 21.10 27 Mar 2017 Total 84,375 (37,500) 46,875 Of which vested 84,375 46,875 Stefan Doboczky 2010 36,000 (24,000) (12,000) 50.73 33.10 6 Apr 2018 Total 36,000 (24,000) (12,000) Of which vested Nico Gerardu 2006 15,000 (15,000) 48.72 38.30 31 Mar 2014 2007 22,500 (22,500) 53.24 33.60 30 Mar 2015 2008 22,500 (22,500) 57.16 29.79 28 Mar 2016 2009 15,000 15,000 21.10 27 Mar 2017 Total 75,000 (60,000) 15,000 Of which vested 75,000 15,000 Rolf-Dieter Schwalb 2007 22,500 (22,500) 55.95 33.60 30 Mar 2015 2008 22,500 22,500 29.79 28 Mar 2016 2009 15,000 15,000 21.10 27 Mar 2017 Total 60,000 (22,500) 37,500 Of which vested 60,000 37,500 Stephan Tanda 2007 22,500 (22,500) 55.98 33.60 30 Mar 2015 2008 22,500 22,500 29.79 28 Mar 2016 2009 15,000 15,000 21.10 27 Mar 2017 Total 60,000 (22,500) 37,500 Of which vested 60,000 37,500 Dimitri de Vreeze 2007 15,000 (15,000) 56.03 33.60 30 Mar 2015 2008 22,500 22,500 29.79 28 Mar 2016 2009 18,000 18,000 21.10 27 Mar 2017 2010 27,000 (9,000) 18,000 33.10 6 Apr 2018 2011 36,000 36,000 46.20 2 May 2019 2012 36,000 36,000 40.90 15 May2020 2013 36,000 36,000 48.91 7 May 2021 Total 154,500 36,000 (15,000) (9,000) 166,500 Of which vested 55,500 58,500 Since 2010 the Managing Board has been granted performance shares instead of stock options. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 209 www.dsm.com Overview of performance shares Year of issue Outstanding In 2013 Outstanding Vested as of Year of Share price at 31 Dec. Granted Exercised Forfeited / at 31 Dec. 31 Dec. vesting at date 2012 expired 2013 2013 of grant (€ ) Feike Sijbesma < 2010 24,500 24,500 24,500 < 2013 2010 28,500 (17,100) 11,400 11,400 2013 33.10 2011 24,000 24,000 46.20 2012 31,000 31,000 40.90 2013 24,000 24,000 48.91 Total 108,000 24,000 (17,100) 114,900 35,900 Stefan Doboczky 2011 16,000 16,000 46.20 2012 20,000 20,000 40.90 2013 16,000 16,000 48.91 Total 36,000 16,000 52,000 Nico Gerardu < 2010 20,000 20,000 20,000 < 2013 2010 19,000 (11,400) 7,600 7,600 2013 33.10 2011 16,000 (8,000) 8,000 8,000 2013 46.20 2012 20,000 (10,000) 10,000 10,000 2013 40.90 2013 16,000 (8,000) 8,000 8,000 2013 48.91 Total 75,000 16,000 (37,400) 53,600 53,600 Rolf-Dieter Schwalb < 2010 16,000 16,000 16,000 < 2013 2010 19,000 (11,400) 7,600 7,600 2013 33.10 2011 16,000 16,000 46.20 2012 20,000 20,000 40.90 2013 16,000 16,000 48.91 Total 71,000 16,000 (11,400) 75,600 23,600 Stephan Tanda < 2010 13,956 13,956 13,956 < 2013 2010 19,000 (11,400) 7,600 7,600 2013 33.10 2011 16,000 16,000 46.20 2012 20,000 20,000 40.90 2013 16,000 16,000 48.91 Total 68,956 16,000 (11,400) 73,556 21,556 Shares In addition to the performance shares granted under the DSM Stock Incentive Plan, the current members of the Managing Board have themselves invested in DSM shares. At year-end 2013 the current members of the Managing Board together held 66,240 shares (year-end 2012: 64,556) in Koninklijke DSM N.V., excluding vested performance shares. Loans The company does not provide any loans to members of the Managing Board. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 210 www.dsm.com Parent company financial statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Remuneration of the members of the Supervisory Board The total remuneration (annual fixed fee and annual committee membership fee) of the members of the Supervisory Board amounted to € 0.5 million (2012: € 0.5 million). The remuneration of the individual members of the Supervisory Board was as follows: in € Annual fixed fee Committee fee Other costs Total 2013 2012 Rob Routs, chairman 70,000 12,500 4,250 86,750 78,185 Ewald Kist, deputy chairman 50,000 12,500 8,191 70,691 63,538 Victoria Haynes (from 11 May 2012) 50,000 10,000 16,250 76,250 48,527 Pierre Hochuli 50,000 15,000 4,250 69,250 61,151 Eileen Kennedy (from 11 May 2012) 50,000 5,000 16,250 71,250 45,194 Pauline van der Meer Mohr 50,000 12,500 8,191 70,691 63,538 Claudio Sonder (retired on 3 May 2013) 17,308 5,000 6,625 28,933 67,151 Tom de Swaan 50,000 17,500 8,191 75,691 67,372 Total 387,308 90,000 72,198 549,506 494,656 Total 2012 360,453 90,165 44,038 494,656 Heerlen, 24 February 2014 Heerlen, 25 February 2014 Managing Board, Supervisory Board, Feike Sijbesma, CEO/Chairman Rob Routs, Chairman Rolf-Dieter Schwalb, CFO Ewald Kist, Deputy Chairman Stefan Doboczky Victoria Haynes Stephan Tanda Pierre Hochuli Dimitri de Vreeze Eileen Kennedy Pauline van der Meer Mohr Tom de Swaan Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 211 www.dsm.com Other information Independent Auditor's Report on the of the entity's internal control. An audit also includes evaluating Financial Statements the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, To the Shareholders and the Supervisory Board of Royal DSM as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained Report on the financial statements is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit We have audited the accompanying financial statements 2013 opinion. of Koninklijke DSM N.V. (hereafter: Royal DSM), Heerlen. The financial statements include the consolidated financial Opinion with respect to the consolidated financial statements statements and the company financial statements. The In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true consolidated financial statements comprise the consolidated and fair view of the financial position of Royal DSM as at 31 balance sheet as at 31 December 2013, the consolidated December 2013, its result and its cash flows for the year then income statement, the consolidated statement of ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes Standards as adopted by the European Union and with Part 9 in equity and the consolidated cash flow statement for the year of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. then ended, and notes, comprising a summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. The Opinion with respect to the company financial statements parent company financial statements comprise the company In our opinion, the company financial statements give a true and balance sheet as at 31 December 2013, the company income fair view of the financial position of Royal DSM as at 31 December statement for the year then ended and the notes, comprising a 2013 and of its result for the year then ended in accordance with summary of the accounting policies and other explanatory Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. information. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Management's responsibility Pursuant to the legal requirement under Section 2:393 sub 5 at Management is responsible for the preparation and fair e and f of the Dutch Civil Code, we have no deficiencies to report presentation of these financial statements in accordance with as a result of our examination whether the Report by the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the Managing Board as set out on page 10 to page 122, to the European Union and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil extent we can assess, has been prepared in accordance with Code, and for the preparation of the Report by the Managing Part 9 of Book 2 of this Code, and whether the information as Board in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil required under Section 2:392 sub 1 at b-h has been annexed. Code. Furthermore management is responsible for such internal Further we report that the Report by the Managing Board as set control as it determines is necessary to enable the preparation out on page 10 to page 122, to the extent we can assess, is of the financial statements that are free from material consistent with the financial statements as required by Section misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 2:391 sub 4 of the Dutch Civil Code. Auditor's responsibility Eindhoven, 25 February 2014 Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in Signed by G.A.M. Aarnink, Ernst & Young Accountants LLP accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing. This requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor's judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 212 www.dsm.com Other information Independent Auditor's Report on the Financial Statements Independent Assurance Report on Sustainability Information Profit appropriation Special statutory rights Important dates Independent Assurance Report on The main procedures that we have performed with respect to Sustainability Information the Sustainability Information are: To the Supervisory Board and shareholders of Royal DSM assessing the suitability of the reporting principles used and its consistent application; Engagement reviewing the design and existence of systems and processes We have reviewed the Sustainability Information in the for information management, internal control and processing accompanying Integrated Annual Report 2013 of Koninklijke of the qualitative and quantitative data in the Sustainability DSM N.V. (hereafter Royal DSM). The Sustainability Information Information, at corporate level; comprises the following sections DSM in motion: driving focused interviews of relevant staff at corporate level responsible for growth, Growth driver: Sustainability, Stakeholder engagement, the reported information on specific issues including People in 2013 and Planet in 2013 (hereafter ’the Sustainability sustainability strategy, employee engagement survey, ECO+ Information‘), as included in the Report by the Managing Board and safety; on page 10 to page 122 in the Integrated Annual Report 2013. reviewing, on a test basis, whether the qualitative information is supported by sufficient evidence; The sustainability information contains forward-looking reviewing the environmental data submitted by all sites for information in the form of ambitions, strategy, plans, forecasts central aggregation, together with an assessment of the and estimates. The fulfilment of such informaton is inherently quality of the data validation process at corporate level; uncertain. For that reason, we do not provide assurance in reviewing the people data submitted by all Business Groups respect of the assumptions and the achievement of forwardfor central aggregation, together with an assessment of the looking information. quality of the data validation process at corporate level; reviewing the results of procedures performed as part of the Responsibility Operational Audits at key Royal DSM sites in 2013 with The Managing Board of Royal DSM is responsible for the respect to Sustainability Information carried out by the preparation of the Sustainability Information, stakeholder Corporate Operational Audit department of Royal DSM; engagement and the selection of material topics in accordance reviews on the results of people and environmental data trends with the criteria applied. The decisions made by management in and the explanations provided in the Sustainability Information respect of the scope of the Integrated Report and the internal and discussed these with management at corporate level; reporting guidelines are set forth in the section entitled Reporting media and internet searches on environmental, safety and policy in the Integrated report from page 110. Our responsibility social issues relating to Royal DSM, to obtain information on is to provide limited assurance that the Sustainability Information relevant sustainability issues in the reporting period; is correctly presented in accordance with the criteria applied. evaluating the overall view presented in the Sustainability Information and reviewing it against the GRI application level Criteria applied declared by Royal DSM in the letter of the Chairman from page Royal DSM applies the G3 guidelines of the Global Reporting 6. Initiative supported with the internal reporting guidelines as described in the Reporting Policy from page 110. It is important We believe that the assurance evidence we have obtained is to view the performance data in the context of these criteria. We sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. believe that these criteria are suitable in the view of the purpose of our assurance engagement. Conclusion Based on our assurance procedures performed to obtain limited Procedures performed assurance on the Sustainability Information, nothing came to our We conducted our engagement in accordance with Dutch law, attention that causes us to believe that the Sustainability including the Dutch Standards 3410N, Assurance Engagements Information is not, in all material respects, correctly presented in with respect to Sustainability Reports. This requires that we accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3) of comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the Global Reporting Initiative and the internal reporting criteria procedures to obtain sufficient and appropriate evidence to as described from page 110 substantiate our conclusion. Procedures to obtain limited level of assurance are less extensive in relation to both the risk assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal control, and the procedures performed in response to the assessed risks, than those for a reasonable level of assurance and therefore less assurance is provided. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 213 www.dsm.com Other Profit appropriation We also report, to the extent of our competence, that information on sustainability in other sections of the Integrated Annual Report According to article 32 of the Articles of Association of Koninklijke is consistent with the Sustainability Information. DSM N.V. and with the approval of the Supervisory Board, every year the Managing Board determines the portion of the net profit Eindhoven, 25 February 2014 to be appropriated to the reserves. For the year 2013 it has been determined that no amount of the net profit of € 271 million will Signed by G.A.M. Aarnink, Ernst & Young Accountants LLP be appropriated to the reserves. From the profit of € 271 million, dividend is first distributed on the cumulative preference shares B. At the end of 2013 no cumprefs B were in issue. Subsequently, a 4.348% dividend is distributed on the cumulative preference shares A, based on a share price of € 5.29 per cumulative preference share A. For 2013 this distribution amounts to € 0.23 per share, which is € 10 million in total. An interim dividend of € 0.08 per cumulative preference share A having been paid in August 2013, the final dividend will then amount to € 0.15 per cumulative preference share A. The profit remaining after distribution of these dividends on the cumulative preference shares A (€ 261 million) will be put at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders in accordance with the provisions of Article 32, section 5 of the Articles of Association. The Managing Board proposes a dividend on ordinary shares outstanding for the year 2013 of € 1.65 per share to be paid from the profit remaining after distribution (€ 261 million) and from the distributable reserves in accordance with the provisions of Article 33, section 4 of the Articles of Association (€ 26 million). With a total dividend of € 1.65 per ordinary share and an interim dividend of € 0.50 per ordinary share having been paid in August 2013, the final dividend would then amount to € 1.15 per ordinary share. If the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders makes a decision in accordance with the proposal, the net profit will be appropriated as follows: in € million 2013 2012 Net profit 271 288 Profit appropriation: To be paid from / added to the reserves (26) 25 Dividend on cumprefs A 10 10 Interim dividend on ordinary shares 87 80 Final dividend distributable on ordinary shares 200 173 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 214 www.dsm.com Other information Independent Auditor's Report on the Financial Statements Independent Assurance Report on Sustainability Information Profit appropriation Special statutory rights Important dates Special statutory rights On 31 December 2013 the board of the Foundation was composed as follows: DSM Preference Shares Foundation The DSM Preference Shares Foundation was established in Gerard Kleisterlee, chairman 1989. Cees Maas, vice-chairman Mick den Boogert By virtue of DSM's Articles of Association, 375,000,000 cumulative preference shares B can be issued. The listing Important dates prospectus of 1989 stated that if, without the approval of the Managing Board and Supervisory Board, either a bid is made for the ordinary shares or a significant participation in ordinary Annual General Meeting of Shareholders shares is built up, or such an event is likely to occur, then these The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders is to be held at the DSM preference shares B may be issued, which shares shall have the head office in Heerlen (Netherlands) on Wednesday, 7 May 2014 at same voting rights as the ordinary shares. 14.00 hours. Under an agreement entered into in 1999, and subsequently Important dates amended, between the DSM Preference Shares Foundation and Publication of first-quarter results Tuesday, 6 May 2014 DSM, the Foundation has the right to acquire such preference Ex-dividend quotation Friday, 9 May 2014 shares (call option) to a maximum corresponding to 100% of the Publication of second-quarter capital issued in any form other than preference shares B, less results Tuesday, 5 August 2014 one. Publication of third-quarter results Tuesday, 4 November 2014 Full year results 2014 Wednesday, 11 February 2015 The objective of the Foundation is to promote the interest of DSM, and the enterprise maintained by DSM and all parties connected therewith, whereby influences that would threaten the continuity, independence or identity, contrary to the aforementioned interests, are resisted to the maximum extent possible. The purpose of the agreement with the Foundation is, among other things, for the Foundation to allow DSM the opportunity to determine its position, for example with regard to a possible bidder for DSM shares or a party or parties tempting to obtain (de facto) control, to examine any plans in detail and, to the extent applicable, to look for (better) alternatives. Preference shares B will not be outstanding longer than necessary. As soon as there are no longer any reasons for the preference shares B to remain outstanding, the Managing Board will convene a General Meeting of Shareholders and recommend the cancellation of the preference shares B that are still outstanding. The Foundation acquired no preference shares B in 2013. The DSM Preference Shares Foundation is an independent legal entity within the meaning of article 5:71, first paragraph, under c of the Dutch Act on Financial Supervision (Wet op het financieel toezicht). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 215 www.dsm.com DSM figures: five-year summary Balance sheet x € million 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Assets Intangible assets 2,705 2,793 1,786 1,070 1,053 Property, plant and equipment 3,822 3,811 3,405 2,943 3,477 Deferred tax assets 369 340 292 326 322 Prepaid pension costs 1 282 Associates 67 40 35 25 18 Other financial assets 179 141 135 270 233 Non-current assets 7,142 7,125 5,653 4,635 5,385 Inventories 1,675 1,803 1,573 1,340 1,359 Receivables 1,642 1,799 1,704 1,477 1,410 Financial derivatives 126 62 50 134 88 Current investments 19 12 89 837 7 Cash and cash equivalents 776 1,121 2,058 1,453 1,340 4,238 4,797 5,474 5,241 4,204 Assets to be contributed to joint ventures 317 Other assets held for sale 637 44 30 287 25 Current assets 4,875 4,841 5,504 5,845 4,229 Total assets 12,017 11,966 11,157 10,480 9,614 Equity and liabilities Shareholders' equity 5,908 5,874 5,784 5,481 4,949 Non-controlling interests 190 168 190 96 62 Equity 6,098 6,042 5,974 5,577 5,011 Deferred tax liabilities 376 236 192 155 115 Employee benefits liabilities 326 388 322 297 298 Provisions 97 125 116 93 103 Borrowings 1,750 1,922 2,029 1,992 2,066 Other non-current liabilities 78 94 69 33 49 Non-current liabilities 2,627 2,765 2,728 2,570 2,631 Employee benefits liabilities 34 42 6 24 26 Provisions 66 81 43 33 102 Borrowings 843 642 160 105 138 Financial derivatives 190 299 326 219 61 Current liabilities 1,929 2,081 1,905 1,789 1,638 3,062 3,145 2,440 2,170 1,965 Liabilities to be contributed to joint ventures 104 Other liabilities held for sale 230 14 15 59 7 Current liabilities 3,292 3,159 2,455 2,333 1,972 Total equity and liabilities 12,017 11,966 11,157 10,480 9,614 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 216 www.dsm.com DSM figures: five-year summary Income statement x € million 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Net sales 9,618 9,131 9,193 9,050 7,866 Operating profit plus depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) 1,314 1,109 1,325 1,278 917 Operating profit (EBIT) 759 635 895 838 443 Net finance costs (142) (109) (82) (93) (113) Income tax expense (109) (91) (155) (185) (83) Share of the profit of associates (2) 2 3 5 (4) Net profit before exceptional items 506 437 661 565 243 Net profit from exceptional items (237) (149) 199 (40) 93 Profit for the year 269 288 860 525 336 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 2 (10) (46) (18) 1 Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 271 278 814 507 337 Dividend on cumulative preference shares (10) (10) (10) (10) (10) Net profit available to holders of ordinary shares 261 268 804 497 327 Key figures and ratios Capital employed1 8,303 8,084 6,581 5,468 5,673 Capital expenditure: Intangible assets and Property, plant and equipment 793 715 528 427 472 Acquisitions 424 1,265 974 49 (5) Disposals 78 46 742 377 287 Depreciation, amortization and impairments 555 474 430 440 474 Net debt (1,862) (1,668) (318) 108 (830) Dividend 297 263 247 234 205 Workforce at 31 December, headcount 24,349 23,498 22,224 21,911 22,738 Employee benefits costs (x € million) 1,845 1,761 1,655 1,566 1,532 Ratios1 ROCE in % 9.2 8.9 14.3 15.0 7.2 Net sales / average capital employed 1.16 1.29 1.53 1.62 1.29 Current assets / current liabilities 1.48 1.53 2.24 2.42 2.14 Equity / total assets 0.51 0.50 0.54 0.53 0.52 Gearing (net debt / equity plus net debt) 0.23 0.22 0.05 (0.02) 0.14 EBIT / net sales in % 7.9 7.0 9.7 9.3 5.6 Net profit / average Shareholders' equity available to holders of ordinary shares in % 4.4 4.8 14.9 10.0 7.2 EBITDA / net finance costs 9.3 10.2 16.2 13.7 8.1 1 Before reclassification to held for sale Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 217 www.dsm.com Information about ordinary DSM shares per ordinary share in € 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Core earnings 3.24 2.72 3.66 2.97 1.52 Net profit before exceptional items 2.89 2.52 3.66 3.27 1.44 Net profit 1.52 1.62 4.86 3.03 2.01 Cash flow 5.83 4.82 7.89 5.62 6.05 Dividend: 1.651 1.50 1.45 1.35 1.20 Interim dividend 0.50 0.48 0.45 0.40 0.40 Final dividend 1.15 1.02 1.00 0.95 0.80 Pay-out including dividend on cumulative preference shares as % of net profit before exceptional items 59 60 37 41 84 Dividend yield (dividend as % of average price of an ordinary DSM share) 3.2 3.7 3.6 3.8 4.8 Share prices on NYSE Euronext Amsterdam (closing price): Highest price 59.75 46.29 46.82 42.85 34.84 Lowest price 43.93 36.33 30.54 30.43 16.93 At 31 December 57.16 45.79 35.85 42.61 34.46 (x 1000) Number of ordinary shares outstanding: At 31 December 173,963 168,684 163,257 166,468 163,037 Average 172,183 165,543 165,567 164,047 162,364 Daily trading volumes on NYSE Euronext Amsterdam: Average 728 823 1,028 995 1,270 Lowest 95 225 191 85 75 Highest 3,049 2,720 3,512 3,629 4,376 1 Subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 218 www.dsm.com DSM figures: five-year summary Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 219 www.dsm.com Explanation of some concepts and ratios PEOPLE United Nations Global Compact Absenteeism A strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to Absenteeism at DSM is determined by calculating the total aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally absence due to illness in hours as a percentage of the total accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, number of available working hours. The total number of available environment and anti-corruption. working hours is calculated by multiplying the average actual workforce in FTEs for the period in question by the number of United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights hours corresponding to one FTE (52 weeks multiplied by the On 10 December 1948, the General Assembly of the United ‘normal’ number of hours per week, not taking into account leave Nations adopted and proclaimed the Universal Declaration of of absence and holidays). Human Rights. Following this historic act, the Assembly called upon all Member countries to publicize the text of the Declaration Eubiotics and 'to cause it to be disseminated, displayed, read and Eubiotics is the science of hygienic and healthy living. The term expounded principally in schools and other educational is used in the feed industry where it refers to a healthy balance institutions, without distinction based on the political status of of the micro-flora in the gastrointestinal tract. countries or territories'. FI Zero SHE assessment Frequency Index: a way to measure safety performance. The A zero SHE assessment is a step in the integration process of number of accidents of a particular category per 100 employees newly acquired units or new joint ventures. A team led by a per year. corporate SHE manager visits the unit and identifies and assesses the main SHE risks and compliance gaps with the DSM LWC-rate DSM own corporate requirements, standards and practices. The team The LWC-rate DSM own is the number of lost workday cases provides recommendations to minimize and control these risks per 100 DSM employees in the past 12 months: and also identifies good practices that can be of use in other LWC-rate = 100 * (number of LWCs (past 12 months) / average DSM units. During the zero SHE assessment the team elucidates effective manpower (past 12 months)). the DSM SHE requirements and supports the unit in formulating and prioritizing the actions in the SHE integration and People+ compliance plan. DSM’s People+ strategy will deliver measurably better solutions to improve the lives of people. The company has defined a new PLANET People+ framework based on broad stakeholder analyses. The Biofuel dimensions of health, comfort and well-being, working A fuel which is derived from renewable organic resources, as conditions and community development have been identified as distinct from one which is derived from non-renewable resources distinct and instrumental categories to measure People+ impact such as oil and natural gas. at product level. Based upon the stakeholder input DSM has designed a measurement tool, which will be further developed Carbon footprint in collaboration with The Sustainability Consortium, customers The impact of a certain activity in terms of the emission of nonand other stakeholders. renewable CO2 to the atmosphere. REC-rate DSM all Circular economy The REC-rate DSM all is the number of recordable injuries per Circular economy refers to an economy that is restorative and in 100 DSM employees and contractor employees in the past 12 which materials flows are of two types: biological nutrients, months: designed to reenter the biosphere safely, and technical nutrients, REC-rate = 100 * (number of RECs (past 12 months) / average which are designed to circulate at high quality without entering effective manpower including contractor employees (past 12 the biosphere throughout their entire lifecycle. months)). CO2 SHE Carbon dioxide, a gas that naturally occurs in the atmosphere. Safety, Health and Environment. It is part of the natural carbon cycle through photosynthesis and respiration. It is also generated as a by-product of combustion. Carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 220 www.dsm.com Explanation of some concepts and ratios Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) LCA COD is an indicator of the degree of pollution of wastewater by Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) identifies the material, energy and organic substances. waste flows associated with a product or process over its entire life cycle to determine environmental impacts and potential ECO+ improvements; this full life cycle approach is also referred to as ECO+ solutions are products and services that, when ‘Cradle to Grave’. It is also possible to assess a partial life cycle considered over their whole life cycle, offer clear ecological of a product or process with the most common type being benefits (in other words, a clearly lower eco-footprint) compared ‘Cradle to Gate’ which assesses the environmental impacts of a to the mainstream solutions they compete with. These ecological manufacturing process without accounting for use phase or end benefits can be created at any stage of the product life cycle − of life impacts. There are many different environmental impact from raw material through manufacturing and use to potential recategories that can be assessed using LCA; at DSM the use and end-of-life disposal. ECO+ solutions, in short, create standard approach is to evaluate the carbon footprint more value with less environmental impact. The qualification and eco-footprint. ECO+ is based upon internal expert opinions where various impact categories are evaluated. For a growing number of N products these expert opinions are supported by Life Cycle Nitrogen. A mostly inert gas constituting 78% of the earth’s Assessments. atmosphere, nitrogen is present in all living organisms. Eco-efficiency N2O Eco-efficiency is a concept (created in 1992 by WBCSD) that Nitrous oxide. A gas that is formed during combustion. When refers to the creation of more goods and services while using emitted to the environment, it contributes to global warming. less resources and creating less waste and pollution throughout their entire life cycle. DSM applies the concept to its ECO+ NOx program. In the context of DSM’s SHE targets, eco-efficiency Nitrogen oxides. These gases are released mainly during relates specifically to the reduction of emissions and energy and combustion and cause acidification. water consumption, relative to the production volumes of DSM’s plants. Renewable resources A natural resource which is replenished by natural processes at Greenhouse-gas emissions (GHGE) reduction over volume a rate comparable to, or faster than, its rate of consumption by related revenue (VRR) humans or other users. The term covers perpetual resources The GHGE definition is according to the Kyoto Protocol and such as solar radiation, tides, winds and hydroelectricity as well includes carbon dioxide (CO2), methane, nitrous oxide (N2O), as fuels derived from organic matter (bio-based fuels). sulfur hexafluoride, hydrofluorocarbons and perfluorocarbons. VRR is net sales adjusted for changes in selling prices, exchange SO2 rates and the impact of acquisitions and divestments. GHGE/ Sulfur dioxide. This gas is formed during the combustion of fossil VRR is one of the ratios in the Long-Term Incentive part of the fuels and cause acidification. Managing Board remuneration and relates to a three-year period. VOC Volatile organic compounds. The term covers a wide range of GRI chemical compounds, such as organic solvents, some of which The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) has developed Sustainability can be harmful. Reporting Guidelines that strive to increase the transparency and accountability of economic, environmental, and social PROFIT performance. The GRI was established in 1997 in partnership General with the United Nations’ Environment Programme. It is an In calculating financial profitability ratios, use is made of the international, multi-stakeholder and independent institution average of the opening and closing values of balance sheet items whose mission is to develop and disseminate globally applicable in the year under review. Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. These Guidelines are for voluntary use by organizations for reporting on the economic, The financial indicators per ordinary share are calculated on the environmental, and social dimensions of their activities, basis of the average number of ordinary shares outstanding products, and services. (average daily number). In calculating Shareholders’ equity per Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 221 www.dsm.com ordinary share, however, the number of shares outstanding at Total shareholder return (TSR) year-end is used. Total shareholder return is capital gain plus dividend paid. In calculating the figures per ordinary share and the ‘net profit as a percentage of average Shareholders’ equity available to holders of ordinary shares’, the amounts available to the holders of cumulative preference shares are deducted from the profits and from Shareholders’ equity. Capital employed The total of the carrying amount of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, inventories, trade receivables and other receivables, less trade payables and other current liabilities. Capital expenditure This includes all investments in intangible assets and property, plant and equipment as well as the acquisition of subsidiaries and associates and related cash flows. Cash flow Cash flow is net profit plus depreciation, amortization and impairments. Core earnings Core earnings represent profit or loss from continuing operations excluding exceptional items and excluding amortization of intangible assets recognized from the application of purchase accounting for business combinations. Disposals This includes the disposal of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment as well as the disposal of participating interests and other securities. Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) EBITDA is the sum total of operating profit plus depreciation and amortization. Earnings per ordinary share Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. minus dividend on cumulative preference shares, divided by the average number of ordinary shares outstanding. Operating working capital The total of inventories and trade receivables, less trade payables. Return on capital employed (ROCE) Operating profit as a percentage of weighted average capital employed. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 222 www.dsm.com Explanation of some concepts and ratios Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 223 www.dsm.com List of abbreviations ADR American Depositary Receipts HNH Human Nutrition & Health AFM Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets HPO Hydroxylamine phosphate oxime ANH Animal Nutrition & Health IAS International Accounting Standards API Active pharmaceutical ingredients IASB International Accounting Standards Board BIO Biotechnology Industry Organization IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee BMI Body mass index IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards BRIC Brazil, Russia, India and China ILO International Labor Organization CEFIC Conseil Européen des Fédérations de l'Industrie Chimique IOF International Osteoporosis Foundation (European Chemical Industry Council) IP Intellectual property cGMP Current Good Manufacturing Practice IUCN International Union for the Conservation of Nature CMO Contract manufacturing organization KPI Key performance indicator CMP Corporate Multi-year Plan Responsible Care LCA Life cycle assessment COA Corporate Operational Auditing department LMRA Last Minute Risk Assessment COD Chemical oxygen demand LTI Long-Term Incentive CRA Corporate Risk Assessment LWC Lost workday case CSR Corporate Social Responsibility NGO Non-governmental organization DAI DSM Anti-Infectives NIP DSM's Nutrition Improvement Program DEP DSM Engineering Plastics NPS Net Promoter Score DFI DSM Fibre Intermediates NYSE New York Stock Exchange DFS DSM Food Specialties OECD Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development DNCC DSM Nanjing Chemical Co., Ltd. PDN Stichting Pensioenfonds DSM Nederland DNP DSM Nutritional Products PJ Petajoule DPC DSM Pharma Chemicals PSI Process safety incident DPP DSM Pharmaceutical Products PUFA Polyunsatured fatty acid DSP DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals R&D Research & development EBA Emerging Business Area REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of EBIT Earnings before interest and taxes (Operating Profit) Chemical substances EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ROCE Return on capital employed FDA The US Food and Drug Administration SAM Sustainable Asset Management FIFO First in, first out SAR Share appreciation rights FTE Full-time equivalent SHE Safety, Health and Environment GAIN Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition SSC Semi-synthetic cephalosporins GDP Gross domestic product SSP Supplier Sustainability Program GHG Greenhouse gas STI Short-Term Incentive GHGE Greenhouse-gas emissions TDC Total direct compensation GHS Globally Harmonized System TSR Total shareholder return GMM Genetically Modified (Micro-)organisms UHMwPE Ultra high molecular weight polyethylene GMP Good Manufacturing Practice VNCI Association of the Dutch Chemical Industry GPS Global Product Strategy VOC Volatile organic compound GRI Global Reporting Initiative WBCSD World Business Council for Sustainable Development WEF World Economic Forum WFP United Nations World Food Programme Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 224 www.dsm.com List of abbreviations Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 225 www.dsm.com Royal DSM Bright Science. Brighter Living. DSM has transformed itself into a leading Life Sciences and Food security (access to nutritious food for all people at all times) Materials Sciences company that is active in health, nutrition and is one of the main themes to which DSM is contributing. materials and creates value for its customers by helping them provide solutions to the world’s great challenges. DSM uses its At the same time, a focus on healthy and active aging is driving bright science to create brighter lives for people today and demand for fortified foods and supplements. And finally, an aging generations to come by providing the ingredients to develop population means increased healthcare spending, which DSM innovative, more sustainable, healthier, more nutritious and addresses through its engagement in preventive health and better performing products. services to pharmaceutical companies. DSM is committed to realizing its ambitious targets as set in its Performance and sustainability are key drivers impacting strategy DSM in Motion: driving focused growth, all based on its demand in DSM’s Materials Sciences markets, where the strong global market position (with close to 40 percent of its total company is accelerating the transformation toward the sales of € 10 billion coming from high growth economies), its production and use of materials that are lighter, healthier, safer, unique technological knowledge as a basis for innovation, its stronger and more durable and that have lower environmental strong track record in sustainability, its very solid balance sheet, footprints throughout their value chains than traditional materials. and the experience and expertise of its 24,500 people. Bringing DSM’s Life Sciences and Materials Sciences DSM believes that its continued success will be driven by competences together offers new opportunities allowing further creating shared value for all stakeholders, now and in the future. advances. This is managed through DSM’s Emerging Business It creates shared value by innovating in ways that allow its Areas. A thorough understanding of how advanced materials customers to provide better People, Planet and Profit solutions can be used in the human body to strengthen or replace body to the challenges facing society, the environment and end-users. parts and accurately deliver medicines is driving DSM’s In this way, DSM’s customers derive value from being able to biomedical materials business. By merging its broad offer end-users improved products. Society and the planet biotechnology capability with its materials businesses, DSM is derive value from the impact of more sustainable, longer-lasting, able to find renewable solutions for the post fossil age by creating safer, healthier and more nutritious alternatives. DSM and its bio-based materials and building blocks and by actively working shareholders derive value from stronger growth and profitability. to create commercially viable cellulosic biofuels that do not compete with the food value chain. What's more, DSM’s employees feel engaged and motivated through the contribution they make to a better world and the While DSM continues to meet the needs of customers in the success this creates for the company in which they work. In mature markets of North America and Western Europe − which short, DSM is a multi-stakeholder-oriented company with a triple remain central to its core business – the company’s investment bottom line (People-Planet-Profit) creating value for its focus is increasingly on the high growth economies such as Asia, customers, shareholders and employees as well as society at Central and Eastern Europe, and Latin America. DSM large. consequently is becoming steadily more international, enabling it to bring a global perspective to the challenges of all its As a global company, DSM is actively engaged in addressing the customers. In addition to achieving sustainable, innovative same key trends that face all its stakeholders: meeting changing organic growth, DSM will continue to take advantage of demands arising from global shifts in demographics and opportunities to acquire exciting businesses and to partner with technology, mitigating the impact of climate change while others to the benefit of all its stakeholders. And finally, the searching for new forms of energy and trying not just to nourish company will continue to improve its shareholder returns, but also to improve the health of a growing population. supported by its solid dividend policy. In DSM’s Life Sciences markets, these trends manifest In short, after having transformed itself into a Life Sciences and themselves through the related impacts of increasing personal Materials Sciences company, DSM now focuses on further wealth, urbanization and expanding life expectancy. growing the company through an integrated strategy, using four growth drivers: High Growth Economies, Innovation, Urbanization drives the consumption of processed foods and the Sustainability and Acquisitions & Partnerships. need for a more efficient food chain, while rising wealth translates into increased demand for proteins from meat, fish, eggs and milk – in turn driving demand for DSM’s food and feed products. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 226 www.dsm.com Royal DSM Bright Science. Brighter Living. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2013 227 www.dsm.com Questions about or feedback on this report can be addressed to: Royal DSM P.O. Box 6500 6401 JH Heerlen The Netherlands T +31 (0)45 578 8111 E media.relations@dsm.com www.dsm.com
