e A N T n s iv I L ehe P r C OM omp G4 e C I c G R rd a n c co I nA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 ITC LIMITED Creating around 6 million sustainable livelihoods 38% of energy consumption at ITC is from renewable sources The only Company in the world to be carbon, water and solid waste recycling positive ITC Hotels Greenest Luxury Hotel Chain in the world FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS ITC’s Sustainability Report is one among the first in India under “In Accordance Comprehensive” category with “Materiality Matters” confirmation from Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The Report is the first in India that has been third party assured at the highest criteria of “reasonable assurance” as per International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. Explanatory Notes: GRI offers two options for ‘In Accordance’ reporting with the G4 Guidelines: ‘Core’ and ‘Comprehensive’, with focus on Material Aspects and Disclosures on Management Approach for all Material Aspects being the primary requirement in both levels. Core Option: Requires reporting on General Standard Disclosures such as organisational profile, stakeholder engagement and governance, and on at least one indicator per Material Aspect. Comprehensive Option: In addition to General Standard Disclosures under Core option, this requires reporting on strategy, governance and ethics & integrity, and also on all indicators for all Material Aspects. Reasonable Assurance as per ISAE 3000: ISAE 3000 uses the term reasonable assurance engagement and limited assurance engagement to distinguish between the two types of assurance engagement a practitioner is permitted to perform. The objective of a reasonable assurance engagement is a reduction in assurance engagement risk to an acceptably low level in the circumstances of the engagement as the basis for a positive form of expression of the practitioner’s conclusion. The objective of a limited assurance engagement is a reduction in assurance engagement risk to a level that is acceptable in the circumstances of the engagement, but where that risk is greater than for a reasonable assurance engagement, as the basis for a negative form of expression of the practitioner’s conclusion. Contents 04 Chairman’s Statement 10 Organisational Profile 174 Supply Chain 24 Certifications, Honours and Awards 28 68 GRI Index Category: Economic 32 Management Approach 70 191 Food Supplement Index Stakeholder Engagement Performance 70 and Materiality 195 44 82 Alignment to Business Responsibility Report Category: Environment Principles Key Impacts, Risks and Opportunities Management Approach 86 196 54 Energy 88 Annexures Air Emissions 94 Report Profile, Scope Policies and Guidelines 196 and Boundary Water Management 100 GHG Inventory 202 60 Recycling and Waste Management 112 Memberships and Affiliations 203 Governance Structure Raw Materials 118 Biodiversity 122 205 126 Independent Assurance Statements Category: Social Labour Practices and 128 Decent Work Human Rights 143 Significant Investments Social Investments 146 Mission Sunehra Kal Product Responsibility 166 Environment Carbon Positive: Soil & Moisture conservation 9 Consecutive years to 1,49,000 hectares Water Positive: ITC’s Watershed Development initiative 12 years in a row brings precious water to 1,49,000 hectares of moisture-stressed areas Solid Waste Recycling Positive: for the last 7 years 38% Renewable Energy 38% of ITC’s total energy consumption is from renewable sources Greenest luxury Hotel Chain All ITC’s premium luxury Hotels are LEED® Platinum certified 1,63,000 hectares greened ITC’s Social and Farm Forestry initiative has greened 1,63,000 hectares 02 Economic Social Market capitalisation: Creating around 6 million Over $ 45 billion sustainable livelihoods Turnover: Over $ 7 billion Creating community assets Strengthening the agri production base of 26% Compound annual nearly 4 lakh farmers growth in total shareholder returns over the last 18 years Educating 3,00,000 children ITC’s Primary Education initiative has Over 31,000 employees educated over 3,00,000 children ITC Group provides direct employment to more than 31,000 people Benefitting 4 million farmers ITC’s globally acknowledged e-Choupal Powering growth with initiative is the world’s largest rural digital multiple business drivers infrastructure benefitting over 4 million farmers Diversified multi-business conglomerate spanning FMCG, Hotels, Paperboards 40,000 sustainable & Packaging, Agri Business and livelihoods for rural women Information Technology ITC’s Women’s Empowerment initiative has created nearly 40,000 sustainable livelihoods Powered by the vitality of world-class brands Animal husbandry services for 10,00,000 milch animals ITC’s Livestock Development initiative has provided animal husbandry services to over 10,00,000 milch animals 70 million person-days of employment generated ITC’s Social and Farm Forestry initiative has generated over 70 million person-days of employment 03 Chairman’s Statement have great pleasure in presenting ITC’s Sustainability Report 2014. With this edition, it is the 11th consecutive year of publishing an independently verified Sustainability Report. It is a matter of even greater satisfaction that this Report will be one of the first in India to be prepared in accordance with the new G4 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), ahead of the transition deadline of 2015. The last ten years of conforming to the GRI guidelines at the highest levels of reporting has provided valuable insights in the pursuit of our journey to be an exemplar in sustainability practices. I am also happy to once again reaffirm ITC’s support to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. It is indeed gratifying that the Company’s social interventions are contributing meaningfully to the UN Millennium Development Goals. ITC’s sustainability journey has been challenging yet rewarding. Today it is indeed a matter of pride that the Company has been able to generate sustainable livelihood opportunities for around 6 million people. Relentless efforts to create benchmarks in environmental excellence have led the Company to achieve the unique global distinction of being Carbon Positive for 9 successive years, Water Positive for 12 ITC’s Abiding consecutive years and Solid Waste Recycling Positive for the last Vision 7 years. These milestones reflect the tireless efforts in realising ITC’s abiding Vision to put societal value creation at the heart of its business strategy. It is a reaffirmation of our belief that businesses must make sustainable and inclusive growth a cornerstone of its strategic framework. This conviction is premised on some stark realities confronting the world today. Tremendous advancements in science and technology as well as a growing consumer market have created unbounded business opportunities. However, it is an unassailable fact that the limits to future growth will emerge predominantly from the largely unaddressed societal challenges of widespread poverty and environmental degradation. This realisation has inspired our Vision and commitment to sub-serve larger national priorities. A Vision that has also spurred innovation to build societal value by harnessing the transformational capacity, creativity and vitality of the organisation. It is ITC’s resolve to shape a new dimension of corporate social action by simultaneously generating sustainable livelihoods and natural capital even as it pursues enduring wealth creation for its shareholders. This triple bottom line approach is at the foundation of the theme of this Report – “For All Our Tomorrows.” Global And National Why is Sustainability Challenges This chosen path to contribute to a more secure future assumes important for larger significance in our current context. The global economy is Business ? struggling to raise itself from the morass it had sunk into in the aftermath of the financial crisis. Simultaneously, social challenges 04 are assuming scales seldom witnessed before. Amongst the issues that are vying for urgent attention are the potentially catastrophic combination of growing unemployment, widening social inequities and the threat of climate change. The World Bank’s World Development Report estimates that 620 million youth, a majority of them women, are neither working nor looking for work. A new term, NEET – Not in Education, Employment or Training – has tragically become a part of the contemporary lexicon. This mass of disillusioned youth facing an uncertain and hopeless future is a potential ground for social unrest and turmoil. The dimensions of these challenges in India are even more daunting. Our pride in becoming the world’s third largest economy in terms of Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) is overshadowed by our distressingly low rank in the Human Development Index (HDI) at 134 among 187 countries. The demographic advantage of being one of the world’s youngest countries can turn to become our largest concern, if gainful employment cannot be ensured to the 12 million that join the workforce every year. Therefore economic growth will have no meaning unless it creates sustainable livelihood opportunities in a country where an estimated 600 million live in multi-dimensional poverty. Extreme weather swings triggered by climate change, devastating loss of biodiversity and life-giving ecological systems make the future more vulnerable especially for those mired in chronic poverty. The latest report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has warned of an increased risk to security of food and drinking water due to the impact of global warming, drought, floods and erratic rainfall. India, Bangladesh and China, home to a large section of the world’s population are said to be particularly at a higher risk. Therefore, growth strategies that nations and corporations employ must embrace a distinct effort to preserve and replenish precious environmental resources. The enormity of these societal challenges cannot be mitigated by a solution set that just bolts on some sustainability components to an old economic model that has failed to deliver growth with equity. It is time that we engender a paradigm shift to redefine value 05 by aligning all economic activity to a super-ordinate goal of creating larger societal value; strategies that go far beyond material wealth creation alone to also enrich environmental and social capital. ITC’s Sustainability Approach And Action It is my firm belief that Businesses possess unique strengths to make a much larger contribution to society. If the creative and innovative capacities that businesses employ to create world-class products and brands are leveraged to deliver social initiatives that serve a larger national objective, it can have a transformative impact on society. Moreover, the physical presence in communities around their business operations gives them a much larger opportunity to directly engage in synergistic activities that can create livelihoods and add to preservation of natural capital. More than financial resources, private enterprises also possess the more crucial managerial capability to ensure efficient delivery of social projects. ITC’s abiding Vision to create larger societal value for the nation and its stakeholders has powered a multi-pronged strategy to address the larger challenges of widespread social inequities and environmental If the degradation. The key priorities of this strategic objective Strategic creative is to leverage its enterprise strengths to contribute to Objectives the creation of large scale sustainable livelihoods and and innovative environmental resources. Towards this, ITC has crafted And Key Priorities capacities that unique and innovative interventions within the ambit of businesses its operations as well as in partnership with stakeholder communities to deliver superior triple bottom line performance. employ to create worldNearly 700 million people living in rural India have a direct and symbiotic dependence on climate sensitive sectors (agriculture, forest, fisheries) and natural resources (water, bio-diversity, class products mangroves, coastal zones, grasslands) for their subsistence and livelihoods. Limited options of and brands are alternative off-farm employment combined with endemic poverty continue to imperil the livelihood leveraged to security of millions of small and marginal farmers, mainly in the rain-fed agricultural regions. deliver social Recognising the complexity and scale of these issues, ITC’s Integrated Rural Development initiatives that Programme has been crafted to empower farmers and serve a larger raise rural incomes, while at the same time enabling a comprehensive development of the rural ecosystem. The Building Social national objective, it can have a celebrated ITC e-Choupal is a case in point. Farmers are And Environmental provided with critical information and relevant knowledge transformative on farm productivity, prices and markets through the Capital impact on ITC e-Choupal. Customised extension services directly society. contribute to enhancing farm yields. This platform also enables access to cost-effective quality inputs for better productivity besides expanding the reach to markets. To offset agri-income 06 volatility as well as build capacities for investment, avenues for supplementary non-farm incomes have been created through the Choupal Livestock Development and the Choupal Today Women Empowerment programmes. The Choupal Watershed Development as well as Social 38 % of & Farm Forestry Programmes augment natural resources to enable higher productivity, create ITC’s energy a green cover and restore soil health. It is indeed heartening that the effectiveness of these consumption is programmes has also led to partnerships with several State Governments and the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) on such watershed development projects. from renewable sources. All the The innovative models designed to deliver these projects have enabled us to achieve significant scales of operation. The ITC e-Choupal has benefitted around 4 million farmers. The Social & premium luxury Farm Forestry programme has greened over 1,60,000 hectares, generating over 70 million person ITC Hotels are days of employment. The Watershed development programme has enabled soil and moisture LEED® Platinum conservation of over 1,48,000 hectares benefiting over 1,27,000 households. The Women’s certified green Empowerment Programme has created sustainable livelihood opportunities for nearly 40,000 women, either through micro-enterprises, or assistance with loans to pursue income generating buildings. activities. The Livestock Development programme has provided animal husbandry services to over 10,00,000 animals, increasing milk yields substantially. It is well known that one of the causes for social inequity is the inequity of opportunity, especially due to lack of proper education and training. To address this challenge, ITC has implemented focussed programmes on Primary Education, Skill Development and Vocational Training. The objective is to increase enrolments, minimise drop-outs, provide infrastructural support to Government schools as well as to expand vocational livelihood opportunities. Over 3,30,000 rural children have been benefitted, helping them to build a better future. We believe that it is vital to significantly enhance the talent pool of youth from disadvantaged communities by equipping them with the necessary skills or qualifications and make them more employable in the formal sectors of the economy. The affirmative action initiatives of the Company have had a direct and tangible impact on the lives of nearly 84,000 beneficiaries belonging to disadvantaged sections of society, spread over 13 states of the country. In addition to the large scale social interventions outlined above, ITC’s sustainability objectives also encompass initiatives within the ambit of ITC’s manufacturing and service operations. ITC continuously strives to improve processes and systems at all its Units to minimise its environmental impact as far as possible, Achieving create a work environment that is safe, healthy, productive and Environmental fair for its employees and proactively engage with its suppliers and partners to maximise value for all stakeholders. The Excellence Company’s Units continue to achieve substantial improvements in the consumption of energy and water as well as in effluent management. Specific details are provided in other sections of the Report. Management systems and standards in ITC conform to relevant national and international standards and are integrated into its development programmes as applicable to its individual businesses. As part of its strategy for climate change mitigation and adaptation, ITC has also invested significantly in renewable energy generation. Today, 38 % of its energy consumption is from renewable sources, with a target to reach 50 % over the next 5 years. 07 ITC has also been a frontrunner in the establishment of green buildings in India. It is a matter of justifiable pride that all the premium luxury ITC Hotels are LEED® Platinum certified. The ITC Green Centre has been re-certified as the highest rated green building in the world. The latest addition to our hotel group – the ITC Grand Chola a 600-key super-premium luxury hotel complex in Chennai, is the world’s largest LEED® Platinum certified green hotel. This property has also secured a 5 Star GRIHA rating, the highest national rating for green buildings in India. The recently commissioned commercial building ITC Green Centre at Manesar has also received the LEED® Platinum certification. In addition it has been awarded the BEE 5 Star rating by the Bureau of Energy Efficiency, Government of India. The green building movement continues to gain momentum in ITC with several of its factories now being LEED® certified. Based on ITC’s stakeholder engagements during the year, the Sustainability and CSR Policies were revisited to enable prioritised consideration of the economic, environmental and social impacts that are important to the organisation as well as its stakeholders. These Boardapproved policies form the bedrock of the Company’s approach and strategies in this context. An acknowledged leader in sustainability practices, the Company has partnered with the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) in setting up a Centre of Excellence for Sustainable Development. This Centre is engaged in a wide spectrum of value-added and targeted A initiatives that create awareness, provide thought leadership, build capacity amongst Indian paradigm enterprises and reward exemplary performances in the area of sustainability. change can take place when consumers, Being Future-Ready investors, and Despite the tremendous strides made in ITC’s sustainability journey, the road ahead is not civil society make without its challenges. We compete in a market where many have not adopted a broader an enlightened canvas of contributing to larger societal goals, but are largely focussed in the narrow pursuit choice in favour of financial competitiveness alone. Therefore, for companies like ITC that synergise superior of products financial performance together with the creation of large-scale ecological and social capital, it is a continuing challenge to mobilise a much higher level of resources and organisational and services creativity to ensure meaningful triple bottom line contribution. Unfortunately markets, as of responsible they are structured today, reward only financial performance and do not prize companies companies, that create larger societal value. However, a paradigm change can take place if strong market thereby making drivers emerge to support corporates that innovate to deliver larger sustainable and inclusive societal value value. This important change will take place when consumers, investors, and civil society make an enlightened choice in favour of products and services of responsible companies, creation an thereby making societal value creation an important part of a company’s value proposition. important part Preferential government policy and incentives in favour of such companies will lend even of a company’s further support to companies that sub-serve larger national priorities. value ITC’s commitment to creating enduring value is manifest in its Vision, Values and Vitality that proposition. have created a future-ready organisation with a growing contribution to creating large-scale societal value. This vision is inspired by the Company’s credo of “Let’s Put India First” as well as 08 its values of Trusteeship, Transparency, Empowerment, Accountability and Ethical Corporate Citizenship, which are the cornerstones of ITC’s Corporate Governance philosophy. ITC’s world-class We recognise that the Company’s capacity to create societal value will crucially depend on the continued robust growth of our businesses. ITC’s aspiration to be a strong engine of growth Indian brands for the Indian economy is manifest in its strategy to create multiple drivers of growth that will ensure that will make a substantial and ever growing contribution to its stakeholders and the nation. By larger value is investing in the creation of world-class brands, supported by extensive R&D shaped at the created, captured ITC Life Sciences and Technology Centre and by leveraging all its enterprise strengths, the Company will continue to offer competitive and superior value propositions to its customers. and retained ITC’s world-class Indian brands will ensure that larger value is created, captured and retained in the country in the country for national development and growth. for national This Sustainability Report with its theme “For All Our Tomorrows” is once again a re-dedication development of our pledge to create enduring value for our stakeholders. I hope our sincere efforts to shape and growth. a sustainable future will continue to foster a promising tomorrow for the generations to come. Y C Deveshwar Chairman, ITC Limited May, 2014 09 Organisational Profile Powering Growth with Multiple Business Drivers Creating World-Class Indian Brands FMCG Hotels Paperboards, Paper Agri Business Information and Packaging Technology ITC Limited is one of India’s most valuable corporations with sustained performance in creating enduring value for the nation. Inspired by a vision to sub-serve larger national goals, ITC has progressively worked towards creating long-term shareholder value along with the enhancement of societal and environmental capital. Livelihood Creation Enterprise Strengths ITC’s larger commitment is With a turnover reflected in its of $ 7 billion inclusive models and a market that deliver largecapitalisation of scale societal and $ 45 billion, ITC environmental has aggressively value. The Company has spearheaded pursued a strategy game-changing development models of diversification that has enabled in partnership with farmers and local it to unleash multiple drivers of rural communities to implement ITC’s growth for the Indian economy. This comprehensive social investments is backed by ITC’s formidable array of programmes. The partnership with local communities are key to the enterprise strengths of deep consumer success of these programmes, as insights, manufacturing excellence, they foster a bottom-up participatory international quality products, globally approach that encourages a sense contemporary business processes, of ownership in the process. These agri-sourcing, excellent trade marketing programmes have enhanced incomes $ 45 and distribution, world-class human and improved the quality of life billion capital, investments in cutting edge R&D and ceaseless innovation. This strategy through the creation of sustainable livelihood opportunities, apart from Market has enabled ITC to create a bouquet augmenting natural resources, which Capitalisation of vibrant world-class Indian brands is critical for the sustenance of rural across business segments that have communities. Through its businesses demonstrated immense vitality in the and associated value chains, ITC has ITC has supported the generation of around global Indian marketplace. ITC has today 6 million livelihoods, touching the aggressively created over 50 energetic brands across lives of many pursued a segments that not only delight millions living at the of households, but also contribute margins in rural strategy of significantly to the India. diversification greater national that has enabled imperative to it to unleash create, capture multiple drivers and retain value for the Indian of growth for economy. the Indian economy. 12 ITC’s Transformational Impact sustainability initiatives and Achievements ITC’s model of CSR programmes, inclusive growth like the celebrated stems from its e-Choupal, Social ITC has received triple bottom line approach to national and global & Farm Forestry, recognition for business, that Watershed its multi-faceted simultaneously Development, achievements. It builds economic, social and environmental capital. Today, ITC is a has been rated Animal Husbandry among the World’s global exemplar in sustainability and and Women’s Best Big Companies, Asia’s ‘Fab 50’ inclusive growth. Its sustainability Empowerment, and one of India’s Most Valuable initiatives and CSR programmes, like the celebrated e-Choupal, Companies by Business Today. It have had a has been ranked as the world’s 8th Social & Farm Forestry, Watershed transformational largest ‘sustainable value creator’ Development, Animal Husbandry and impact on rural among consumer goods companies Women’s Empowerment, have had a transformational impact on rural India. globally, according to a report by the India. Boston Consulting Group (BCG). ITC It is the only enterprise in the world of Chairman Mr Y C Deveshwar has been comparable dimensions to be Carbon ranked the 7th Best Performing CEO Positive (9 years in a row), sequestering in the world by the Harvard Business nearly twice the amount of carbon it Review in its January-February edition emits; Water Positive (12 consecutive 2013. Mr Deveshwar has also been years), creating twice the rainwater conferred the Padma Bhushan, one of harvesting potential than it consumes; the country’s highest civilian honours, and Solid Waste Recycling Positive (for for his leadership in transforming the last 7 years). 38% of the total energy ITC into an requirement of the Company is met organisation from renewable sources, a testimony with a deep to its commitment to adopting a low commitment to carbon growth path. All ITC’s premium national luxury hotels have the unique distinction priorities of of being LEED® sustainable and Platinum certified, inclusive growth. making it the world’s greenest luxury hotel chain. 13 Fast Moving insights, world class R&D and an efficient and responsive supply chain, manufacturing Consumer Goods excellence and extensive distribution infrastructure to consolidate its position as a Keeping pace with the rapid growth of the leader in the FMCG industry in India. FMCG industry in India, ITC has significantly scaled up its presence in this growing sector. Its impressive bouquet of offerings includes Branded Packaged Foods, Personal Care Products, Cigarettes, Lifestyle Retailing, Branded Packaged Education and Stationery products, and Foods Safety Matches and Incense Sticks (Agarbatti). ITC’s Branded Packaged Foods Businesses Within a relatively short span of time, ITC has are one of the fastest growing in India. established several strong consumer brands Backed by significant investments in product in the Indian FMCG market. development, innovation and manufacturing ITC leverages its institutional strengths technology, ITC’s Foods portfolio includes including focus on quality and innovation and staples, spices, biscuits, snack foods, instant differentiation, backed by deep consumer noodles, confectionery and ready-to-eat ITC leverages its institutional strengths including focus on quality and innovation and differentiation, backed by deep consumer insights, world class R&D and an efficient and responsive supply chain, to consolidate its position as a leader in the FMCG industry in India. 14 meals. Driven by the market standing and consumer franchise of its popular brands Aashirvaad, Sunfeast, Bingo!, Kitchens of India, mint-o, Candyman and Yippee! Over the past 5 years, the business has grown at an impressive rate faster than that of the industry. Last year, several new and innovative products were added to the existing assortment of food products. The Biscuits and Confectionery categories saw the launch of premium and innovative products with the introduction of ‘Sunfeast Delishus’ gourmet cookies in two delectable variants – ‘Nut Biscotti’ and ‘Nut and Raisins’, and ‘Candyman Jellicious’ in the jelly segment. The Sunfeast portfolio was further augmented with the Farmlite range of health biscuits with oats and wheat fibre, available in two variants almonds and raisins. 15 Personal Care Products ITC’s range of bath and grooming products of innovative and differentiated products, has redefined consumer perceptions and the Business positioned Fiama Di Wills Gel preferences through world-class offerings. Bathing Bar with skin conditioners as India’s Anchored on extensive consumer research, first skin conditioning shower gel in a bar innovation and product development, ITC’s format and modernised the Vivel portfolio personal care portfolio offers products with with the launch of a unique skin nourishing clearly differentiated benefits to qualityrange of soaps. New, visibly differentiated seeking consumers. ITC’s Personal Care dual colour soaps were also introduced to portfolio under the ‘Essenza Di Wills’, ‘Fiama strengthen the brand value proposition of Di Wills’, ‘Vivel Cell Renew’, ‘Vivel’, ‘Engage’ nourishment through skin foods. The year and ‘Superia’ brands includes bodycare, also witnessed the launch of the second skincare and fragrances. In keeping with edition of the Fiama Di Wills Couture Spa its focus on addressing various consumer Range of Gel Bathing Bars enriched with gold, benefit segments through the introduction skin conditioners and skin care enhancing 16 ingredients. These interventions have been well received by consumers fortifying ITC’s presence in the Personal Care industry. The year also marked ITC’s foray into the fast-growing Deodorants market with the successful launch of ‘Engage’ a first-tomarket range of deodorants for both men and women. The brand has been well received in the market garnering impressive consumer franchise in a relatively short span of time. Cigarettes ITC has enhanced its market standing through its unwavering focus on innovation, differentiated best–in–class offerings, quality, technology and exemplary environmental performance. Lifestyle Retailing ITC’s Lifestyle Retailing Business has established a nationwide retailing presence to offer best-in-class fashion through a growing retail franchise through its ‘Wills Lifestyle’ and ‘John Players’ brands. The two brands of ITC’s Lifestyle Retailing Business The reach out to over 3,200 outlets with the retail two brands presence of Wills Lifestyle having expanded to nearly 100 exclusive stores in 40 cities of ITC’s Lifestyle and more than 700 ‘shop-in-shops’ in leading Retailing Business departmental stores and multi-brand outlets, reach out to over servicing consumers who seek the most 3,200 outlets. contemporary, premium pret fashion apparel. 17 Wills Lifestyle is a strongly established brand with its premium imagery, vibrant product portfolio and international shopping experience. The Wills Lifestyle portfolio has expanded over time to now having distinct wardrobe offers in the formal wear, casual wear, club wear and high-end occasion wear. ITC has also established ‘John Players’ as a Education and brand embodying the spirit of the modern Stationery Products youth that is playful, fashionable and cool. The ITC’s Education and Stationery brands latest addition in lifestyle retail, ‘johnplayers. ‘Classmate’ and ‘Paperkraft’ offer consumers jeans’ is the new language for the fashiona wide range of differentiated products forward youth, featuring an innovative addressing the specific needs of each collection of denims and casual wear in edgy segment. Classmate’s portfolio today styling, bold patterns and contemporary fits. comprises offerings spanning notebooks, The presence of ‘John Players’ was expanded writing instruments including pens and to 350 flagship stores and 1,400 multi brand pencils, scholastic products such as geometry outlets and departmental stores. boxes, scales, erasers and sharpeners as well as art stationery such as wax crayons, colour pencils and sketch pens. With a view to expanding the market and enlarging the consumer base, ITC also launched a value 18 With a view to expanding the market and enlarging the consumer base, ITC also launched a value notebook brand christened ‘Saathi’in select States this year. brand christened ‘Saathi’in select States portfolio was augmented during the year this year. with the launch of variants such as ‘Sadhvi’, ‘Mogra’ and ‘Sambrani’ under the umbrella The Classmate notebook is a manifestation brand Mangaldeep. ITC has sustained its of the environmental capital built by ITC in its market leadership in the Safety Matches paper business. While the notebook cover is category leveraging a strong brand portfolio made from recycled board sourced from ITC’s across all market segments. The Matches and Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certified Agarbatti Business continues to contribute Kovai mill, the paper used in the notebooks to ITC’s commitment to the ‘Triple Bottom leverages ITC’s world-class fibre line at Line’, supporting over 18,000 livelihoods Bhadrachalam which is India’s first ozone mainly amongst rural women through smalltreated elemental chlorine free facility. scale and cottage sector units and women’s Additionally, the collaborative supply chain self-help groups. The Business continues established by the Business comprising 900 to partner small and medium enterprises in customers and 30 third party manufacturers, improving their processes and raising quality provides indirect employment to over 5,000 standards. people. The small-scale manufacturers, with support from the Company, have built impressive quality and delivery capability resulting in a majority of them being certified to ISO 9001:2008 standards. 18,000 Safety Matches livelihoods mainly amongst rural and Incense sticks women through small-scale and (Agarbattis) cottage sector units and women’s self-help groups ITC’s Agarbatti category is driven by a supported by growing franchise for the `Mangaldeep’ the Matches and brand, superior consumer experience and Agarbatti Business enhanced distribution reach. The product 19 Hotels has also set new benchmarks in wellness with its Kaya Kalp Spa brand that offers a new dimension ITC Hotels, with its credo of “Responsible in luxury and an enriching experience. Luxury”, stands apart not only for its exquisite ITC’s Hotels Business maintained its position as signature properties, cuisine and service one of the fastest growing hospitality chains in excellence but also for being the greenest luxury India, with more than 100 properties in over 70 hotel chain in the world, with all ITC’s premium locations. It operates under four distinct brands luxury hotels being LEED® (Leadership in Energy – ‘ITC Hotels’ for ‘luxury’, ‘WelcomHotel’ in the and Environmental Design) Platinum certified. ‘five star segment’, ‘Fortune’ in the ‘mid-market In line with this philosophy, ITC Hotels integrates to upscale segment’ and ‘WelcomHeritage’ in world-class green practices with contemporary the ‘heritage leisure segment.’ design elements to deliver the best of luxury in the greenest possible manner. ITC’s hotels ITC’s Hotels business, with its world-class have pioneered the concept of branded cuisine properties, globally benchmarked levels of in India with globally acclaimed restaurants service excellence and customer centricity, is including Bukhara, Dum Pukht and Dakshin. ITC well positioned to sustain its leadership status in ITC Hotels integrates world-class green practices with contemporary design elements to deliver the best of luxury in the greenest possible manner. 20 the Industry and to emerge as the largest hotel Elemental Chlorine Free fibre line and chain in the country over the next few years. Ozone Bleaching technology. Committed to developing a sustainable raw material base, ITC’s pulpwood is largely sourced from Paperboards, Paper renewable plantations under its Social and Farm Forestry Programme, which provides and Packaging livelihood opportunities to tribals and ITC small farmers. Leveraging its experience in PAPERBOARDS AND SPECIALTY afforestation, ITC embarked on an innovation embarked on PAPERS BUSINESS to address the food-fibre conflict by creating an innovation to an Agro-Forestry model that synergises tree address the foodITC’s Paperboards & Specialty Papers Business growing with crop production. This model is India’s largest, technologically advanced ensures both food and wood security and fibre conflict by and most eco-friendly in this segment. helps in the conservation of precious natural creating an AgroThe business caters to a wide spectrum of resources. ITC’s Agro-Forestry model is Forestry model packaging, graphic, communication, writing, designed to allocate 25% of the land to forestry that synergises printing and specialty paper requirements and the remaining 75% land is available for through its 4 world-class manufacturing agricultural crops. As a result multi-cropping tree growing with units, which are today FSC Chain of Custody is possible throughout the tenure of the tree crop production. certified. ITC is the first paper company in India life-cycle. In addition, through Agro-Forestry, to obtain the Forest Stewardship Councilthe leaf litter increases the carbon content, Forest Management (FSC-FM) certification. and replenishes soil nutrients restoring fertility. ITC’s Paperboards and Paper Business is an icon of environmental stewardship. The ITC’s initiative, ‘Wealth Out of Waste’ (WOW), Company established the country’s first promotes and facilitates waste paper 21 recycling to help conserve scarce natural resources and generate employment. Agri Business ITC is today one of India’s leading corporates PACKAGING AND PRINTING in the agricultural sector. One of the largest exporters of agri products from the country, BUSINESS ITC sources the finest of Indian Feed ITC is the largest value-added converter Ingredients, Food Grains, Marine Products, of paperboard packaging in India. Backed Processed Fruits and Coffee. The bedrock of ITC offers a comprehensive product range in packaging backed by its packaging expertise over decades and cutting edge technology making it truly a ‘one stop shop for Packaging’. by state-of-the-art technology, world-class ITC’s Agri Business is its strong and enduring quality and innovation, it provides a variety farmer partnerships that have revolutionised of value-added packaging solutions for the and transformed the rural agricultural sector food & beverage, personal care products, through the ‘ITC e-Choupal’, the world’s consumer goods industries and so on. The largest rural digital infrastructure network. Business supplies value-added packaging to ITC’s Agri Business bears testimony to the ITC’s various FMCG businesses. Its client list Company’s commitment to sustainable and includes several well-known national and inclusive growth. international companies. ITC’s Through its value chains, ITC has forged strong The Business has 3 state of the art packaging partnerships with farmers. Its pioneering pioneering factories at Tiruvottiyur near Chennai, initiatives in the agricultural sector have led initiatives in Munger in Bihar, and Haridwar. ITC offers a to enhancement of farm productivity and the agricultural comprehensive product range in packaging empowerment of farmers. Coupled with deep sector have led backed by its packaging expertise over understanding of agricultural practices and decades and cutting edge technology making intensive research, the business continues to enhancement it truly a ‘one stop shop for Packaging’. ITC’s to deliver incremental value across the of farm Packaging factory near Chennai is powered agricultural value chain. productivity and by renewable energy. ITC is also engaged in the production of empowerment Leaf Tobacco. The Business constantly of farmers. endeavours to achieve a balance between 22 economically viable leaf production with protecting water resources, improving the highest degree of product integrity and quality, yield and farmer returns in tobacco environmental protection. This is achieved by production, minimising fuel consumption, advocating and educating farmers on the best promoting afforestation practices and the practices in integrated crop management. development of alternate fuels in curing. This includes sensitising rural farmers on how to reduce agrochemical use, conserving soil fertility through contemporary technologies, Information Technology ITC Infotech, the Company’s wholly owned subsidiary, is one of the fastest growing midtier IT companies. It provides IT services and solutions to leading global customers across 140 countries in 5 continents. ITC Infotech is focused on servicing the BFSI (Banking, Financial Services & Insurance), CPG&R (Consumer Packaged Goods & Retail), Life Sciences, Manufacturing & Engineering Services, THT (Travel, Hospitality and Transportation) and Media & Entertainment industries. ITC Infotech, the Company’s wholly owned subsidiary, is one of the fastest growing mid-tier IT companies. 23 Innovative strategies have been designed and implemented to create sustainable value chains Management due consideration of environmental and social impacts within the supply chain. It linked to ITC’s Approach will therefore be important to extend ITC’s businesses that Triple Bottom Line approach along the supply ITC’s vision to serve larger national priorities chain to ensure long-term competitiveness encompass some is realised by the strategic approach of by adopting a balanced approach towards of the most embedding sustainability in its core business creation of social & environmental value and disadvantaged models. Innovative strategies have therefore the economic viability of the businesses. been designed and implemented to create sections of In order to formalise its existing sustainable sustainable value chains linked to ITC’s society, especially businesses that encompass some of the most procurement process, ITC now has a those residing disadvantaged sections of society, especially Board approved Policy on Responsible in rural India. those residing in rural India. The vitality of ITC’s Sourcing which addresses the issues of winning brands drive the competitiveness labour practices, human rights, bribery, The vitality of corruption, occupational health, safety and of these value chains. At the same time, ITC’s winning these linkages provide unique sources of the environment. The policy is meant for brands drive the competitive advantage to the Company’s Third Party Manufacturers (TPM), service competitiveness businesses. ITC cognises that with expanding providers including transporters, suppliers businesses under a diversified portfolio, of agricultural & non-agricultural materials of these value holistic achievement of the Company’s and capital goods, franchisees, dealers chains. vision for sustainable development requires and distributors collectively referred to 24 G4-21 as supply chain partners. A simplified integral part of ITC’s supply chain. Please representation of this relationship is refer to Social Investments Mission Sunehra provided below: Kal section in this Report for details of our relationship with this important part of our supply chain. ITC Business Leaf Business Cigarettes Packaging and Printing Farmers (Agri-raw materials) Paperboards and Speciality Paper Transporters Personal Care Products Transporters Foods Customers/ Consumers Other Suppliers (Other Raw Materials, Agri-Business Service Providers etc.) Education and Stationery Products Matches and Agarbattis * The above diagram includes material flow only and does not include Lifestyle Retailing Business, ITC Hotels and ITC Infotech Indicates Material flow within ITC As evident from the above representation The Education and Stationery Products of the generic supply chain structure for (ESPB), Matches & Agarbatti and Foods ITC businesses, the supply chains of most Businesses have significant Third Party of ITC’s businesses are vertically integrated. Manufacturing (TPM) contributions. In line Farmers are the key suppliers to majority of with our commitment to extend the Triple our businesses which are dependent on agriBottom Line approach along our supply chain, commodities and therefore constitute an we have started by including the Notebooks G4-21 25 manufacturers of ESPB which contributed to around 90% of the total business of ESPB, within the Reporting Boundary. The materials aspects of these exclusive TPMs are included in this Report. Going forward, they will be helped in establishing systems to improve their environmental and social performance. Also during the year, ATC Limited, an associate company of ITC group has been brought within the reporting boundary, where as per plan, they were supported in implementing systems and processes to monitor the material environmental and social aspects in its manufacturing operations. It is proposed to bring the 2 TPMs of the Company’s Cigarettes Business within the reporting boundary in 2014-15. Sustainability in the Agri Supply with farmer groups to develop identified geographies for certified and organic crops. Chain These investments coupled with deep understanding of agriculture, and the reach of the e-Choupal network, provides the AGRI COMMODITIES opportunity to offer a wide range of reliable Over the years, the Commodities operations and consistent solutions that are efficient in Agri-Business Division has been offering and effective along the entire supply chain. customised solutions by continuously ITC’s eChoupal network ensures traceability, ITC’s aligning with the tastes and preferences of identity preservation of the produce along the eChoupal customers. These solutions not only help entire value chain as well as product integrity customers in enhancing their cost and quality by leveraging Information Technology and network ensures competitiveness, but also create value for digital infrastructure that enhances the traceability, other partners, especially farmers. competitiveness of the agri value chain. identity The operations span the entire spectrum of This has been achieved by empowering preservation of activities starting from agri-services/ crop farmers through price discovery, knowledge, the produce along development to risk management, including information as well as agricultural best the entire value sourcing, processing, supply chain, multipractices. A hub and spoke model has been modal logistics, stock management, and built along with the necessary physical chain as well as customer service. The solutions offered infrastructure that has enabled multi-level product integrity are a combination of all or some of these aggregation. The model also ensures visibility by leveraging interventions. The solutions also offer the of the agri-produce along the entire supply Information customers the flexibility in terms of quantity, chain to the sourcing and processing units of timing, as well as packaging solutions for the organisation. Technology delivery of the agri-commodities. Based on the above approach, the Division and digital The Division has been continuously investing sourced over 20 lakhs tonnes of agriinfrastructure that commodities covering wheat, soya, coffee, in strengthening capability through multiple enhances the sourcing models, customised and identity potato, fruits, barley, maize, rice, and shrimps competitiveness preserved supply chain infrastructure and from over 20 states to service a range of the agri network, processing and warehousing tieof customers in India and across several ups, and technology enabled systems and countries, including leading brand owners value chain. processes. The Division also works closely and bulk processors. 26 LEAF TOBACCO agrochemical inputs, conserving soil fertility through contemporary technologies, With challenges of low productivity per unit protecting water resources, improving of land as well as low wages and increasing quality, yield and farmer returns in tobacco unavailability of farm labour, the agricultural production and minimising fuel consumption. sector is no exception to India’s problem of In order to improve sustainability in the growing social inequality. India is one of the tobacco supply chain, ITC’s Leaf Tobacco largest producers and exporters of flue cured Business has undertaken a preliminary study Virginia tobacco which is grown on rain-fed for improving energy usage efficiencies in and residual moisture conditions primarily in tobacco curing by the farmers in its operating the states of Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. region. Based on the preliminary assessment These areas are drought prone and at the results, ITC is now working on the promotion same time deprived of adequate irrigation of sustainable fuel management for tobacco facilities thereby challenging the sustenance curing in the supply chain. The Business is of agriculture dependant families. ITC collaborating with the Tobacco Board and sources tobacco for cigarette manufacturing a taskforce has been formed for providing from these rain-fed agricultural areas solutions to the tobacco farming community through auction platforms regulated by the on sustainable fuel management. Research Tobacco Board. Tobacco gives the farmers in is currently ongoing for development of more these states an assured and a comparatively fuel efficient technologies for tobacco curing more remunerative source of income given e.g. roof insulation of barns, ventilation by the challenges of growing other crops in this forced convection through the barns, loose region. leaf barns, rocket barn etc., that have been ITC’s Leaf Tobaccco Business lends tested to reduce fuel consumption by around support to farmers by educating them 30% on a pilot scale. Based on further trials, on improved varieties, novel seedling such technologies will be scaled up. With an production methodologies, best practices in objective to develop a self-sustaining model, Integrated Crop Management, viz., reducing the Business has initiated the development With an of energy plantations on wastelands as part objective to of its social investment programmes. These plantations are expected to cater to the total develop a selffuel requirements for tobacco curing in ITC’s sustaining model, operating regions within the next 5 to 7 years. the Business In addition, farmers are encouraged to use has initiated the alternate fuels such as coffee husk, biomass briquettes etc. for tobacco curing with an aim development of to achieve sustainable fuel sourcing. energy plantations on waste lands as part of its The Road Ahead social investment programmes. ITC will work towards the progressive implementation of the relevant Board These plantations approved policies on sustainability aspects are expected to along the supply chain through formalisation cater to the total of appropriate systems and processes. Each fuel requirements Business will also develop plans to bring in for tobacco curing their supply chain within the sustainability performance management system in a in ITC’s operating progressive way and efforts will be directed regions within for continual improvement. Performance on the next 5 to 7 these aspects will form part of the review by the years. Sustainability Compliance Review Committee. 27 ITC has won the prestigious 12th Businessworld FICCI CSR Award in the Large Enterprise category. The award recognises the most socially responsible Indian corporates in CSR. The FICCI Outstanding Vision Corporate Triple Impact Award, presented by the then Certifications, Prime Minister, Dr Manmohan Singh (2008). The FICCI Award for Outstanding Honours Achievement in Rural and Community Development, presented by the then Finance Minister, Shri Pranab Mukherjee (2010). and Awards Chairman Mr Y C Deveshwar received the Business Person of the Year Award from UK Trade & Investment (2006). Chairman Mr Y C Deveshwar was awarded the SAM/SPG Sustainability Leadership Award in Zurich (2007). The National Award for Excellence in Corporate Governance from the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (2007). Major Awards Over ITC was ranked 2nd among top Indian the Years companies in the first of its kind Standard & Poor Environmental, Social and Corporate Chairman Mr Y C Deveshwar was conferred Governance ratings (2008). the Padma Bhushan by the Government of India (2011). ITC ranked 2nd among top companies in India and 7th in Asia in the first of its kind Harvard Business Review ranked ITC Asian Sustainability Rating released by Chairman Mr Y C Deveshwar as the 7th Best CSR Asia (2010). Performing CEO in the World in its JanuaryFebruary 2013 edition. ITC became the first Indian Company to gain Membership with WWF-GFTN for Chairman Mr Y C Deveshwar was conferred Responsible Forestry (2010). the Global Leadership Award by the US India Business Council of the US Chamber ITC was ranked the world’s 6th largest of Commerce (2010). sustainable value creator among consumer goods companies according to a Report by ITC Chairman Mr Y C Deveshwar was Boston Consulting Group (2010). conferred the Business Leader of the Harvard Year Award by the All India Management ITC won the top UNIDO Award at the Business Association (AIMA). International Conference on Sharing Review ranked Innovative Agri Business Solutions at Cairo ITC was presented the World Business and (2008). ITC Chairman Development Award at the historic Rio+20 Mr Y C Deveshwar UN Summit for its Social and Farm Forestry ITC was conferred the Corporate Social initiative. Responsibility Crown Award for Water as the 7th Best Practices from UNESCO and Water Digest Performing CEO ITC has been presented the AIM Asian (2008). CSR Award by the Asian Forum on in the World in its Corporate Social Responsibility (AFCSR), The Asian CSR Award for Environmental Januaryin recognition of its contribution to Excellence, given by the Asian Institute of February 2013 the creation of sustainable livelihoods Management (2007). edition. and fostering economic growth in rural communities in India. 28 ITC was the 1st Indian Company and 2nd in ITC’s Chief Financial Officer, Mr Rajiv the world to win the Development Gateway Tandon, was ranked the ‘Best Overall CFO’ Award for its trail-blazing e-Choupal at the fourth edition of the ‘Business Todayinitiative (2005). Yes Bank Best CFO Awards.’ In addition, Mr Tandon was also declared the winner in Inaugural World Business Award by UNDP the category of ‘Sustained Wealth Creation for ITC’s e-Choupal initiative (2004). (large companies)’. ITC e-Choupal won the Stockholm The ITC ITC Maurya received the National Tourism Challenge Award (2006). Award from the Ministry of Tourism, Green Centre ITC was rated amongst Asia-Pacific’s 50 Government of India, for the ‘Best Eco at Manesar was biggest listed companies in ‘Asia Fab 50’ by Friendly Hotel’. awarded the BEE Forbes (2010). ITC’s Factory at Bengaluru was conferred 5 Star rating by All ITC’s super premium luxury hotels the Frost & Sullivan Green Manufacturing the Bureau of accorded LEED® Platinum certification, Excellence Award (GMEA) 2014 in the making ITC Hotels the ‘Greenest Luxury “Overall Leaders” category. Energy Efficiency, Hotel Chain in the World’ (2011). Government of ITC’s Corporate Communications ITC’s Paperboards and Specialty Papers Department received the PRSI (Public India. Units at Bhadrachalam, Bollaram, Kovai Relations Society of India) Awards in 5 and Tribeni are FSC Chain of Custody categories and the ABCI (Association of certified (2011). Business Communication of India) Awards ITC’s Unit in Bhadrachalam has been in 1 category. awarded the Forest Stewardship Council ITC Grand Chola received the green Forest Management (FSC-FM) certification rating for integrated habitat assessment by the SmartWood Programme of the by the Energy Resource Institute (TERI) Rainforest Alliance (2011). and Ministry of New & Renewable Energy (MNRE), Government of India. Major Awards 2013-14 ITC was ranked 3rd among 40 leading companies in the Nielsen Corporate Image Monitor 2013-14, and was featured among the top 5 most admired companies in India. ITC was also perceived to be the ‘Company most active in CSR’ for the third year in a row. ITC voted among the top two “Buzziest Brands” in the “Corporate” category by “afaqs”, one of the world’s largest marketing and advertising portals. The ITC Green Centre at Manesar was awarded the BEE 5 Star rating by the Bureau of Energy Efficiency, Government of India. ITC Hotels was recognised as the Most Respected Company in the Hospitality category by the Business World Magazine. 29 ITC was conferred the Karnataka State ‘Excellent Energy Efficient Unit’ award by Environment Award for 2012-2013 for its the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). outstanding contribution in Soil & Moisture The Bhadrachalam Unit of ITC’s Paperboards Conservation and Livestock Development & Specialty Papers Business was conferred in Mysore. the ‘Excellence in Energy Management’ ITC’s Paperboards and Specialty Papers award by the Confederation of Indian Business has been conferred the Green Industry (CII). Product of the Year award at the India ITC’s factory in Bengaluru received the Green Business Summit 2014. “Energy Efficient Unit” award in the 14th ITC’s Agri Business has bagged the Rural National Awards for Excellence in Energy Marketing Association of India (RMAI) Management 2013 conferred by the Flame Award 2013 in the category of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). excellence in Brand Promotion. ITC’s factory in Bengaluru bagged the The Kalyanpura Integrated Watershed runners-up trophy in the FICCI Water Development Project in Bhilwara, Award, 2013. Rajasthan, won the Project Management The ITC Master Facility at Manesar, Gurgaon Institute (PMI) award for Project of the Year received the double green rating of Indian – Contribution to the Community. Green Building Council (IGBC) LEED® ITC’s Munger facility was awarded Platinum Platinum for Core & Shell construction and certification by the Confederation of Indian the US Green Building Council (USGBC) Industries’ Indian Green Building Council Platinum rating for Commercial Interiors. (CII-IGBC). ITC Rajputana received the Green Building The Kovai Unit of ITC’s Paperboards and Awards from the Sanskriti Youva Sanstha. Specialty Papers Division won the CII ITC’s Green Leaf Threshing Project at Environmental Best Practices Award 2013 Mysore has received the “Gold” rating 2014 from CII-GBC, Hyderabad, in the category from the Indian Green Building Council. of Innovative Environmental Project. ITC’s WelcomHeritage was awarded the ITC’s Paperboards and Specialty Papers “Best Heritage Hotel Chain” by the 7th Unit at Bhadrachalam received the Most Today’s Traveller Award 2013. Innovative Environmental Project Award ITC’s Unit at Chirala was conferred the “Best & the Most Useful Project Award at the CII Employee Relations Award in the Prakasam Environmental Best Practices Awards 2013 District for maintaining harmonious from CII-GBC, Hyderabad. industrial relations and providing one of The Tiruvottiyur Unit of ITC’s Packaging the best welfare facilities to employees. & Printing Business was conferred the ITC’s Unit at Anaparthi won three awards at the 27th National Convention on Quality Concepts (NCQC) organised by the Quality Circle Forum of India. ITC’s Bhadrachalam Unit garnered the 2nd place at the State Energy Conservation Award – instituted by New & Renewable Energy Development Corporation of A.P. Ltd. (NREDCAP). Fiama Di Wills Men clinched its first digital award in the Web category at the coveted Indian Digital Media Awards 2013. ITC’s Unit at Chirala received the Government of Andhra Pradesh’s Best Management Award for 2012-13. 30 ITC Hotels has been recognised as No. 1 in the world in the ‘Sustainability’ category EHS Certifications at the ‘Global Vision Awards’ by Travel + ISO 14001: Environment Management Leisure Magazine, U.S. Systems ITC Grand Chola ranked among the TOP 50 All manufacturing units of ITC, all the major hotels of the world in the HOT List 2013, hotels (except the recently opened ITC CondeNast Traveller. Grand Chola) and the ITC Life Sciences & Technology Centre at Bengaluru. Times Food and Nightlife Awards for ITC Hotels’ restaurants – Peshawri, OHSAS 18001: Occupational Health & Chandravanshi Pavillion, Jharokha, Dum Safety Management Systems Pukht, Dakshin Coastal, Pan Asian, Bukhara, All the manufacturing units of ITC West View Bar & Grill , ITC Sonar’s Gourmet SA 8000: Social Accountability Shop Bakery & Confectionary, Dum Pukht Jolly Nabobs, EDO and Cubbon Pavilion. Leaf processing plants at Chirala and Anaparti and Mysore, ITC’s factory at ITC’s Packaging & Printing facility at Kolkata, Surya Nepal’s Simra Unit, Munger received the International Safety Packaging and Printing Unit at Tiruvottiyur Award from the British Safety Council. and ITC Infotech Bengaluru. ITC’s Paperboards and Specialty Papers Food Safety: ISO 22000/HACCP Food Business, Kovai Unit, received the CII Southern Safety Management System Region EHS Excellence Award 2013. ITC Maurya, ITC Mughal, ITC Maratha, ITC ITC Windsor received CII’s Leadership & Grand Central, ITC Sonar, ITC Windsor, ITC Excellence Award for Environment, Health Kakatiya, ITC Rajputana, WelcomHotel and Safety for the Hospitality Industry. New Delhi and My Fortune Chennai and ITC Gardenia also won the National Award Foods Units in Haridwar and Pune. for Excellence in Energy Management LEED® Platinum Rating by US Green conferred by the Confederation of Indian Building Council – Existing Building Industry (CII). category ITC’s Bengaluru Unit received the Hotels: ITC Maurya, ITC Windsor, ITC prestigious “Athyunnatha Suraksha Maratha, ITC Grand Central, ITC Mughal, Puraskara” from the National Safety ITC Sonar, ITC Kakatiya and ITC Rajputana. Council, Karnataka Chapter. LEED® Platinum Rating by Indian Green ITC’s Munger Facility also received the Building Council – New Construction category “Suraksha Puraskar” from the National ITC Gardenia & ITC Grand Chola Safety Council of India. LEED® Platinum Rating by Indian Green ITC’s Saharanpur Unit received the Building Council – Green “Prashansa Patra” Award by the National Factory Building Safety Council of India. ITC’s Units at Saharanpur, ITC’s Munger Facility received the award Bengaluru, Munger and for Excellence in Pollution Control Pune Management from the Bihar State Pollution Green Rating for Control Board. Integrated Habitat ITC’s Bengaluru Factory received the Best Assessment (GRIHA) Practices in Solid Waste Management from 5 star rating for ITC Grand Bengaluru Chamber of Commerce. Chola ITC Windsor received an overall 4 star rating for Outstanding Leadership and Excellence in EHS across all industries such as Cement, Information Technology and Manufacturing. 31 genuinely represent the views of their constituents, and can be relied upon to faithfully communicate the results of the engagements with ITC, back to their constituents. Stakeholders’ identification is guided by the attributes of stakeholders such as: DEPENDENCY Groups or individuals who are directly or indirectly dependent on the organisation’s activities, products or services and associated performance, or whom the organisation is dependent on for operations e.g. shareholders, employees, farmers, suppliers, service providers and local communities. RESPONSIBILITY Groups or individuals to whom the organisation has, or potentially envisaged to have, legal, commercial, operational In line with ITC’s philosophy of creating or ethical responsibilities e.g. customers; enduring value for all its stakeholders, providers of financial capital. ITC has adopted a structured approach to building partnerships in sustainable business IMMEDIACY practices. ITC’s approach to stakeholder engagement is based on the long term stable Groups or individuals who need immediate relationships that it has fostered with key attention from the organisation stakeholders such as shareholders, farmers, with regard to economic, social or ITC’s customers, suppliers, employees, local environmental issues. approach communities, regulatory bodies, media etc. Recognising that stakeholder engagement is INFLUENCE to stakeholder an integral part of partnership building, ITC Groups and individuals who can have impact engagement has endeavoured to institutionalise these on the organisation’s or a stakeholder’s is based on the existing relationships through a formal strategic or operational decision-making long term stable process that includes: e.g. Providers of financial capital; relationships Government and Regulatory Authorities. Identification of key stakeholders that it has Therefore, broadly the key stakeholders Consultation with the key stakeholders identified by ITC include, fostered with key Identification and prioritisation of concerns stakeholders such Providers of financial capital and needs as shareholders, Customers Addressing the prioritised concerns and needs farmers, in a consistent and transparent manner Employees customers, Supply chain members ITC identifies and profiles stakeholder suppliers, groups as well as individual stakeholder Farmers employees, local representatives who are directly/indirectly Government and Regulatory Authorities communities, impacted by its business activities as well regulatory as those who can directly or indirectly exert Local Communities influence on its business activities. While bodies and Civil society selecting stakeholder representatives, media. attempts are made to ensure that they Media 32 G4-21, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26 For each of these identified key stakeholders, the context for stakeholder consultation is established through creation of generic awareness about the organisation’s activities and immediate future plans through press releases, website, advertisements & other public presentations and social networking. Stakeholder consultation at ITC is a continual process both at the business as well as at the corporate level, depending on the target stakeholder being engaged with. Targeted consultation processes are conducted on a regular basis, giving due weightage to each stakeholder’s nature of engagement with Stakeholder the organisation. The consultative process includes the following: consultation at ITC is a continual Existing relationship with the organisation process both at e.g. close relationship like that of the employees against more distant the business as international civil society organisations, well as at the formal relationships like that with corporate level, shareholders against more informal depending on the relationships with local communities, etc. target stakeholder Reliance on the organisation, which being engaged would necessitate that the stakeholder with. group should be able to express its views independently and freely without any fear of negative influence of its existing Level of influence as applicable in cases of relationship with the organisation. This is civil society, media and regulatory authorities especially applicable in the context of supply The following diagram highlights the chain members who have direct business consultation mechanisms with these relationships with the organisation; respective stakeholders, together with key concerns, requirements and expectations Willingness to engage; identified through them, and ITC’s response. ITC PROVIDERS GOVERNMENT SUPPLY LOCAL OF AND CHAIN COMMUNITIES FINANCIAL REGULATORY PARTNERS CAPITAL AUTHORITIES FARMERS CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES CIVIL MEDIA SOCIETY G4-21, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26 33 PROVIDERS OF FINANCIAL CAPITAL KEY CONCERNS, NEEDS, METHOD OF ENGAGEMENT EXPECTATIONS OF STAKEHOLDERS ITC’S RESPONSE Annual General Meeting Continued profitability and Consistent growth and with the Board of Directors growth of the organisation profitability; sustainable being present development initiatives Transparent and integrated with business Exclusive section in Corporate effective communications strategies Website on ‘Shareholder Value’ which serves to inform and Investor servicing Uninterrupted dividends service shareholders Dissemination of business An exclusive performance, vision and outlook e-mail id: isc@itc.in for direct through annual reports, quarterly interaction with shareholders financial results, press releases and corporate website Shareholder Satisfaction Survey www.itcportal.com. Services through Investor Services Centre CUSTOMERS KEY CONCERNS, NEEDS, METHOD OF ENGAGEMENT EXPECTATIONS OF STAKEHOLDERS ITC’S RESPONSE Market surveys Fair and competitive pricing Robust Quality Assurance systems, supported by process innovations, adoption of green Personal contacts/visits Product/service quality technology, lean management, six sigma and TPM, for providing Personalised lifestyle privilege Adequate information on high quality cost competitive programme products products and services Customer satisfaction surveys Product/ service availability Significant investments in R&D to develop newer products/variants Joint development and Timely delivery of product/service improvement projects Timely delivery of quality products/services at Maintenance of privacy/ competitive prices Key account management confidentiality Transparent disclosure of product Multi-level interfaces at information in line with statutory/ dealer-customer-end user regulatory requirements Continuous improvement on product/service quality based on customer feedback 34 G4-21, G4-27 EMPLOYEES KEY CONCERNS, NEEDS, METHOD OF ENGAGEMENT EXPECTATIONS OF STAKEHOLDERS ITC’S RESPONSE Induction programmes/Training Personal development Fostering a culture that rewards workshops and growth performance, continuous learning, collaboration and capacity development across Individual Work culture that ensures the organisation to be futureperformance appraisal high performance level ready and effectively meet the challenges posed by ever Employee engagement survey changing market realities World class learning experience Grievance handling processes Ensuring a safe and healthy Caring and empowering work working environment coupled environment with a target of zero accidents at workplace Work place safety Structured grievance handling Grievance resolution process for addressing employee concerns and enabling grievances, if any, to be resolved Competitive compensation in a just and equitable manner Career ITC’s remuneration strategy recognises performance and meritocracy, whilst remaining competitive and sustainable Development of systems and procedures for implementation of Board approved policies on Freedom of Association, Diversity and Equal Opportunity, Prohibition of Child Labour, Prevention of Forced Labour at the Workplace etc. SUPPLY CHAIN PARTNERS KEY CONCERNS, NEEDS, METHOD OF ENGAGEMENT EXPECTATIONS OF STAKEHOLDERS ITC’S RESPONSE Manufacturers’ Meet Knowledge and infrastructure Policies, processes and best support practices that ensure that procurement activity is conducted in an open, transparent and nondiscriminatory manner G4-21, G4-27 35 SUPPLY CHAIN PARTNERS KEY CONCERNS, NEEDS, METHOD OF ENGAGEMENT EXPECTATIONS OF STAKEHOLDERS ITC’S RESPONSE Vendor Meets Regular communication and Competitive pricing updates on business plans Pre-agreement negotiations Timely payment and changes Inclusion of local medium and or cancellation of orders in line small scale enterprises in vendor with terms and conditions agreed Agreements for all procurement base upon activities Competency development of Timely supply of products to local vendors dealers, retailers etc. Stability/tenure of relationship Avoidance of sole sourcing (to the extent possible) and retroactive contracting Ordering and Payment Routines Sourcing of specialised Purchasing prices production machinery across large, medium and small scale sectors. Utility machinery such Changes or cancellation of orders as boilers, generator sets, airconditioning and refrigeration machinery and electrical & Transparency electronic systems are sourced largely from Indian or India based suppliers. Competent service providers from India carry out construction and renovation of new manufacturing facilities, hotels, warehouses and offices Strong processes to identify/ develop and qualify vendors on the basis of supply assurance, innovation quotient, product quality and value for money considerations Testing of contracts for regulatory compliance and vendor deliverables cognising for environmental, health and safety legislation 36 G4-21, G4-27 SUPPLY CHAIN PARTNERS KEY CONCERNS, NEEDS, METHOD OF ENGAGEMENT EXPECTATIONS OF STAKEHOLDERS ITC’S RESPONSE Where appropriate, provision of technical support and managerial inputs to vendors to enable them to move in tandem with the Company’s business plans. The Company also supports several vocational training initiatives in areas close to its operations Setting up sourcing centres in rural India for several of its product categories, both directly and in collaboration with various State agencies and NGOs to assist in the creation of sustainable livelihoods FARMERS KEY CONCERNS, NEEDS, METHOD OF ENGAGEMENT EXPECTATIONS OF STAKEHOLDERS ITC’S RESPONSE Regular formal/ Inputs on agricultural Co-creation of the e-Choupal informal talks best practices initiative with farmers to provide information and knowhow on Agreements for all procurement agricultural best practices, Know-how on activities transmission of market signals, improvement of productivity transparent discovery and profitability of prices, timely and relevant e-Choupal and Choupal weather information, access Pradarshan Khets Consistent increase in income to quality inputs, and most (demonstration farms) generation from ITC importantly, efficient market access Capacity development for further investment Working closely with farmers to enhance agri and farm productivity through demonstration farms and customised extension services Creation of physical infrastructure in the form of integrated rural services hubs G4-21, G4-27 37 FARMERS KEY CONCERNS, NEEDS, METHOD OF ENGAGEMENT EXPECTATIONS OF STAKEHOLDERS ITC’S RESPONSE Continuous engagement with policy makers for enabling a balanced and pragmatic policy framework that not only removes restrictive conditions on the efficient functioning of agri businesses but also facilitates the establishment of market-based institutions that can raise agricultural productivity and optimise transaction costs across the value chain Integrated Watershed Management Initiative and Social and Farm Forestry Programmes (please refer to Social Investments Mission Sunehra Kal section in this Report for further details) GOVERNMENT AND REGULATORY AUTHORITIES KEY CONCERNS, NEEDS, METHOD OF ENGAGEMENT EXPECTATIONS OF STAKEHOLDERS ITC’S RESPONSE Representations on policy issues Regulatory compliance At the Corporate level, association through industry associations with CII, FICCI and other industry and other bodies bodies to engage with the policy Tax Revenues makers in Government and Participation in policy advocacy Regulatory Authorities and with Materials & Energy Efficiency, the CII-ITC Centre of Excellence discussions at various forums Recycling and Efficient Waste for Sustainable Development Management to promote thought leadership, recognise sustainability champions Water Conservation and enhance awareness as well as build capacity on issues related Post-consumer waste to sustainable development and management inclusive growth Transparency in disclosures Consistent efforts towards creation of positive environmental impacts Employment generation aligned with National Action Plan on Climate Change 38 G4-21, G4-27 GOVERNMENT AND REGULATORY AUTHORITIES KEY CONCERNS, NEEDS, METHOD OF ENGAGEMENT EXPECTATIONS OF STAKEHOLDERS ITC’S RESPONSE Co-ordinated initiatives to manage post-consumer waste Development of systems and procedures for implementation of Board approved policies on Life Cycle Sustainability, Responsible Sourcing, Environment, Health and Safety, Responsible Advocacy LOCAL COMMUNITIES KEY CONCERNS, NEEDS, METHOD OF ENGAGEMENT EXPECTATIONS OF STAKEHOLDERS ITC’S RESPONSE Community needs assessment Community development Forging a long and enduring activities undertaken in programmes based on local partnership with rural communities collaboration with independent communities’ needs through ITC’s agri businesses and parties/Civil Society CSR programmes organisations Grievance redressal process Village-level institutional Participation in village functions mechanisms which help transform Environmental pollution rural communities into vibrant economic organisations and Public hearings during empower stakeholders with greenfield/expansion projects enhanced livelihoods (please refer to Social Investments Mission Sunehra Assessment of direct and Kal section in this Report for further indirect impacts of ITC’s social details on creation of sustainable investments on communities livelihoods) Development of systems and procedures for implementation of Board approved policy on Stakeholder Engagement Robust environmental management systems in accordance with international standards to ensure pollution prevention at all ITC Units, (please refer details in Environmental Performance section in this Report) G4-21, G4-27 39 CIVIL SOCIETY KEY CONCERNS, NEEDS, METHOD OF ENGAGEMENT EXPECTATIONS OF STAKEHOLDERS ITC’S RESPONSE Partnership in implementation of Financial support for community Creation of sustainable livelihoods CSR Programmes under development programmes under Mission Sunehra Kal Mission Sunehra Kal programmes Managerial support Discussions on Community Issues Strict compliance to legal norms with Civil Society Organisations related to safety aspects of products Environmental pollution and services prevention Robust environmental management Safe products and services systems in accordance with international standards to ensure Responsible Corporate pollution prevention at all ITC units, Citizenship (please refer details in Environmental Performance section in this Report) MEDIA KEY CONCERNS, NEEDS, METHOD OF ENGAGEMENT EXPECTATIONS OF STAKEHOLDERS ITC’S RESPONSE Advertisements/Promotions Transparent and accurate Transparent disclosure of disclosure to stakeholders Triple Bottom-Line performance through Business Responsibility Press Conferences/Press Report and Sustainability Report Releases Responsible Corporate published annually Citizenship Interviews with Senior Managers Consistent sustainable development initiatives Promotion of products During the process of stakeholder Policy on Stakeholder Engagement. In line engagement, ITC also identifies the degree with this Policy, ITC’s stakeholder engagement of sensitivity of a particular concern or process is thus being strengthened to ensure, expectation. The sensitivity of an issue to a A two-way arrangement to exchange views stakeholder, in terms of high/ low importance and information and to address relevant forms the basis of inputs provided for the issues materiality analysis of the organisation to the extent feasible. (Please refer to the Materiality Transparency and accountability Matrix explained in the subsequent section). Monitoring and tracking those who have been ITC’s engagement practices with the different consulted and the key concerns expressed identified stakeholders are now being Timely reporting back to those consulted, formalised in line with the Board approved with clarifications on ITC’s action plan 40 G4-21, G4-26, G4-27 Periodic review of actions taken for each material aspect to its key stakeholders and itself. Periodic redressal of key concerns The analysis of high or low importance of a Continued integration with ITC’s materiality particular aspect for a stakeholder group analysis, business operations and social included evaluation of the stakeholder’s development initiatives as far as feasible. perception of ITC’s impact with respect to that material aspect and also expectations of the group regarding ITC’s action and response Materiality Analysis against the impact. The key concerns, needs and expectations of stakeholders ITC’s materiality analysis is based upon the identified through past as well as on-going following three pronged approach:engagement constituted the basis of this evaluation (as detailed in pages 34-40). 1. IDENTIFICATION OF On the other hand, the degree of significance of a material aspect to a MATERIAL ASPECTS particular ITC business was assessed based on ITC’s Corporate Strategies, For each GRI-G4 defined aspect, ITC policies and most importantly risks and assessed its relevance in terms of the opportunities for the business. boundary of the impacts. In addition to the GRI-G4 defined aspects, ITC also cognised Final aggregation of the degree of for business sector specific topics based importance of a material aspect to the key on GRI Sustainability Topics for Sectors. stakeholders of businesses and also level Each of ITC’s businesses evaluated the of significance to the business was done applicability of an aspect for the business at the Corporate level in order to arrive at and also for the key stakeholders of that the materiality matrix. business. For each business, the result was The materiality matrix also facilitated a list of material aspects considering the ITC in designing the report content so significance to the business and a matrix as to provide a reasonable and balanced of aspects identified to be material for its picture of the organisation’s Triple Bottom key stakeholders. Line impacts and its performance. 2. PRIORITISATION 3. VALIDATION In order to prioritise the material aspects Illustrated below is the structure of review so identified, each ITC business further followed for validation of the materiality assessed the degree of importance analysis at ITC: Final Review and Approval by Sustainability Compliance Review Committee Review by Various Corporate Functions Corporate Level Aggregation of Material Aspects by Corporate EHS Business Specific Material Aspects and Mapping of Impacted Internal and External Stakeholders G4-21, G4-18, G4-26 41 s ct pa Im cial o ndS l, a nta e onm vir , En ic nom o ’s Ec f ITC eo anc c ifi ign gS sin ea ncr I Economic Environmental Social Environmental & Social 42 G4-19 Disclosure on Material Aspects Sl. No. Material Aspects Details available in Sections 1 Economic Performance Economic Performance Economic Performance 2 Sustainable Livelihoods Social Investments Mission Sunehra Kal 3 Procurement from Local Suppliers Economic Performance Energy 4 Climate Change Air Emissions Water Management Resource Conservation 5 Material Usage Efficiency Raw Materials Product Responsibility 6 Product Packaging Resource Conservation Energy 7 Transportation Air Emissions Raw Materials 8 Sustainable Forest Management Biodiversity 9 Sustainable Supply Chain Supply Chain 10 Statutory Compliance Product Responsibility 11 Employment Labour Practices and Decent Work 12 Learning and Development Labour Practices and Decent Work 13 Labour Management Relations Labour Practices and Decent Work Human Rights Significant 14 Human Rights Investments Economic Performance 15 Local Community Development Social InvestmentsMission Sunehra Kal Economic Performance 16 Social Infrastructure Social InvestmentsMission Sunehra Kal 17 Anti-corruption Governance Structure 18 Public Policy Advocacy Responsible Advocacy Occupational Health and Safety 19 Employee/ Customer Health and Safety Product Responsibility 20 Product Labelling Product Responsibility 21 Marketing Communication Product Responsibility 22 Customer Privacy Product Responsibility 43 Sustainability Risk Global Challenges Portfolio The sustainability agenda of developed nations is quite naturally shaped by events A business wise identification of that have had the largest impact on them. sustainability risks has been carried out These include the recent financial meltdown, across various sectors in which ITC operates. job losses in the manufacturing sector This was based on reviews of various relevant and a looming demographic crisis due to publications, inputs provided by stakeholders an aging population. and consultation with domain expert agencies. Sustainability challenges for ITC It is also well acknowledged that challenges can be classified into two broad categories like climate change and global warming – those that are influenced by global events, are affecting the entire planet. However and challenges that are unique to developing the anticipated and real impacts for the nations like India. It becomes essential to developed world and developing countries understand in this context that while India are vastly different, both in scale and mirrors many of the global challenges, issues scope. These differences are multi-layered like poverty, social inequities, unemployment and multi-faceted given the dimensions and environmental degradation assume of the challenges and the socio-economic even more acute and multi-dimensional environment prevailing in different characteristics in India. countries. Given this context, countries like 44 India while cognising for the larger global the emerging market dynamics and the sociochallenges, will have to shape their own economic environment. Of equal concern Countries sustainability agenda with focus on specific is India’s continued downward slide on the like India issues that have a direct impact on the Indian Human Development Index and priority must while cognising society at large. be provided to reducing child and mother for the larger mortality, improving access to sanitation and quality education and reducing the global challenges, inequalities of opportunity to enable people will have to The Indian Context to lead a decent life. shape their own In India, these social and environmental On the environmental front, the latest report sustainability challenges are even more daunting. Even by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate agenda with focus though India recently displaced Japan to Change (IPCC) projects a large reduction in on specific issues become the world’s third largest economy wheat yields in the Indo-Gangetic Plains. that have a direct in terms of Purchasing Power Parity (PPP), The report goes on to forecast a disruption a third of the world’s poor still live in India, of livelihoods, risk to terrestrial and marine impact on the according to a 2013 UN Report. Global ecosystems and risks of mortality, morbidity, Indian society challenges on the social front assume even and other harms during periods of extreme at large. greater significance in India which is home to heat. In addition, factors like water scarcity, 17% of the world’s population, with only 2.4% pollution of water sources, top soil loss, of the world’s land share. India is already reduction in forest cover, among others, facing challenges of overpopulation and will negatively impact the already marginal lack of proper education as well as a paucity existence of millions, especially in rural of employment opportunities for the large India. Unless these issues are tackled on population of youth that is now potentially an urgent footing, India may well become a part of India’s demographic dividend. The powder keg of social unrest that will impact need of the hour is an enabling policy its long-term prospects as a country with framework that supports the expansion of immense potential for large-scale economic, employment opportunities and cognises for social and environmental growth. 45 Taxation and Regulation–Cigarettes India’s Unique Pattern of Tobacco Consumption India has a unique pattern of tobacco consumption where the share of legal cigarettes in overall tobacco consumption is below 12%. The balance of tobacco consumption is represented by a host of traditional products such as various forms of chewing tobacco, bidis etc. As a result, India has the lowest per capita consumption of cigarettes in the world. While India accounts for over 17% of world population, it has a miniscule share of only 1.8% of global cigarette consumption but constitutes nearly 84% of the global consumption of smokeless tobacco. India’s tobacco control policies, however, are incompatible with its unique pattern of consumption as they have been dictated by a Western model of tobacco consumption, which is urban centric and where cigarettes represent over 90% of tobacco consumption. The demand for cigarettes in India is highly price elastic and this is borne out by the fact that tobacco consumption in the form of legal cigarettes declined from 86 million kg. in 1981-82 to 68 million kg. in 2013-14 even as total tobacco consumption in the country increased from 406 million kg. in 1981-82 to 577 million kg. in 2013-14 during the same period. Thus, while overall tobacco consumption is increasing in India, the share of legal cigarettes in overall tobacco consumption has declined from 21% to below 12%. High Rates of Taxation The Cigarette industry had to contend with a steep increase in Excise Duty for two years in succession along with discriminatory and punitive increases in Value Added Tax (VAT) rates by some States. Such tax increases not only undermine the legal domestic cigarette industry and sub-optimise revenue potential from this sector but also fail to achieve the objective of tobacco control in the country. According to various independent reports, there is a high degree of dual consumption with a significant number of cigarette consumers in India also consuming other forms of tobacco. High incidence of taxation and a discriminatory regulatory regime on cigarettes have, over the years, led to a significant shift in tobacco consumption to cheaper and revenue inefficient forms like bidis, chewing tobacco etc. Illicit Trade The policy of high taxation narrowly focussed on cigarettes also led to the rapid growth of illegal cigarettes in India. According to various studies, India is the 5th largest illicit cigarette market in the world. This has resulted in a significant revenue loss for the government, estimated by FICCI at around ` 6,000 crores. The size of the illegal industry in India, comprising smuggled foreign and domestic tax-evaded cigarettes, is currently estimated at 24.3 billion sticks per annum representing 19% of the overall cigarette market. As per various international studies, illegal tobacco trade ranks among the top three organised criminal activities in the world. High taxes on domestic cigarettes have led to an increasing demand for cheaper tax-evaded cigarettes. Therefore there is an urgent need for an equitable and balanced tax regime to enhance the revenue potential of tobacco and discourage the growing illicit trade. This can only be done by providing tax stability on cigarettes, while simultaneously widening the tobacco tax base. ITC’s Initiatives ITC will continue to engage with policy makers through industry associations for a balanced regulatory and fiscal framework for tobacco, equitable and harmonious VAT rates across States and implementation of a uniform GST rate. 46 It has been ITC’s strategic intent to create multiple drivers of growth by building a portfolio of world-class businesses in Fast Moving Consumer Goods, Paperboards, Paper and Packaging, Agri Business, Hotels and Information Technology, leveraging enterprise strengths such as consumer insights, innovative product development, brand building, state-of-the-art manufacturing, efficient supply chain and distribution infrastructure and sustained investments in R&D. Impact on Livelihoods of Farmers The Tobacco industry provides direct and indirect employment to 38 million people in India, primarily in the agriculture sector. Tobacco continues to be a viable and remunerative crop for farmers in the regions where this crop is grown, given the prevailing agro-climatic nature and soil conditions of these regions. It gives farmers an assured income and good institutional support is also available for this crop. ITC’s The disproportionately high taxation on cigarettes fuels transborder smuggling, leading to strategic a reduction in domestic demand and impacts the market price for the farm produce. This intent is to adversely impacts the livelihood of farmers in general and the dependent community in create multiple particular. Tobacco farmers are important constituents of the tobacco industry. drivers of growth Increasing volumes of smuggled foreign cigarettes also result in the decline in demand by building a for Indian tobaccos since these cigarettes do not use any Indian tobaccos. On the other hand, illegal cigarettes produced in India use tobaccos of dubious and inferior quality. portfolio of worldConsequently, the proliferation of duty evaded cigarettes not only has an adverse impact on class businesses demand for high-quality Indian tobaccos but also a cascading impact on incomes of Indian in Fast Moving farmers, long term viability of the legal cigarette industry as well as Government revenues. Consumer Goods, Challenges Impacting Agriculture and Agri Business Paperboards, Paper and Agriculture in India engages around 50 per cent of the country’s workforce and supports the livelihoods of 75 per cent of the population living below the poverty line. Packaging, Agri Business, Hotels The sector consumes 80 per cent of the nation’s fresh water resources, a quarter of the total electricity and more than 70 per cent of central government subsidies. and Information Technology, However, it accounts for just about 14 per cent of GDP. Woefully therefore, the farmer’s per capita income is less than one-fifth of the rest of the country’s average. leveraging enterprise Such low incomes are a result of a deteriorating natural resource base, disconnected value chains, fragmented landholdings, weak infrastructure, inadequate knowledge strengths such as and multiple intermediaries. consumer insights, In addition, around 55% of India’s total sown area meets its requirements from rainwater innovative product alone. This assumes importance in the face of environmental challenges of erratic rainfall development, leading to drought and floods. A majority of the farmers are hence trapped in a vicious cycle brand building, of low productivity and low investments. state-of-the-art A long-term view of tackling these issues entails a mosaic of alternative solutions at the manufacturing, policy level, which address the issue in the short, medium and long terms. These measures efficient supply will also ensure larger private participation and investments leading to a large-scale revival of this sector. chain and distribution Constraints like non-implementation of the ‘Model APMC’ Act recommended by the Centre leads to multiple levels of transportation, handling expenses, and commissions of various infrastructure agents. This essentially adds nearly 20% cost, through non-value-adding activities. The and sustained Model Act facilitates a direct interface between farmers and agri businesses and helps in investments in reducing transaction costs by allowing alternative marketing models to co-exist, including R&D. providing farmers with the freedom to sell at the farm gate. 47 Challenges Impacting Agriculture and Agri Business Anywhere from 5% to 40% of food is wasted along the chain, depending on the inherent perishability of the crop and the season. It is possible to reduce this kind of wastage through methods to determine future prices and align production accordingly. Market instruments must therefore empower the farmers to produce as per tomorrow’s demand, rather than be guided by yesterday’s prices that results in wastages due to supply-demand imbalances. This is further aggravated by limitations that are imposed by the Forward Contracts (Regulation) Act. While it is acknowledged that strong regulation is necessary to curb excessive speculation, the Act doesn’t allow sufficient flexibility for genuine players and deprives them of critical risk management tools, such as options. Options assure farmers of a minimum price at the time of sowing itself, based on the future projections simulated by a market consensus. This aligns the production volumes to the future demand conditions and minimises the shortages as well as avoidable wastages. Considerable investment is also required to build infrastructure like climate-controlled storages and transport facilities to prevent wastage. The private sector certainly has the capacity to invest and add value to such infrastructure. However, regulations like the Essential Commodities Act (ECA), which impose stock limits and curb movements from time to time, create uncertainty in business viability, acting as a huge deterrent to such long-term investments. It is essential to facilitate value-addition to farm produce, especially food, by way of processing on a largescale. This will enable farmers It is also essential to facilitate value-addition to farm produce, especially food, by way to cash in on the of processing on a large-scale. This will enable farmers to cash in on the consumption dividend offered by today’s quality-conscious, convenience-preferring, variety-seeking, consumption and safety-concerned consumers. dividend offered Given that a large part of India’s total sown area meets its requirements from rainwater by today’s alone, it is imperative to invest in a wide spectrum of technology interventions that will quality-conscious, make agriculture climate and weather proof. These include introduction of speciallyconveniencedeveloped varieties of seeds that withstand extreme weather, diverse soil conditions preferring, varietyand various biotic stresses. In addition, scientific practices like precision farming, micro-irrigation, watershed development and power-efficient farm mechanisation need seeking, and proliferation through focussed incentivisation. safety-concerned Solutions like crop and weather insurance are also essential to whet the risk-taking consumers. capability of the farmer, who can then invest to step up productivity, participate more effectively in agricultural value chains and garner a larger share of consumer spends. 48 ITC operates across the agri value chain of 13 crops and is present in 17 states with substantial investments in resource intensive models that entail heavy capital infrastructure. These agri value chains that have empowered over 4 million farmers have been severely constrained by such restrictive regulations that do not distinguish between genuine agri businesses and unscrupulous hoarders. Policy reforms also need to encourage large-scale investments by the private sector, which Recognising can provide a much needed boost to this sector. that poverty There is also need for an enabling policy framework that boosts the provision of rural in rural India infrastructure so that wastage can be eliminated and farmers can receive better returns. is primarily a ITC’s Initiatives result of the poor capacity of ITC has empowered farmers and forged strong relationships with rural communities to farmers in terms enable sustainable sourcing solutions for over several decades. Recognising that poverty of lack of access in rural India is primarily a result of the poor capacity of farmers in terms of lack of access to knowledge, information, price discovery, quality agricultural inputs and markets, the to knowledge, Company has devised unique models for agri sourcing that not only support sustainable information, price agriculture but also contribute to substantial livelihood creation for inclusive development. discovery, quality In addition, ITC’s Social Investments Programmes, including integrated watershed agricultural inputs development, support the adoption of sustainable agricultural practices. and markets, the ITC’s e-Choupal network, which leverages information technology to empower farmers, Company has is a rich repertoire of agri-based interventions and not only addresses the core needs of farmers in terms of infrastructure, connectivity, price discovery and market access, devised unique but also provides a significant boost to farm productivity through extension services models for agri and research-based agri-inputs. Initiatives like the ‘Choupal Pradarshan Khet’ bring sourcing that suitable agricultural best practices to farmers and have demonstrated significant not only support productivity gains. These interventions have helped transform village communities sustainable into vibrant economic organisations by enhancing incomes and co-creating markets. ITC’s e-Choupals serve 40,000 villages and 4 million farmers, making it the world’s largest agriculture but rural digital infrastructure. also contribute ITC will continue to engage with policy makers through industry associations, organisations to substantial and other appropriate forums for enabling a balanced and pragmatic policy framework that livelihood creation not only removes restrictive conditions on the efficient functioning of agri businesses but for inclusive also facilitates the establishment of market-based institutions that can raise agricultural development. productivity and optimise transaction costs across the value chain. Cimate Change and Environmental Degradation The race for unbridled economic growth has left a planet seriously depleted of environmental resources. The world’s ecological footprint suggests that consumption of natural resources every year will be far more than the earth’s capacity to regenerate. With increasing population, people will have access to limited resources which will be far less than what was available in 1950. The impact of climate change is manifest in the changed weather patterns and increasing frequency of extreme weather conditions. This affects agricultural production and severely impacts the livelihoods of farmers. Given that several of ITC’s businesses are dependent on agricultural inputs, climate change and global warming have important ramifications for the Company and some of its major stakeholders – the farmers and communities in rural India. 49 ITC’s Initiatives ITC has adopted the following strategies for climate change mitigation: 1. Identify and evaluate climate change risks for each business. 2. Reduce the environmental impact of our processes, products and services and work towards creating a positive environmental footprint. Adopt a low-carbon growth path through reduction in specific energy consumption and enhancing use of renewable energy sources. Enlarge our Carbon Positive footprint through increased carbon sequestration by expanding forestry projects in wastelands. Reduce specific water consumption and augment rainwater harvesting activities both on site and off site at watershed catchment areas. Work towards minimising waste generation, maximising reuse & recycling and using external post-consumer waste as raw material in our units. Resource Create sustainable livelihoods and promote sustainable agricultural practices. efficiency is Life Cycle Assessment studies have been carried out for different products to understand integrated into the impact across the value chain. Resource efficiency is integrated into product and process design and is addressed in the creation of physical infrastructure, the operations product and phase, logistics and waste management. process design The adoption of these strategies has led to the following outcomes: and is addressed in the creation 1. ITC has expanded its renewable energy portfolio with 38.1% of its energy of physical consumption being met from renewable sources. infrastructure, 2. As part of its low-carbon and green growth strategy, ITC has spearheaded the the operations establishment of green buildings, which have set benchmarks in energy efficiency, phase, logistics water conservation and solid waste recycling. All ITC’s super premium luxury hotels are LEED® Platinum certified. The ITC Green Centre, Gurgaon has been identified and waste as the highest Platinum rated Green Building in the world by the US Green Building management. Council during its recertification in 2012. ITC’s iconic property in Chennai, ITC Grand Chola, is now the largest LEED® Platinum rated green hotel in the world. 50 3. ITC’s afforestation programme has greened over 1,63,000 hectares, which has led to large-scale carbon sequestration besides creating over 70 million person days of employment. 4. ITC’s watershed development programme provides soil and moisture conservation to 1,49,000 hectares. This has enabled the Company retain its Water Positive status for 12 years in a row. 5. ITC’s Wealth Out of Waste programme promotes recycling and source segregation and creates awareness among all stakeholders on the benefits of the Reduce-ReuseRecycle Approach. This initiative has enabled ITC’s paperboards business to source and recycle post-consumer waste, thereby contributing to ITC’s Solid Waste Recycling Positive status. Poverty and Social Inequities Nearly 700 million people living in rural India, with low adaptive capacities, have a direct and symbiotic dependence on climate sensitive sectors (agriculture, forest and fisheries) and natural resources (water, bio-diversity, mangroves, coastal zones and grasslands) for their subsistence and livelihood. The limited options of alternative off-farm employment, combined with endemic poverty, continue to imperil the livelihood of millions of small and marginal farmers, mainly in the rain-fed agriculture regions. The production regime in rainfed agriculture is inherently fragile and getting more so due to a number of factors: 1. An estimated 147 million hectares suffer from various forms of land degradation due to water and erosion, stemming mainly from unstable use and inappropriate land management practices. Erosion rates are reported to be in the range of 5 to 20 tonnes/hectares. 2. As many as 99 districts spread over 14 states were identified by the Central Water Commission as drought prone. Such areas are concentrated in the states of Rajasthan, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. 3. Of the total water available for agriculture, groundwater alone accounts for 39% of the water used in agriculture. Yet the Central Ground Water Board reported that 1,565 blocks (one-third of the total) ranged from semi-critical to over-exploited groundwater status. ITC’s 4. Based on the current evidence, there is a compelling case to argue that these factors Wealth are likely to get exacerbated due to threat of climate change, leading to an increase in Out of Waste the frequency and intensity of droughts and floods. Climate change over the long-term will thus affect the rural economy in a number of ways – the majority of which would programme threaten food security for the most vulnerable people. promotes recycling and source segregation and creates awareness among all stakeholders on the benefits of the ReduceReuse-Recycle Approach. 51 ITC’s Initiatives Recognising that business enterprises are the economic organs of society and draw on societal resources, ITC believes that a company’s performance must be measured by its Triple Bottom Line contribution to building economic, societal and environmental capital. ITC is, therefore, committed to creating larger ‘stakeholder value’ by aligning its performance to such Triple Bottom Line objectives. As an Indian enterprise, the Company believes that this approach can unleash strong growth drivers to ensure inclusive and equitable development as well as long-term business sustainability and competitiveness. ITC has implemented an extensive social investments programme in geographies where it has strategic business interests and presence. To ensure long-term sustainability of these investments and to enable replication and scalability, these programmes have been implemented in the context of value chains of the Company. The programmes strive to empower stakeholder communities to conserve and manage their natural resources, create sustainable on and off-farm livelihood sources and improve social infrastructure in order to support creation of sustainable livelihoods on a significant scale backed by an empowered stakeholder community. The scale and impact of these initiatives are reflected in the following: 1. ITC’s e-Choupal network has benefitted over 4 million farmers in 40,000 villages. 2. ITC’s Social and Farm Forestry Programme has created over 70 million person days of employment for poor tribals and marginal farmers. 3. ITC’s Watershed Development Programme covers 1,49,000 hectares of moisturestressed areas. 4. ITC’s Livestock Development Programme has reached out to over 10,00,000 milch animals. 5. ITC’s Women’s Empowerment Programme has benefitted over 40,000 rural women. Recognising 6. ITC’s Supplementary Education Programme has covered over 3,00,000 children. that business enterprises are Supply Chain Management the economic The engagement with our supply chain has expanded given the growth of our new consumer organs of society goods businesses and it will be important to integrate the Triple Bottom Line approach and draw on amongst the supply chain to ensure long-term competitiveness by adopting a balanced societal resources, approach towards creation of livelihoods and economic viability of these units. ITC believes that Our supply chain comprises a large number of small-scale partners. Many of them operate a company’s under limiting circumstances in terms of their ability to invest in efficient technologies and performance must their necessity to rely on labour intensive practices. It will be important to integrate the Triple Bottom Line approach amongst the supply chain for long-term competitiveness by be measured by adopting a balanced approach towards creation of livelihoods and economic viability of the its Triple Bottom small scale units. Line contribution to building ITC’s Initiatives economic, The Company’s engagement with the supply chain is being extended in a structured and societal and phased manner. environmental ITC encourages its supply chain to comply with certifications, such as ISO 9001, ISO 14001 capital. and OHSAS 18001, to strengthen their quality, environmental and occupational health & safety systems. 52 The recent Board approved policies on Responsible Sourcing and Human Rights consideration of Stakeholders beyond the Workplace, provide the necessary framework for the progressive extension of the Company’s Triple Bottom Line approach across the supply chain over the next few years. Addressing Issues Related to Employee Safety Safety Given India’s favourable demographic dividend, it is evident that a large pool of India’s youth Culture is joining the workforce every year. It is critically important for an organisation to ensure the programmes total safety of this valuable resource. While we are progressing steadily towards our target are being of zero accidents within our premises, we cognise that accidents outside the workplace are institutionalised on the rise in India, given issues such as the steady proliferation of 2 wheelers on the roads, which are rendered unsafe due to poor conditions and inadequate infrastructure. and behavioural architecture ITC’s Initiatives inputs are being used to ITC has made significant investments over the years to ensure that all its business units rework and provide a safe, hygienic and humane environment to its employees. These are done on the basis of detailed engineering and management guidelines which are based on recalibrate EHS best international standards. To further strengthen efforts in this area, Safety Culture communication programmes are being institutionalised and behavioural architecture inputs are being and training used to rework and recalibrate EHS communication and training methodologies. Training methodologies. on EHS is provided to all employees (including service providers’ employees) and covers basic induction, job specific and refresher training. It has been observed over the years that the majority of road accidents have involved two wheelers and employees in the age group of 26-30 years. Accordingly a user-interactive 2-wheeler rider’s safety programme was developed and rolled out in 2011-12. Businesses were advised to ensure that all employees using 2-wheelers are trained and that there is a constant reinforcement of the message of exercising extreme care while on the road. These efforts have resulted in a sharp reduction in road accidents. Despite the fact that road infrastructure and traffic management outside ITC’s premises are well beyond our control, ITC is providing a special thrust on training and awareness building by translating the interactive ITC 2-wheeler rider’s safety programme into local languages to ensure 100% coverage of all employees. 53 This Eleventh Sustainability Report covers the Implementation Manual under G4 the sustainability performance of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines have Company for the period from April 1, 2013 to been followed for reporting on the General March 31, 2014. We report our performance and Specific Standard Disclosures. In on an annual basis and the last Sustainability addition, Sustainability issues for relevant Report was published in June 2013. sectors were also considered for materiality identification of ITC’s various businesses. ITC is headquartered at Virginia House, 37 J L The relevant aspects/indicators from Nehru Road, Kolkata, 700 071 (India). GRI-G4 Food Sector supplement have also The contact point for any clarifications on the been considered while reporting the Foods Report or for requesting additional copies of Business performance. this Report is Corporate Communications For the 2014 Report it was decided that the Department at the above address or e-mail: reporting boundary would include significant enduringvalue@itc.in. 100% subsidiary companies only. Accordingly, The reporting principles and methodology Bay Islands Hotels Limited, Srinivasa Resorts are in accordance with the “Comprehensive” Limited and Surya Nepal Private Limited have option of the fourth generation Global been excluded from the reporting boundary of Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability 2013-14. These three subsidiary companies Reporting Guidelines – G4. The Reporting do not materially impact ITC’s sustainability Principles and Standard Disclosures and performance during the reporting period. 54 G4-17, G4-20, G4-21, G4-23 This Report highlights the Triple Bottom Line Our Businesses/Units continue to proactively Our dimensions that reflect the organisation’s engage with key stakeholders, who either have significant economic, environmental and a major interest or are significantly affected Businesses/ social impacts, or substantively influence the by our operations, products or services. Units continue assessments and decisions of stakeholders. The details on stakeholder engagement are to proactively covered elsewhere in the Report. engage with key We continue our efforts to influence stakeholders, sustainability practices along the value chain who either have a and we intend to extend the process in the years to come, to cover all our significant major interest or suppliers. In this year, we have incorporated are significantly the performance of 20 exclusive Third Party affected by our Manufacturing (TPM) units catering to operations, the Notebooks segment of the Education and Stationery Products Business and ATC products or Limited, an associate company of ITC as part services. of our supply chain. The economic performance reported here is from the Company’s Report & Accounts (R&A) 2014, audited by independent External Auditors M/s Deloitte Haskins & Sells. The data in the environment & social sections of the Report is based on actual performance of the various businesses, factories, hotels and large offices of the Company and the subsidiary ITC Infotech India Limited. A comprehensive Integrated Sustainability Data Management System has been implemented across the Company to collect, collate and G4-17, G4-20, G4-21 55 analyse the sustainability performance data of each business. Robust internal systems Reporting and controls ensure the overall integrity and Boundary credibility of the disclosures in the Report. ITC Head Office: Kolkata (West Bengal) In order to obtain an objective and impartial opinion or conclusions on the Report, ITC has been seeking assurance from independent FMCG professional assurance providers on all Cigarette Business the Sustainability Reports since we started Divisional Head Quarters: reporting in 2004. In the current year, Kolkata (West Bengal) authenticity of the data and systems disclosed Units at: in Sustainability Report 2014 and conformance Kolkata (West Bengal) with ‘in accordance’ comprehensive requirements of the GRI G4 guidelines has Bengaluru (Karnataka) been verified by M/s KPMG, an independent Munger (Bihar) third party assurance provider. They have Saharanpur (Uttar Pradesh) conducted the assurance engagement as and Pune (Maharashtra) per the International Standard for Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 and have provided Trade Marketing and Distribution reasonable assurance the statement of which forms a part of this Report. Summary of work FMCG OTHERS performed by KPMG, the manner in which the Foods Business assurance engagement has been conducted, Divisional Head Quarters: the extent to which ITC has applied the GRI G4 Bengaluru (Karnataka) Guidelines and the conclusions on the Report Units at: are provided in the Assurance Statements section of this Report. Haridwar (Uttarakhand) Pune (Maharashtra) Personal Care Products Business Divisional Head Quarters: Kolkata (West Bengal) Units at: Haridwar (Uttarakhand) Manpura (Himachal Pradesh) Education and Stationery Products Business Divisional Head Quarters: Chennai (Tamil Nadu) Third Party Manufacturers of Note Books – 20 nos. Matches and Agarbatti Business Divisional Head Quarters: Chennai (Tamil Nadu) HOTELS Divisional Head Quarters: ITC Green Centre, Gurgaon (Haryana) ITC Hotels: ITC Maurya (New Delhi) 56 G4-17, G4-20 ITC Maratha (Mumbai) Bhadrachalam (Andhra Pradesh) ITC Grand Central (Mumbai) Bollaram (Andhra Pradesh) ITC Sonar (Kolkata) Kovai (Tamil Nadu) ITC Mughal (Agra) ITC Windsor (Bengaluru) PACKAGING AND PRINTING BUSINESS ITC Gardenia (Bengaluru) Divisional Head Quarters: ITC Rajputana (Jaipur) Chennai (Tamil Nadu) ITC Grand Chola (Chennai) Units at: My Fortune (Chennai) Munger (Bihar) WelcomHotel Sheraton New Delhi Tiruvottiyur (Tamil Nadu) LEAF TOBACCO BUSINESS Haridwar (Uttarakhand) Divisional Head Quarters: LIFESTYLE RETAILING AND Guntur (Andhra Pradesh) OTHERS Units at: Lifestyle Retailing Business Head Quarters Anaparti (Andhra Pradesh) at ITC Green Centre, Manesar (Haryana), Chirala (Andhra Pradesh) ITC Life Sciences & Technology Centre, Research Centre, Rajahmundry Bengaluru (Karnataka), (Andhra Pradesh) Central Projects Organisation, Mysore (Karnataka) Bengaluru (Karnataka) AGRI BUSINESS SUBSIDIARIES Divisional Head Quarters: ITC Infotech India Limited Hyderabad (Andhra Pradesh) Units at: Bengaluru (Karnataka) PAPERBOARDS AND Kolkata (West Bengal) SPECIALTY PAPERS BUSINESS Divisional Head Quarters: Hyderabad (Andhra Pradesh) ASSOCIATES Units at: ATC Limited, Tribeni (West Bengal) Unit at Hosur (Tamil Nadu) G4-17, G4-20 57 The following subsidiaries are included in the ITC’s Consolidated Financial Statements but are not included in the Sustainability Report 2014: Names of Subsidiaries Remarks Srinivasa Resorts Limited * Fortune Park Hotels Limited * Bay Islands Hotels Limited * Surya Nepal Private Limited * Landbase India Limited * BFIL Finance Limited MRR Trading & Investment Company Limited (a 100% subsidiary of BFIL Finance Limited) Russell Credit Limited Greenacre Holdings Limited (a 100% subsidiary of Russell Credit Limited) Wimco Limited * Prag Agro Farm Limited (a 100% subsidiary of Wimco Limited) * Pavan Poplar Limited (a 100% subsidiary of Wimco Limited) * Technico Pty Limited * Technico Technologies Inc. (a 100% subsidiary of Technico Pty Limited) * Technico Agri Sciences Limited * (a 100% subsidiary of Technico Pty Limited) Technico Asia Holdings Pty Limited (a 100% subsidiary of Technico Pty Limited) * Technico Horticultural (Kunming) Co. Limited (a 100% subsidiary of Technico Asia Holdings Pty Limited) * ITC Infotech Limited (a 100% subsidiary of ITC Infotech India Limited) * ITC Infotech (USA), Inc. (a 100% subsidiary of ITC Infotech India Limited) * Pyxis Solutions, LLC. (a 100% subsidiary of ITC Infotech (USA), Inc.) * Wills Corporation Limited Gold Flake Corporation Limited King Maker Marketing, Inc. WelcomHotels Lanka (Private) Limited * ITC Investments and Holdings Limited North East Nutrients Private Limited * 58 G4-17 The following Jointly controlled entities (incorporated Joint Ventures) are included in ITC’s Consolidated Financial Statements but are not included in the Sustainability Report 2014: Names of Joint Ventures Remarks Maharaja Heritage Resorts Limited # Espirit Hotels Private Limited # Logix Developers Private Limited # ITC Essentra Limited (formerly known as ITC Filtrona Limited) (a joint venture of # Gold Flake Corporation Limited) The following Group’s Associates are included in ITC’s Consolidated Financial Statements but are not included in the Sustainability Report 2014: Name Remarks Gujarat Hotels Limited # International Travel House Limited # Russell Investments Limited Divya Management Limited Antrang Finance Limited * ITC is currently in the process of defining the system for inclusion of these entities in the Sustainability Reporting boundary. Going forward the performance of these entities against identified material aspects will be reported in a progressive manner. # These entities will be progressively brought within the reporting boundary as part of ITC’s supply chain based on identified material aspects. These entities primarily invest in financial market instruments and do not have any material sustainability impacts. G4-17 59 The Company’s Corporate Governance processes are designed to support effective management of multiple businesses while retaining focus on each one of them. The practice of Corporate Governance at ITC takes place at three interlinked levels. Strategic Supervision By the Board of Directors (Board) Strategic Management By the Corporate Management Committee (CMC) By the Divisional / Strategic Business Unit Executive Management (SBU) Chief Executive assisted by the respective Divisional / SBU Management Committee (DMC) The role, powers and composition of the Board, Board Committees, CMC and DMC are available on the Company’s corporate website. 60 Governance Structure BOARD OF DIRECTORS CSR AND AUDIT NOMINATION & STAKEHOLDERS INDEPENDENT SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE COMPENSATION RELATIONSHIP DIRECTORS COMMITTEE COMMITTEE* COMMITTEE COMMITTEE** CORPORATE MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE DIVISIONAL/SBU CORPORATE MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS COMMITTEES Divisional/SBU Corporate Functions, each headed by Management Committees, each headed by a a Head of Department Divisional/SBU Chief Executive Corporate Functions include: Businesses include: Planning & Treasury, Accounting, Taxation, FMCG, Hotels, Paperboards, Specialty Risk Management, Legal, Secretarial, Papers & Packaging, Agri Business and Internal Audit, EHS, Human Resources, Corporate Information Technology Communications, Corporate Affairs, Research & Development, Central Projects Organisation and IT Support Services * Effective 1st April, 2014, a ‘Nomination & Compensation Committee’ (in place of the ‘Nominations Committee’ and the ‘Compensation Committee’) was constituted in terms of the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. ** Effective 1st April, 2014, the Board has constituted an ‘Independent Directors Committee’. 61 Board of Directors Management Committee and the seniormost level of executive management below the The ITC Board is a balanced Board comprising Executive Directors. Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors. The initial appointment of Executive Directors is normally for a period of three years. All SELECTION OF DIRECTORS Directors are liable to retire by rotation unless otherwise approved by the Shareholders or ITC’s Governance Policy requires that the provided under any statute. Non-Executive Directors, including Independent Directors, be drawn from amongst The Independent Directors have confirmed eminent professionals with experience in that they meet the criteria of ‘Independence’ business / finance / law / public as stipulated under the statute. administration and enterprises. Directors are appointed / re-appointed with COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD the approval of the Shareholders for a period The strength of the Board as on 31st March, of three to five years or a shorter duration in 2014, was fourteen, of which four were accordance with retirement guidelines as Executive Directors and seven Independent determined by the Board from time to time. Directors. The composition of the Board, The Nomination Committee recommends, including other Directorships / Committee inter alia, Executive Directors’ appointment memberships of Directors was as follows:to the Board, appointment to the Corporate No. of No. of Membership(s) [including Director other Chairmanship(s)] of Board Directorship(s)1 Committees of other companies2 Executive Directors Y. C. Deveshwar (Chairman) 1 Nil N. Anand 8 1 P. V. Dhobale Nil Nil K. N. Grant 2 1 Non-Executive Directors A. Baijal 3 1 (as Chairman) A. V. Girija Kumar 1 Nil S. H. Khan 6 9 (including 4 as Chairman) R. E. Lerwill Nil Nil S. B. Mathur 12 8 (including 3 as Chairman) P. B. Ramanujam Nil Nil S. S. H. Rehman Nil Nil A. Ruys Nil Nil M. Shankar (Ms) Nil Nil K. Vaidyanath Nil Nil 1. Excludes Directorship in Indian Private Limited Companies & Foreign Companies and Membership of Managing Committees of Chambers of Commerce / Professional Bodies. 2. Denotes Membership / Chairmanship of Audit Committee and / or Investors Grievance Committee of Indian Public Limited Companies. ITC’s Governance Policy requires the Board to meet at least six times in a year. During the year, six meetings of the Board were held. 62 Board Committees Company and eight Non-Executive Directors, seven of whom were Independent Directors. During the financial year 2013-14, there were five Board Committees – the Audit The Chairman of the Company was the Committee, the Compensation Committee, Chairman of the Committee. the Stakeholders Relationship Committee, the Nominations Committee and the CSR and CSR AND SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability Committee. COMMITTEE The CSR and Sustainability Committee (earlier AUDIT COMMITTEE known as ‘Sustainability Committee’), as on The Audit Committee, as on 31st March, 2014, 31st March, 2014, comprised the Chairman comprised five Non-Executive Directors, of the Company and three Non-Executive four of whom were Independent Directors. Directors, two of whom are Independent The Chairman of the Committee was an Directors. The Chairman of the Company was Independent Director. The Executive Director the Chairman of the Committee. representing the Finance function, the Chief The CSR and Sustainability Committee Financial Officer, the Head of Internal Audit and inter alia, reviews, monitors and provides the representative of the Statutory Auditors strategic direction to the Company’s CSR and were Invitees to the Audit Committee. The sustainability practices towards fulfilling its Head of Internal Audit was the Co-ordinator Triple Bottom Line objectives. The Committee and the Company Secretary was the Secretary seeks to guide the Company in integrating to the Committee. The representatives of the its social and environmental objectives Cost Auditors are invited to meetings of the with its business strategies and assists in Audit Committee whenever matters relating crafting unique models to support creation to cost audit are considered. All members of of sustainable livelihoods. The Committee the Committee are financially literate; three formulates, reviews & monitors the CSR Policy members, including the Chairman of the and recommends to the Board the annual Committee, have accounting and financial CSR Plan of the Company. The Committee management expertise. also reviews the Business Responsibility Report of the Company. COMPENSATION COMMITTEE ITC has clearly defined roles and responsibilities for specific areas that encompass the economic, The Compensation Committee, as on 31st environment and social dimensions. The March, 2014, comprised five Non-Executive Directors, four of whom were Independent The Directors. The Chairman of the Committee was an Independent Director. CSR and Sustainability STAKEHOLDERS Committee inter alia, reviews, RELATIONSHIP COMMITTEE monitors and The Stakeholders Relationship Committee (earlier provides strategic known as ‘Investor Services Committee’), as direction to the on 31st March, 2014, comprised five Directors, three of whom were Independent Directors. The Company’s CSR Chairman of the Committee was an Independent and sustainability Director. practices towards fulfilling its Triple NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE Bottom Line The Nominations Committee, as on 31st objectives. March, 2014, comprised the Chairman of the 63 Corporate Management Committee of the To review critical concerns raised by Company reviews and monitors performance stakeholder and the corrective actions on these dimensions to ensure progress on a taken, as applicable continual basis. To review progress towards achievement of The Corporate Management Committee has 50% renewable energy share by 2020 and constituted a Sustainability Compliance water security Review Committee, which presently comprises an Executive Director, two To provide guidance on ITC’s public members of the Corporate Management disclosures and engagement with Committee and five senior members of external agencies management. The role of the Committee, inter alia, includes monitoring and evaluating compliance with the Sustainability Policies of the Company and placing a quarterly Chair of the report thereon for review by the Corporate Management Committee. Highest The following are the Terms of Reference for the Governance Body Sustainability Compliance Review Committee :The Chairman is the Chief Executive of the Company. He is the Chairman of the Board To provide direction on the implementation and the CMC. His primary role is to provide of ITC’s sustainability policies ITC has constituted a Sustainability Compliance Review Committee, which presently comprises an Executive Director, two members of the Corporate Management Committee and five senior members of management. To approve appointment of third party assurance provider for sustainability reporting To review and approve the Annual Sustainability Report including the materiality matrix To facilitate the identification of issues beyond the horizon To review the sustainability risk portfolio of ITC and report back on closure by businesses 64 leadership to the Board and the CMC for have potential conflict with the interests of realising Company goals in accordance with the Company at large; such confirmations the charter approved by the Board. are placed before the Board. ITC has a diversified business portfolio, which All transactions of the Company with demands that the senior leadership has related parties, if any, or their subsequent an in-depth knowledge and understanding modifications, are required to be approved of the functioning of the Company, so as by the Audit Committee. Further, certain to enhance the value-generating capacity transactions with related parties which are of the organisation and contribute not in the ordinary course of business or not significantly to stakeholders’ aspirations on arm’s length basis would also require the and societal expectations. The Chairman of approval of the Board or Shareholders. the Company is therefore chosen from the The Company has a code of conduct for Executive Management. prevention of insider trading in the securities ITC has a diversified business portfolio, which demands that the senior leadership has an in-depth knowledge and understanding of the functioning of the Company, so as to enhance the value-generating capacity of the organisation and contribute Avoidance of of the Company. The ITC Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading, inter alia, significantly to Conflicts of prohibits purchase or sale of securities of the stakeholders’ aspirations Interest Company by Directors and employees while in possession of unpublished price sensitive and societal In terms of the ITC Code of Conduct, Directors, information in relation to the Company. expectations. senior management and employees must avoid situations in which their personal interests could conflict with the interests Performance of the Company. This is an area in which it is impossible to provide comprehensive of the Highest guidance but the guiding principle is that conflicts, if any, or potential conflicts, must Governance Body be disclosed to higher management for and Evaluation guidance and action as appropriate. The Board is equipped to perform its role of Senior management is required to confirm on business assessment through inputs from an annual basis that no material transaction time to time. Directors are fully briefed on all has been entered into by them which could business related matters, risk assessment & 65 minimisation procedures, and new initiatives Components included in determining Total ITC proposed by the Company. Directors are Compensation are Basic/Consolidated believes that also updated on changes / developments Salary, Supplementary Allowance, Utility every employee in the domestic / global corporate and Allowance, House Rent Allowance or is a trustee of industry scenario including those pertaining Perquisite Value of Housing, other Cash to statutes / legislation, social and Allowances, Variable Compensation its stakeholders economic environment. including Annual Performance Bonus / and must strictly The Board annually evaluates Directors Variable Pay/Sales Incentives as appropriate; adhere to the collectively to reinforce the principle of and value of Perquisites computed as per IT Code of Conduct collective responsibility. guidelines. and conduct The Board determines the remuneration of The ratio of the annual increase (percentage) the Chairman and other Executive Directors, himself/herself in Total Compensation of the highest paid on the recommendation of the Nomination at all times in a employee to the median annual increase & Compensation Committee; remuneration (percentage) in Total Compensation of all professional and of the Directors is subject to the approval management staff and office associates of the shareholders. Such remuneration is ethical manner. (excluding the highest paid employee) was linked to the performance of the Company in as much as the performance bonus is 10:28 in 2013-14. based on various qualitative and quantitative Total Compensation excludes contributions performance criteria. Such criteria also towards Retirement Benefits and includes the Company’s contribution with Options granted under the Employee respect to sustainable development of the Stock Option Scheme. society / nation & social investments and sensitivity to environment. Compensation for unionised employees is determined on the basis of Long Term Remuneration to Non-Executive Directors is Agreements (LTA) with the unions. by way of commission for each financial year; such commission is determined by the Board within the limit approved by the shareholders. Their remuneration is based, inter alia, Ethics and Integrity on Company performance and regulatory ITC believes that every employee is a trustee of provisions and is payable on a uniform basis to reinforce the principle of collective its stakeholders and must strictly adhere to a responsibility. Non-Executive Directors are also Code of Conduct and conduct himself/herself entitled to sitting fees for attending meetings at all times in a professional and ethical of the Board and Committees thereof, the manner. Integrity is a core value and forms the quantum of which is determined by the Board. basis of the Company’s organisational culture. ITC’s Code of Conduct, has been in place since 1996. The Code is anchored in three Remuneration and core principles good corporate governance, good corporate citizenship and exemplary Incentives personal conduct in relation to the Company’s business and reputation. The Code clearly ITC’s remuneration strategy is marketspells out guidelines for employees on dealing led, leverages performance and takes into with people in the organisation, ensuring a account the Company’s capacity to pay. The gender friendly workplace, relationships with remuneration package is competitive and is suppliers and customers, legal compliance, designed to attract and retain quality talent. health & safety, avoidance of conflict of The ratio of remuneration of the highest interest, transparency and auditability in paid employee to the median remuneration all their actions, protection of confidential for the year 2013-14 was 252:1, computed information, leading by example etc. on the basis of Total Compensation. The The ITC Code of Conduct is displayed on the median Total Compensation covers all Company’s corporate website and is shared management staff and office associates with employees at the time of their induction (excluding the highest paid employee). into the Company. Any violation of the ITC 66 Code of Conduct by an employee renders robustness to the process of ensuring that him/her liable for disciplinary action. business risks are effectively addressed. ITC’s Code of Conduct specifically states that Appropriate structures have been put in in the context of possible or potential areas place to proactively monitor and manage the of conflict of interest, such incidents must be inherent risks in Businesses with unique/ disclosed immediately to higher management relatively high risk profiles. for guidance and action as appropriate A robust and comprehensive framework A Whistleblower Policy is also in place of strategic planning and performance and has been displayed on the Company’s management ensures realisation of corporate website and has been appropriately business objectives, based on effective communicated to all employees. strategy implementation. The annual planning exercise requires all Businesses to clearly identify their top risks and set out a mitigation plan with agreed timelines and Risk Management accountability. Businesses have confirmed that all relevant business risks have As a diversified enterprise, the Company been identified, assessed, evaluated and has always had a system-based approach to appropriate mitigation systems have been business risk management. implemented. The Corporate Risk Management Cell works The combination of policies and processes, with the Businesses to establish and monitor as outlined above, adequately addresses the the specific profiles including strategic, various risks associated with the Company’s operational, environmental and social related businesses. The senior management of the risks. The process includes the prioritisation Company also periodically reviews the risk of risks, selection of appropriate mitigation management framework to maintain its strategies and periodic reviews of the contemporariness so as to effectively address progress on the management of risks. the emerging challenges in a dynamic A combination of centrally issued policies business environment. and divisionally evolved procedures brings A robust and comprehensive framework of strategic planning and performance management ensures realisation of business objectives, based on effective strategy implementation. 67 Economic Performance Progressive investments in multiple drivers of growth Sustaining high quality top line and earnings growth 26% growth in total shareholder returns over the last 18 years 50 fold increase in market capitalisation from 1996 Management opportunities, key challenges, etc. pertaining to each of the Company’s businesses. Approach ITC’s commitment towards maintaining its high economic growth trajectory is Economic encapsulated in its Vision statement, which is to ‘Sustain ITC’s position as one of India’s Performance most valuable corporations through worldITC continued to deliver strong financial class performance, creating growing value performance with healthy growth in revenues for the Indian economy and the Company’s and high quality earnings. This performance Continuing stakeholders’. ITC’s Mission is ‘to enhance the is particularly significant when viewed with its wealth generating capability of the enterprise against the backdrop of the extremely in a globalising environment delivering challenging business context in which it chosen strategy superior and sustainable stakeholder value’. was achieved, namely, a sluggish macroof creating economic environment which saw GDP growth The Company’s strategy is to ensure that multiple drivers each of its businesses is world-class and remaining below 5% for the second year in of growth, the internationally competitive in not only the succession. ITC’s robust financial performance was achieved against the backdrop of high Company is global Indian market but also progressively in offshore global markets. inflation and a marked deceleration in the presently the rate of growth of Private Final Consumption leading FMCG As a premier ‘Indian’ enterprise, and with a Expenditure; steep increase in taxes/duties marketer in India, larger commitment to enhancing its Triple on Cigarettes for two years in a row; weak Bottom Line contribution, ITC has consciously demand conditions in the FMCG industry; a trailblazer in crafted innovative strategies for ensuring the gestation costs relating to the new FMCG ‘green hoteliering’ competitiveness of the entire value chain of businesses; sharp escalation in input costs in and the second which it is a part. This philosophy has shaped the Paperboards, Paper & Packaging Business largest Hotel the Company’s approach to business to and a weak demand & pricing environment in embrace ‘a commitment beyond the market’. the Hotels businesses. chain in India, the clear market Gross Revenue for the year grew by 11.7% leader in the to ` 46,713 Crores. Net Revenue at ` 32,883 Indian Paperboard Goals and Crores grew by 11.1% primarily driven by a and Packaging Performance 16.0% growth in the non-cigarette FMCG businesses, 14.7% growth in Paperboards, industry and At the enterprise level, the Company’s goals Paper & Packaging together with 10.6% the country’s growth in the Cigarettes Business. Profit include Before Tax increased by 18.5% to ` 12,659 foremost Agri Sustaining ITC’s position as one of India’s Crores while Net profits at ` 8,785 Crores business player. most valuable corporations. registered a growth of 18.4%. ITC’s wholly Achieving leadership in each of the business Earnings Per Share for the year stood at owned subsidiary, ` 11.09 (previous year ` 9.45), while Cash segments within a reasonable time frame. ITC Infotech flows from Operations aggregated ` 10,760 India Limited, Achieving a Return on Capital Employed Crores compared to ` 9,596 Crores in the (ROCE) in excess of the Company’s cost of previous year. is one of India’s capital, at all times. fast growing Continuing with its chosen strategy of creating Please refer to the ‘Report of the Directors multiple drivers of growth, the Company Information and Management Discussion and Analysis’ is presently the leading FMCG marketer in Technology section of the Report and Accounts 2014 India, a trailblazer in ‘green hoteliering’ companies in (available on www.itcportal.com) for a and the second largest Hotel chain in the mid-tier detailed discussion on the Company’s market India, the clear market leader in the Indian standing in each of the business segments, as Paperboard and Packaging industry and the segment. well as the operating business environment, country’s foremost Agri business player. 70 ITC is one of India’s most admired and valuable corporations with a market capitalisation of over ` 2,70,000 Crores and has consistently featured amongst the top 10 private sector companies in terms of market capitalisation and profits over the ITC’s wholly owned subsidiary, ITC Infotech on Capital Employed improved substantially last eighteen India Limited, is one of India’s fast growing from 28.4% to 45.8%. Total Shareholder years. Information Technology companies in the Returns, measured in terms of increase in mid-tier segment. market capitalisation and dividends, grew at a compound annual growth rate of over ITC is one of India’s most admired and valuable 25.9%, placing the Company amongst the corporations with a market capitalisation of foremost in the country in terms of efficiency over ` 2,70,000 Crores and has consistently of servicing financial capital. featured amongst the top 10 private sector companies in terms of market capitalisation For the year ended 31st March, 2014, ITC and profits over the last eighteen years. declared a Dividend of ` 6.00 per share (previous year ` 5.25 per share). Additionally, during this period, the Company’s Net Revenues and Profits after taxes recorded an impressive compound growth of 15.3% and 21.6% per annum respectively. Return Direct Economic Impact ` Crores Key Economic Indicators* 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 CAGR Gross Revenue 26,200 30,528 34,872 41,810 46,713 16% Net Revenue 18,153 21,168 24,798 29,606 32,883 16% Exports 2,239 2,464 2,315 3,474 4,046 16% Contribution to 13,491 15,860 18,006 22,343 25,669 17% Government/Exchequer Cost of Bought out 10,819 12,374 14,255 17,031 18,391 14% Goods and Services Employee Benefits Expense 1,003 1,140 1,258 1,387 1,608 13% Payments to Providers of Capital 3,500 4,498 5,669 6,800 7,977 23% Interest and Dividend 3,891 3,512 3,596 4,235 4,775 Retained Profits -391 986 2,073 2,565 3,202 * Detailed Financial Performance available at www.itcportal.com 71 Revenue And Profit Before Depreciation Interest and Tax (PBDIT) ITC ` Crores continued to Year 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 CAGR make significant Gross Revenue 26,200 30,528 34,872 41,810 46,713 16% PBDIT 6,689 7,993 9,674 11,566 13,562 19% investments across its business domains, even as it has been Total Assets and successful in Returns progressively Despite the extremely challenging business generating environment during the year under review, ITC higher returns continued to make significant investments on the assets across its business domains, even as it has been successful in progressively generating deployed. higher returns on the assets deployed. Therefore, while the Balance Sheet size of the Company has expanded at a compound rate of 14% over the previous five years to reach ` 39,229 Crores as at 31st March, 2014, returns on assets deployed have increased from about 26% to about 32% during the same period. Return on Total Assets ` Crores 33% 40,000 32% 36,000 31% 30% 32,000 29% 28% 28,000 27% 26% 24,000 25% 24% 20,000 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total Assets (RHS) Return on Total Assets (LHS) 72 Market Capitalisation and Earnings Per Share ITC is one of India’s most admired and valuable corporations and has, over the last 18 years, consistently featured amongst the top 10 private sector companies in terms of market capitalisation & profits. The Company’s shares are amongst the most influential stocks in the Indian equity market. Year 1996 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 CAGR Market Capitalisation (` Crores)* 5,571 100,476 140,408 177,360 244,245 280,708 24% Adjusted EPS (`)** 0.35 5.31 6.45 7.88 9.39 11.05 21% * Market Capitalisation based on year-end closing prices quoted on the Bombay Stock Exchange. ** EPS adjusted for impact of Corporate Actions to facilitate like to like comparison. Analysis of Value Added Distribution of Value Added ` Crores 40,000 35,000 30,000 22% 22% 05% 25,000 05% 20,000 21% 23% 05% 19% 05% 15,000 06% 73% 10,000 73% 74% 72% 5,000 75% 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Exchequer Employees Providers of Capital Contribution to the National Exchequer The Company’s contribution accounts for about 7.7% of the total excise revenue of the Government of India. In the area of income tax, the Company is the highest tax payer in eastern India and among the top tax payers nationally in the private sector. 73 Contribution To Exchequer ` Crores 26,000 25,669 22,500 22,343 19,000 18,006 15,860 15,500 13,491 12,000 8,500 5,000 1,500 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Contribution to Exchequer Dividend Payout For the current year, the Company has declared a dividend of ` 6.00 per share of ` 1/each. Dividend Paid (incl. Dividend Distribution Tax) ` Crores 6,000 5,000 4,000 2449 1484 5583 3,000 4853 4089 2,000 2518 2004 1,000 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 Special Centenary Dividend Ordinary Dividend 2011 Special Dividend on 100th AGM 74 Locally Based as boilers, generator sets, air-conditioning and refrigeration machinery and electrical & Suppliers electronic systems are sourced largely from Indian or India-based suppliers. Competent The Company’s suppliers, both local and Indian contractors carry out construction and international, constitute one of its important renovation of new manufacturing facilities, stakeholder groups. Supplier engagements hotels, warehouses & offices. More than 87% are established on a conducive procurement of raw materials and stores & spares have been culture supported by policies, processes and locally procured during the reporting year. best practices to ensure that procurement activities are conducted in an open, The Company actively encourages competency transparent and non-discriminatory manner. development among local vendors and its Strong processes are in place to identify, vendor base includes numerous medium and develop and qualify vendors on the basis small scale enterprises that are proximate to its of supply assurance, innovation quotient, manufacturing locations. Where appropriate, product quality and delivering value for money. vendors are provided technical support and Procurement activity is conducted through managerial inputs to enable them to move established formal competitive processes and in tandem with the Company’s business documented discussions, recommendations plans. The Company also supports several and decisions. vocational training initiatives in the vicinity of its operations. These have been effective All businesses of the Company operate in empowering youth with requisite skills and modern facilities and utilise state-of-theincreased opportunities for entrepreneurial art technologies to ensure benchmarked development. In addition, the Company has quality and value. Accordingly, the Company continued to set up sourcing centres in rural sources specialised production machinery India for several of its product categories, both from reputed international and Indian directly and in collaboration with various State manufacturers – across large, medium and agencies and NGOs to assist in the creation of small scale sectors. Utility machinery such sustainable livelihoods. Raw Materials, Stores and Spares Consumed 9165 ` Crores 8018 Supplier 6826 engagements 6184 are established 5379 on a conducive procurement culture supported by policies, 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 processes and best practices 1335 1138 to ensure that 1067 procurement 1001 activities are 772 conducted in an open, transparent and nondiscriminatory 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 manner. Imported Indigenous 75 Financial Tax, which is repayable over a period ranging from 10 to 14 years. The amount of such Assistance from assistance in the form of Deferred Sales Tax due Government to be repaid by the Paperboards and Specialty Papers Division (PSPD) is given below: The states of Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu offer incentives by way of deferment of Sales Deferred Sales Tax ` Crores 100 92 91 90 86 80 78 70 66 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Deferred Sales Tax 76 Engaging Talent, customer-focused, competition-differentiated, performance-driven and future-capable. Local Hiring The Company’s Human Resource and Senior Development strategy seeks to fulfil this mandate through careful selection and Management rigorous implementation of a wide range of programmes and interventions. ITC’s human resource management systems and processes are relentlessly ` Crores 1,800 ITC’s 1,600 human resource 1,400 management 1,200 systems and 1,000 processes are 1112 1331 relentlessly 800 1024 customer902 600 focused, 783 400 competitiondifferentiated, 200 117 148 162 102 128 performance0 118 121 106 127 115 driven and 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 future-capable. Contribution to Provident & Other Funds Workmen & Staff Welfare Salaries & Wages 77 ITC believes that its competitive capability political, religious or union organisation or to build future-ready businesses and majority/minority group. create enduring value for stakeholders is The Company’s talent management strategy enriched by a dedicated and high-quality is focused on building a future-ready human resource pool. Therefore, nurturing talent bank in the organisation to ensure a quality talent and caring for the well-being pipeline of high-quality managerial talent, of employees are an integral part of ITC’s specialists and business leaders. ITC’s talent work culture, which focuses on creating engagement approach focuses on attracting a conducive work environment that helps and nurturing quality talent, supported deliver winning performance. by significant investments in learning and The Company’s policy on “Diversity and Equal development. Opportunity” is premised on its fundamental In 2013-14, the minimum wage paid to entry belief that diversity at the workplace level workers of the Company was creates an environment favourable to equal to or more than the statutory engagement, alignment, innovation and minimum wage applicable at all high performance. The Policy provides for locations of ITC’s operations. Employees’ diversity and equal opportunities to all Retirement Benefit Schemes include employees across the Company, based on employee pension, provident fund and merit and ability. The policy also ensures a gratuity, which are administered through duly work environment that is free from any form constituted and approved independent trusts. ITC’s talent engagement approach focuses on attracting and nurturing quality talent, supported by significant investments in learning and development. of discrimination amongst its employees Provident Fund and Family Pension in compensation, training and employee contributions in respect of unionised staff, as benefits, based on caste, religion, disability, required by applicable statutes, are deposited gender, sexual orientation, race, colour, with the Government in a timely manner. ancestry, marital status or affiliation with a 78 Pension plans and other applicable employee ITC has diversified plan assets in order to benefits obligations are determined and protect capital and optimise returns within funded in accordance with independent acceptable risk parameters. In addition, actuarial valuation. Expected rate of return funds are consistently sustained to meet on plan assets is based on the current requisite superannuation commitments. portfolio of assets, investment strategy and market scenario. Contribution to Provident and Other Funds ` Crores 77 51 53 38 20 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 127 121 118 115 106 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Contribution to Pension Funds Contribution to Provident & Other Funds 79 Corporate Social full potential cannot be realised due to poor social infrastructure in the areas of Responsibility education and health. ITC’s overarching aspiration to create In pursuance of the Company’s policy on significant and sustainable societal value Corporate Social Responsibility (ITC’s CSR is inspired by a vision to subserve a larger Policy detailed in the Policies & Guidelines national purpose and abide by the strong section of this Report and in the section value of trusteeship. This larger commitment on Report of the Directors & Management is manifest in ITC’s CSR initiatives that include Discussion and Analysis in the Annual the most disadvantaged sections of society, Report and Accounts 2014), the thrust of the especially in rural India, through economic Company’s CSR strategy and programmes empowerment based on grassroots capacity has been focused on (a) Diversification of building. In the social sector, the two most farming systems of rural communities by important stakeholders for the Company are: broad-basing the farm and off-farm based livelihoods portfolio of the poor, through Rural communities with whom ITC’s agrian integrated approach that includes the businesses have forged a long and enduring development of wastelands, watersheds, partnership through their crop development agriculture and animal husbandry, and (b) activities and the ITC e-Choupal, the world’s Economic empowerment of women and largest unique rural digital infrastructure creation of social capital in the catchment network that enables dissemination of habitations of manufacturing units to enable valuable information relating to weather these communities to acquire relevant and conditions, agricultural best practices, ruling contemporary skills. market prices etc.; these households operate Various CSR activities in which the Company in rain-fed conditions in some of the most has been engaged during the current year moisture-stressed regions of the country. are listed on the next page. Communities residing in close proximity of the Company’s production units, whose ITC’s overarching aspiration to create significant and sustainable societal value is inspired by a vision to subserve a larger national purpose and abide by the strong value of trusteeship. 80 Activities/Initiatives/Programmes Area (including through trusts established by the Company) Promotion and Support of Primary Education Promoting and facilitating primary education, employment enhancing Vocational Training/ vocational skills and livelihood Skills Development enhancement programmes Livelihood Enhancement (Integrated Animal Husbandry Programme, Agriextension services, Livestock Development, Farm Productivity Enhancement) Environmental Sustainability (Social Forestry, Soil and Moisture Conservation, Sustainable Water Security, source segregation of recyclable materials Ensuring through Wealth Out of Waste initiative, Environmental Sustainability Conservation of Natural Resources, promotion and advocacy of sustainability in partnership with CII-ITC Centre of Excellence etc.) Rural Development Projects Rural Development Eradicating hunger, poverty and Sanitation malnutrition, promoting health care (including preventive healthcare) and sanitation and making Health infrastructure, healthcare available safe drinking water and medical aid Women’s Empowerment and programmes for reducing Women’s Micro Enterprises, inequalities faced by socially and Sustainable livelihoods for women economically backward groups Protection of national heritage, Promotion of Art and Culture Art and Culture * Details are available in the Social Investments Mission Sunehra Kal section of this Report The Company’s CSR spends over the last three years is as follows: ` Crores 2012 2013 2014 Corporate Social Responsibility spends* 58 78 107 Average Net Profits (as specified under Companies Act, 2013) for three immediately 6003 7320 8847 preceding Financial Years (FYs) CSR spends as a % of Average Net Profits (as defined by Companies Act, 2013) for three 0.96% 1.06% 1.20% immediately preceding Financial Years (FYs) * The expenditure on CSR has been aligned with the activities specified in Schedule VII to the Companies Act, 2013. Previous year’s figures have also been realigned to correspond with the current year’s disclosures. 81 Environmental Performance Management Approach Energy Significant Air Emissions Water Management Recycling and Waste Management Raw Materials Biodiversity The challenges related to environment and are a lifeline to a significant portion of the ecosystems especially due to climate change country’s population. Rising sea levels on are complex, long-term and inter-related, the other hand will increase the risk of especially in terms of its impact on water contaminating coastal groundwater supplies, and availability of other natural resources. thereby further aggravating the situation. This in turn has wide-ranging implications Resultant disruption in crop yields on ITC and its stakeholders. ITC accordingly could lead to increased competition for has identified several physical and regulatory agricultural commodities. risks that can impact the long-term ITC sustainability of the organisation:Extreme weather events like hurricanes has identified In India, about 75% of its population and typhoons are an anticipated outcome several physical and around 50% of its workforce is of climate change. These may pose a major dependent on agriculture and related threat to ITC properties in coastal areas and regulatory and may disrupt operations. These extreme activities for livelihoods. Since over tworisks that can thirds of agricultural output is generated weather events can also disrupt rail and impact the longthrough rain-fed agriculture, any change road traffic links,further affecting supply of term sustainability in precipitation patterns owing to climate essential raw materials and finished goods. change would significantly disrupt yields. of the Increased temperatures would increase organisation. Retreating glaciers will also adversely impact air conditioning costs and also impact water availability in snow-fed rivers, which agricultural productivity. 84 Energy security is expected to be one of Achieve, Trade (PAT) and Renewable Energy the biggest developmental challenges with Certificates (REC) schemes in order to around 400 million people lacking reliable incentivise low carbon energy usage, which access to energy in India. Climate change could have an impact on our Paperboards impacts will assume increasing importance and Specialty Papers Business. in the context of continued usage of fossil Rapid and unplanned urbanisation is Energy fuels and development of viable sustainable alternatives and achieving highest levels putting increasing pressure on basic civic security is of energy efficiency will be of paramount infrastructure and issues such as municipal expected to be importance. waste disposal are assuming critical importance. Given our significant presence one of the biggest India’s commitment to the United Nations in the FMCG as well as Packaging Business developmental Framework Convention on Climate Change, segments, ITC also cognises for these challenges with to reduce its GHG emissions per unit of concerns. The Company is progressively around 400 GDP by 20-25% by 2020 over 2005 levels implementing appropriate programmes in million people (as part of the Nationally Appropriate partnership with Civil Society Organisations Mitigation Action plan) is also in alignment to address the twin issues of waste lacking reliable with its National Action Plan on Climate management and creation of sustainable access to energy Change. This could lead to a carbon tax or livelihoods for people engaged in the in India. additional requirements under the Perform, informal rag picking business. 85 Management Approach At an organisational level, the Company has adopted the following approach in its relentless efforts to continuously improve environmental performance:Ensuring the sustainability of agriculture through integrated watershed development and soil and moisture conservation projects whilst creating sustainable livelihoods for large numbers of marginal farmers. Evaluating agricultural productivity/ adaptation issues related to climate change and providing support to farmers through extension services which includes information on better agricultural practices, market access, etc. Maximising water usage efficiencies and augmenting rainwater harvesting. Reinforcing the protection of our assets in coastal areas in anticipation of increased severity of storms and cyclones. natural resource usage across its operations. In addition, ITC also constantly endeavours Developing appropriate contingency to create a positive environmental footprint. and insurance plans for uninterrupted Large-scale Social and Farm Forestry, ITC’s production and delivery, in situations of Integrated Watershed Development, extreme weather events that may disrupt Sustainable Agriculture Practices and logistic approach road and rail traffic. network optimisation of our FMCG products, focusses on Moving beyond statutory compliance with etc. are a few examples of extensive initiatives ensuring the in this direction. respect to emissions, effluents and wastes. sustainability Board approved Policies such as those on of agriculture Incorporating “Green Building”/“Green Environment, Health and Safety, Life Cycle through Factory” features into existing and Sustainability of Products and Services and upcoming establishments. integrated Responsible Sourcing, provide the necessary watershed Adopting a low carbon growth path by direction to address the direct impacts reducing specific energy consumption, of the Company’s own operations as well development and as progressively extend the efforts along increasing the use of energy from renewable soil and moisture sources, reducing specific GHG emissions the supply chain. (please refer to Policies conservation and enhancing carbon sequestration. available at www.itcportal.com) projects whilst It is the overall responsibility of the Contributing towards waste management creating through minimisation of its own waste Divisional/Strategic Business Unit (SBU) sustainable Chief Executives, through the members of generation, maximising waste reuse & the respective Management Committees, livelihoods for recycling and using post-consumer waste General Managers and Unit Heads, to ensure large numbers as raw material. implementation of relevant policies and of marginal ITC Businesses have internalised standards on environmental performance. This farmers. environmental best practices on the basis of also includes institution of various committees which, it strives to maximise the efficiencies of and designating specific responsibilities. 86 ITC’s Corporate Environment, Health & forward, ITC will also undertake life cycle Safety (EHS) Department is responsible for assessment studies of more of its products Board reviewing and updating Corporate Standards, and services for identifying opportunities to approved verifying compliance, providing guidance and continuously improve environmental impacts Policies such support as required. Compliance is regularly across the value chain. as those on monitored and evaluated by the Sustainability Compliance Review Committee (SCRC) of the Environment, Corporate Management Committee (CMC). Health and Safety, Life Cycle Sustainability of The Road Ahead Products and Services and At present, some of the businesses have completed necessary internal assessments Responsible so as to set targets and record progress Sourcing, provide on key performance indicators. The the necessary implementation of an organisation-wide direction to integrated sustainability data management system provides the platform to benchmark address the direct perfomance internally among business units, impacts of the as well as monitor data of each business Company’s own on resource utilisation and environmental operations as well impact vis-a-vis production. Studies are being as progressively carried out so that business-wise quantified targets can be progressively defined for extend the efforts prioritised material environmental aspects. along the supply Systems for performance review against chain. targets are also being put in place. Going 87 Management 2. Phased implementation of energy conservation initiatives and renewable Approach energy generation projects. Economic progress and long-term business In 2013-14, 38.1% of the total energy sustainability are today threatened by the consumption of ITC was met from renewable challenge of natural resource depletion and energy sources. ITC intends to achieve a its impacts on long term energy security. 50% renewable energy share by 2020 in a This is manifest in the consistent and sharp progressive manner. A detailed study was increase in electricity and fuel prices over carried out during 2013-14 to understand the years. the issues related to the achievement of this target, taking into account various businesses ITC has responded to the evolving energy as well as unit-specific aspects like existing scenario in the country by aligning its energy portfolio and energy conservation & corporate strategy so as to ensure: renewable energy projects, future expansion 1. Identification and evaluation of energy plans, etc. Evolving regulatory frameworks security risks given ITC’s future expansion in each state were also taken into account, plans, evolving regulatory frameworks, for instance Perform Achieve and Trade (PAT) techno-commercial feasibility and sociomechanism, Renewable Energy Purchase political aspects. Obligation, etc. Since the Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business accounts for 90% 88 of the Company’s energy consumption, special Break-up of Energy from attention was paid to its unique requirements. Renewable Sources 5.9% 0.2% Our Performance ENERGY CONSUMPTION 93.9% WITHIN THE ORGANISATION In 2013-14, ITC Units consumed 21,433 Terra Joules (TJ) of energy. Despite significant growth in almost all businesses (7.8% growth in production volumes at Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business itself), there has been a marginal increase of 0.4% in the total energy consumption as compared to the previous year (21,347 TJ in 2012-13). This has been achieved through better capacity utilisation and concerted efforts on energy conservation implemented Biomass Wind Solar across several ITC Units. Renewable energy to the extent of 8,175 TJ in ITC was derived from the following sources:Sources of Energy in ITC (2013-14) Black liquor waste from pulping process and waste wood biomass from chipping Energy Purchased from 3.0% operations in the Bhadrachalam Unit and State Utilities locally sourced chip/sawdust and deoiled bran in the Kovai Unit of the Paperboards 38.1% of the total energy Energy from and Specialty Papers Business consumption of 38.1% Renewable Sources ITC was met from Wind Energy farms for Packaging & Printing, renewable energy Cigarettes, Hotels, Paperboards & Specialty sources Energy Directly Papers and Leaf Tobacco Businesses 58.9% from Fossil Fuels ITC Break-up of Direct Energy from Fossil Fuels intends to achieve a 50% 7.8% 1.8% renewable energy share by 2020 in a progressive 90.4% manner. Solid Fuel Liquid Fuel Gaseous Fuel 89 Solar thermal systems in several Units to conventionally designed hotels. ITC hotels are not only energy efficient by design but In 2013-14, the total energy contribution also conserve fossil fuels by maximising from renewable sources, decreased by 7.1% over the previous year (8,802 TJ in 2012-13). Energy Consumption within ITC across Businesses: Renewable Energy Utilisation in ITC Energy % 9000 38.5 41.2 38.1 42 Businesses consumption Contribution 8000 35.3 36 (in TJ) to ITC Total 30.9 8802 8175 7000 26.3 30.6 8133 30 7957 24.1 6622 Paperboards 6000 5909 24 and Specialty 19,264 89.9% 5000 18 Papers 4000 3571 12 3437 3000 06 Hotels 612 2.9% 2000 00 Leaf 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 421 2.0% Tobacco Cigarettes 369 1.7% Total Percentage of Foods & Renewable Energy (TJ) Total Energy Personal Care 375 1.7% Products Primary contributors to this decline in Packaging renewable energy generation were:293 1.4% and Printing The Paperboards Unit at Bhadrachalam Others* 99 0.4% confronted the challenge of reduced * Others include Agri Business, ITC Infotech, availability of domestic wood, which led to ITC Life Sciences & Technology Centre and a reduction in the production of virgin pulp large offices and greater dependence on imported pulp. use of wind energy. Several of ITC’s hotels This in turn resulted in reduced generation are sourcing 100% of their electrical energy of black liquor which was compensated by requirements from wind farms. In order to higher coal production. continually reduce our energy footprint, SubReduced consumption of chip/saw dust and green features are also being incorporated stantial in all existing hotels, manufacturing Units, deoiled bran due to availability issues at the improvements Paperboards Unit in Kovai. warehouses and office complexes apart from in specific enall new construction. Substantial improvements in specific ergy performance energy performance were achieved at many were achieved at of the Units through a focused approach many of the Units on energy conservation through rigorous third party audits and implementation through a focused of the recommendations coupled with approach on enbetter capacity utilisation. As a result of ergy conservation implementation of energy conservation through rigorous measures, a saving of 81.03 TJ in direct energy third party audits consumption and of 45.99 TJ in indirect energy consumption has been achieved in and implemen2013-14. tation of the The LEED® Platinum rating has been accorded recommendations to all of ITC’s luxury hotels, making it the coupled with greenest luxury hotel chain in the world. better capacity This, in effect, implies a significant reduction utilisation. in specific energy consumption with respect 90 Provided below is a snapshot of the Units improved significantly in 2013-14, over the where specific energy consumption has previous year: Specific Energy Consumption in Name of Unit of Percentage Remarks Unit 2012-13 2013-14 Measurement Reduction The Improved LEED® Paperboards capacity Platinum and Specialty utilisation and 16.63 13.79 GJ/t 17.1 implementation rating has been Papers Unit at Kovai of energy accorded to all conservation measures of ITC’s luxury Improved hotels, making Printing and capacity it the greenest utilisation and Packaging 5.42 4.74 GJ/t 12.5 implementation luxury hotel Unit at chain in the of energy Haridwar conservation world. measures Implementation GJ/Number of Hotel ITC of energy 0.79 0.70 Guest Room 11.4 Maurya conservation Nights measures Improved grid availability and Cigarette Unit implementation 5.37 4.81 GJ/MNC eq.* 10.4 at Munger of energy conservation measures Reduction in pulping Paperboards volumes and and Specialty 33.77 31.25 GJ/t 7.5 implementation Papers Unit at of energy Bhadrachalam conservation measures Figures are rounded off to nearest decimal * MNC eq Million Number of Cigarettes equivalent 91 However, specific energy consumption has Reporting Standard’. In order to ensure increased in the Units mentioned in the adoption of uniform methodologies across the table below during 2013-14 in comparison organisation, Standard Operating Procedures to the previous year. Though these Units have been laid down, to facilitate quality contribute only 1.2% to the overall ITC control in terms of monitoring, recording energy consumption figures, measures are and finally collation, using ITC’s Integrated being initiated to reverse the trend. Sustainability Data Management System (ISDMS). Energy factors (Net Calorific Values) For calculating energy consumption within for solid fuels are taken from the actual fuelthe organisation, ITC has followed the World test reports while for liquid and gaseous fuels, Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business default factors from the IPCC Guideline for Council for Sustainable Development National Green House Gas Inventories (2006) (WBCSD) ‘GHG Corporate Accounting and have been taken into consideration. For Name of Specific Energy Consumption in Unit of Percentage Remarks calculating Unit 2012-13 2013-14 Measurement Increase energy Due to ongoing project consumption activities, parallel within the production facilities Cigarettes being maintained. organisation, ITC manufacturing 1.58 1.95 GJ/MNC eq 23.4 This was a temporary Unit at has followed the arrangement and with Kolkata commissioning of new WRI and WBCSD facility in Jan 2014. ‘GHG Corporate Accounting and Personal Care Reporting Products 0.83 1.03 GJ/t 24.1 Change in the Standard’. (Soap) product mix Unit at Manpura Foods Addition of (Biscuit) Unit 3.08 3.66 GJ/t 18.8 new product at Haridwar variants Packaging and Change in the product Printing Unit 4.30 5.08 GJ/t 18.1 mix, new product and at Tiruvottiyur ‘label’ and increase in flexibles Figures are rounded off to nearest decimal 92 ENERGY CONSUMPTION The Road Ahead OUTSIDE OF THE ORGANISATION Based on a holistic feasibility analysis and the fact that majority of the Company’s During 2013-14, ITC has expanded the energy consumption in the entire value chain boundary of energy accounting, both of products is attributable to manufacturing upstream and downstream. Accordingly, operations, ITC’s businesses will continue 1,641 TJ of energy consumed outside of to accord high priority to energy efficiency the organisation has been accounted for in projects within a Unit’s premises. ITC 2013-14 as part of inbound transportation recognises that availability of biomass for fuel of raw materials, outbound transportation of will face increasing competition and while products and wastes, employee commuting, solar and wind energy can contribute towards local road travel by Hotels business guests, meeting electrical energy requirements, Third Party Manufacturing (TPM) units finding alternatives to fossil fuel for meeting catering to the notebooks segment of its thermal energy requirements will be more Education and Stationery Products Business, challenging. Accordingly specific focus will and ATC Limited, an associated company. For be accorded to energy conservation and computation methodology, please refer to efforts will be made to drive the same in a Annexure — GHG Inventory: Quantification strategic manner. Methodologies. The boundary of accounting will be progressively expanded in the years to come, based on our ability to overcome challenges with regard to data quality. ITC’s businesses will continue to accord high priority to energy efficiency projects within a Unit’s premises. G4-21 93 Greenhouse Gases Our Performance ITC has computed its greenhouse gas (GHG) ITC firmly Management inventory, including GHG emissions, biogenic carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions and GHG believes that Approach removals, in accordance with ISO 14064:2006, the future which is the latest international standard ITC firmly believes that the future specifying principles and requirements at competitiveness competitiveness of organisations will depend the organisation level for quantification and of organisations on their ability to adopt effective strategies reporting of GHG emissions and removals. for a low carbon growth path. ITC has will depend on The 2013-14 inventory has been verified responded to the challenges emerging from their ability to by KPMG at the “Reasonable Assurance” the threat of climate change by aligning its level. To set organisational boundaries for adopt effective corporate strategy with the National Action consolidated GHG emissions, ITC has utilised strategies for Plan on Climate Change (NAPCC). This has the operational control approach for the a low carbon already been detailed in the ‘Disclosure on various entities covered under the Report. Management Approach’ section. growth path. Based on applicability, ITC has accounted for the following gases in its GHG inventory: 94 Carbon Dioxide (CO2), Methane (CH4), of materials by ITC’s Agri Business Division Nitrous Oxide (N2O), Hydrofluorocarbons and the Mysore Unit of the Leaf Tobacco (HFCs), Perfluorocarbons (PFCs) and Sulphur Business as well as increased emissions Hexafluoride (SF6). from transportation of products and raw materials by ITC’s Paperboards and In 2013-14, ITC’s total GHG emissions Specialty Papers Business. (Scope 1, 2 &3) were 16,12,914 tonnes of ITC has CO2-equivalent (14,74,558 tonnes in 2012computed its 13) and CO2 emissions from combustion of biomass was 7,42,220 tonnes (8,38,969 greenhouse gas tonnes in 2012-13). The increase in total ITC’s GHG inventory for the year (GHG) inventory, 2013-14 is as follows: GHG emissions with respect to 2012-13 is including GHG primarily attributable to the following: Direct GHG Emissions emissions, 12,34,128 tonnes (Scope 1) biogenic carbon Increase in Scope 1 emissions as a result of increased fossil fuel consumption due CO2 Emissions dioxide (CO2) to the reduced availability of bio-mass from combustion 7,42,220 tonnes of biomass emissions and in the Paperboards and Specialty Papers GHG removals, in Business, as well as the inclusion of two Energy Indirect GHG new Units, the Mysore Unit of ITC’s Leaf Emissions (Scope 2) 1,76,649 tonnes accordance with Tobacco Business and ITC Grand Chola of ISO 14064:2006, ITC’s Hotels Business, within the reporting Other Indirect GHG which is the latest 2,02,137 tonnes boundary (please refer to Energy section in Emissions (Scope 3) international page 90 for further details) GHG 45,29,311 tonnes standard Increase in Scope 3 emissions owing to Removals specifying inclusion of emissions from transportation principles and requirements at the organisation level for quantification and reporting of GHG emissions and removals. The 2013-14 inventory has been verified by KPMG at the “Reasonable Assurance” level. G4-21 95 GHG Emissions and Sequestration 4785 4700 4380 4200 4529 4011 3690 3700 3695 3200 2700 2200 2025 2638 2046 1709 1572 1564 1613 1700 1352 1475 1202 1143 1200 1013 1058 1244 700 311 906 839 742 200 2003-04 2004-05 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 CO2e Emission CO2e Sequestered CO2 Emissions from combustion of biomass (Scope 1, 2 & 3 kilotonnes) (kilotonnes) (kilotonnes), computed since 2012-13 * Dip in CO2 sequestration in 2010-11 caused by reduced productivity of Eucalyptus plantations due to infestation in some areas and lesser incremental addition of plantation area. * Dip in CO2 sequestration numbers in 2012-13 is primarily due to the revision in methodology of computing the CO2 sequestration in order to comply with ISO 14064:2006 requirements. * Increase in CO2 sequestration in 2013-14 is primarily due to increase in the planted area of Subabul and Casuarina species as compared to the previous year. ITC’s Social and Farm Forestry Initiatives From 2013-14 onwards, ITC has started have added close to 21,000 hectares of monitoring the GHG intensity of its plantations during 2013-14. Total plantations operations, in terms of the Scope 1 and Scope as on March 31, 2014 stand at over 1,63,000 2 emissions:hectares. The Social and Farm Forestry Specific GHG emissions of Paperboards Initiatives have helped sequester 45,29,311 and Specialty Papers Business Units, which tonnes of CO2 in this year, thus consolidating together accounted for around 82% of total ITC’s status as a ‘Carbon Positive Company’ GHG emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2) in ITC, for the 9th year in a row. are given in the table below. Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business Total plantations Name of Specific GHG Emissions as on March 31, Unit (tCO2e/ tonne of production) 2014 stand at Bhadrachalam 1.71 Bollaram 0.10 over 1,63,000 Kovai 1.08 hectares. Tribeni 4.80* * This Unit specialises in low GSM products and laminates which are energy intensive, and uses fossil fuel based energy. 96 The specific GHG emissions of ITC’s other decreased by 8.1% (tonnes of CO2e emission/ businesses, which contributed to about 16% tonne of product transported) as compared of the total GHG emissions (Scope 1 and to the previous year for the same product Scope 2), are given below. categories. This has been achieved by improvement in vehicle utilisation capacity across the supply chain and extensive Unit for ITC’s network de-layering in order to increase Specific Specific efforts in Business GHG direct shipments to destination warehouses, GHG thereby avoiding intermediate movements. the direction Emissions Emissions of energy Cigarettes 0.593 tCO2e/ reduction in MNC eq The Road Ahead various Units and tCO2e/ the optimisation Foods 0.518 ITC intends to progressively expand the tonne of distribution boundary for monitoring and reporting Packaging and tCO2e/ of Scope 3 GHG emissions, beyond the logistics of 0.504 existing coverage of significant Third Party Printing tonne finished goods Manufacturers (TPMs), upstream and for its FMCG Leaf tCO2e/ downstream transportation of materials and 0.425 Businesses have Tobacco tonne employee commuting. Our focus will be to tCO2e/ continuously reduce Specific GHG emissions helped control Hotels 0.087 Number of in manufacturing operations as well as GHG emissions Guest Room transportation of materials. Nights in 2013-14. In order to spearhead its carbon positive growth path, ITC plans to set realistic and tangible targets of reduction in specific ITC’s accounting of Scope 1, 2 & 3 GHG Scope 1 and 2 emissions based on historical emissions is based on the ‘GHG Protocol performance as well as future plans. It is Corporate Accounting and Reporting expected that the process of target setting Standard’ and the ‘GHG Protocol Corporate for each Business and individual Units will be Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting completed during 2014-15. and Reporting Standard’ issued by the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). The standards, methodologies, tools and assumptions used OTHER for quantification of the GHG emissions and removals by various sources, have been SIGNIFICANT explained at length in Annexure – GHG Inventory: Quantification Methodologies. AIR EMISSIONS ITC’s efforts in energy reduction across its various Units and the optimisation of distribution logistics of finished goods for its Management FMCG Businesses have helped control GHG Approach emissions in 2013-14. Uncontrolled air pollution in terms of In 2013-14, 20,909 tonnes of GHG emissions of SOx, NOx, Particulate Matter emissions (scope 1 & 2) were avoided by etc. may have adverse impacts on vegetation, the implementation of energy conservation health of human beings and animals, measures. biodiversity as well as crop yields. Cognising Specific Scope 3 emissions due to for the adverse impacts of air pollutants on transportation of FMCG products (Cigarettes, the ecosystem and the critical need towards Personal Care and Foods) in 2013-14 have mitigating them, ITC has continued to invest 97 in reducing air emission levels through PM: 690, NOx: 649 and SO2: 790 tonnes). The adoption of cleaner technologies/fuels, increase in the total emissions over last year monitoring of combustion efficiencies and was due to the increased utilisation of fossil investment in state-of-the-art pollution fuels in ITC, as a result of reduced availability control equipment, such as plasma filters of bio-mass. and electrostatic precipitators. In 2013-14, PM emission from the Bhadrachalam Unit was 0.972 kg per BDMT Our Performance (Bone-Dry Metric Tonne) of production, way below the average emission of 3.8 kg All our Units monitor significant air emission per BDMT by large scale Indian mills as parameters, such as Particulate Matter (PM), per the Report by the Centre for Science & Nitrogen Oxides (NOX) and Sulphur Dioxide Environment (Source: ‘All About Paper – The (SO2) on a regular basis to ensure compliance life cycle of Indian Pulp and Paper Industry’, with internal norms that are more stringent Green Rating project, 2004). than regulatory requirements. In 2013-14, the specific NOx emission in the In 2013-14, total significant air emissions Unit at Bhadrachalam continued to be lower included 781 tonnes of PM, 776 tonnes of NOX than the standards stipulated in European and 883 tonnes of SO2 emission (in 2012-13, countries, as illustrated below: NOx (kg/tonne) Bhadrachalam 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 0.43 0.69 0.60 0.58 0.46 0.35 0.33 Standards Sweden 1.2-2.4 EU 1.0-1.8 EU-BAT* 1.0-1.5 All our Reported Values Units monitor CEPI** 0.85 significant The Bhadrachalam Unit is also progressing towards achieving international standards on air emission specific SO2 emission levels, as given below: parameters, such as Particulate SO2 (kg/tonne) Matter (PM), Bhadrachalam 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 Nitrogen Oxides 0.50 0.84 0.79 0.74 0.61 0.53 0.51 (NOx) and Sulphur Dioxide (SO2) Standards on a regular Sweden 0.5-1.4 basis to ensure EU 0.1-0.5 compliance with EU-BAT* 0.2-0.4 internal norms that are more Reported Values stringent than CEPI** 0.24 regulatory Sources – 1. Comprehensive Industry Document for Large-Scale Pulp & Paper Mills, study done by CPPRI, requirements. published by CPCB, 2007 *EU-BAT: EU Norm Best Available technology 2. ** CEPI – Confederation of European Paper Industries, Sustainability Report 2011 98 international best practices. These norms are taken into consideration right from the design stage and include measures for leakage/spillage prevention, provisions for containment, impervious flooring, leak detection system as well as all requirements In as per Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) for hazardous chemicals. To avoid any incidence accordance of uncontrolled spills or leakage, ITC has with the instituted safe work practices on handling Government of and storage, procedures for leak detection & India’s Ozone spill control and preventive maintenance. The effectiveness of these measures is checked Depleting on a regular basis. Substances (ODS) We also continuously evaluate the feasibility Rules, 2000, ITC of substituting hazardous chemicals with less has developed or non-hazardous materials. In 2013-14, there and implemented was no significant spillage of any chemical, an ODS phase oil, fuel or hazardous waste in any of our Units. out plan. In addition to the above parameters, our Paperboards Unit at Bhadrachalam also monitors Hydrogen Sulphide, the average The Road Ahead measured value of which for the year 2013All Units of ITC would continue to make 14 was 3.72 mg/Nm3, which was much lower concerted efforts in reducing specific than the regulatory norm of 10mg/Nm3. emission levels. Significant reduction in specific emission levels will be achieved Ozone Depleting Substances: In accordance primarily through use of cleaner fuels, with the Government of India’s Ozone improvement in energy conservation and Depleting Substances (ODS) Rules, 2000, increased utilisation of renewable energy ITC has developed and implemented an ODS sources. The details are given in the phase out plan. The main features of the plan Disclosure on Management Approach – include procurement of new equipments Environment Section. which are free of Chlorofluorocarbons (CFC), Halons and Methyl Chloroform (MCF); monitoring and reducing consumption of ODS; replacement of all the existing equipment using ODS well before the stipulated phase-out period and recover all the ODS from the equipment being replaced for recycling or safe disposal. In 2013-14, the total consumption of ODS by all our Units was 79.1 kg of CFC-11 equivalent. Responsible Management Of Chemicals, Oils and Fuels All our Units manage chemicals, oils and fuels as per defined ITC norms, which take into account all statutory requirements and 99 Management will have considerable adverse impacts on agricultural yields. Such an untenable Approach situation may even threaten the very fabric The of social stability. Water availability therefore The availability of water continues to be becomes especially critical for a Company issue of water a serious concern across the world. This like ITC, as most of its businesses depend availability problem will be further aggravated in India significantly on agri-inputs. assumes critical in the coming years, leading to a difficult and Increased water scarcity may also impact ITC’s turbulent future arising out of severe water significance in Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business stress, as highlighted by the 2014 Interlight of the fact governmental Panel on Climate Change which is relatively more water intensive in that agriculture its operations. With continuous decline in Report. The issue of water availability ground water and uneven supply of surface in India, which assumes critical significance in light of the water, it may become even more challenging provides fact that agriculture in India, which provides for businesses to meet their requirements. employment to over 50% of the workforce, employment to is largely rain fed, with around 55% of net Another issue that is assuming alarming over 50% of sown area meeting its water requirements proportions is the fact that disruptions the workforce, from rainwater alone. Given the social and in rainfall patterns will also impact is largely rain historical context of farming in India and the water quality. Increased ground water absence of adequate infrastructural support, mining is exacerbating an issue that has fed. any significant disruption in rainfall patterns already assumed critical dimensions due 100 to contamination as well as inadequate ‘India Water Tool’ which will further help recharge. Such poor quality water requires in the assessment of water related risks at additional treatment and additional costs the site-level. before it can become usable. Risk of localised contamination like arsenic, fluoride, etc., which is already prevalent in some of the 2. WATER CONSERVATION states where ITC operates, is also expected Conducting water audits, benchmarking to increase. Such contamination can lead and implementation of best practices to severe health hazards and thus can have to achieve the lowest possible specific significant impacts. freshwater intake (water per unit of These challenges may bring about additional product/service). regulatory limits on water withdrawal. These are already being enforced in some of the States 3. ZERO EFFLUENT where ITC operates and may affect operations DISCHARGE due to a decrease in water availability. Treating effluent so as to ensure that Recognising the daunting challenges discharge quality is better than statutory arising out of water-stress, ITC has adopted requirements and progressing towards the following strategies that focus on the recycling/ reusing of all treated effluent. replenishment as well as conservation of this precious natural resource. 4. RAIN WATER HARVESTING 1. ASSESSMENT OF WATER Enhancing our water positive footprint STRESS AT ITC UNITS through rainwater harvesting, both within our own Units and across different ITC has undertaken the evaluation watershed areas. of water availability/ stress through ITC has adopted strategies that focus on the replenishment as well as conservation of water. stakeholder engagements and on the 5. WATER STEWARDSHIP basis of data available with Government agencies. ITC is also engaged with Work has been initiated on a pilot basis at World Business Council for Sustainable one of our Units to work towards meeting Development (WBCSD) in developing the the water security needs of all stakeholders 101 at the local watershed level. This has been benchmarking and adopting leading undertaken based on the principles of practices facilitated the reduction of specific the Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) water intake as illustrated in the following Standard. Based on the learning and sections. outcomes, this will be extended across other business units as well. Water Sources Sources of Water in ITC (2013-14) Focused Our Performance efforts of all Units to Water Conservation reduce intake In 2013-14, ITC Units withdrew 33.73 million 78.7% by conducting kilolitres (kl) of freshwater, an increment of Surface Water 4.9% over the previous year (32.15 million kl water audits, in 2012-13). The increase in total fresh water benchmarking intake can be attributed to the increased and adopting production of 7.8% by the Paperboards leading practices and Specialty Papers Business (accounting for around 92% of the total fresh water 2.7% facilitated the Municipal Water withdrawal by ITC), and inclusion of both the and Others reduction Mysore Unit of the Company’s Leaf Threshing of specific Business and ITC Grand Chola Chennai, of 18.6% Ground Water freshwater the Hotels Business into the reporting boundary. Focused efforts of all Units to intake. reduce intake by conducting water audits, 102 Of the 33.73 million kl of fresh water withdrawn, 78.7% of water resources were sourced from rivers, 18.6% from ground water sources and only 2.7% from municipal and other water sources. This year, the Paperboards & Specialty Papers mills at Bhadrachalam, Kovai & Tribeni together accounted for 92.4% of the total fresh water withdrawal by ITC. Paperboards Unit at Bhadrachalam India’s largest integrated paper and paperboards mill accounted for 74.6% of the total fresh water intake in ITC. In 2013-14, the Bhadrachalam Unit’s freshwater intake was standard of 63 kl/tonne by the National 45.1 kl per tonne of product, a reduction of Productivity Council (NPC), for large-scale 2.8% over last year’s 46.4 kl/tonne, primarily integrated pulp and paper mills. (Reference: due to various water conservation initiatives Final Report on Development of Guidelines for undertaken by the Unit. It is worth mentioning Water Conservation in Pulp and Paper Sector that this surpasses the proposed benchmark by NPC, New Delhi, March 2006). Specific Fresh Water Intake in Bhadrachalam Unit (kl/tonne) 140 121 120 99 100 88 88 86 79 76 76 80 70 70 72 55 60 50 48 46 45 40 20 0 19981999200020012002200320042005200620072008200920102011201220131999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 103 Specialty Papers The Unit Unit at Tribeni has achieved ITC’s Unit at Tribeni manufactures specialty a 55.8% paper, which is a water intensive process. reduction of The Unit has achieved around 56% reduction specific freshwater of specific freshwater intake per tonne of intake per tonne product during the reporting period, in comparison to 1998-99. However, there is an of product during increase of 6.3% in the specific freshwater the reporting intake over the previous year primarily due period, in to the commissioning activities of the new comparison to power plant. Additional efforts are underway 1998-99. to achieve further reduction in specific freshwater intake in the Unit. Specific Fresh Water Intake in Tribeni Mill (kl/tonne) 300 259 250 233 226 213 200 178 150 128 120 117 124 116 108 115 107 106 105 100 99 50 0 19981999200020012002200320042005200620072008200920102011201220131999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 fresh water intake during 2006-07 (the Unit was acquired by ITC in March 2004 and Paperboards Unit data compilation was started from 2006at Kovai 07 onwards). Various water conservation measures undertaken by the Unit during the The specific freshwater intake (kl/tonne) year led to the reduction in specific fresh in the Paperboards & Specialty Papers Unit water intake from 15.94 kl/tonne in 2012-13 at Kovai was 34.6% lower than the specific to 13.75 kl/tonne in 2013-14. 104 Specific Fresh Water Intake in Kovai (kl/tonne) 25 20 21.01 13.1 15 17.31 16.65 15.31 15.94 13.97 13.75 10 05 00 200620072008200920102011201220132007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 This specific freshwater intake of 13.75 kl/tonne surpasses the proposed benchmark standard of 19 kl/tonne set by NPC in New Delhi in 2006 for this category of paper mills. 105 In addition, the following Units have reported significant reduction in specific freshwater intake in 2013-14 as compared to 2012-13:Unit of Specific freshwater intake % Primary Business Unit Measurement 2012-13 2013-14 Reduction Factors kl/MNC Cigarettes Pune 7.0 4.2 40.0 Water equivalent conservation measures kl/MNC Cigarettes Munger 4.4 3.9 11.4 equivalent Personal Soap Care and Talc, kl/tonne 1.8 1.3 27.8 Products Haridwar Snacks and Foods kl/tonne 3.6 2.9 19.4 Noodles, Haridwar Improved capacity kl/Number utilisation Sheraton Hotel of Room 1.5 1.2 20.0 or change in New Delhi Nights product mix and water kl/Number conservation ITC Hotel of Room 1.5 1.4 6.7 Maratha measures Nights kl/Number ITC Hotel of Room 1.4 1.3 7.1 Windsor Nights Leaf Anaparti kl/tonne 2.3 2.0 13.0 Tobacco Figures are rounded off to nearest decimal 106 The following Units have reported significant increment in specific freshwater intake in 2013-14 as compared to 2012-13:Unit of Specific freshwater intake % Primary Business Unit Measurement 2012-13 2013-14 Increase Factors Packaging Water use in project and Haridwar kl/tonne 2.7 3.8 40.7 activities in the new Printing ‘Integrated Packaging Unit’ Personal Commencement of a new Soap, product line that has a Care kl/tonne 1.0 1.3 30.0 Manpura comparatively higher water Products requirement Leakage in treated grey kl/Number water line, which was later Hotel ITC Gardenia of Guest 1.3 1.6 23.1 rectified Room Nights Increase in domestic water consumption owing to kl/MNC Cigarettes Kidderpore 1.9 2.3 21.0 increased workforce and equivalent trial runs of new facilities and project activities kl/MNC Decrease in production Cigarettes Saharanpur 4.0 4.5 12.5 equivalent volumes Figures are rounded off to nearest decimal 107 Effluent Discharge ITC is committed to achieving zero effluent Many discharge through treating and recycling of ITC Units all wastewater and harvesting of rainwater have already on its properties. This not only reduces fresh water intake but also maximises groundwater achieved the recharge, reduces run-off etc. goal of zero Many ITC Units have already achieved the effluent discharge goal of zero effluent discharge outside the outside the Unit Unit premises. These include: Cigarette premises. Factories at Bengaluru, Saharanpur & Pune, Leaf Processing Units at Anaparti, Chirala & Mysore, Packaging & Printing Unit at Tiruvottiyur, Life Sciences & Technology Centre at Bengaluru, Research Centre at Rajahmundry, Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business Units at Kovai and Bollaram, Personal Care Products Business Unit at Manpura, Lifestyle Retailing Business Unit at Manesar, Hotels Unit ITC Rajputana at Jaipur, and ITC Green Centre at Gurgaon. In 2013-14, a total volume of 23.9 million kl of treated effluent was discharged outside The two Paperboards and Specialty Papers the premises by ITC units, out of which 66.6% Units at Bhadrachalam and Tribeni accounted was used for irrigation by communities in for 98.64% of total wastewater discharged the vicinity. In a nation now confronted with outside the Unit premises in ITC. The quality the growing challenges of water security, of the treated effluent from these Units was this treated effluent is a resource that the far better than the stipulated standards, as neighbouring communities increasingly rely depicted below: upon to meet their irrigation requirements. Treated Effluent Discharge Treated Effluent Quality: by Destination Annual Average (2013-14) Paperboards and 300 Specialty Papers Units 250 250 0.6% 32.4% Municipal Surface Sewers Water Bodies 200 175 150 137 100 100 89 61 50 24 39 08 08 16 0.4% 66.6% 0 30 Common Effluent Irrigation BOD COD TSS Treatment Plant (outside premises) Bhadrachalam Kovai Tribeni National Standard All units in mg/l and figures rounded off to nearest digit BOD Biochemical oxygen demand COD Chemical oxygen demand TSS Total suspended solids 108 The Bhadrachalam and Tribeni Units have also maintained standards that are well within the norms prescribed by the Corporate Responsibility for Environmental Protection The (CREP), a voluntary charter by the Ministry of Bhadrachalam Environment & Forests and Central Pollution and Tribeni Control Board for large pulp and paper manufacturing units with respect to specific Units have also treated effluent discharge. maintained The National Productivity Council (NPC)’s standards that are Report on ‘Proposed Standard for Pulp well within the and Paper Industries in India’ suggests norms prescribed a benchmark standard of 50 kl/tonne of by the Corporate specific treated effluent discharge for the integrated pulp and paper industry. This Responsibility for is applicable to our Paperboards Unit at Environmental Bhadrachalam. The current level of 41.8 kl/ Protection tonne at the Bhadrachalam Unit surpasses (CREP). the above proposed benchmark. Specific Treated Effluent Discharge in ITC Paperboards and Specialty Papers Units (kl/tonne) CREP Norm 100 80 74.4 72.5 71.1 68.5 63.9 63.0 63.7 59.1 59.6 59.8 59.2 60 48.0 44.9 45.0 43.4 41.8 40 20 00 Bhadrachalam Tribeni 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 Similarly, the above report suggests a wastepaper-based pulp and paper mills benchmark standard of 15m3/tonne for category, did not discharge any treated wastepaper-based pulp and paper mills. effluent outside its premises this year. ITC’s Unit at Kovai, which falls under the 109 As on Specific AOX Levels in Bhadrachalam Unit (kg/tonne) March 31, 0.012 2014, ITC’s 0.0110 0.0109 * Integrated 0.01 0.0083 0.0087 * Watershed 0.008 0.0074 Development Projects, 0.0051 0.006 covering nearly 1,49,000 hectares 0.004 of land, support 0.0024 0.0006 the Water Positive 0.002 status of the Company for 00 the 12th year 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 in a row. * Variations in AOX levels are due to change in process and product mix In the current year, the Adsorbable Organic Halides (AOX) level (applicable Enlarging a Water only to the Bhadrachalam Unit) was Positive Footprint 0.0109 kg/tonne of product, which is well below the norm stipulated by Ministry of The Company’s continued interventions in Environment and Forests (MOEF), national rainwater harvesting both in the Company and international benchmark figures as premises and socially relevant watershed areas depicted below: has enlarged our water positive footprint. As on March 31, 2014, ITC’s Integrated Watershed MOEF, National and International Benchmark Development Projects, covering nearly 1,49,000 Standards for Specific AOX Levels in kg/tonne hectares of land, support the Water Positive status of the Company for the 12th year in a row. kg/tonne The total rainwater harvesting potential created by the Company so far is over two times the net MOEF standard 1 water consumption by our operations. Indian Paper/ 0.46-0.8 Paperboard mills * European 0.029 Paper Industries # World Bank 0.25 Standard ** * Average as per Comprehensive Industry Document for Large-Scale Paper Mills, study conducted by Central Pulp and Paper Research Institute, 2007 # CEPI (Confederation of European Paper Industries), Sustainability Report 2011 ** World Bank Guideline for New Paper Mills (2007) 110 Water Balance 200220032004200520062007200820092010201120122013at ITC 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 Fresh Water Intake 24.1 22.48 24.98 25.58 25.79 27.46 32.72 29.96 29.36 29.02 32.15 33.73 Treated Effluents 14.64 14.04 19.55 20.96 19.58 18.92 24.52 23.41 22.21 22.80 22.89 23.90 Discharge Percentage of treated effluent utilised for ** ** 86.90 86.80 80.50 79.40 72.30 84.80 60.70 68.50 71.68 66.61 irrigation by nearby community Net Water 9.49 8.44 5.43 4.62 6.21 8.54 8.20 6.55 7.15 6.22 9.26 9.83 Consumption RWH Potential Created Within 0.24 0.39 0.34 0.61 0.47 0.42 0.50 0.42 0.92 0.67 0.67 0.77 ITC Units RWH Potential Created Through Watershed Projects 12.50 15.67 16.52 18.99 23.12 25.42 19.43 20.18 18.97 20.38 20.80 22.50 (Cumulative for that Year) Total RWH Potential Created 12.74 16.06 16.86 19.60 23.59 25.84 19.93* 20.60* 19.89* 21.05* 21.47* 23.27* (For the Year) * ‘RWH potential’ figures account for silt deposits in various watershed structures. The adjustments are based on actual sample measurement & the extent of silt deposit depends on the age & location of a structure ** Not available All figures in million kl, except percentage As water stress The Road Ahead is a major risk for many of our As water stress is a major risk for many of our Phase II: Evaluation of water withdrawal Businesses, ITC plans to carry out appropriate and wastewater discharge impacts at the Businesses, ITC hydrological studies at identified water local watershed level. This will enable the plans to carry stressed Units to develop a comprehensive Company to understand the impacts of out appropriate understanding of these issues. A pilot study withdrawal from source and discharge of hydrological to this effect has been initiated at one of our treated effluents by all stakeholders. The studies at Units to achieve the following objectives: specific interventions necessary for ensuring water security for all stakeholders within identified water Phase I: Detailed assessment of water the defined watershed area can then be stressed Units usage and water quality inside the Unit’s identified. This study is presently underway. premises to comprehend the minimum to develop a freshwater withdrawal required to operate Once the final recommendations are available, comprehensive the plant. This phase has been completed ITC will engage with other stakeholders to understanding of and measures to optimise water usage are implement necessary projects. these issues. being implemented. 111 Management Often considered to be only an urban phenomenon, inadequate waste management Approach today threatens the quality of life throughout India. Heaps of unattended waste, foraged by The issue of waste management has assumed cattle and rag-pickers alike, have become a critical significance for the country today. common sight both in urban and rural areas Rapid urbanisation, increasing population, of the country. higher consumption levels and inadequate infrastructure are putting a severe strain In alignment with ITC’s commitment to on the ecology. A large amount of wastes reduce its environmental impact and create being generated today end up in landfills. a positive ecological footprint, the Company Apart from the increasing pressures on has adopted the following approaches on natural resources, the issue of burgeoning waste management: waste also contributes to soil & groundwater contamination and Greenhouse Gas (GHG) 1. RESOURCE CONSERVATION emissions, leading to serious concerns of All ITC Units are mandated to reduce public health, sanitation as well as large specific waste generation through scale environmental degradation. constant monitoring and improvement of efficiencies in material utilisation. 112 2. SEGREGATION AT SOURCE Resource All ITC Units are required to ensure Conservation that wastes are segregated at source in accordance with Company-defined In 2013-14, ITC Units generated 7,11,887 guidelines. This ensures maximum reuse tonnes of waste (6,82,405 tonnes in 2012-13). and recycling of waste. This 4.3 % increase over last year in total waste generated was due to increased production by 3. TOWARDS 100% RECYCLING the Paperboards and Specialty Papers Division (up 7.8%), a business that contributes to 90.8% Each category of waste is individually of the total waste generated by ITC’s operations. All addressed and tracked to ensure that it The increase can also be attributed to the ITC Units can be reused wherever possible, and if inclusion of data from the Mysore Unit of ITC’s are required not, recycled. This ensures that almost Leaf Tobacco Business and ITC Grand Chola of to ensure that no waste from our businesses lands up in ITC’s Hotels Division. However, many business municipal or private landfills. Units have reduced their specific waste wastes are generation performance (waste generated per segregated 4. CREATING A POSITIVE unit of product/service). at source in ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT ITC’s Unit at Bhadrachalam, which accounts accordance with for 76.2% of the total waste generated in Company-defined ITC’s Paper and Paperboards Units are ITC, has reduced specific waste generation to encouraged to increase the utilisation guidelines. This 1,044 kg per tonne of paper and paperboard in of externally generated wastepaper as a 2013-14 from 1,111 kg per tonne in 2012-13. ensures maximum source of fibre instead of virgin fibre. Apart reuse and from the direct environmental benefits of According to the Centre for Science and Environment Report, ‘All About Paper’ (2004), recycling of reduced consumption of power, water and similar paper mills generate around 1,200 kg waste. chemicals, this leads to the additional public benefit of encouraging better of solid waste per tonne of product. municipal waste management. A few examples of other ITC Units which achieved significant reduction in specific waste generation are given on the next page. Business-wise Break-up of Wastes Generated in ITC (2013-14) Paperboards and 90.8% Specialty Papers Packaging and Printing 3.1% Leaf Tobacco 2.8% Cigarettes 1.3% Foods and Personal Care 1.2% Products Hotels 0.7% Others (Offices, ITC 0.1% Infotech, Lifestyle Retailing) 113 Specific Waste Generation Unit of Percentage Primary Business Unit 2012-13 2013-14 Measurement Reduction Factors ITC kg/Number of Hotels 7.1 3.3 53.5 Mughal Room Nights ITC kg/Number of Hotels 6.8 3.3 51.5 Rajputana Room Nights Process ITC kg/Number of improvement Hotels 6.5 3.3 49.2 and waste Sonar Room Nights reduction ITC kg/Number of programmes Hotels 11.3 6.9 38.9 Maratha Room Nights WelcomHotel kg/Number of Hotels Sheraton 2.0 1.7 15.0 New Delhi Room Nights Improved Foods capacity Snacks Haridwar 101.2 89.1 kg/tonne 12.0 utilisation Unit and process improvement Figures are rounded off to nearest decimal On the other hand, the following Units have contribute to only 5.2% of the total waste reported significant increase in specific generated within ITC, requisite measures are waste generation. Though these Units being implemented to address this issue. Specific Waste Generation Unit of Percentage Primary Business Unit Measurement Increase Factors 2012-2013 2013-2014 Cigarettes Kidderpore 0.04 0.15 t/MNCeq 275.0 In the previous year, Corrugated Cigarettes Pune 0.06 0.15 t/MNCeq 150.0 Fibreboard Container (CFC) waste was not considered as it was recycled at Leaf Tobacco Business. This year CFC recycling Cigarettes Munger 0.11 0.15 t/MNCeq 36.4 has been done locally and hence included in the waste quantity. Cigarettes Saharanpur 0.10 0.13 t/MNCeq 27.3 Trial runs for new products and Foods Biscuits, Haridwar 92.1 135.2 kg/tonne 46.8 introduction of new product variants Packaging and Disposal of one time rain Munger 205.5 270.1 kg/tonne 31.4 damaged paperboards Printing Packaging and Start-up of new product lines in the Haridwar 250.4 314.1 kg/tonne 25.4 new ‘Integrated Packaging Unit’ Printing Personal Care Soap, New product line 20.9 25.7 kg/tonne 22.9 commissioning activities Products Manpura Paperboards Increased procurement of domestic waste paper as raw and Specialty Kovai 179.7 209.5 kg/tonne 16.6 material and consequent Papers increase in miscellaneous wastes, and change in product mix Figures are rounded off to nearest decimal 114 Quantity Item (tonnes) Disposal Sludge from effluent 20047 To authorised recyclers treatment plant of 19 Authorised Landfill Paperboards and Specialty Papers factories 3 In-house Storage Empty containers of Decontaminated and returned 99.9% 430 of waste generated hazardous chemicals to original suppliers by ITC Units is 304 To authorised recyclers recycled Used oil/ waste contaminated with oil/oil 1 In-house storage soaked cotton waste 7 Incinerated Focussed 82 Returned to original suppliers for recycling attention on Used lead acid batteries identifying and 13 In-house storage tracking of all Spent solvents/ink/ink 103 Recycled sludge/adhesives/ Process waste streams waste/Chemical sludge/ Incinerated/or sent to authorised landfills/ as well as their Sludge from fuel tanks 284 stored within the Unit characterisation Biomedical waste and quantification (from medical centres 2 Incinerated/Autoclaved within our units) have helped ensure the 17 Recycled E Waste recycling of 99.9% 3 In-house storage of the total waste generated in all ITC business Units. Segregation of verifies compliance in each of the Units on a periodic basis. Waste Of the total waste generated at ITC, only 2.9% Waste Destination by weight can be categorised as hazardous The illustration below depicts the final waste as per Indian statutes. In 2013-14, destinations of total wastes generated during 98.4% of this hazardous waste was recycled 2013-14: by external agencies (as illustrated above). The balance 1.6% was disposed of or stored completely in accordance with applicable Total waste and its destination (2013-14) statutes. In addition, apart from hazardous wastes transported to external treatment sites by authorised transport agencies as applicable, no other hazardous wastes were 711887 transported between locations owned or Total managed by the organisation. Waste 711033# 769* 85 Reused/ Incineration + On-site All ITC Units have established systems and Recycled Landfill storage procedures to verify the authorisations and licenses of hazardous waste recyclers in order # Wastes reused/recycled include 8375 tonnes of waste composted. (All above Units to ensure that these wastes are transported, are in Tonnes) recycled or disposed of in compliance with * Includes mainly hazardous waste and construction waste from project activities. We regulations and norms. Corporate EHS are exploring solutions for recycling and reuse of the same. 115 Focussed attention on identifying and Personal Care Business Units at Haridwar. tracking of all waste streams as well as their characterisation and quantification have Foods Business Units at Haridwar (Snacks) helped ensure the recycling of 99.9% of the and Pune (Snacks and Noodles). total waste generated in all ITC business Leaf Tobacco processing Units at Chirala Units. It is noteworthy that in 2013-14, and Mysore. ITC’s Unit at Bhadrachalam, which is India’s largest integrated Paper & Paperboards mill, Research Centre at Rajahmundry. together with the following Units managed to ILTD Divisional Head Office in Guntur. recycle 99.9% of the waste generated. ITC Green Centre at Gurgaon. Cigarette factories at Munger, Bengaluru, Saharanpur, Kolkata and Pune. Hotels: ITC Maurya, ITC Maratha, ITC Grand Central, ITC Windsor, ITC Mughal, ITC Paperboards and Specialty Papers Units Gardenia, ITC Sonar, ITC Rajputana and at Tribeni. WelcomHotel Sheraton New Delhi. Progress on Waste Recycling 800 99.8 99.9 99.8 99.9 100.0 712 90.0 700 682 93.1 98.9 98.8 99.8 638 663 80.0 600 579 80.7 78.7 70.0 500 490 60.0 400 50.0 353 315 304 40.0 300 281 30.0 200 20.0 100 10.0 00 0.0 2004-05 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 Waste Generated in kilotonnes Percentage Recycling In 2013-14, ITC also generated 3,28,029 tonnes of fly ash, (46% of total waste in ITC), 100% of which has been utilised for brick making and cement manufacturing. Waste Used as Raw Materials As evident above, the high degree of recycling achieved across ITC, together with the use of post-consumer waste by the Paperboards and Specialty Paper Units at Kovai and Bhadrachalam, has enabled the Company to further expand its waste recycling footprint. 116 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 Total Waste Generated 3,52,970 4,90,180 5,78,865 6,38,405 6,63,796 6,82,405 7,11,887 (tonnes) Waste Recycled 3,49,264 4,84,287 5,77,766 6,37,452 6,62,978 6,81,129 7,11,033 (tonnes) Percentage 98.9 98.8 99.8 99.8 99.9 99.8 99.9 Recycled Un-recycled 3,706 5,893 1,099 953 818 1276 854 waste (tonnes) External Wastes used as Raw 1,63,245 1,25,337 1,25,931 1,19,002 1,15,414 1,18,462 1,09,998 Materials (tonnes) Waste Recycling 145 124 122 119 117 117 115 Footprint (%) * *Waste Recycling Footprint (%): (Waste Recycled + external waste used as raw material) x 100/Total waste generated in ITC Waste from Supply The Road Ahead Chain ITC will continue to focus on improving material efficiencies and reducing specific As a preliminary step, ITC has accounted waste generation in addition to continued for the waste generated in 2013-14 from efforts on total recycling of waste generated the operations of exclusive third party within its premises. In line with ITC’s Policies manufacturing units catering to the on Life-Cycle Sustainability and Responsible notebooks segment of ITC’s Education and Sourcing, ITC will engage with supply chain Stationery Products Business, as well as partners to build awareness in reducing or ATC Limited, our associate company. This recycling of waste generated in the years to ITC will information is detailed below. This coverage continue come. The existing Wealth out of Waste (WOW) will be progressively expanded in the future. programme will be expanded to address the to focus on issue of sustainable livelihoods for people improving Total engaged informally in the waste business, Supply material Waste % while at the same time providing a solution to Chain efficiencies and Generated Recycled tackle the challenge of post-consumer waste. Members (in tonnes) In addition, as part of the WOW initiative, ITC reducing specific is also exploring the usability of compact waste generation Exclusive TPM boards made out of plastic waste (the in addition Units for 2625 95.9 dominant component in municipal wastes) Notebooks for furniture, etc. Field trials for the same are to continued segment currently underway. Based on the results of efforts on total these field trials, commercial applications recycling of waste ATC for these compact boards will be taken up in Limited 616 99.9 generated within a phased manner. This would go a long way in further augmenting the incomes of people its premises. informally engaged in waste management. G4-21 117 Management 3. Services Approach Hoteliering and Information Technology. ITC’s products and services can be broadly Since ITC is vertically integrated to a classified into the following categories: large extent, it provides opportunities for successive value addition within the system for several categories of products such as 1. FMCG (B to C) Products paperboards for packaging. This integration Cigarettes, Foods, Personal Care provides the Company unique opportunities Products, Education and Stationery to establish synergies thereby minimising products, Matches and Agarbatti. environmental impact through the optimum utilisation of raw materials, recycling/ reuse of wastes as well as optimum logistics and 2. INDUSTRIAL SUPPLIES AND transportation. These synergies, significantly EXPORTS reduces the environmental footprint of ITC’s products and services. Paper, Paperboards, Packaging, Leaf Tobacco, etc. We have completed studies on life cycle assessment of some of our products in Paper, Paperboards & Packaging and Lifestyle Retailing Businesses. This has helped in 118 identifying broad areas for improvements improving the overall sustainability of the as well as building internal competencies to value chain. In 2013-14, ITC consumed over enable us to expand these studies to other 29,00,000 tonnes of materials, out of which products and services. close to 98% were from agricultural farms and plantations which are renewable. All ITC Units continue to pursue efficient use of natural resources through extensive R&D and waste elimination/reduction through process management. In addition, the Responsible recent Board approved Policies on Life Cycle Sustainability and Responsible Sourcing now Sourcing of Wood provide the necessary focus on sustainable sourcing of raw materials to ensure their Fibre long-term availability. These policies will be Wood is a major source of fibre for the paper implemented across all Businesses starting and paperboards industry. Availability of 2014-15 in a phased manner. wood remains a challenge and can be a serious sustainability concern, especially in a country with limited natural resources and acute income inequities. Performance In 2013-14, approximately 48% of the total A very significant proportion of raw fibre requirements of ITC’s Paperboards and materials in ITC businesses are sourced Specialty Papers Division was met by the pulp from agricultural farms and plantations. Our manufactured at Bhadrachalam, another 22% initiatives in developing large scale social came from recycled fibre, processed at ITC’s and farm forestry plantations, integrated Units in Kovai and Bhadrachalam, and the watershed management and empowering balance 30% was imported pulp. For wood marginal farmers have all helped in pulp manufactured at the Bhadrachalam Unit, In 2013-14, ITC consumed over 29,00,000 tonnes of materials, out of which close to 98% were from agricultural farms and plantations which are renewable. 119 72% of the wood was sourced from our social and farm forestry initiatives, while the Forest Stewardship balance 28% wood was sourced from known Council and legal domestic and imported supplies. 100% of the fibre used for operations at the Certifications Kovai Unit was sourced from recycled fibre. All the four Units of ITC’s Paperboards and Internal R&D has produced high yielding, Specialty Papers Division i.e Bhadrachalam, site specific, disease resistant eucalyptus Bollaram, Kovai and Tribeni, which received the and subabul clones supported by extensive prestigious ‘FSC Chain of Custody’ Certification knowledge of plantation management in 2009, are maintaining their status. practices which provide a robust foundation for the social and farm forestry programme. The FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) is an During the year, ITC distributed 138 million independent, non-governmental, not-forhigh quality saplings to farmers and close profit organisation established to promote to 21,000 additional hectares were planted the responsible management of the world’s under ITC’s social and farm forestry initiatives. forests and is recognised as the gold standard in the wood certification for ethical and legal Apart from the obvious benefits of increasing sourcing. The FSC is represented in more than the green cover, plantation on wastelands 107 countries around the world, and is the under the social forestry programme also most widely accepted and respected amongst directly contributes to in-situ moisture forest product certification schemes. conservation, ground water recharge and significant reduction in topsoil losses caused ITC’s Paperboards and Specialty Papers by wind and water erosion. In addition, as a Division can now supply FSC certified result of the leaf litter from multi-species paper /paperboards from all its four Units plantations and the promotion of leguminous with the FSC claim of ‘FSC Mixed’ or ‘FSC intercrops, erstwhile degraded soils are being Recycled’. The FSC logo endorses that the constantly enriched. product/packaging is from legal, sustainable and well managed sources and thereby provides confidence to customers. The Internal R&D has produced high yielding, site specific, disease resistant eucalyptus and subabul clones supported by extensive knowledge of plantation management practices which provide a robust foundation for the social and farm forestry programme. 120 For sustainable sourcing of wood pulp, ITC is planning to bring in more plantation areas under the FSC – Forest Management certification in future. FSC certification for ITC’s Paperboards and organic crops. These investments coupled and Specialty Papers Units exemplifies the with deep understanding of agriculture, and organisation’s continued commitment to the reach of the ITC e-Choupal network, sustainable business practices and to the provides the opportunity to offer a wide building of an inclusive and secure future for range of reliable and consistent solutions to its stakeholders. customers that are efficient and effective. In continuation of its commitment to expand its scope, the organisation, till date, has facilitated the certification of 22,804 hectares of plantations owned by more than The Road Ahead 24,000 small and marginal farmers under the In the coming years, we plan to carry out more FSC Forest Management Certification. life cycle assessment studies of products/ services to evaluate the environmental impacts at the various life cycle stages, which would help us in identifying opportunities Agri-commodities for further improving their environmental attributes. In line with the Board approved ITC’s Agri Business primarily engages in Policies on Life Cycle Sustainability and sourcing of agri-commodities like wheat, Responsible Sourcing, relevant systems coffee, potato, shrimps, soya and processed and procedures will be progressively fruits, sourced and supplied based on implemented across ITC Businesses towards customer requirements of quality, quantity sustainable sourcing of raw materials. and packaging. Consistent investments are made towards strengthening capability Moreover, for sustainable sourcing of wood through multiple sourcing models, pulp, ITC is planning to bring in more plantation customised and identity preserved supply areas under the FSC – Forest Management chain infrastructure and network, processing certification in future. This certification and warehousing tie-ups and technology should help bring in better environmental enabled systems and processes. The Business practices and improved social benefits to the also works closely with farmer groups to local communities. develop identified geographies for certified 121 ITC has implemented several initiatives to address the issues of revival Management Biodiversity Risk and nurture of Approach and Opportunity native species of flora and fauna, ITC recognises that the preservation and Assessment nurture of biodiversity is essential to ensure thereby leading One of ITC’s large agri business divisions the long-term sustainability of not only has undertaken a detailed risk analysis of its to large-scale farming communities but the agricultural impacts on biodiversity. It has spearheaded replenishment of sector itself. ITC has accordingly implemented the implementation of the Biodiversity Risk several initiatives to address the issues natural resources of revival and nurture of native species of and Opportunity Assessment (BROA) process and ensuring across its entire operating region. For this flora and fauna, thereby leading to largepurpose the Business has partnered with a sustainable scale replenishment of natural resources Earth Watch Institute, UK, an international future for the and ensuring a sustainable future for the non-profit organisation specialising in communities residing in the Company’s communities Biodiversity Risk & Opportunity Study. The catchment areas. residing in the objective is to identify the impacts and Company’s dependencies of crop development on terrestrial, soil and aquatic biodiversity catchment in agricultural landscapes; assess and areas. prioritise the risks and opportunities arising 122 from those impacts and dependencies; native tree species, implement soil and water produce Action and Monitoring Plans for the conservation measures, and adopt livelihood ITC has business to address them. The agricultural and employment generation activities developed 9 landscape level approach would encompass through pisciculture, apiculture and other biodiversity plots not only farm sites and immediate area of related activities. In the past two years, ITC involving famers production, but also the wider features that has developed 9 biodiversity plots involving agricultural production depends upon. For farmers and community members covering a and community this assessment, ITC has engaged with many total area of 56.28 acres in Khammam, East members internal and external stakeholders including Godavari, West Godavari & Visakhapatnam covering a total farmers, local communities, Department districts of Andhra Pradesh. This initiative has area of 56.28 acres of Agriculture, Forest Department, local helped in conserving more than a thousand Universities, NGOs and suppliers. The first floral and faunal species. Many species in Khammam, stage of the BROA has been completed in of birds have started nesting in the area, East Godavari, select agricultural landscapes in Mysore which has also become a breeding ground West Godavari & District and is currently underway in other for reptiles, amphibians and butterflies. Visakhapatnam operating areas of the business. Based on These biodiversity plots have also helped in districts of the findings of this analysis, ITC will put in improving ground water level and soil fertility place systems and processes to address the thereby enhancing the livelihood generation Andhra concerns therein. opportunities of local communities. Pradesh. Social Forestry Revival of ITC has successfully launched a programme Commons and to conserve and improve biodiversity in its Social Forestry and Farm Forestry catchment Biodiversity areas, which would not only revive and enhance native floral and faunal biodiversity, Conservation Plots but also contribute to livelihood and The maintenance and nourishment of employment generation. ITC has spearheaded common pasturelands assume critical this programme to develop biodiversity plots significance for rural communities. Livestock by motivating local communities to plant is not only a means to a secondary income, 123 resource management in the drought-prone area, ITC forged a unique public-privatecommunity partnership with the Government of Rajasthan and the Foundation for Ecological Security (FES) and launched an integrated watershed development project in 2007. At the closure of the project in 2010, ITC had treated 5,171 hectares in five Gram Panchayats, covering 19 villages. Greening Commons An important part of the project was to protect the pastures to regenerate the root stocks of native species. The project laid special but also a safety net, especially in times emphasis on developing the commons and of hardship like drought or floods. In that planted 1,000 hectares with native species respect pasturelands become a common and grass. The saplings were developed from property of villages. However changes in seeds collected from the surrounding areas land use and the ‘Tragedy of the Commons,’ to maintain the nativeness of the species. have put these pasturelands in constant Soil and moisture conservation measures, threat of encroachment and degradation, drainage line treatment and greening thereby adversely affecting the communities of pastureland led to the flourishing of dependent on them. biodiversity in the project area. To measure ITC’s Watershed Development Programme in the impact of the project initiative, ecological Kalyanpura in Rajasthan led to the revival of surveys, covering different seasons, were biodiversity in the area as well as greening of carried out. According to the surveys, the arid pastures. To address the issue of natural vegetation in the project area showed ITC’s Watershed Development Programme in Kalyanpura in Rajasthan led to the revival of biodiversity in the area as well as greening of arid pastures. 124 It was noted that plant diversity and density were higher outside the forest areas, demonstrating the value of the project interventions in the pastures of the Kalyanpura watershed. considerable improvement. The project planned watershed development programme demonstrated that in just three years there can nurture and revive biodiversity. The was a marked change in species richness, diversity of flora and fauna status is crucial density, diversity and regeneration. for any natural and productive ecosystems as it provides ecological services, which It was noted that plant diversity and strengthen watershed development. Though density were higher outside the forest ecological restoration is a long-term process, areas, demonstrating the value of the the results of this project show what is project interventions in the pastures of the possible in a short span of time if field-specific Kalyanpura watershed. Pastures recorded 54 approaches are applied and implementation species (maximum richness), compared to is done in a rigorous manner. agriculture land or forests. In the grasslands, among the 10 tree species recorded, mature trees comprised three species, while regeneration was represented by six The Road Ahead species. In contrast, there was no mature Based on the results of the BROA study tree in the forestland, while regeneration in agricultural landscapes as well as the was represented by only two of the eight tree outcomes of the implementation of agrospecies documented in this land use. forestry and bio-diversity conservation models, ITC would progressively delineate The baseline data for faunal biodiversity was a biodiversity strategy by combining collected for birds, which showed a doubling elements related to substantial biodiversity in their species, from 40 to 86, including conservation and improvement, as well as migratory birds. prevention, management, and remediation of The project demonstrated that a welldamage to natural habitats (if any). 125 Social Performance Labour Social Product Practices and Investments Responsibility Decent Work Mission Sunehra Kal Management employees and harmonious employee relations play in enhancing an organisation’s Approach growth and image. Frequent cases of industrial violence, which in some cases ITC operates in a diversified, ever-changing, are fatal, strikes and lockouts and the highly competitive global landscape. This associated turmoil play a major role in in turn necessitates the development of a disrupting operations, impacting the market strong, customer responsive world-class and damaging the image of companies. In enterprise premised on a commitment to addition, a demotivated workforce leads to employee well-being that goes beyond high turnover, frequent absenteeism, low conforming with relevant local laws to productivity and strained employee relations, complying with global standards. which adversely impact the performance of the company. At ITC we firmly believe that our people Employees – invigorate the organisation and make it exceptional, both in driving world class Invaluable Assets performance and in nurturing and enhancing its reputational capital. ITC today has not only Recent events, both globally and nationally, survived and grown for over a century, but has have reinforced the critical role that made substantial progress primarily because 128 its abiding commitment to employee engagement that upholds individual dignity and rewards merit. ITC has consistently fostered a culture that rewards continuous learning, collaboration and development across the organisation to meet the challenges posed by ever-changing market realities. ITC’s employment practices are premised on attracting and retaining talent based on merit. Its capability building programmes ensure both vertical as well as lateral enhancement of skills of all its employees through customised training and development inputs. All ITC employees operate in a work environment that is benchmarked internationally for the quality of its safety and health standards. ITC is equally committed to conducting business in a manner that reflects its high ethical standards. It expects its employees and of a workforce that is highly motivated, business partners to subscribe and adhere to trained, determined and ably supported by a this philosophy which honours all local laws culture of excellence founded on values that and upholds the spirit of human rights as are imbibed and visibly demonstrated. enshrined in existing international standards. The Board of the Company has approved policies covering crucial aspects of employee Ensuring an engagement and human rights. Energetic & SelfMotivated Work Implementation Force ITC Units have appropriate systems and processes in place to ensure compliance with ITC has ITC strives to build a culture that nurtures these Policies and with statutory provisions, consistently superior capabilities, high performance including processes to redress grievances. and future-ready human resources through The implementation of these policies are fostered a culture that rewards continuous learning, collaboration and development across the organisation to meet the challenges posed by everchanging market realities. 129 ITC’s innovative talent management programme, “Building Winning Businesses. Building Business Leaders. Creating Value for India,” strives to deliver its unique promise of attracting, developing and retaining high-quality talent. The organisation is guided by a holistic principle of enquiry, concerned with how the pattern of multiple elements of talent sourcing, work design, performance management ITC and remuneration, individual growth and development is related to talent management, is equally rather than how individual elements impact committed talent. Leadership development is considered to conducting integral to talent management. ITC’s “strategy business in a of organisation” serves as an excellent platform to build distributed business leadership. Another manner that reflects its high ethical standards. ensured by Divisional / SBU Chief Executives, through members of the respective Management Committees. Compliance is regularly monitored and evaluated by the Sustainability Compliance Review Committee (SCRC). The report of the SCRC is reviewed by the Corporate Management Committee every quarter. Outcomes ITC’s commitment to its employees and their well-being is reflected in its compliance with all its stated policies. Human Resource important dimension of building leadership Strategy is the Company’s strategic learning and development agenda. This agenda is geared to In order to sustain its position as one of cater to building front-line managerial capability, India’s most valuable corporations, ITC middle-management functional leadership and has relentlessly pursued a strategy of organisational stewardship capability of senior being customer-focused, competitionmanagement. This three-pronged strategy of differentiated, performance-driven and leadership development has ensured that each future-capable. The Company’s Human of the Company’s businesses is managed by a Resource Development strategy seeks to team of competent, passionate and inspiring fulfill this mandate through careful selection leaders, capable of building an organisation and rigorous implementation of a wide range anchored in a culture of learning, innovation, of programmes and interventions. high performance and value creation. 130 Engaging Talent Building Business Our Talent Management strategy is focused Leaders on building a high quality ‘future-ready’ We recruit quality talent from premier pool of managers, specialists and business campuses across the country through an leaders. Our talent brand embodies our objective and robust selection process. New commitment to developing managers with employees are assigned to various businesses functional expertise, leadership capability of the Company and are deployed across and a desire to contribute to a larger purpose. the country. Our strategy of organisation The approach is based on: is based on the principle of distributed Attracting and nurturing quality talent leadership which has ensured that each supported by significant investments in of our businesses is managed by a team of learning and development. This is backed by a competent, passionate and inspiring leaders. culture of care and concern and is supported Our Company’s talent and capability building by systems and processes that encourage practices have been commended in the Nielsen 2013 Campustrack survey. According to the survey, our organisation has emerged amongst the top five employers of choice in premier management campuses and amongst the top three in premier technology campuses that ITC recruits from. proactive engagement and involvement. Our Creating a responsive, stakeholder-centric Talent and market-focused culture that enhances Management organisational capability and vitality. strategy is focused Providing multiple platforms across the on building a organisation to enable information sharing high quality and to encourage employees to discuss, ‘future-ready’ engage and learn from functional experts and from each other. pool of managers, specialists and business leaders. 131 Supporting e-Choupals, women’s empowerment, microenterprises and livestock development. Communities: Generating Employment, Employees Enhancing Our human resource management systems and processes aim at creating a responsive, Employability customer-centric and market focused culture that enhances organisational capability We encourage local employment in our and agility. manufacturing units and hotels, depending on the availability of requisite skills. In some During 2013-14, our full-time direct of our Units, we also partner with local employees numbered 30,442 of which 2,202 Industrial Training Institutes to provide employees in the Leaf Tobacco business were vital inputs to the management of these engaged on a seasonal basis due to the very institutions. We have also partnered with nature of the business. Of the total number agencies that impart vocational training of employees, 3,088 are women. The number on skills related to sales & distribution, of new appointees for the reporting period is hospitality, construction and technology with 4,876 of which 19% are women. an objective of enhancing the employability of In addition, 19,629 employees of service youth from disadvantaged sections of society. providers were engaged during the period. A large number of youth is also provided 12,962 of our direct employees are members with apprentice training opportunities in our of various unions. Employees are involved manufacturing units. in the implementation of best-in-class The different value chains related to our technology and process improvements aimed Businesses provide direct and indirect at enhancing productivity and quality. The employment to around 6 million people, harmonious relations at all operating Units whose livelihoods are substantially linked is a reflection of the Company’s approach to their association with the Company. to employee engagement focusing on Indirect employment covers our supply and a collaborative approach and mutuality distribution and agri-sourcing network as well of interests. All changes are proposed, as initiatives under social and farm forestry, discussed and finalised during the Long The different value chains related to our Businesses provide direct and indirect employment to around 6 million people, whose livelihoods are substantially linked to their association with the Company. 132 Gender wise employee break up Term Agreement negotiations. During the Employee Numbers year there was one strike resulting in a loss of 25,000 3,042 person days of work which is equivalent 22,354 to 0.02% of the total person days worked. 20,000 15,000 Employee Well 10,000 Being ITC believes that its competitive capability 5,000 3,947 3,088 to build future-ready businesses and create 929 enduring value for stakeholders is enriched by 0 a dedicated and high-quality human resource Male Female pool. Therefore, nurturing quality talent and caring for the well-being of employees Total Employees New Hires are an integral part of ITC’s work culture. Age wise employee breakup Employee Numbers Employees are 16,000 14,366 involved in the 14,000 implementation 12,000 11,091 of best-in-class 10,000 technology 8,000 and process 6,000 4,985 improvements 4,000 3,893 aimed at 2,000 943 enhancing 0 40 productivity and < 30 30 50 50 > quality. Total Employees New Hires 133 This approach focuses on creating a conducive employees was 20% whereas the attrition work environment that helps deliver winning for non-management workers was 8.6%. The performance. Benefits such as medical gender wise attrition was at 12.5% and 28.2% assistance (including hospitalisation), group for male and female employees respectively. accident insurance scheme, annual leave along with leave encashment and retirement benefits, amongst others, are provided to all permanent and temporary workers. During the Diversity and Equal year under review, 138 employees applied and were given maternity leave. Of the 138, 95 have Opportunity returned to work while 37 are still on leave. ITC believes that diversity at the workplace creates an environment conducive to engagement, alignment, innovation and high performance. This is achieved by a policy that Attrition ensures diversity and non-discrimination across the Company. ITC has ensured significant attraction and retention of employees, primarily backed Our approach to human resource is by its robust talent management strategy of premised on the fundamental belief of offering diverse experiences and challenges fostering meritocracy in the organisation, across varied business contexts, unparalleled which promotes diversity and offers investments towards development and growth equal opportunity to all employees. This of employees, as well as a market driven ensures that there is no discrimination and competitive remuneration philosophy. in compensation, training and employee The overall attrition (voluntary separation, benefits, based on caste, religion, disability, retirement, termination and abandonment gender, sexual orientation, race, colour, of services) across management and nonancestry, marital status or affiliation with a management employees for 2013-14 was political, religious or union organisation or 14%. The attrition for management level majority/minority group. ITC has ensured significant attraction and retention of employees, primarily backed by its robust talent management strategy 134 ITC has a multi–pronged approach to learning with focussed interventions in core and functional areas, customised business-specific and strategic organisation-wide interventions, as well as three tiered leadership development programmes. Learning And Development ITC’s Capability Development Agenda flows ITC’s Performance Management System from its Vision, Mission, Strategic Agenda also plays a pivotal role in charting out the and the 3-Horizon Growth strategy. All development agenda of employees in the Learning and Development initiatives offered management cadre. In 2013-14 all eligible during 2013-14 were aligned to this agenda. managers underwent performance reviews. ITC has a multi–pronged approach to Learning and Development learning with focussed interventions in core and functional areas, customised Person Days Employee Category business-specific and strategic organisation80000 74707 wide interventions, as well as three tiered leadership development programmes. 70000 There are multiple forums for learning 60000 59025 including classroom training, on-the-job training, inclusion in taskforces and projects, 50000 mentoring and deploying of organisation wide 40000 portals to enable sharing of best practices. 20000 Employee training at the factory level focusses on continuous skill upgradation 10000 on the basis of skill-gap assessment and planned technology induction. 0 Non Management Management In 2013-14, 1,33,732 person-days of formal training were organised for employees at various levels. In addition, on-the-job learning opportunities were provided to a cross section of employees supported by inputs from peers and superiors. 135 ITC believes that its workforce is a key asset that emphasises continuous improvement that contributes to the Company’s standing and is based on an EHS management system as one of India’s most valuable corporations. developed in accordance with internationally The Company believes that a safe and healthy recognised standards, supported by work environment is a basic requirement for continued investments towards best-in-class ensuring employee well-being and that best infrastructure and quality human resources. practices in occupational health & safety As a first step, Environment, occupational enhance the Company’s overall performance. Health & Safety (EHS) requirements are This helps in the attraction and retention of integrated at the design stage itself for all quality talent and enhances the equity of the new investments in the built environment. Company as a responsible employer. The design reviews cover building & structural stability, fire & life safety measures, electrical systems, segregation of man-material Management movements, work place lighting, ventilation & hygiene requirements, noise & dust controls, Approach water and energy use optimisation, etc. The process of incorporating EHS at the design ITC’s approach towards best-in-class stage not only helps in eliminating/reducing occupational health and safety standards is hazards but also optimises the overall articulated in a Board approved EHS Policy infrastructure as well as operational costs. 136 As a next step, compliance with EHS Guidelines. As per these guidelines, every standards during the construction phase is Unit is required to have EHS committees to ensured by implementing appropriate Project promote active participation of employees EHS management systems. This includes and service providers in EHS management. adequate training of all employees including The committees have equal representation service providers’ employees, enforcement from workers and management. These of use of safe equipment/tools/tackles, Guidelines also require raising of awareness personal protective equipment, development amongst employees, their families and Environment, of and adherence to safe work procedures/ surrounding communities on off-the-job Occupational method statements and observance of good safety aspects such as home safety, safe use Health & Safety housekeeping and storage practices. Preof LPG in the kitchen, HIV/AIDS, hepatitis, commissioning audits of all large projects dengue, malaria and road safety. As part of requirements are carried out by Corporate EHS (CEHS) our preventive medical programme, various are integrated at to ensure that all equipment and systems categories of employees, based on their the design stage have been procured and installed in age and exposure to occupational hazards, itself for all new conformance with agreed standards and a undergo periodic medical check-ups. formal clearance provided before making the investments Compliance is verified through internal project operational. in the built audits conducted by the CEHS across ITC At the operational stage, all our factories, establishments, on a periodic basis and forms environment. hotels, warehouses and offices have part of the report back to CMC (monthly) and established Environment, Health & Safety the Board (quarterly), together with accident (EHS) Management systems. These include statistics, their investigation and subsequent designated roles and responsibilities closure. and competent EHS resources to ensure The EHS resources of the Divisions provide compliance with defined internal EHS necessary support to ensure proper 137 implementation of the ITC EHS policy, while 10 (against 16 in 2012-13), as illustrated Detailed Unit Heads and Divisional Management below. Since 2004-05, although the number investigation Committees are responsible and accountable of Units have increased manifold from 23 and analysis for ensuring compliance. The Corporate EHS in 2004-05 to 47 in 2013-14, the Lost Time of accidents function is responsible for reviewing and Accidents (defined as an accident where updating standards and guidelines on EHS the injured person does not return to work helped us better policies, providing guidance and support to in the next scheduled shift) have come understand the all concerned and for monitoring compliance down by 73% due to significant efforts challenges being at the corporate level. made by all Units towards our zero accident faced, particularly goal. Detailed investigation and analysis of accidents helped us better understand the by our Business challenges being faced by our Business Units. Units. On-Site Safety Besides the strong engineering approach, Performance behaviour-based safety programmes are being institutionalised and behavioural architecture inputs are being used to ITC EMPLOYEES rework and recalibrate our approach, which are detailed in the subsequent section In 2013-14, the number of on-site Lost ‘The Road Ahead’. Time Accidents (LTA) for ITC employees was Lost Time Accidents (LTA) 37 23 20 16 14 15 16 12 10 07 73% Reduction in Lost Time Accidents 2004-05 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 LTA An accident where the injured does not return to work in the next scheduled shift 138 Lost Day Rate ITC Employees 28.4* 25.3* 6.5 2.2 3.5 3.1 2.2 1.9 1.1 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 * Increase in lost day rate in 2009-10 & 2011-12 was due to one fatal accident in each of the years, wherein loss of 6,000 man days of work was considered, as per IS 3786 1983: “Method for computation of frequency and severity rates for industrial injuries and classification of industrial accidents.” Lost day rate, defined as the number of days safe work procedures. Regular briefing and lost due to accidents for every 2,00,000 tool box talk have been made an integral person hours worked, over the years is part of ITC’s safety management system, for depicted above. The lost day rate reflects continuously updating all service providers’ a downward trend since 2005-06, barring employees on safe work procedures. 2009-10 and 2011-12, owing to one fatal Since last year, we have also started reporting accident in each of these periods. on the safety performance of our service Injury Rate (IR) 0.21 0.09 0.09 0.09 0.08 0.06 0.06 0.05 0.03 0.02 All vendors 2004200520062007200820092010201120122013and service 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 providers within ITC premises are Injury rate, defined as the frequency of providers’ employees within ITC premises. required to follow injuries in relation to total time worked, Though total onsite lost time accidents for the same systems over the last 10 years showed a significant service providers’ employees for the year improvement. Since 2004-05, there has been was 15 (as against 16 in 2012-13), this is and procedures a reduction of injury rate from 0.21 to 0.03 in inclusive of 3 very unfortunate on-site detailed under 2013-14 (an improvement of 86%). fatalities of service providers’ employees, out ITC’s Corporate of which two had been in ITC’s Paperboards EHS Guidelines. and Specialty Papers Bhadrachalam Unit and one in ITC Gardenia, our hotel at Bengaluru. Employees of Fatal Accidents: Details of the three fatalities Service Providers that took place within ITC units during 201314 are as follows: All vendors and service providers within ITC premises are required to follow the same One of the employees of a service provider systems and procedures detailed under in ITC’s Paperboards and Specialty Papers ITC’s Corporate EHS Guidelines. All service Unit at Bhadrachalam fell from a height providers’ employees also undergo adequate of 3.9 metres while removing waste paper standard as well as job-specific training for from a working platform and passed 139 away subsequently due to internal brain Leaf Threshing Unit at Anaparti haemorrhage. In the second case at the same Unit, a truck cleaner while resting in the coal Packaging & Printing Units at Haridwar & yard area, was run over by a pay-loader and Munger sustained fatal injuries on his head. The third Paperboards and Specialty Papers Unit at fatal accident was in ITC Gardenia, wherein Bollaram an employee of a service provider engaged for housekeeping activities, while cleaning a Personal Care Products Unit at Manpura chandelier, lost balance and fell along with Life Sciences and Technology Centre, the chandelier, resulting in fatal injuries on Bengaluru his head and neck. All the fatal accidents have been investigated Research Centre at Rajahmundry in depth and appropriate interventions ITC Green Centre, Gurgaon have been implemented in the Businesses. These interventions include improving ITC Infotech Units at Bengaluru and Kolkata risk management practices, strengthening the behavioural safety initiatives, Trade Marketing and Distribution commissioning specific studies such as a ITC Head Quarters, Kolkata traffic safety management study for ITC’s Unit at Bhadrachalam to rationalise traffic Divisional Head Quarters of Cigarettes management within the premises, as well Business, Agri Business, Leaf Tobacco as initiation of disciplinary action against Business, Paperboards & Specialty Papers supervisory staff, as applicable. Business, Packaging & Printing Business, Foods Business, Personal Care Products Business, Matches & Agarbattis, Education Zero Accident and Stationery Products Business and Units Lifestyle Retailing Business. Hotels: ITC Maurya, ITC Mughal, ITC Grand The following Units at ITC attained the goal of Central, ITC Rajputana, ITC Maratha, ITC Sonar, ‘zero accidents’ in 2013-14: ITC Windsor, ITC Grand Chola, My Fortune, Cigarette Units at Saharanpur, Kolkata & Chennai & WelcomHotel Sheraton New Delhi Pune 140 interventions, detailed investigation of all offsite accidents over the years has been carried out. These analyses reveal that the majority of off-site accidents have involved 2-wheeler riders. Accordingly, a user-interactive 2-wheeler rider’s safety programme was 16 developed and rolled out in 2011-12. Businesses were advised to ensure that all employees using 2-wheelers are trained and Units have been that there is a constant reinforcement of the achieving zero lost message of exercising extreme care while time accidents for on the road. Despite this, there has been an the last three years increase in the number of road accidents as compared to the previous year, out of which 85% involved employees riding 2-wheelers, which included one very unfortunate off-site fatal accident in which an ITC Executive on a 2-wheeler died in a road accident while on official duty. Though road infrastructure and traffic management outside our premises are well beyond our control, we are providing Over the years, the number of Units a special thrust on training and awareness delivering “zero on-site lost time accidents” building by translating the interactive ITC performance has progressively increased 2-wheeler rider’s safety programme into local and more importantly, have held on to their languages to ensure 100% coverage of all performance. Out of the above 35 units, 16 employees. Units have been consistently achieving “zero lost time accidents” status for the last 3 years. Occupational Off-Site Safety Health Performance A healthy workforce is an important contributor to our competitiveness and sustainability. All In line with our goal to achieve “zero accidents” Units maintain conducive work environments across our operations, we have started putting meeting Indian/International standards on in place adequate systems to ensure the safety hygiene, lighting, ventilation and effective of our own employees working off-site. In ITC, controls on noise and dust. off-site is defined as places other than on-site while on official duty, including commuting Units are provided with occupational to and from residence to the place of work. health centres with adequate medical In order to identify suitable management staff to monitor occupational health and Road Accidents Trend 25 20 17 10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 141 provide immediate relief when required. In architecture techniques. This is being addition, at least 2% of our employees are enabled by the creation of an organisationprofessionally trained as first aiders. wide culture of safety, involving individual ownership and integration with business Identified medical examinations are processes, which also support a “One Unit-One conducted for various categories of team” approach. Such a shared ownership not employees based on age-groups as well as The exposure to occupational hazards. These only ensures accountability but also provides focus now the opportunity for optimisation in safety medical examinations take place annually/ hardware costs. Our safety management is on fostering once in 3/5 years as applicable. system is being evolved to ensure that a culture of Accordingly in 2013-14, 14,874 employees training and other communications are safety and use underwent preventive medical examinations relevant and that they factor in the local and there were no occupation related illnesses socio-economic context thus confirming the of behavioural identified in any of our business Units. transition from “awareness developed” to architecture “changed behaviour”. techniques. HIV/AIDS and While we continue to focus on strengthening engineering control measures through ‘design other Serious for safety’, pre-commissioning/ operational audits and training interventions, behaviourDiseases based safety programmes, initiated in two We have remained committed to do our best of ITC’s Units, will also be extended to in response to the threat posed by various other Units in the coming years. It is also of serious diseases including HIV/AIDS. During paramount importance that safety as a value 2013-14, awareness/ counselling sessions system is inculcated among new recruits were conducted for the employees and in the organisation through meaningful communities around our Units covering a total and impactful communication. A corporate of 16,665 people, out of which 11,330 were safety induction training programme based our employees while the remaining were local on this concept has been developed using community members. cognitive neuroscience and behavioural economics inputs. Based on the success of this programme, more such interventions The Road Ahead will be planned at Unit/Divisional levels. This approach, which combines empowerment Based on the root-cause analysis of accidents and ownership with targeted interventions over the years, the approach to safety has and stringent accountability, should help us been redefined. The focus now is on fostering in our journey towards achieving the “Zero a culture of safety and use of behavioural Accidents” goal. All Units maintain conducive work environments meeting Indian/ International standards on hygiene, lighting, ventilation and effective controls on noise and dust. 142 All large During 2013-14, nearly `1,632 crores out of total capex cash flow of `2,661 crores Human Rights: contracts was incurred on machinery and technology, Supply Chain in ITC, for the sourced from reputed global suppliers/vendors. As a large multi-business Enterprise with construction of Approximately ` 692 crores were invested on new factories, hotels and modernisations. products that are benchmarked nationally hotels, factories, and internationally, we recognise our and significant All large contracts in ITC, for the construction responsibility to proactively encourage high of hotels, factories, and significant upgrades, upgrades, have standards of ‘Human Rights’ across our have incorporated environment, health, Supply Chain. Our approach to managing incorporated safety and human rights clauses covering Human Rights in the following distinct environment, decent place of work, and beyond compliance categories is described below: health, safety and labour practices. human rights’ All large projects were managed and supervised Our Businesses are vertically integrated clauses covering by ITC managers, who also ensured compliance across several Divisions, all of which ensure to relevent laws. adherence to ITC Human Rights policies. decent place of work, and beyond Systems have been established to ensure We procure inputs for the Company’s compliance compliance of our Policies and Standards, agri-based businesses entirely from state through rigorous audits by Corporate Internal labour controlled trading platforms and the open Audit and Corporate EHS. market. The Process is designed to ensure practices. 143 transparency and best prices for even small with risks to the right to exercise Freedom of and marginal farmers. Association and Collective Bargaining. ITC ensures the adherence to its Policy on Human Rights, Labour Practices and decent Work Environment for all its employees and Prohibiting for all Service Providers operating within its Establishments. ITC has zero tolerance for Child Labour As non-compliance in this area. and Preventing a large multi-business During 2013-14, the total number of Service Providers was 2,574 of which 1,646 operated Forced Labour at Enterprise with within the Company’s premises and 928 Workplace worked off-site. All on-site contracts include products that are important clauses on Environment, Health During 2013-14, there were no incidents benchmarked and Safety. of child labour or forced labour within ITC establishments. In the subsequent year, we will nationally and No contracts were cancelled during the year initiate the process of strengthening Systems internationally, as a result of non-compliance with ITC’s to educate, mandate and thereafter track we recognise Human Rights Policy. adherence to ITC’s Policy on Human Rights in our responsibility the Supply Chain. This Process should be well to proactively established over the next five years. encourage high Freedom of standards of Association Diversity and Equal ‘Human Rights’ across our During 2013-14, no incidents of violation of Freedom of Association were reported either Opportunity Supply Chain. to the concerned units or statutory authorities. In line with the Company’s Policy on Diversity Within ITC’s operations, there are no areas and Equal Opportunity (Please refer to Policies on ITC’s Corporate website www.itcportal. com).andgiventhesocio-culturaldiversityofour country, ITC’s recruitment and selection processes are geared towards enabling representation from across regions, ethnicities, religions and different social strata. The culture of the Company ensures that aspects of work-life balance for employees, especially for women, are suitably addressed. The Company has put in place suitable processes and mechanisms to ensure issues such as sexual harassment, if any, are effectively addressed. During the year, three complaints of sexual harassment were received, of which two have since been resolved. ITC demands, demonstrates and promotes professional behaviour and treats all employees with equal respect. 144 ITC believes that it is necessary to represent The Company, for its social development to and engage with authorities on matters projects, organises meetings with the local concerning the various sectors in which administration and state governments to seek it operates. The Board approved Policy their participation and involvement. Their on Responsible Advocacy provides the expert advice and counsel are also sought ITC’s framework for the necessary interface with and approvals obtained, where required, for engagement Government/Regulatory Authorities. ITC the planned interventions. The Company also works with apex industry institutions that engages in public-private-partnerships (PPP) with the relevant are engaged in policy advocacy, like the with the state governments for such projects. authorities Confederation of Indian Industry, Federation The CII-ITC Centre of Excellence for is guided by of Indian Chambers of Commerce and the values of Sustainable Development also interacts Industry, Associated Chambers of Commerce with the Government and policy makers commitment, and Industry of India and various other to promote sustainable development and integrity, forums including regional Chambers of inclusive growth through corporate action. Commerce. ITC’s engagement with the transparency relevant authorities is guided by the values and the need to of commitment, integrity, transparency balance interests and the need to balance interests of diverse stakeholders. of diverse stakeholders. 145 Strengthening rural livelihoods through: ITC e-Choupal Management Commitment to Wasteland Development through Approach creating larger Social Forestry societal value Soil & Moisture ITC believes that the performance of business Conservation enterprises must be measured in terms of the As part of its Triple Bottom Line commitment, Programmes value they create for society. Enterprises that ITC is committed to make growth more embed sustainability into their strategies inclusive by focusing on the needs of two Livestock can create substantial stakeholder value identified stakeholders: Development Initiatives through innovative development models The rural communities engaged in that simultaneously generate sustainable Building skills agriculture, from whom ITC procures a and social livelihood opportunities as well as create substantial share of raw materials. Almost infrastructure a positive environmental footprint. The all these crops are grown under rain-fed through: Company firmly believes that such an conditions in some of the most moisture approach unleashes strong drivers for stressed regions of the country. Given Primary Education, achieving development with social equity. the critical reliance of several of our Health & Sanitation businesses on agri-supply chains, it is in the Women’s Company’s interest to enable rural farmers Empowerment & Gender Equality to strengthen their production system and enhance yields on a sustainable basis. 146 The communities residing in close proximity of ITC’s production units, so as to enable Implementation The them improve their standard of living. ITC’s The Board CSR Committee tables for the overarching inclusive models enable these neighbouring Board’s approval, a CSR Plan outlining the aim of the communities to live a life of social and CSR Programmes to be carried out during Company’s economic dignity, thus responding the financial year and the specified budgets social sector meaningfully to their needs and aspirations. therein. The Board deliberates and approves engagement the CSR Plan with modifications that may be deemed necessary. The Company’s Corporate is to empower stakeholder Constructive Management Committee (CMC) reviews the implementation of the CSR Programmes and communities Stakeholder issues necessary directions from time to time to ensure orderly and efficient execution to conserve, Engagement of CSR Programmes in accordance with augment and this Policy. In addition, the CMC provides a manage their The overarching aim of the Company’s social sector engagement is to empower status update to the CSR and Sustainability social and Committee on the progress in implementation environmental stakeholder communities to conserve, of the approved CSR Programmes. The CSR augment and manage their social and and Sustainability Committee reviews such capital in order environmental capital in order to promote to promote reports and keeps the Board apprised of the sustainable livelihoods or employability on a implementation status of the same. sustainable significant scale. Within this, the two specific objectives, pertaining to the two sets of livelihoods or stakeholders, are: employability on Promotion of climate-smart rural Outcomes a significant development by broad-basing the farm scale. Innovative interventions have been designed and off-farm livelihoods portfolio of the and implemented that: poor and marginalised. Such interventions strengthen the existing productive base Create sustainable livelihoods for some of the as well as provide alternate sources most disadvantaged sections of the society. of incomes, which helps minimise the dependence of farmers on rain-fed crops for economic survival. Nurture and develop social capital to create a more level playing field for skillrelated modern production and to meet the competitive demands for higher productivity. Both, in turn, generate higher incomes and help in alleviating poverty. Striding a wider canvas in the interest of the nation, ITC is committed to pursuing excellence in sustainability and preserving India’s unique cultural heritage. The Board has approved a CSR Policy that covers the programmes, projects and activities that the Company plans to undertake. These programmes fall within the purview of Schedule VII of the provisions of Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014. 147 Nurture the environment by promoting continues to craft unique models to generate sustainability practices through industry livelihoods and environmental capital. Such associations. Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) projects are far more replicable, scalable Preserve and promote Indian heritage and and sustainable, with a significant multiplier culture. impact on sustainable livelihood creation Recognising that business enterprises are and environmental replenishment. economic organs of society and draw on In line with ITC’s CSR Policy, the key societal resources, it is ITC’s belief that a stakeholders and the thrust areas of its CSR company’s performance must be measured by programmes comprise: its Triple Bottom Line contribution to building economic, social and environmental capital The rural communities with whom ITC’s towards enhancing societal sustainability. agri-businesses have forged long and ITC believes that in the strategic context of enduring partnerships through their crop business, enterprises possess, beyond mere development and procurement activities. financial resources, the transformational The majority of these communities are capacity to create game-changing located in drought-prone regions and development models by unleashing their therefore most vulnerable to the adverse power of entrepreneurial vitality, innovation impacts of seasonality and environmental and creativity. In line with this belief, ITC degradation. Almost entirely dependent ITC’s Responses to Stakeholder Needs ITC Key Strategic Desired Stakeholders Objectives Interventions Outcomes believes that in the Rural households Biomass cover of Natural Resource Sustainable strategic context aligned to ITC’s 33% of project areas Management, & accelerated agri-businesses Progress towards Integrated Animal growth in of business, ‘safe groundwater Husbandry, Sustainable livelihoods and enterprises zone’ status Agriculture farm incomes possess, beyond Achieve 0.75-1% mere financial soil organic carbon 50% of village GDP resources, the from dairy activities transformational capacity to create Communities Poor women to have Sustainable Livelihoods Dignity of game-changing residing around access to credit Creation, Social life through ITC’s factories or supplementary Infrastructure, Skilling economic development income & social models by Every child in school empowerment unleashing and learning well their power of Appropriate skills for all unemployed youth entrepreneurial No open defecation vitality, innovation and creativity. State & Central Innovate and pilot Initiatives promoting MultiGovernments development models national goals of stakeholder of excellence for poverty alleviation partnership replication, scale and and environmental to maximise efficient execution protection development impact 148 on common property resources, they are kiosks that enables even small and marginal among the most disadvantaged sections of farmers in rural India who are delinked rural communities. from the formal market to access real time information on weather, market prices, The communities residing in close proximity relevant knowledge and quality inputs of our production units, whose full potential to enhance farm productivity and quality cannot be realised due to poor social and command better prices, thus making infrastructure in the areas of education, them more competitive in the national and skill enhancement, health and sanitation. global markets. The kiosks are managed by The Central Government and State farmers themselves and one selected farmer Governments, with which we partner to roll called the sanchalak is trained to help his out and scale up innovative projects piloted community access ready information in to create replicable models of development. their local language. At the next level of the e-Choupal system are the Choupal Saagars, which are procurement-cum-retail hubs located within tractorable distance of 25-30 ITC e-Choupal kms. The e-Choupal network also provides Recognising the various challenges faced by customised extension services, knowhow on best farming practices, quality agri40,000 the farmer, the ITC e-Choupal was designed to inputs like seeds, herbicides, fertilisers and villages benefitted provide a 360-degree intervention to trigger pesticides through a single channel. from the e-Choupal initiative a virtuous cycle of higher farm productivity, By providing knowhow and connecting higher income, enlarged capacity for farmer risk farmers to markets, the e-Choupal network management, and thereby larger investments has enabled a virtual integration of the ITC to enable higher quality and productivity. supply chain and eliminated wasteful e-Choupal The first level of the e-Choupal system intermediation and multiple handling, which was designed consists of a network of village internet led to significant reduction in transaction to provide a 360-degree intervention to trigger a virtuous cycle of higher farm productivity, higher income, enlarged capacity for farmer risk management, and thereby larger investments to enable higher quality and productivity. 149 The e-Choupal is an important component of ITC’s multidimensional Integrated Rural Development Programme that had evolved from its deep understanding of the challenges and opportunities inherent in the farm sector. costs apart from expanding markets and are provided with critical information and enhancing rural incomes. relevant knowledge on farm productivity, prices and markets through the ITC The e-Choupal initiative today covers 40,000 e-Choupal. This platform also enables access villages benefitting 4 million farmers. As a to quality inputs for better productivity result of these interventions, ITC e-Choupal besides expanding the reach to markets. initiative has enabled farmers to raise Initiatives such as Livestock Development productivity levels and incomes through and Women Empowerment create avenues capacity building, technology transfer for supplementary non-farm incomes to including knowhow, building market protect against agri-income volatility as linkages and value chain integration. There well as build capacities for investment. is visible development in the e-Choupal Watershed Development as well as villages with rising purchasing power, Afforestation Programmes augment natural as well as infrastructure development resources to enable higher productivity, arising out of increased economic activity. create a green cover and restore soil health. Efficient market signals have also led to crop quality improvement, aligning it with Taken together, the ITC-Choupal programmes consumer preferences. have had a transformational impact in many The e-Choupal is an important component areas of rural India. of ITC’s multi-dimensional Integrated Rural Development Programme that had evolved from its deep understanding of ITC’S SOCIAL the challenges and opportunities inherent in the farm sector. The strategy of this INVESTMENT intervention which is aimed at empowering farmers and raising rural incomes is broadly PROGRAMMES centred around four distinct dimensions, which together enable a comprehensive ITC has put in place a mutually reinforcing CSR development of the rural ecosystem. Programme _ christened Mission Sunehra These dimensions are in the areas of (a) Kal (MSK) _ which has been designed to information and knowledge dissemination. liberate even the most underprivileged and (b) Access to quality inputs and markets. (c) marginalised among these stakeholder Generating supplementary incomes and (d) groups, from the shackles of poverty and Natural resource augmentation. Farmers underdevelopment through economic 150 empowerment based on grassroots capacity building. ITC is ideally positioned to respond ITC to these challenges, given its core objective is ideally of empowering its stakeholder communities positioned to to promote sustainable livelihoods, which, respond to the in turn, is strategically aligned to the national goals of poverty eradication and challenges of povenvironmental regeneration. erty and underdevelopment, given its core objective Rural Households of empowering its – Climate Smart stakeholder communities to Agriculture promote Already water-stressed and facing sustainable widespread environmental degradation, livelihoods, which, approximately two-third of the country’s in turn, is strategically aligned to the national goals of poverty eradication and environmental regeneration. population is rural and dependent on is further constrained by limited off-farm agriculture and allied activities for their employment options, poor infrastructure livelihoods. The overwhelming majority are and inadequate marketing channels. These small/marginal farmers whose only option factors all combine to perpetuate a cycle of is rain-fed agriculture. With a direct and endemic poverty. symbiotic dependence on climate sensitive Given the geographical diversity of its sectors, they naturally have low adaptive stakeholder communities, ITC’s main capacities. Stagnating productivity is challenge is to develop models that could be exacerbated by the fragile natural resource replicated across locations with the flexibility base, fragmented land-holdings, unscientific to be tailored to individual community land management practices, overuse of needs. These twin concerns are addressed chemical fertilisers, falling incomes and, by a faithful adherence to four fundamental increasingly, by the growing effects of tenets: climate change. Dwindling bio-mass has created pressure on fodder and energy needs Enhance the ecological resource base for these households. Livelihood security of the rural economy by strengthening 151 Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development ITC’s Livestock Development programme promotes animal husbandry as a viable livelihood option by leveraging the fact that the majority of rural households own cattle. It is estimated that animal husbandry contributes 30-50% of rural household incomes, but livestock quality is poor and milk yields abysmal. ITC provides doorstep artificial insemination (AI) services to produce crosscommunity-based governance of natural bred progeny with yields that are significantly resources that protects, preserves, nurtures higher, converting a low-yielding asset into and expands such resources; a profitable new livelihood opportunity. A comprehensive package of services, covering Employ a bottom-up participatory approach AI and all aspects of cattle health, is provided that ensures an in-built flexibility to through Cattle Development Centres (CDCs) address diverse needs _ aiming to create which are manned by local youth trained as empowered village institutions and enable technicians. communities to co-operatively conserve and manage their resources; Commencing in 2003-04, there are currently 261 CDCs, spread across 7 states. 3.98 lakh ITC Encourage collaborative processes and cross-bred progeny have been born to date provides multi-stakeholder partnerships to enable and animal husbandry services were provided identification of the best strategies to to over 10 lakh breedable cattle. doorstep address community needs and expand the artificial development footprint of each project; The Company’s CSR initiatives aimed at insemination enhancing milk production, increasing dairy Put in place end-to-end solutions that farm productivity and ensuring remunerative (AI) services to address the spectrum of needs of these prices to farmers in multiple locations produce crosscommunities instead of focusing solely on continued to make good progress during bred progeny a single issue. with yields that are significantly COVERAGE higher, converting The projects promoted under the CSR a low-yielding programme increased from 107 in 2012-13 asset into a to 110 during the reporting period. These profitable new projects are spread across 13 states covering livelihood 61 districts. The interventions reach out to more than 6.40 lakh households in more than opportunity. 9,100 villages. Of the total projects currently being implemented, 83% are designed for rural stakeholder households, while the balance 17% addresses stakeholders residing around our factories. The CSR programme is spread across the states of Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. 152 Activity 2012-13 2013-14 Cum to 2013-14 CDC Centres (No) 10 (42) 261 Breed Improvement No of AIs (Lakhs) 2.75 2.55 13.37 No of Pregnancies (Lakhs) 1.30 1.40 6.24 194 No of Calfing (Lakhs) 0.89 0.91 3.98 Milk Producer Groups have come Vaccination & Health (Lakhs) 0.72 0.14 5.03 up in Munger Average Daily Procurement, Average Number of Farmers 2013-14 (kgs/day) per day The Company’s CSR initiatives aimed at enhancing milk Apr-Jun Jul-Sep Oct-Dec Jan-Mar Apr-Jun Jul-Sep Oct-Dec Jan-Mar production, Series 1 10, 280 9, 350 10, 246 25, 428 Series 1 1, 711 1, 666 1, 691 3,607 increasing dairy farm productivity the year. A unique cashless milk payment to determine the status of the livestock system which enables direct electronic economy in Pune district (Maharashtra) was and ensuring payment into farmers’ bank accounts, completed during the year. remunerative together with a comprehensive package of prices to farmers extension services such as veterinary care, in multiple breeding, supply of balanced cattle feed and feed supplements, fodder propagation and Social Forestry locations training of dairy farmers has been initiated. continued to In Munger (Bihar), the milk procurement PROGRAMME DESIGN make good network has increased to 194 Milk Producer progress during Groups (MPGs) with over 4,500 members. The Social Forestry programme is specifically the year. The average daily procurement in Munger targeted towards small-holders (in particular was 13,729 lpd with a peak of 35,441 lpd. Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes). Extension services were also promoted in Marginalised, both economically and socially 28 villages in Nanauta and Gangoh blocks with landholdings generally less than 1 of Saharanpur (UP). Baseline surveys hectare, they are not considered credit worthy 153 by formal lenders and are compelled to work intercropping is encouraged to provide a as daily wage earners or indebted labour. source of income and nutrition. They are often forced to resort to seasonal out-migration to earn their livelihood. These households are mobilised to form Wood PERFORMANCE Producers Associations (WPAs) through Commencing in 2001-02, the programme which ITC provides long-term interest-free has cummulatively greened nearly 45,000 loans and a package of extension services hectares in Andhra Pradesh and 2,600 hectares – silvicultural training, land development, in Karnataka. Plantation activities like land financial management, plantation and development, planting, felling, debarking, documentation maintenance. etc. generate employment, especially for the landless. To date, both the Farm and Social Members are mandated to repay their loans Forestry programmes have generated over 73 (single payment or in instalments) to the million person-days of employment. A total of association after the first harvest to build 1,058 village WPAs have a collective VDF of a corpus for the Village Development Fund ` 1.14 crores. (VDF), which is used to extend loans for further plantations, for emergencies and The highlights of this year included: (a) the to invest in community assets. During the incorporation of bio-diversity conservation gestation period, lops and tops help to as an integral part of the Social Forestry meet household fuel requirements while programme, which aims for in-situ conservation Activity 2012-13 2013-14 Harvest Area (Hectares) 756 1,623 Farmers (No) 813 2,321 Volume Harvested 28,137 60,519 (Tonnes) Total Income 773 2,949 (` Lakh) 47,182 Repayment to Committee/ 6 20 NGO Hectares of plantation area Earnings/ under Social 95,067 127,067 Household Forestry in Andhra Pradesh and Earnings/ Karnataka 102,247 181,724 Hectare To Activity 2012-13 2013-14 Cum to 2013-14 date, both Coverage the Farm and No of new villages 396 719 2,436 Social Forestry No of new beneficiaries 10,102 12,827 52,670 programmes Plantation Area have generated Andhra Pradesh (Hectares) 8,554 12,649 44,605 over 73 million Karnataka (Hectares) 700 1,083 2,577 person-days of Saplings Planted (Lakhs) 821 888 2,936 employment. Agro-forestry Area (Hectares) 492 3,848 4,670 154 of the local flora by protecting and improving Share of Total Income by Source: The production conditions in the selected plots; and study found that earnings from SF were a (b) Expansion in the coverage of agro-forestry, significant addition to the total income of aimed at food and wood security; 3,848 the beneficiaries, amounting to Rs 7,000/hectares were brought under agro-forestry, an annually, which was found to be 11% of eight-fold increase compared to the previous the total annual income of the households. 3,848 year. The most common intercrops grown More importantly, the increase in income comprised cotton, pulses, vegetables and chilli. from various sources post introduction of the project was the highest for SF hectares were The total area harvested by the end of plantations. It accounted for nearly half of brought under the year (1,623 hectares) was more than the increase in total household incomes, Agro-Forestry, an double that of the previous year as was the eight-fold increase significantly higher than even agricultural total harvest (61,000 tonnes) generating a compared to the crops. total wealth of nearly ` 30 crores for poor previous year and marginal farmers. This resulted in an Share of Increased Income by Source (%) appreciable increase in the earnings per 49% hectare and per household, sufficient to pull 33% poor households out of a low income/debt trap. Plantation incomes represent earnings 13% 5% from a previously unproductive asset, which has gained value as the tangible economic benefits of the programme have escalated Social Agri Farm Other land prices and lease rates. Forestry Crop Lab Incomes IMPACT Asset ownership changes: The most noticeable impact has been on asset creation An impact assessment survey was conducted as a result of the lump sum earnings every in November–December 2012 by iKOnet 4 years from the plantations. More than Research & Consultants covering 1,648 half the households have invested in better beneficiaries in 62 sample villages in the and safer housing (pucca homes or cement Khammam District. Some of the significant floors). Expenditure on household durables findings of the study are as follows: Asset Ownership Changes (% of Sample Households) Change in Land-use pattern: The Social Forestry (SF) Plantations were found to cover large tracts of uplands and fallow lands which are generally under no productive use. The plantations thus emerged as a superior land-use option against other agricultural crops for such lands. As a result, SF plantations have Pucca Cement TV 2 LPG BoreLivestock emerged as the second most important crop House Floor Wheelers Gas Wells in the region after foodgrains. 2012-13 55% 51% 68% 46% 13% 60% 36% 2006-07 13% 13% 22% 23% 3% 1% 27% like TV, mobile phones and even air coolers has increased with 60% of the respondents Land Use by Major Crops (% of total) attesting to the presence of one or all of the above in their households after earnings from the SF programmes. A significant section of the beneficiaries purchased bicycles and motorbikes. Expenditure on agriculture also increased, especially in Foodgrains Social Forestry Cash Crop investments on tractors, irrigation facilities Series 1 36% 33% 31% and livestock. 155 Soil and Moisture soil and moisture conservation measures (contour bunds, loose boulder contours, gully Conservation plugs, etc.), and eco-restoration through revegetating common lands. Community wisdom and local knowledge is an important PROGRAMME DESIGN input in planning, e.g. the type of structure, biomass needs, etc. The emphasis is on ITC’s Integrated Watershed Development using traditional methods in conjunction programme targets the most disadvantaged with modern techniques to build locationsections of the community _ small and specific, low-cost structures, relying on local marginal farmers who are almost entirely materials and simple technology. Water user dependent on common property resources, charges go towards creating a corpus used to including water. Extensive Participatory maintain the structures _ a key factor in the Rural Appraisal (PRA) exercises identify long-term sustainability of the projects. target beneficiaries who are constituted into Water User Groups (WUGs), with priority PERFORMANCE on the adequate representation of women. PRAs also lead to the formation of village Commencing in 2000-01, the programme is micro-plans that identify optimal watershed currently spread across 1,027 villages in 7 initiatives and detailed planned interventions states. 1,234 WUGs have built 4,974 water including locations, responsibilities for harvesting structures and accumulated implementation at various levels and the a Maintenance Fund of ` 79 lakhs. The financial outlay involved. Though ITC is total area brought under soil & moisture the major source of funding, community conservation is 1.49 lakh hectares, including contributions range from 20-75%, depending provision of critical irrigation to 50,465 on their socio-economic conditions. Local hectares, benefiting 1.27 lakh households. contribution helps generate a high level of By extending critical irrigation and improving ownership, which leads to more efficient water availability throughout the year, the conservation and use of resources. programme has enabled these farmers to increase yields (by an average of 20%) WUGs undergo intensive training in and return to multi-cropping across the watershed management techniques, majority of the programme area. To date, the structure maintenance, water use regulation programme has created 4 million person-days Three and formulation of user charges. They of employment through construction activities new MOUs plan, implement and monitor all activities and the rise in agricultural productivity. including the building of micro-water were signed with Three new MOUs were signed with the harvesting structures (check dams, village the Government ponds, percolation tanks, etc.) adopting Government of Maharashtra (for Satara of Maharashtra suitable water saving technologies and district) and the Government of Madhya (for Satara district) and the Activity 2012-13 2013-14 Cum to 2013-14 Government Water Harvesting of Madhya Minor Structures (No) 236 533 2,976 Pradesh (for Major Structures (No) 234 300 1,998 Sehore district) Total Structures (No) 470 833 4,974 to implement the Watershed Area government’s Area Treated (Hectares) 21,261 19,664 98,325 Integrated Critical Irrigation Area (Hectares) 5,375 12,998 50,465 Watershed Total Watershed Area (Hectares) 26,636 32,662 148,789 Management Direct Beneficiaries (No) 19,271 19,426 127,394 Programme. EMPL Mandays (Lakhs) 9.21 4.94 40.18 156 Progress in PPP Projects by Sources ITC’s 9,078 23,935 Integrated IWDP/IWMP Watershed 21,595 60,197 Development MGNREGA programme 28,611 14,839 targets the most NABARD disadvantaged sections of the 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% community _ Actual Balance small and marginal farmers who Pradesh (for Sehore district) to implement IMPACT are almost entirely the government’s Integrated Watershed Management Programme. With this, the total Household Incomes: The watershed dependent on area to be brought under soil and moisture development programme in Yavatmal common conservation through PPP projects has district (Maharashtra) was implemented property increased to over 1.58 lakh hectares. during 2007-12. The impact study of the project, carried out by Access Livelihoods resources. By the end of the financial year, 66% of the Consulting, revealed that income as a result total target area under the NABARD projects of the watershed interventions increased had been completed in the states of Madhya by nearly 50% for both agriculturalists and Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, farm labourers. Rajasthan and Bihar. 27% of the target had been met in the collaboration with State Changes in Household Incomes Governments of Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra Before After and Rajasthan. Intervention Intervention % change Agricultural 37,981 58,036 53% Income Daily Wage 21,126 31,566 49% Coverage Area in PPP Projects Income by Source 52% 23% 27% MGNREGA NABARD IWDP/IWMP Partner Area (Hectares) NABARD 43,450 Rajasthan Government 43,117 Madhya Pradesh Government 23,944 Maharashtra Government 47,744 Grand Total 158,255 157 Groundwater Recharge: The same study and realise better incomes through high for the Yavatmal watershed project also value crops. These include water saving showed the change in groundwater status technologies (drip and sprinkler systems, as a result of the watershed interventions. group irrigation wells), the establishment of The well survey data of the study shows that compost units (especially as an additional increase in the water column was observed source of income for women), encouraging for all seasons, with a significant increase the use of organic compost, promoting observed even in the winter months. The organic and Integrated Pest Management very fact that water is available in the (IPM) spices and scientific land-use models. summer months clearly demonstrates that the project was successful in ensuring PERFORMANCE recharge. In line with our objective on planned expansion Changes in Water Column (%) of sustainable agriculture (SA) practices on a large scale, there was significant increase in the number of compost pits, demonstration plots and Farmer Field Schools (FFS). With the formation of 37 new Agri Business Centres (ABC) during the year, the total functional ABCs Summer Monsoon Winter stand at 88, that deliver extension services and Series 1 8% 30% 24% knowhow on advanced Package of Practices (PoP) to over 13,600 farmers. Irrigation Costs: The soil and moisture conservation programme was started in Prakasam district (Andhra Pradesh) in 2001 and continues till date. The impact evaluation of the project, undertaken by Synergyz Resource Advisory Consultants, found that water was now available in the water-harvesting structures for periods ranging from 25 days to round the year. As Mutually a result, farmers have access to water for at reinforcing least one irrigation cycle and sometimes, ITC’s Watershed depending on the precipitation, for both Development cycles. Further, with water now available locally, the cost of sourcing water has programme, reduced. Savings, as estimated by the the Sustainable farmers, average between ` 10,000 – Agricultural ` 15,000 per acre. Practices initiative promotes a combination Improved of solutions to optimise water Agricultural management, Practices enhance land PROGRAMME DESIGN productivity and realise better Mutually reinforcing ITC’s Watershed Development programme, the Sustainable incomes through Agricultural Practices initiative promotes a high value combination of solutions to optimise water crops. management, enhance land productivity 158 IMPACT The combined impact of soil and moisture conservation and improved agriculture practices on crop productivity has been very significant in all the project areas. A study by iKOnet Research & Consultants for the project in Bhilwara (Rajasthan) revealed that productivity increased for almost all crops in both seasons. Rabi: A 25% increase in productivity of wheat, a major rabi crop, was observed in all programme villages. Mustard production had doubled in the project villages and productivity of lentils and grams had increased by nearly 50%. Rabi % Increase in Productivity (q/acre) 100% 50% 50% 25% Wheat Mustard Lentils Gram Kharif: Productivity of maize and soya, major kharif crops, increased by 20% and 33% respectively. Yields of urad, cotton and groundnut increased to more than 50%. Kharif % Increase in Productivity (q/acre) 50% 50% 50% 33% 20% Maize Urad Cotton Groundnut Soyabean The study also found that changes in productivity were significant compared to the control plots, where productivity status was found to be almost similar to the situation that existed before the project was introduced in the villages. 159 Factory and prosperity of households living below the poverty line. A few of the fundamental Catchments – causes for people feeling disempowered Creating Social and apathetic towards their future are lack of employment opportunities. These are Capital aggravated by illiteracy and ill-health, which prevent them from seizing opportunities that Habitats around industrial clusters are the labour market offers because they are typically overcrowded and congested. either unqualified or energy-deficient. Infrastructure is poor or creaking under the pressure of an increasing population base, drawn to such regions in the hope of gainful employment. Sanitation facilities are almost Women’s non-existent, creating unhygienic conditions which have a direct bearing on the high Empowerment morbidity rates, especially among women, a distinctive trait in such settlements. The PROGRAMME DESIGN exposure to our factories is on two counts: ITC’s Women’s Economic Empowerment A concentration of unemployed or underprogramme mobilises poor women to form employed youth with aspirations to work micro-credit Self Help Groups (SHGs). in our factories but who do not possess the Members make compulsory monthly necessary skills or qualifications to work in contributions to create an initial corpus modern production facilities. which is built upon with seed money from ITC. They receive training on managing funds Sharp disparities between lifestyles and handling bank accounts to enable them represent an ever-present threat of our to take their own financial decisions. Once operations getting disrupted. the SHGs mature, financing loans for income The primary focus in the catchment of our generation activities are given to members, factories is to create the necessary and either from their own corpus or through banks. enabling pre-conditions for future growth The primary focus in the catchment of our factories is to create the necessary and enabling preconditions for future growth and prosperity of households living below the poverty line. 160 Agarbatti Production and Sales 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 Raw Agarbatti Production (MT) 336 834 1445 Sales (` Lakhs) 177 355 855 Women Members 2299 3292 3714 Scenting Unit Despatch (Mln. Sticks) 294 367 319 Sales (` Lakhs) 314 445 417 Women Members 42 48 89 PERFORMANCE activities along with agarbatti rolling which provides a convenient means to augment Commencing in 2000, the programme their incomes currently supports 1,682 operational SHGs with 20,230 members and cumulative savings Expenditure pattern by virtue of income of ` 3.52 crores. 31,034 women are selffrom rolling – 87% of respondents stated employed, while 7,731 women are employed that extra income from agarbatti rolling in micro enterprises. helped in meeting day-to-day household expenses, while 53% cite school fees as Agarbatti production was given a fillip during the their major expenditure, 55% spend on year with the introduction of pedal machines, festivals and family occasions and 24% which increased output and, therefore, were able to spend on house infrastructure. incomes for women. 1,368 pedal machines were operational in the states of Bihar, Uttar Better positioned for Savings & Loan Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Repayment The impact was seen to be Pradesh and Maharashtra to create livelihoods more significant in the case of pedal rollers. for women in rural areas. Production of raw About 33% of pedal roller respondents agarbattis was 1,445 tonnes during the year. invested some of their income in savings, The women owned and managed scenting compared to only 9% of hand roller units dispatched a total of 319 million sticks respondents. Similarly, about 31% of pedal with a turnover of ` 4.17 crores. roller respondents reported that they found it easier to pay back loans and borrow less IMPACT (both in terms of amount and frequency) in contrast to 4.5% of hand roller respondents. 42,000 The impact assessment of the women-led Sustainable micro-enterprise programme in Munger (Bihar), livelihoods for rural women launched in 2004, was conducted by SHAPE. The study findings give evidence of a profound shift in the status of women in these villages: ITC’s From homemakers to earners of Women’s independent supplementary income 74% Economic of the respondents who had been solely Empowerment homemakers, with no independent income of their own, now cite agarbatti rolling programme as their chief source of income. Of those mobilises poor who were previously earning incomes, women to form most were engaged in agricultural labour micro-credit (6.7%) or sewing (4.5%). Virtually all these respondents continue to pursue these SHGs. 161 Primary Education, interactions and meetings. An initiative called Read India Plus Programme was introduced Vocational Training in the latter part of the year that aimed at and Health & improving education levels of children in and around ITC’s production units. 30,000 Sanitation new students were covered through all these above initiatives during the year, taking the Primary education is one of the major total number of children covered till date indicators for raising overall cognitive to 3.36 lakhs. Infrastructure support was development in a child and has a direct provided to 47 government primary schools correlation with the country’s Human during the year, taking the total number to Development Indices (HDI). It is equally over 1,011. important to upgrade skills of youth to better More than 2,400 youths were covered this compete with the emerging needs in the job year by the skill development initiatives, market. of which 38% belonged to the SC/ST ITC’s primary education programme provides communities, thus contributing to the furniture, books, teaching aids and structural Company’s affirmative action commitment. additions e.g. classrooms and toilets as In order to promote hygienic environment infrastructural assistance to Government through prevention of open defecation and to primary schools in the vicinity of its operating reduce incidence of water-borne diseases, 829 units. Supplementary Learning Centres low-cost sanitary latrines were constructed (SLCs) set up by the programme provide for poor households on a cost sharing basis, additional coaching to help children keep up around the factory locations of Andhra in school. Educated unemployed or collegePradesh, Bihar, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. going local youth are trained and employed as tutors in the SLCs which are situated in premises provided by the community. The programme also supports a network of libraries Conclusion 3,36,000 and resource For India to progress on a path of sustainable and inclusive growth, and secure long-term centres and Students have been economic competitiveness, ITC believes that it covered under ITC’s builds parental primary education and community is imperative that the private sector plays a more programme involvement in proactive role in the social sector. Anchored education in community based self-help initiatives, the through ultimate aim of ITC’s programmes is to build An regular self-reliant, empowered local institutions initiative that can catalyse change at the grassroots called Read and develop leadership within stakeholder India Plus Programme was Activity 2012-13 2013-14 Cum to 2013-14 introduced in the Primary Education latter part of the Govt Schools Infra Support 46 47 1,011 year that aimed Children Covered (Lakhs) 0.40 0.30 3.36 at improving Vocational Training education levels No. of Students (New) 627 2,443 6,315 of children in and Placements (No of Students) 681 279 1,197 around ITC’s Health & Sanitation production Sanitary Toilets (No) 352 829 4,676 units. Health Awarness Camps (No) 63 30 445 162 communities. ITC’s CSR programmes are continue to improve the performance of Our working towards this objective by building the livestock sector in our project villages competencies at the local level – managerial, by providing integrated services to 4 lakh commitment administrative and financial capabilities – additional milch animals, taking the total of improving that will eventually make the roles of external number of animals covered to 14 lakhs. More the soil moisture funding and implementation agencies than 35,000 farmers will benefit through regime of farmers redundant. The aim is to give communities higher realisations for their milk through control over their own resources and enable state-of-art milk procurement network and operating in the them to participate in the formulation and transparent measurement systems. rainfed regions of implementation of development strategies. the country will WOMEN’S ECONOMIC find expression EMPOWERMENT in watershed The Road Ahead The Company’s women’s empowerment development of programme will continue to find avenues Going forward, in a continuing affirmation of 1.30 lakh hectares, for gainful employment or supplementary our commitment to sustainable and inclusive incomes for 3,000 poor women from our taking the total to growth, we have set the following targets for project areas, taking the total coverage to more than 2.80 the next 3 years: 45,000. lakh hectares. SOCIAL FORESTRY EDUCATION & SKILLS In our endeavour to provide fuelwood and We will continue to improve the learning fodder security to small and marginal levels of primary school goers by reaching farmers, the area to be brought under Social out to 25,000 additional children, taking the and Farm Forestry in Andhra Pradesh and total to 3.60 lakh children. Acknowledging Karnataka will increase by an additional the urgency of creating a large pool of 70,000 hectares, taking the total area to skilled human resources, the vocational 2.30 lakh hectares. training programme will be ramped up significantly to cover 36,000 additional WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT youth, taking the total to 43,000 youth. Our commitment of improving the soil moisture regime of farmers operating in the rainfed regions of the country will find expression in watershed development of 1.30 lakh hectares, taking the total to more than 2.80 lakh hectares. To provide critical irrigation to these farmers, 3,000 new water-harvesting structures will be constructed, taking the total to 8,000 leading to a total freshwater storage of 29 million cubic metres. SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE To ensure higher yields on a sustainable basis and lower costs of production, sustainable agricultural practices will be significantly ramped up from the current 9,000 hectares to more than 50,000 hectares. ANIMAL HUSBANDRY DEVELOPMENT In order to hedge risks of farmers, we will 163 CREATING During the year, the Centre has made a meaningful contribution in drafting rules ENDURING for Section 135 of the Companies Act 2013. The Centre was also awarded a four-year INSTITUTIONS EU Switch Asia project titled ‘Green Retail India’ to promote sustainable development of India’s food and beverage retail sector. CII-ITC Centre The Centre has also partnered with the International Integrated Reporting Council of Excellence (IIRC) to promote Integrated Reporting (IR) in India. The Centre will further constitute an for Sustainable IR business network in the country to provide Development Indian business ownership in the development and implementation of the IR framework. The CII-ITC Centre of Excellence for Based on a request from The Ministry of Sustainable Development is a co-creation of Environment & Forests (MoEF) the Centre is the apex national Chamber, the Confederation hosting the India Business and Biodiversity of Indian Industry, and ITC. With its abiding Initiative (IBBI) platform. This national level objective of promoting sustainability initiative will represent India’s business sector amongst corporates, the Centre is engaged in at the UN Global Business and Biodiversity a wide spectrum of value-added and targeted Initiative. Over the last year, the Centre also initiatives that create awareness, provide published several case studies and research thought leadership, build capacity amongst papers on Sustainability and CSR. Indian enterprises and reward exemplary performances. With its abiding objective of promoting sustainability amongst corporates, the Centre is engaged in a wide spectrum of value-added and targeted initiatives that create awareness, provide thought leadership, build capacity amongst Indian enterprises and reward exemplary performances. 164 The Centre also instituted the world’s first corporate sustainability label, “Sustainable Plus”, that provides a brand identity tool for companies to communicate that they are sustainable, responsible and well-governed. The Centre’s 31 open programmes and 40 incompany programmes on a gamut of areas including Value Innovation, Sustainability Reporting, Stakeholder Engagement, Social Return on Investment (SRoI), Supply Chain, and Corporate Sustainability Performance management, conducted both in India and abroad, reached out to over 2,700 participants. The 8th Annual Sustainability Solutions Summit continued its legacy of bringing together thought-and-action leaders from across the globe to discuss and propagate innovative and actionable solutions towards building a more sustainable future. The Centre also recognises and rewards the most significant contributions to sustainable development in the country through the CIIITC Sustainability Awards. The Centre is today playing a major role in engaging with policy makers to create an environment that encourages the adoption of sustainable business practices. The Centre is a consulting partner in several policy interventions such as Green Guidelines for Music. With a commitment that has remained Public Procurement, Low Carbon Expert With a consistent for over 37 years, ITC-SRA is the Group of the Planning Commission, National world’s first and only professionally managed commitment Innovation Council, Ministry of Corporate modern Gurukul, blending scientific research that has Affairs on CSR Policy, National Awards and technology methods with the purity of for Prevention of Pollution, Rajiv Gandhi remained the age old Guru-Shishya tradition. While Environment Awards for Clean Technology consistent for relentlessly focusing on Hindustani Classical and Technology and Finance Committee Music, the Academy has also expanded over 37 years, ITCunder the Montreal Protocol. It is also its performance watershed to include the SRA is the world’s represented on the Board of the Central Carnatic genre as well as the rich heritage first and only Pollution Control Board and other bodies. of folk music of Bengal. The Academy is professionally currently engaged in carrying the message managed modern ITC Sangeet of Hindustani Classical Music across our country from the metros to rural India. Gurukul, blending Research Academy Recent forays into neighbouring Bangladesh have brought home another dimension of scientific research methods and The ITC Sangeet Research Academy (ITC-SRA) the shared sub-continental heritage. The technology is a true embodiment of sustained corporate Academy also constantly endeavours to work commitment to a priceless national heritage. together with other music organisations and methods with the It is a unique institution which has been at institutions of repute. purity of the age the forefront of disseminating the ancient old Guru-Shishya tradition of Hindustani Classical Music. The tradition. Academy is also recognised for being the finest repository of Hindustani Classical 165 Management Our uncompromising commitment to ensuring compliance with relevant standards Approach of health and safety commences at the design stage, wherein appropriate health CUSTOMER HEALTH AND and safety elements across manufacturing, SAFETY delivery and consumption are identified The and evaluated, and control measures Given ITC’s presence in the FMCG and Company implemented as and when necessary. Hospitality sectors, its products and services New products are developed after careful has established can have a direct impact on the health and consideration of global developments. This stringent safety of consumers and other stakeholders. is supported by comprehensive research The Company has accordingly established processes and and testing facilities at the ITC Life Sciences stringent processes and systems to ensure systems to ensure & Technology Centre, whose laboratories that all products and services are in total conform to ISO/IEC 17025 and are certified that all products compliance with all regulatory requirements. by National Accreditation Board for Testing and services In addition, product and service attributes and Calibration (NABL). ITC uses proprietary are in total are constantly evaluated to ensure progress software for regular monitoring and review towards compliance with best international compliance with standards and practices. This is an integral of stringent raw materials specifications. all regulatory Manufacturing units and hotels have statepart of the Company’s DNA and all efforts are of-the-art facilities, cutting edge technology requirements. made to ensure that there is no deviation on and internationally benchmarked quality this account. 166 management systems, which are constantly The summary of systems and initiatives reviewed and upgraded. For businesses across some of our businesses is listed out in Manufacturing that make use of third party manufacturing the following table: facilities, the quality performance of each units and hotels manufacturer is monitored on a daily basis. have state-ofthe-art facilities, cutting edge Initiatives for improvement of health and safety Business technology and impacts of products/ services internationally The Business primarily engages in sourcing of agri-commodities benchmarked like Wheat, Coffee, Potato, Shrimps, Soya and Processed Fruits. quality These commodities are sourced and supplied based on customer management requirements of quality, quantity and packaging. Hence, there is no direct assessment of the health and safety aspects of the product. systems, which However, stringent process control and quality inspection norms are constantly have been established to ensure the quality of all products. All reviewed and Agri Business items are stored according to specifications in warehouses, which are selected based on prescribed norms. Systems and processes upgraded. are in place to ensure the hygiene of the stored stocks. Products are shipped after meticulous testing either in-house, or at accredited labs or agencies, if required by customers. For processed fruit products that cater to specific customer segments, the Business has received the following international certifications for its organic and sustainable farm practices processed fruits business to cater to specific customer segments: 167 Initiatives for improvement of health and safety Business impacts of products/ services Fairtrade certification endorsing that its products meet certain environmental, labour, and developmental standards Demeter Certification for Biodynamic Farming, a holistic method Agri Business of agriculture USDA Organic Certification for Organic Farming Bio-Suisse Certification for Organic Farming 52 out of 63 manufacturing locations, including third party manufacturing units, are Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP)/ ISO 22000 certified, ensuring that products use the best quality ingredients and utilise the highest quality processes. The objective is to continuously provide consumers with products that not only “Taste Good” but also “Do Good”. Consequently, large investments are made towards R&D on products to deliver Foods relevant functionalities based upon specific formulations for specific health needs, like reducing salt, sugar and oil across all products. These processes will start showing results over the next few years. Recently launched products like ‘Sunfeast Oats Marie’ and the newly launched ‘Sunfeast Farmlite’ attempt to seamlessly integrate healthy ingredients like oats and fibre into consumer snacking preferences. The Business uses proprietary software to regularly monitor and review stringent product specifications of all raw materials. With consistent focus on product innovation, new product development Cigarettes in the Business involves consideration of global developments and is supported by comprehensive research and testing facilities at the ITC Life Sciences & Technology Centre, where laboratories conform to ISO/IEC 17025 standards and are certified by NABL. Product hygiene standards in tobacco cultivation are accorded the highest importance. Accordingly, awareness among tobacco 52 farmers on the importance of producing sustainable quality out of 63 tobacco with residue free product is constantly reinforced during manufacturing field-level trainings and seminars in ITC’s operating region. For Leaf Tobacco frequent assessment on product integrity, farm-level and packedlocations, level toxicant audit studies are undertaken wherein all leaf including samples from farmlands and packed cases of finished products third party are closely monitored for toxicant residues. Several additional measures were implemented across the value chain during the manufacturing year towards minimisation of Non Tobacco Related Matter (NTRM). units of Foods Business, are Hazard Analysis The Business follows a comprehensive approach for improving the health and safety impacts of its products in each of the and Critical following life cycle stages: Control Point Personal Care Products Research and development (HACCP)/ ISO 22000 All safety tests from prototype development to final product are conducted in accordance with standard international guidelines certified. 168 Initiatives for improvement of health and safety ITC Business impacts of products/ services Hotels R&D endeavours Research and Development to adhere to Ingredients used in products undergo rigorous analysis, based on existing scientific literature, for their toxicity and skin sensitisation GHP & GMP prior to clearance for use in product development (Good Hygiene Certification Practices & Good Product safety and efficacy is certified through external accredited Manufacturing Personal laboratories Practices) along Care Products Manufacturing and production with the ISO Products are manufactured under strict hygienic conditions and in 22000 food safety an automated environment management Documented Quality Management System, including procured system. material checks, in-process checks and finished goods quality checks, ensures that the manufactured products are consistent and of high quality. ITC Maurya, ITC Mughal, ITC Maratha, ITC Grand Central, ITC Sonar, IT Windsor, ITC Kakatiya, ITC Rajputana, Sheraton New Delhi and My Fortune Chennai have established food safety management systems certified as per HACCP/ ISO 22000. ITC Hotels R&D endeavours to adhere to GHP & GMP (Good Hygiene Practices & Good Manufacturing Practices) along with the ISO 22000 food safety management system. The Hotels Business also conforms to relevant applications of PAS 220 (Prerequisite programmes on Hotels food safety for food manufacturing). In addition, to ensure the life safety of all customers, ITC has elaborate fire safety guidelines which have to be complied with by all Hotels. These guidelines are based upon National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Codes and other international best practices. They supplement the general EHS Guidelines applicable to all ITC’s businesses, the compliance to which is audited by the Corporate EHS Department on a regular basis. The Business uses only approved non-hazardous materials, like Education and ECF (Elemental Chlorine Free) paper, ink, dyes etc. Since the Stationery primary consumers of these products are children, stringent Products processes and quality control measures are in place to ensure that their safety is not compromised in any manner. All raw materials and garments are tested at the in-house laboratory for post usage experience and conformance to quality standards. The standards and product specifications are periodically validated by international testing agencies. Quality is monitored through an internal Product Quality Rating System (PQRS) together with Lifestyle the external Acceptable Quality Level (AQL) norm that is followed Retailing internationally by apparel businesses. The Wills Lifestyle brand has received the “Oeko-Tex” certification (w.e.f. January 2012), becoming the first brand in the domestic apparel retail segment in India to obtain such a recognition. The certification has been conferred by Hohenstein Textile Testing Institute GmbH & Co. 169 Initiatives for improvement of health and safety Business impacts of products/ services KG, Germany. It guarantees that the products are free from more than 100 substances that are potentially dangerous to human life Lifestyle and ensures that Wills Lifestyle garments are completely safe for Retailing consumers, while at the same time maintaining a relevant style quotient in its products. Various initiatives have been undertaken in developing packaging solutions that use environment friendly raw materials such as water-based varnishes and reduction in material usage in terms of mass and thickness reduction in products. The Business engages with customers on a continuous basis to provide solutions that help protect functional needs like product integrity and visual imagery, whilst providing scope for use of alternate materials. The Packaging bulk of board packaging is already being done with non-toluene and Printing based inks. In the area of flexibles packaging, joint projects with customers have been undertaken to promote biodegradable flexibles packaging and printing with non-toluene and non-ketone based inks. In order to strengthen the health & safety requirement of products, all operations at the Haridwar factory and flexibles operations at the Tiruvottiyur Unit have been certified as per British Retail Consortium (BRC) Global Standard for Packaging and Packaging Materials. ITC has been the pioneer in manufacturing Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) pulp in India. This ensures that the levels of dioxins and furans in the pulp are less than 1 PPT (Parts Per Trillion). The global migration test is conducted periodically on all foodgrade paper and paperboards for compliance with the US FDA standards and to adhere to prescribed limits for presence of heavy Various metals. All manufacturing ingredients are procured from reputed initiatives Paperboards suppliers and conform to US FDA and equivalent standards. The have been and Specialty Business ensures that the components of food allergens listed Papers in the EC directive 2003/89/ EC and the US FDA Act are not undertaken used in any virgin grade boards and papers. The Bollaram Unit, in developing which manufactures food grade board for direct food contact, is packaging ‘third party’ certified in accordance with BRC/IoP (British Retail Consortium/Institute of Packaging) standards. Smithers Pira, a solutions that renowned testing and consultancy firm, certifies ITC’s ‘Indobarr’ use environment and ‘Cyber Propac’ brands to be compliant with German BFR friendly raw standards for Food Packaging. materials such as water-based varnishes and reduction in Chemicals approved by IFRA (International Fragrance Resource Association, Geneva) are used to prepare fragrances, which are material usage Matches and required in the manufacture of dipped Mangaldeep agarbattis. The Agarbatti in terms of mass manufacturing processes of the Matches and Agarbatti Business and thickness are designed to ensure product safety and consistency. reduction in products. 170 As an organisation which makes comprehensive efforts to ensure legitimacy, transparency and good governance, ITC’s business operations strive to comply with every relevant law of the nation. Product have been put in place to ensure compliance before the launch of any new category or Information and product. Labelling Regular customer feedback system forms an integral part of B2C businesses, like Hotels, As an organisation which makes Information Technology, Cigarettes as well comprehensive efforts to ensure legitimacy, as other FMCG businesses, where there is transparency and good governance, ITC’s direct interface with customers. Represented business operations strive to comply with below is the customer satisfaction survey every relevant law of the nation. Systems followed by ITC’s Hotels Business. Improvements Monitored Reports Identified and and Verified Analysed Implemented Scores are Scores are generated Data is analysed monitored to ensure for the hotel and the to identify areas of that corrective individual improvement action has been departments effective Corrective action Scores are is taken Audits are compared against conducted to targets set check efficacy of the changes 171 In the case of FMCG products, consumers are provided several communication channels Marketing like email, telephone number, website Communications address and feedback forms to enable All Businesses/Divisions of ITC have them to contact the relevant business. established rigorous systems, procedures Processes are laid down to ensure that and review mechanisms to identify and consumers are provided with responses on comply with the laws and regulations their feedback in a timely manner. In the concerning marketing communications. In Information Technology Business also, there addition, ITC has put in place a dedicated are formal mechanisms in place to measure consumer response cell in order to answer customer experience. The Customer Service any queries on the product. Satisfaction Survey is an annual check on the robustness of the engagement, culminating ITC follows standard operating procedures to in a Customer Experience Index. The survey ensure that its marketing communications is conducted amongst Chief Executives are in accordance with voluntary codes and Senior Management, and is based on adopted by each business and the applicable a structured questionnaire customised statutes. These are vetted by the internal for the recipient. Multiple parameters and legal team and compliance is ensured by the business outcomes are measured including internal audit department. satisfaction, loyalty, advocacy and value Marketing and Advertising Communications for money. The outcomes and insights from of all ITC’s businesses are subjected to the survey drive customer engagement and stringent internal checks by the Legal service delivery improvement initiatives at Department. The Company’s consumer the organisation, geography, business unit goods businesses adhere to voluntary and and account level. legal codes of conduct and follow the ASCI On the other hand, customer feedback (Advertising Standards Council of India) Code for B2B businesses like Agri Business and for all marketing communications. During Packaging and Printing, is obtained through the year, a marketing communication on a different activities. For example, Agri new product category was reworked based Business has pre-season engagement with on the direction received from ASCI. customers, client visits and engagement of Marketing communications for ITC’s Hotels the Divisional Management Committees with Business is governed by self-regulation and major customers. Given the nature of the guided by the Indian Society of Advertisers business, claims due to rejections on account (ISA) rules and guidelines. ITC of quality are a valuable indicator of customer follows dissatisfaction. During the year under review, no such claims were made to the Business. standard operating procedures to ensure that its marketing communication is in accordance with voluntary codes adopted by each business and the applicable statutes. 172 Customer Privacy Compliance ITC has Maintenance of customer privacy is relevant All Businesses/Divisions of ITC have well established primarily for ITC’s Information Technology established systems, procedures and review systems wherein and Hotels Businesses, both of which have mechanisms to identify and comply with the every Business well established systems and procedures laws and regulations concerning its products and Corporate for ensuring zero non-compliance. Network and services. Particular care is accorded Architecture and Information Security to tobacco products, taking into account Department controls are driven by industry best practices. the regulatory framework as well as social has to submit a The Business has drafted a privacy policy expectations of responsible tobacco usage. periodic statutory in line with the IT Act, 2000, that covers ITC has established systems wherein every compliance report all aspects of data privacy with respect to Business and Corporate Department has to to the CMC/Board sensitive information. The Business has also submit a periodic statutory compliance report formulated an Information Management on all business to the CMC/Board on all business regulatory, policy, which caters to the IT security aspects product specific, finance/revenue related, regulatory, of the ISO 27001 ISMS framework. The IT product specific, personnel related, technical/process related operations arm of ITC Infotech Limited is ISO and environment related statutes and other finance/revenue 27001 certified for its business processes to applicable laws and regulations applicable. related, personnel deliver IT services and projects. Documented This is done on the basis of updated checklists procedures are available and practised to that have to be mandatorily maintained by related, technical/ grant physical access to information, e.g. process related each reporting Unit/Business/function as the defined and restricted access rights well as monitoring and controlling systems and environment to IT Room/Server Room and User Access that the Business/Corporate function must related statutes Management based on ISO 27001 and as have in place. agreed with customers. The Business has also and other put in place measures at various control areas As per this system, there were no incidents applicable laws in order to meet customers’ requirements for of non-compliance reported during 2013-14. and regulations data security. These include desktop access, server access, network access, operating applicable. system, application security, data transfer, The Road Ahead penetration testing, etc. Clear guidelines are provided for data backup, retention periods, In order to further improve the health the media on which backups have to be and safety impacts of products, the Foods maintained and storage at remote location. Business is working on ways to progressively introduce biodegradable/recyclable packaging In addition, stringent risk assessments are solutions. Such solutions will be developed carried out to identify vulnerabilities and to ensure that they do not compromise threats to assets and the controls that need with product integrity, while addressing the to be put in place. issues related to packaging materials that are dictated by the unique characteristics of India in terms of both climatic and logistical Performance conditions. Specific programmes have also ITC’s Hotels and Information Technology been initiated by ITC’s Packaging and Printing Businesses received no complaints regarding Business for environment friendly products breach of customer privacy or loss of customer such as using low migration inks for direct data in 2013-14. For the year 2013-14, the food packaging and moving from recycled to average WoW Ratio (Guest Satisfaction virgin boards wherever there is direct contact Index) for the Hotels Business was 91.70%. with food. 173 GRI G4 Indicators Index UNGC COP GRI G4 Disclosures Elements General Standard Disclosures Actions and External Outcomes on Page Number/ Assurance/ Omissions Implementation Explanation Page Indicator Description of Principles Number STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation about the relevance of Statement of G4-1 sustainability 04-09 continuing support to the organisation and the organisation’s strategy for addressing sustainability Description of G4-2 key impacts, risks, * 44-53 and opportunities ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organisation * 12 Primary brands, products, G4-4 * 14-23 and services Location of the organisation’s G4-5 headquarters * 54 Number of countries where G4-6 * 12 the organisation operates Report and Nature of ownership and G4-7 * Accounts legal form 2014 G4-8 Markets served * 12 G4-9 Scale of the organisation * 12 Details on workforce broken Outcomes from down by gender, employment G4-10 implementation of 132-133 contract, employment Principle 6 type etc. Percentage of total employees Outcomes from G4-11 covered by collective implementation of 132 bargaining agreements Principle 3 174 UNGC COP GRI G4 Disclosures Elements General Standard Disclosures Actions and External Outcomes on Page Number/ Assurance/ Omissions Implementation Explanation Page Indicator Description of Principles Number Description of the G4-12 * 24-27 organisation’s supply chain Significant changes during the 12-23, reporting period regarding the Report and G4-13 * organisation’s size, structure, Accounts ownership, or its supply chain 2014 How the precautionary Actions taken G4-14 approach or principle is to implement 67 addressed by the organisation Principle 7 United Nations Global Compact Externally developed (UNGC) This economic, environmental and Sustainability social charters, principles, or G4-15 Report is used 04 other initiatives to which the to communicate organisation subscribes or progress on which it endorses implementation of UNGC Principles Memberships of associations and national/ international advocacy organisations in G4-16 which the organisation holds * 203-204 a position on the governance body and participates in projects or committees IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES Entities included in the organisation’s consolidated Yes/ G4-17 financial statements with * 54-59 205-207 indication of coverage in the report Process for defining the Yes/ G4-18 report content and the * 41 205-207 Aspect Boundaries Material Aspects identified Yes/ G4-19 in the process for defining * 42 205-207 report content Description of Aspect Boundary within the Yes/ G4-20 * 54-57 organisation for each 205-207 material aspect 175 UNGC COP GRI G4 Disclosures Elements General Standard Disclosures Actions and External Outcomes on Page Number/ Assurance/ Omissions Implementation Explanation Page Indicator Description of Principles Number Description of Aspect 24-25, 54-55, Boundary outside the Yes/ G4-21 * 93, 95, 117, organisation for each 205-207 32-41 material aspect Explanation of the effect No reof any re-statement of Yes/ G4-22 * statement of information provided in the 205-207 information earlier Reports Significant changes from previous reporting periods Yes/ G4-23 in the Scope and * 54 205-207 Aspect Boundaries STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT List of stakeholder groups Sharing COP with Yes/ G4-24 32-33 engaged by the organisation Stakeholders 205-207 Basis for identification and Sharing COP with Yes/ G4-25 selection of stakeholders with 32-33 Stakeholders 205-207 whom to engage Organisation’s approach to Sharing COP with Yes/ G4-26 32-33, 40-41 stakeholder engagement Stakeholders 205-207 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, Sharing COP with Yes/ G4-27 34-40 and how the organisation has Stakeholders 205-207 responded to those key topics and concerns REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting Period * 54 Date of most recent G4-29 * 54 previous Report G4-30 Reporting cycle * 54 176 UNGC COP GRI G4 Disclosures Elements General Standard Disclosures Actions and External Outcomes on Page Number/ Assurance/ Omissions Implementation Explanation Page Indicator Description of Principles Number Contact point for questions G4-31 regarding the report or its * 54 contents G4-32 GRI Content Index * 174-194 Organisation’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report; relationship with the assurance providers; G4-33 * 56 the highest governance body’s involvement in seeking assurance for the organisation’s Sustainability Report GOVERNANCE Governance structure of the organisation; committees Actions taken responsible for decisionYes/ G4-34 to implement 60-64 making on economic, 205-207 principles 1 -10 environmental and social impacts Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social Actions taken Yes/ G4-35 topics from the highest to implement 63-64 205-207 governance body to principles 1 -10 senior executives and other employees Executive-level positions with Actions taken responsibility for economic, Yes/ G4-36 to implement 61-64 environmental and 205-207 principles 1 -10 social topics Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Actions taken Yes/ G4-37 highest governance body on to implement 64 205-207 economic, environmental and principles 1 -10 social topics Composition of the highest Actions taken Yes/ G4-38 governance body and its to implement 62-64 205-207 committees principles 1 -10 177 UNGC COP GRI G4 Disclosures Elements General Standard Disclosures Actions and External Outcomes on Page Number/ Assurance/ Omissions Implementation Explanation Page Indicator Description of Principles Number Function of the Chair of the highest governance body Actions taken within the organisation’s Yes/ G4-39 to implement 65 management and the reasons 205-207 principles 1 -10 for his arrangement as an executive officer Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its Actions taken Yes/ G4-40 committees; the criteria used to implement 62-64 205-207 for nominating and selecting principles 1 -10 highest governance body members Processes for the highest governance body to ensure Actions taken conflicts of interest are Yes/ G4-41 to implement 65 avoided and managed; 205-207 principles 1 -10 disclosure of conflicts of interest to stakeholders Highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of Actions taken the organisation’s purpose, Yes/ G4-42 to implement 63-64 value or mission statements, 205-207 principles 1 -10 strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest Actions taken governance body’s collective Yes/ G4-43 to implement 66 knowledge of economic, 205-207 principles 1 -10 environmental and social topics Processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with Actions taken Yes/ G4-44 respect to governance of to implement 66 205-207 economic, environmental and principles 1 -10 social topics; actions taken in response to evaluation results Highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of Actions taken economic, environmental Yes/ G4-45 to implement 63-64, 67 and social impacts, risks, 205-207 principles 1 -10 and opportunities; use of stakeholder consultation for supporting the process 178 UNGC COP GRI G4 Disclosures Elements General Standard Disclosures Actions and External Outcomes on Page Number/ Assurance/ Omissions Implementation Explanation Page Indicator Description of Principles Number Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of Actions taken Yes/ G4-46 the organisation’s risk to implement 63-64, 67 205-207 management processes for principles 1 -10 economic, environmental and social topics Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of Actions taken Yes/ G4-47 economic, environmental and to implement 62 205-207 social impacts, risks, principles 1 -10 and opportunities Highest committee or position that formally reviews and Actions taken approves the organisation’s Yes/ G4-48 to implement 63-64 sustainability report and 205-207 principles 1 -10 ensures that all material Aspects are covered Process for communicating Actions taken Yes/ G4-49 critical concerns to the to implement 63-64 205-207 highest governance body principles 1 -10 Nature and total number of critical concerns that Actions taken were communicated to the G4-50 to implement 63-64, 67 highest governance body and principles 1 -10 the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives; how performance criteria in the Actions taken Yes/ G4-51 remuneration policy relate to implement 66 205-207 to the highest governance principles 1 -10 body’s and senior executives’ economic, environmental and social objectives Process for determining G4-52 * 66 remuneration How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken G4-53 * 66 into account regarding remuneration Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organisation’s highest-paid G4-54 individual to the median * 66 annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) 179 UNGC COP GRI G4 Disclosures Elements General Standard Disclosures Actions and External Outcomes on Page Number/ Assurance/ Omissions Implementation Explanation Page Indicator Description of Principles Number Ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organisation’s G4-55 highest-paid individual to the * 66 median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Organisation’s values, principles, standards and Actions taken 66-67, Yes/ G4-56 norms of behavior such as to implement codes of conduct and codes 196-197 205-207 principles 10 of ethics Internal and external mechanisms for seeking Actions taken Yes/ G4-57 advice on ethical and lawful to implement 66-67 205-207 behavior, and matters related principles 10 to organisational integrity Internal and external mechanisms for reporting Actions taken concerns about unethical G4-58 to implement 66-67 or unlawful behavior, principles 10 and matters related to organisational integrity Specific Standard Disclosures Material Aspects Actions and Page External DMA and Outcomes on Description Number/ Omissions Assurance/ Indicators Implementation Explanation Page Number of Principles CATEGORY: ECONOMIC MATERIAL ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Generic Disclosures on G4-DMA * 70 Management Approach (DMA) Direct economic value G4-EC1 * 70-74 generated and distributed 180 UNGC COP GRI G4 Disclosures Elements Specific Standard Disclosures Actions and External Material Aspects Outcomes on Page Number/ Assurance/ Omissions Implementation Explanation Page Indicator Description of Principles Number We have not disclosed the following information owing to unavailability of appropriate framework and reliable information Financial implications and needed for other risks and opportunities representative Action taken on estimation G4-EC2 for the organisation’s of the financial Principle 7 activities due to implications of the climate change risk or opportunity. We will evaluate appropriate framework for complete disclosure on this indicator within next 3-5 years. Coverage of the organisation’s G4-EC3 defined benefit plan * 78-79 obligations Financial assistance received G4-EC4 * 76 from government MATERIAL ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA * 80 Development and impact of G4-EC7 infrastructure investments * 81 and services supported Significant indirect economic G4-EC8 impacts, including the extent * 148-162 of impacts MATERIAL ASPECT: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA * 75 Proportion of spending on G4-EC9 * 75 local suppliers 181 UNGC COP GRI G4 Disclosures Elements Specific Standard Disclosures Actions and External Material Aspects Outcomes on Page Number/ Assurance/ Omissions Implementation Explanation Page Indicator Description of Principles Number CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Actions taken Generic Disclosures on G4-DMA to implement 84-87 Management Approach (DMA) principles 7, 8, 9 MATERIAL ASPECT: MATERIALS Actions taken G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA to implement 118-119, 121 principles 7,8 Outcomes from Materials used by weight Yes/ G4-EN1 implementing 119 or volume 205-207 Principle 7,8 Percentage of materials Outcomes from G4-EN2 used that are recycled implementing 119-120 input materials Principle 8 MATERIAL ASPECT: ENERGY Actions taken G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA to implement 88-89, 93 principles 7,8,9 Outcomes from Energy consumption within Yes/ G4-EN3 implementing 89-92 the organisation 205-207 Principle 7,8 Outcomes from Energy consumption outside G4-EN4 implementing 93 of the organisation Principle 8 Outcomes from Yes/ G4-EN5 Energy intensity implementing 91-92 205-207 Principle 8 Outcomes from Reduction of energy G4-EN6 implementing 90 consumption Principle 8,9 Reductions in energy Outcomes from G4-EN7 requirements of products and implementing 90 services Principle 8,9 MATERIAL ASPECT: WATER Actions taken G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA to implement 100-102, 111 principles 7,8 182 UNGC COP GRI G4 Disclosures Elements Specific Standard Disclosures Actions and External Material Aspects Outcomes on Page Number/ Assurance/ Omissions Implementation Explanation Page Indicator Description of Principles Number Outcomes from Total water withdrawal by Yes/ G4-EN8 implementing 102-107 source 205-207 Principle 7,8 Water sources significantly Outcomes from G4-EN9 affected by withdrawal of implementing 111 water Principle 8 Outcomes from Percentage and total volume Yes/ G4-EN10 implementing 108, 111 of water recycled and reused 205-207 Principle 8 MATERIAL ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY Actions taken G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA to implement 122-125 principles 8 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or G4-EN11 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas None of ITC’s Description of significant operational sites impacts of activities, are owned, leased, products, and services on managed in, or G4-EN12 are adjacent to, biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity protected areas value outside protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value, G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored therefore, these standard disclosures Total number of IUCN Red are not applicable. List species and national conservation list species with G4-EN14 habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS Actions taken G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA to implement 94, 97, 99 principles 7,8,9 Outcomes from Yes/ Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) G4-EN15 implementing 95 205-207, emissions (Scope 1) Principle 7,8 208-210 Energy indirect greenhouse Outcomes from Yes/ G4-EN16 gas (GHG) emissions implementing 95 205-207, (Scope 2) Principle 7,8 208-210 Other indirect greenhouse Outcomes from Yes/ G4-EN17 gas (GHG) emissions implementing 95 205-207, (Scope 3) Principle 7,8 208-210 183 UNGC COP GRI G4 Disclosures Elements Specific Standard Disclosures Actions and External Material Aspects Outcomes on Page Number/ Assurance/ Omissions Implementation Explanation Page Indicator Description of Principles Number Greenhouse gas (GHG) Outcomes on Yes/ G4-EN18 96-97 emissions intensity Principle 7,8,9 205-207 Reduction of greenhouse gas Outcomes on G4-EN19 97 (GHG) emissions Principle 7,8,9 Emissions of ozone-depleting Outcomes on G4-EN20 99 substances (ODS) Principle 7,8 NOX, SOX, and other Outcomes on G4-EN21 97-99 significant air emissions Principle 7,8 MATERIAL ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE Actions taken 100-102, 112G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA to implement 113, 117 principles 8 Outcomes from Total water discharge by Yes/ G4-EN22 implementing 108-110 quality and destination 205-207 principle 8 Outcomes from Total weight of waste by type Yes/ G4-EN23 implementing 113-117 and disposal method 205-207 principle 8 Outcomes from Total number and volume of G4-EN24 implementing 99 significant spills principle 8 This standard disclosure is not Weight of transported, applicable as there imported, exported, or treated was no transport, waste deemed hazardous Outcomes from import, export under the terms of the Basel G4-EN25 implementing or treatment of Convention Annex I, II, III, principle 8 waste deemed and VIII, and percentage of hazardous under the transported waste shipped terms of the Basel internationally Convention Annex I, II, III and VIII. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and Outcomes from G4-EN26 related habitats signifcantly implementing 111 affected by the organisation’s principle 8 discharges of water and runoff MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Extent of impact mitigation Outcomes from G4-EN27 of environmental impacts of implementing 90 products and services Principles 7,8,9 184 UNGC COP GRI G4 Disclosures Elements Specific Standard Disclosures Actions and External Material Aspects Outcomes on Page Number/ Assurance/ Omissions Implementation Explanation Page Indicator Description of Principles Number In 2013-14, we have not reported on this indicator due Percentage of products to unavailability of Outcomes from sold and their packaging reliable information. G4-EN28 implementing materials that are reclaimed We are making Principle 8 by category efforts to address this issue and we expect to report on this aspect by 2015 MATERIAL ASPECT: SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT Actions taken 119-121, 122DMA Aspect-specific DMA to implement 125 principles 7,8,9 MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Outcomes from Yes/ non-monetary sanctions G4-EN29 implementing 173 205-207 for non-compliance with Principle 8 environmental laws and regulations MATERIAL ASPECT: TRANSPORT Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods Outcomes from G4-EN30 and materials for the implementing 95-97 organisation’s operations, Principles 7,8 and transporting members of the workforce CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK MATERIAL ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT Actions taken to G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA implement Principle 128-132 3,4,5,6 Total number and rates of new Outcomes from Yes/ employee hires and employee G4-LA1 implementation of 132-134 205-207 turnover by age group, gender Principle 6 and region 185 UNGC COP GRI G4 Disclosures Elements Specific Standard Disclosures Actions and External Material Aspects Outcomes on Page Number/ Assurance/ Omissions Implementation Explanation Page Indicator Description of Principles Number Benefits provided to fulltime employees that are not provided to temporary G4-LA2 134 or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation Return to work and retention Outcomes from G4-LA3 rates after parental leave, implementation of 134 by gender Principle 6 MATERIAL ASPECT: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS Minimum notice periods regarding Minimum notice periods operational regarding operational Outcomes from changes Yes/ G4-LA4 changes, including whether implementation of form part of 205-207 these are specified in Priciple 3 long term collective agreements agreements with employees. MATERIAL ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA 136-138, 142 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health G4-LA5 and safety committees that * 137 help monitor and advise on occupational health and saftey programs Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, G4-LA6 lost days, and absenteeism, * 138-142 Yes/ and total number of work205-207 related fatalities Workers with high incidence G4-LA7 or high risk of diseases * 141-142 related to their occupation 186 UNGC COP GRI G4 Disclosures Elements Specific Standard Disclosures Actions and External Material Aspects Outcomes on Page Number/ Assurance/ Omissions Implementation Explanation Page Indicator Description of Principles Number Health and safety topics are covered in long term agreements with employees. In the absence of a system Health and safety topics for capturing the G4-LA8 covered in formal agreements * relevant information with trade unions business-wise, we have not reported on this indicator in 2013-14. However we expect to be able to report from 201415 onwards. MATERIAL ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION Average hours of training per Outcomes from G4-LA9 year per employee by gender, implementation of 135 and by employee category Principle 6 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the G4-LA10 * 135 continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Outcomes from G4-LA11 and career development implementation of 135 reviews, by gender and by Principle 6 employee category MATERIAL ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee Outcomes from G4-LA12 category according to gender, implementation of 62, 133, 134 age group, minority group Principle 6 membership, and other indicators of diversity SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS Actions taken 128-131, 143G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA to implement 144 Principles 1,24,5 MATERIAL ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION Total number of incidents of Outcomes from Yes/ G4-HR3 discrimination and corrective implementation of 144 205-207 actions taken Principle 6 187 UNGC COP GRI G4 Disclosures Elements Specific Standard Disclosures Actions and External Material Aspects Outcomes on Page Number/ Assurance/ Omissions Implementation Explanation Page Indicator Description of Principles Number MATERIAL ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA 144 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of Outcomes from association and collective G4-HR4 implementation of 144 bargaining may be violated Principle 3 or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights MATERIAL ASPECT: CHILD LABOUR Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents Outcomes from G4-HR5 of child labour, and measures implementation of 144 taken to contribute to the Principle 5 effective abolition of child labour MATERIAL ASPECT: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents Outcomes from of forced or compulsory G4-HR6 implementation of 144 labour, and measures to Principle 4 contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY MATERIAL ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES Actions to G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA implement 146-150, 163 Principles 1,2 Percentage of operations with implemented local Outcomes of Yes/ G4-SO1 community engagement, implementation of 148, 150-162 205-207 impact assessments, and Principle 1,2 development programmes Operations with significant Outcomes of Yes/ G4-SO2 actual and potential negative implementation of 150-162 205-207 impacts on local communities Principle 1,2 MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION Actions taken to G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA implement Principle 66-67 10 188 UNGC COP GRI G4 Disclosures Elements Specific Standard Disclosures Actions and External Material Aspects Outcomes on Page Number/ Assurance/ Omissions Implementation Explanation Page Indicator Description of Principles Number Total number and percentage Outcomes of of operations asessed for risks G4-SO3 implementation of 66-67 related to corruption and the Principle 10 significant risks identified Communication and training Outcomes of G4-SO4 on anti-corruption policies implementation of 66-67 and procedures Principle 10 Outcomes of Confirmed incidents of G4-SO5 implementation of 66-67 corruption and actions taken Principle 10 MATERIAL ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY Actions taken to G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA implement Principle 145 10 Total value of political Outcomes of G4-SO6 contributions by country and implementation of Nil recipient/beneficiary Principle 10 MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Yes/ G4-SO8 non-monetary sanctions for * 173 205-207 non-compliance with laws and regulations SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA * 166-167 Percentage of significant product and service Yes/ G4-PR1 categories for which health * 167-170 205-207 and safety impacts are assessed for improvement Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the G4-PR2 * 173 health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING G4-DMA Aspect-specific DMA * 171-172 189 UNGC COP GRI G4 Disclosures Elements Specific Standard Disclosures Actions and External Material Aspects Outcomes on Page Number/ Assurance/ Omissions Implementation Explanation Page Indicator Description of Principles Number Type of product and service information required by the organisation’s procedures for product and service G4-PR3 information and labeling, * 171-172 and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary G4-PR4 * 173 codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes Results of surveys measuring G4-PR5 * 171-173 customer satisfaction MATERIAL ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS Sale of banned or disputed Yes/ G4-PR6 * 173 products 205-207 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing Yes/ G4-PR7 * 173 communications, including 205-207 advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY Total number of substantiated complaints regarding G4-PR8 * 173 breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance G4-PR9 with laws and regulations * 173 concerning the provision and use of products and services * No direct requirement by UNGC COP # UNGC COP United Nations Global Compact Communication of progress 190 GRIG4 Food Processing Sector Supplement (FPSS) Material Aspects Page Number/ Reasons for External Description DMAs and Indicators Explanation Omissions Assurance Aspect: Procurement / Sourcing Practices Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) DMA Protecting 84-87 Not applicable Natural Resources DMA Minimising 94-99, 108-117 Not applicable Toxicity DMA Fair Trade All of ITC’s trading Not applicable partnerships are conducted in compliance with applicable legislations DMA Fair 134 Not applicable Compensation for Labour DMA Traceability Not reported Separate Board approved policies of ITC which address Human Rights beyond the Work Place, Responsible Sourcing and Life Cycle Sustainability will provide the structure around which efforts will be directed for traceability within the supply chain and for addressing the sustainability aspects therein. In 2013-14, evaluation for traceability in the wheat supply chain 191 Material Aspects Page Number/ Reasons for External Description DMAs and Indicators Explanation Omissions Assurance Aspect: Procurement / Sourcing Practices Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) has been completed and monitoring of performance based on identified material aspects will be implemented in a progressive manner DMA Genetically Modified ITC foods business Not applicable Organisms (GMOs) does not use any GMOs in manufacturing its products DMA Biofuels 89-90 Not applicable Aspect: Procurement / Sourcing Practices Indicators FP1 Percentage of Not reported In line with the purchased volume commitment made in from suppliers Sustainability Report compliant with 2013, we have company’s sourcing developed a Policy policy on Responsible Sourcing. The FP2 Percentage of Not reported management system purchased volume for monitoring which is verified as of suppliers’ being in accordance compliance with the with credible, policy will be rolled internationally out in 2014-15, and recognised performance data responsible will be reported in a production progressive manner standards, broken from 2015-16 down by standard Aspect: Labor / Management Relations DMA 129-130 Not applicable FP3 Percentage of 133 Not applicable working time lost due to industrial disputes, strikes and/or lock-outs by country 192 Material Aspects Page Number/ Reasons for External Description DMAs and Indicators Explanation Omissions Assurance Aspect: Healthy and Affordable Food DMA Nature, scope and 168 Not applicable effectiveness of any programmes and practices that promote access to healthy lifestyles; the prevention of chronic disease; access to healthy, nutritious and affordable food; and improved welfare for communities in need Aspect: Customer Health and Safety DMA 166-167 Not applicable FP5 Percentage of 168 Not applicable production volume manufactured in sites certified by an independent third party according to internationally recognised food safety management system standards FP6 Percentage of total 168 In Sustainability sales volume of Report 2013, we consumer products, had stated that by product category, snacks products that are lowered in with lowered sodium saturated fat, content were in trans fats, sodium the final stages of and sugars testing and were expected to be launched in 201314. Market surveys for determining customer preference for such products are still underway and their market release will be determined based on production viability. 90% by volume of our biscuits are transfat free and new variants with added fibre have 193 Material Aspects Page Number/ Reasons for External Description DMAs and Indicators Explanation Omissions Assurance Aspect: Customer Health and Safety been launched at the end of third quarter 2013-14 FP7 Percentage of total Partially reported In Sustainability sales volume of in Product Report 2013, we consumer products, Responsibility had committed that by product category section in 168 Foods Business sold, that contain would come out with increased fiber, fortified glucose vitamins, minerals, biscuits by January phytochemicals 2014. However, other or functional food Biscuit variants that additives contain increased fiber, etc., have been launched during end of third quarter 2013-14 Aspect: Product and Service Labeling DMA Policies and All information about Not applicable practices on ingredients and communication nutrition of products to consumers is published about ingredients on the product and nutritional packaging as per information beyond relevant statutory legal requirements requirements Aspect: Animal Welfare Not material as none of our businesses are involved in activities related to animal welfare 194 Business Responsibility Report Principles Alignment to Business Responsibility Report Principles Linking Sustainability Report 2014 to Business Responsibility Report Principles to assess compliance with Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) norms. Business Responsibility Report Principles to Coverage in Section of Principle assess compliance with ESG norms Sustainability Report 2014 Businesses should conduct and govern 1 themselves with Ethics, Transparency and Governance Structure Accountability Energy Air Emissions Water Management Businesses should provide goods and services Resource Conservation 2 that are safe and contribute to sustainability Raw Materials throughout their life cycle Supply Chain Social Investments Mission Sunehra Kal Product Responsibility Labour Practices and Decent Work Businesses should promote the well being of all 3 Occupational Health and Safety employees Human Rights Significant Investments Economic Performance Businesses should respect the interests of, and Stakeholder Engagement be responsive towards all stakeholders, especially 4 Labour Practices and Decent Work those who are disadvantaged, vulnerable and Human Rights Significant Investments marginalised Social Investments Mission Sunehra Kal Businesses should respect and promote human 5 Human Rights Significant Investments rights Energy Air Emissions Water Management Business should respect, protect, and make 6 Resource Conservation efforts to restore the environment Raw Materials Biodiversity Social Investments Mission Sunehra Kal Businesses, when engaged in influencing Responsible Policy Advocacy 7 public and regulatory policy, should do so in a Stakeholder Engagement responsible manner Memberships and Affiliations Businesses should support inclusive growth and Economic Performance 8 equitable development Social Investments Mission Sunehra Kal Businesses should engage with and provide Stakeholder Engagement 9 value to their customers and consumers in a Product Responsibility responsible manner 195 all our stakeholders. We will actualise stakeholder value and interest on a longterm sustainable basis. Annexures CUSTOMER FOCUS We are always customer-focussed and will deliver what the customer needs in terms of Policies And value, quality and satisfaction. Guidelines RESPECT FOR PEOPLE Vision, Mission We are result oriented, setting high performance standards for ourselves And Core Values as individuals and teams. We will simultaneously respect and value people and uphold humanness and human dignity. We acknowledge that every individual brings different perspectives and capabilities to the team and that a strong team is founded on a variety of perspectives. We want individuals to dream, value differences, create and experiment in pursuit of opportunities and achieve leadership through teamwork. ITC’S Vision EXCELLENCE Sustain ITC’s position as one of India’s most valuable corporations through world-class We do what is right, do it well and win. We performance, creating growing value for will strive for excellence in whatever we do. the Indian economy and the Company’s stakeholders. INNOVATION We will constantly pursue newer and better processes, products, services and ITC’S Mission management practices. To enhance the wealth generating capability of the enterprise in a globalising NATION ORIENTATION environment, delivering superior and We are aware of our responsibility to generate sustainable stakeholder value. economic value for the Nation. In pursuit of our goals, we will make no compromise in complying with applicable laws and ITC’S Core Values regulations at all levels. ITC’s Core Values are aimed at developing a customer-focussed, high-performance organisation which creates values for all its Corporate stakeholders. Governance Policy ITC defines Corporate Governance as a TRUSTEESHIP systemic process by which companies are As professional managers, we are conscious directed and controlled to enhance their that ITC has been given to us in ‘trust’ by wealth-generating capacity. Since large 196 corporations employ a vast quantum of senior management and employees of the societal resources, ITC believes that the Company. This Code is derived from three governance process should ensure that interlinked fundamental principles, viz. these resources are utilised in a manner that good corporate governance, good corporate meets stakeholders’ aspirations and societal citizenship and exemplary personal conduct. expectations. This belief is reflected in the The Code covers ITC’s commitment to Company’s deep commitment to contribute sustainable development, concern for to the ‘Triple Bottom Line’, namely, the occupational health, safety and environment, development, nurture and regeneration of the a gender friendly workplace, transparency nation’s economic, social and environmental and auditability, legal compliance, and the capital. philosophy of leading by personal example. The ITC Code of Conduct, as adopted by the ITC’s Corporate Governance structure, Board of Directors, is applicable to Directors, systems and processes are based on two senior management and employees of the core principles Company. This Code is derived from three Management must have the executive interlinked fundamental principles, viz. freedom to drive the enterprise forward good corporate governance, good corporate without undue restraints; and citizenship and exemplary personal conduct. The Code covers ITC’s commitment to This freedom of management should be sustainable development, concern for exercised within a framework of effective occupational health, safety and environment, accountability. a gender friendly workplace, transparency ITC believes that any meaningful policy on and auditability, legal compliance, and the Corporate Governance must empower the philosophy of leading by personal example. executive management of the Company. At ITC’s code of conduct and the Whistleblower the same time, Governance must create a Policy are available on the Company’s official mechanism of checks and balances to ensure website – www.itcportal.com that the decision-making powers vested in the executive management are used with care and responsibility to meet stakeholders’ aspirations and societal expectations. ITC’s Sustainability From this definition and core principles Policies of Corporate Governance emerge the Based on the structured stakeholder cornerstones of ITC’s governance philosophy, engagements during the year, the namely, trusteeship, transparency, Sustainability and CSR Policies of the empowerment & accountability, control and Company were revisited to enable prioritised ethical corporate citizenship. ITC believes consideration of the economic, environmental that the practice of each of these creates the and social impacts that are important to the right corporate culture that fulfills the true organisation as well as its stakeholders. purpose of Corporate Governance. These Board-approved policies listed below The Policy Document that sets out the are now available on the Company’s website structure, policies and practices of – www.itcportal.com governance is available on the Company’s Policy on Life-cycle Sustainability corporate website www.itcportal.com under the section ‘Our Values’. Policy on Stakeholder Engagement Policy on Responsible Advocacy ITC Code of Policy on Product Responsibility Policy on Responsible Sourcing Conduct Policy on Freedom of Association The ITC Code of Conduct, as adopted by the Board of Directors, is applicable to Directors, Policy on Diversity and Equal Opportunity 197 Policy on Prohibition of Child Labour and drinking water; creating livelihoods for and Prevention of Forced Labour at the people, especially those from disadvantaged Workplace sections of society, in rural and urban India; preserving and promoting traditional art and Policy on Human Rights consideration of culture, and promoting sports Stakeholders beyond the Workplace B. To develop the required capability and selfPolicy on Environment, Health & Safety reliance of beneficiaries at the grass roots, especially of women, in the belief that these are prerequisites for social and economic Corporate Social development C. To engage in affirmative action Responsibility interventions such as skill building and (CSR) Policy vocational training, to enhance employability and generate livelihoods for persons from disadvantaged sections of society 1. PHILOSOPHY D. To pursue CSR Programmes primarily in Recognizing that business enterprises are areas that fall within the economic vicinity economic organs of society and draw on of the Company’s operations to enable societal resources, it is ITC’s belief that a close supervision and ensure maximum company’s performance must be measured by development impact its Triple Bottom Line contribution to building E. To carry out CSR Programmes in relevant economic, social and environmental capital local areas to fulfill commitments arising towards enhancing societal sustainability. from requests by government / regulatory ITC believes that in the strategic context of authorities and to earmark amounts business, enterprises possess, beyond mere of monies towards “Enterprise Social financial resources, the transformational Responsibility (ESR)” activities and to spend capacity to create game-changing such monies through ESR / CSR Cells of such development models by unleashing their administrative bodies of the government and/ power of entrepreneurial vitality, innovation or directly by way of developmental works in and creativity. In line with this belief, ITC will the local areas around which the Company continue crafting unique models to generate operates livelihoods and environmental capital. Such Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) F. To provide equal opportunities to projects are far more replicable, scalable beneficiaries of the Company’s CSR and sustainable, with a significant multiplier Programmes as vendors or employees on merit impact on sustainable livelihood creation G. To promote sustainability in partnership and environmental replenishment. These with industry associations, like the initiatives are independent of the normal Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) conduct of ITC’s business. Programmes, through the CII-ITC Centre of Excellence for projects and activities (collectively “CSR Sustainable Development, in order to have a Programmes”) carried out in this regard are multiplier impact the subject matter of this Policy. 2. POLICY 3. IMPLEMENTATION To implement the Company’s CSR It is ITC’s policy: Programmes through Company personnel A. To direct ITC’s CSR Programmes, inter or through external implementing agencies alia, towards achieving one or more of or through ITC Education Trust, ITC Rural the following enhancing environmental Development Trust, ITC Sangeet Research and natural capital; supporting rural Academy, ITC Bhadrachalam Education Trust, development; promoting education; Tribeni Tissues Education Society (and other promoting healthcare, providing sanitation Trusts, Foundations and Section 8 companies 198 that may be established by the Company from Company on CSR Programmes undertaken time to time). In such cases, the Company in accordance with the approved CSR Plan. will specify the CSR Programmes which may Moreover, any surplus arising from any be undertaken by those Trusts in accordance CSR Programmes shall be used for CSR. with their Objects and administrative and Accordingly, any income arising from CSR accounting processes laid down in the Programmes will be netted off from the CSR respective Trust Deeds / Memoranda and expenditure and such net amount will be Articles of Association. reported as CSR expenditure. 4. GOVERNANCE A. Every year, the CSR and Sustainability Committee will place for the Board’s approval, ITC Food Products a CSR Plan delineating the CSR Programmes Policy to be carried out during the financial year and It is ITC’s policy that its food products should the specified budgets thereof. The Board will provide nutritious, tasty, hygienic and consider and approve the CSR Plan with any convenient options to the consuming public. modification that may be deemed necessary ITC will offer food products across multiple B. The Corporate Management Committee categories, price points, delivery formats (CMC) will assign the task of implementation and segments as dictated by the needs of the of the CSR Plan within specified budgets and consumer. timeframes to such persons or bodies as it may deem fit ITC’s portfolio of food products will be continuously improved and modified to C. The persons/bodies to which the implementation is assigned will carry out offer new products that meet the aspiration such CSR Programmes as determined by of the changing consumer the CMC within the specified budgets and timeframes and report back to the CMC on offer food products with affordable and the progress thereon at such frequency as appropriate nutrition the CMC may direct offer food products with micronutrient D. The CMC shall review the implementation fortification of the CSR Programmes once a quarter and issue necessary directions from time to time drive reduction of sodium, sugar and fat in to ensure orderly and efficient execution of the Products CSR Programmes in accordance with this Policy offer trans-fat free products E. Once every six months the CMC will offer functional food products with focus on provide a status update to the CSR and India specific metabolic disorders Sustainability Committee on the progress of implementation of the approved CSR follow a strict code for making product Programmes carried out during the six month functional claims period. It shall be the responsibility of the CSR and Sustainability Committee to review follow the highest standards in follow such reports and keep the Board apprised of responsible marketing and consumer the status of implementation of the same communications practices F. At the end of every financial year, the CSR create and sustain R&D focus in and Sustainability Committee will submit its development of new products and processes report to the Board follow the highest standards of hygiene and manufacturing practices in all delivery 5. CSR EXPENDITURE formats CSR expenditure will include all expenditure, direct and indirect, incurred by the collaborate with experts and institutions 199 ensure widespread accessibility to healthy products. ITC will endeavour to introduce products through appropriate pricing and such Reduced FSS products in the market wide distribution by year 2013. To offer Trans Fat Free Products POLICY FRAMEWORK AND To disclose added trans-fats, if any, in all STRATEGIES food products. To work towards not using As with all laws, ITC’s Food products any hydrogenated oil in all food products by will adhere to all legal and regulatory the year 2015. requirements as prescribed from time to time. To offer functional food products with focus To offer new products that meet the on India-specific metabolic disorders aspiration of the changing consumer. ITC, with well-researched functional As the aspiration of the consumer changes, ingredients, will endeavour to make new products will be developed and functional food products suitable for launched to meet the taste, nutrition consumption by Indians who suffer from and convenience expectations of future metabolic disorders. ITC will release such consumers. functional products to the consumer, only after fully understanding the mechanism To offer products with affordable and of action of the functional ingredients at appropriate nutrition. the molecular level. Integrative biology Recommendations of the National Institute approaches will be employed to study these of Nutrition (NIN), India, will be referred ingredients’ efficacy. to, to assess nutritional appropriateness To follow a strict code for making product of ITC’s food products. Efforts will be made functional claims to offer products with appropriate nutrient density for mass consumption, including ITC will conduct clinical trials in India by catering to the needs of those sections using Indian subjects to study the efficacy of the society who are economically of its functional foods. Experts’ opinion disadvantaged. will be taken to design the clinical studies and suitable statistical methods will be To offer products with micro-nutrient employed to interpret the clinical study fortification. data. Indian Council of Medical Research ITC’s food products will be suitably fortified (ICMR) guidelines will be referred to and with micro-nutrients (iron, calcium, zinc, followed in all clinical studies. Functional iodine, folic acid, other vitamins and claims will be made only after statistical minerals) wherever feasible. ITC’s R&D will significance is observed. continue to carry out suitable research To follow the highest standards in nutrition programmes to make fortified nutrients labelling and reporting more biologically available and functional. ITC’s packaged food products’ labelling will To drive reduction of sodium, sugar and fat be comprehensive with good clarity on the in products contents of all macro and micro-nutrients. ITC’s R&D will endeavour to find solutions The nutrient content will be compared with aimed at reducing fat, sugar and sodium the NIN recommended Daily Value (DV) (“FSS”) in food products, without impacting and the percentage in the product will be the taste profile of the product. In addition reported. to scientific solutions, ITC will also adopt the To follow responsible marketing and Adaptation Methodology to reduce these consumer communication practices ingredients in a gradual manner. Guidelines will be made and tangible targets will be Apart from complying with all local laws set for the new product development teams and regulations, advertisements of ITC’s to reduce the above ingredients in the new food products will also adhere to the ASCI 200 Code. All product communication to the national geographic distribution across consumer will appropriately represent both urban and rural centres, using its the products. Internal audits will be done FMCG distribution infrastructure and on marketing practices and, if needed, its e-choupal related rural distribution corrective action will be taken. Efforts will reach. ITC will also ensure accessibility be made to promote nutritious foods and across demographics through adopting a educate the rural consumer in food hygiene. portfolio approach across all relevant price segments. To create and sustain R&D focus in development of new products and processes ITC’s R&D organisation is structured to research exploratory subjects and applied research subjects. ITC’s R&D infrastructure is of international standards, and has been certified with ISO 14001-2004 for EHS and ISO 17025 NABL for analytical processes. There are more than 100 scientists conducting R&D on several food related platforms. ITC will continuously strive to contemporise its R&D infrastructure to meet changing nutrition needs. To follow the highest standards of hygiene and manufacturing practices in all delivery formats ITC Hotels R&D endeavours to practice GHP & GMP (Good Hygiene Practices & Good Manufacturing Practices) along with ISO 22000 food safety management system implementation with PAS 220 relevant applications. ITC hotels will stringently follow all applicable regulatory requirements, with particular focus on risk minimisation and elimination. To collaborate with experts and institutions ITC believes in collaborating with outside experts to upgrade the knowledge of its personnel with a view to guiding the foods business in developing products with balanced nutrition and functional ingredients. ITC will continue to collaborate with national and international institutions for scientific research and specific projects. ITC believes in using an Open Innovation policy in developing its R&D for food products. To ensure widespread accessibility of healthy products through pricing and distribution ITC will ensure the widest accessibility to its healthy food products through ensuring 201 Road – Emission factors for trucks are calculated based on the Report by World Bank on Road Transport Service Efficiency Study (India) – 2005. Rail – Emission factors are calculated based on the information available from the Indian Railways Annual report 2011-12, Indian Annexure Railways Statistics 2011-12. Air/Ship – latest “Guidelines to DEFRA / DECC’s GHG Conversion Factors for GHG Inventory: Company Reporting Freight Transport 2011” developed by the Department of Energy and Climate Change (DECC) and the Department Quantification for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA), U.K. Methodologies 4. GHG REMOVALS GHG removals from plantations have been calculated based on the approved methodology used in ITC’s UNFCCC registered CDM project ‘2241: Reforestation of severely degraded landmass in Khammam District of Andhra Pradesh, India under ITC Social Forestry Project.’ 1. STATIONARY COMBUSTION The quantification of GHG emissions from minor sources is based on a robust process Emission factors provided in the IPCC of data collection at Unit/Division level and Guideline for National Greenhouse Gas emission factors taken from recognised Inventories of 2006 were used to calculate global sources, such as IPCC guidelines and GHG emissions from stationary combustion assessment reports; GHG Protocol HFC Tool sources. Activity data (quantity of fuel v1.0 developed by GHG Protocol initiative, consumed) is multiplied with the respective WRI & WBCSD; Pulp and Paper Tool-2005; default energy factor or actual measured Net UNFCCC approved methodologies. The Calorific Value (NCVs) and emission factor to sources that have a minor contribution to quantify the direct emission from stationary ITC’s overall GHG emissions are listed below: combustion sources. 1. Air-conditioning 2. Process Emissions 2. PURCHASED ELECTRICITY 3. Company owned vehicles The quantification of energy indirect GHG emission is based on activity data (Purchased 4. SF6 release from power distribution Electricity in kWh) multiplied by emission system factors specified in the ‘CO2 Baseline 5. CO2 release from fire protection system Database for the Indian Power Sector User 6. Gas cutting/ welding Guide’, (version 9.0, January 2014) issued by Central Electricity Authority, Government of 7. Waste water treatment India. 8. GHG emissions from composting of waste inside the unit premises 3. TRANSPORTATION 9. GHG emissions from fertiliser application in forestry project The modes of transportation, used in ITC, for raw materials, finished goods & wastes, and 10. Guest travel related to our Hotels business sources for calculation of emission factors are as follows: 202 MEMBERSHIPS & AFFILIATIONS – 2014 MEMBERSHIPS & AFFILIATIONS – 2014 A  gricultural & Processed Foods Export Confederation of Indian Industry Development Authority Ecotourism Society of India All India Food Processors Association Employers’ Association of Northern India All India Management Association Export Inspection Council of India Andhra Chamber of Commerce  ederation of Andhra Pradesh Chambers of F Asian Packaging Federation Commerce and Industry A  ssociated Chambers of Commerce & F  ederation of Biscuits Manufacturers Industry Association of India A  ssociated Chambers of Commerce and F  ederation of Hotels & Restaurants Industry of Uttar Pradesh Association of India  angalore Chamber of Industry and B Federation of Indian Export Organisations Commerce  ederation of Indian Chambers of F Bangalore Management Association Commerce and Industry Bihar Chamber of Commerce  ederation of Industries and Commerce of F North Eastern Region Bihar Industries Association  ederation of Jharkhand Chambers of F Bihar State Productivity Council Commerce & Industry  ombay Chamber of Commerce and B  ederation of Karnataka Chambers of F Industry Commerce & Industry Bombay Management Association Gujarat Chamber of Commerce & Industry Bureau of Indian Standards Guwahati Management Association  entral Food Technology Research C Hotel Association of India Institute I nternational Market Assessment India  entral Institute of Plastics Engineering & C Limited Technology Indian Association of Tour Operators C  hemicals & Plastics Export Council of India Indian Beauty and Hygiene Association Coal Consumers Association Indian Chamber of Commerce, Calcutta Cochin Chamber of Commerce & Industry I ndian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore Coffee Board Indian Coffee Trade Association Coffee Exporters Association India Convention Promotion Bureau 203 Indian Green Building Council Paper Film and Foil Converters Association Indian Institute of Packaging PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry Indian Merchants’ Chamber P  rotein Food and Nutrition Development Association of India Indian Paper Manufacturers Association Ranjangaon Industries Association I ndian Printing Packaging and Allied Machinery Manufacturers Association Retailers Association of India Indian Pulp & Paper Technical Association Seafood Exporters Association of India Indian Tobacco Association Society for Urban Regeneration of Gurgaon Indian Wind Power Association Solvent Extractors Association of India Indo American Chamber of Commerce Soyabean Processors Association of India Indo German Chamber of Commerce T amil Nadu Electricity Consumers Association Industrial Waste Management Association The All India Association of Industries Institute of Directors T he Bengal Chamber of Commerce & International Chamber of Commerce Industry International Flexible Packaging Network T he Central Organisation for Oil Industry International Life Science Institute and Trade International Packaging Group The Energy and Research Institute Karnataka Planters Association T he Food Safety and Standards Authority of India Leatherhead Food International, UK The Indian Chamber of Commerce, Guntur Madras Chamber of Commerce & Industry The Indian Society of Advertisers Madras Management Association T he United Planters’ Association of M  adras Printers and Lithographers Southern India Association T he Utkal Chamber of Commerce & M  aharashtra Economic Development Industry Council T he Visakhapatnam Chamber of Commerce  ahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industry M & Industry & Agriculture Travel Agents Association of India  arine Products Export Development M Authority United States Tour Operators Association Multi Commodity Exchange of India Limited US Food and Drug Administration  ational Commodity & Derivatives N W  estern UP Chamber of Commerce & Exchange Limited Industry  ational Council of Applied Economic N W  orld Travel & Tourism Council India Research Initiative National Safety Council W  orld Wide Fund Global Forest and Trade Network Oil Technologists’ Association of India  orld Business Council for Sustainable W Pacific Asia Travel Association Development 204 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT 205 206 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT 207 208 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT 209 210 ITC’s Sustainability Report can be downloaded from www.itcportal.com ITC’s Sustainability app can be downloaded from http://www.itcportal.com/app/sustainability.aspx Follow ITC on Twitter @ITCCorpCom Figures in this section are as on May 2014
