Corporate Sustainable Development report 2013 Enabling IT Users Corporate Sustainable Development report Our Commitment Integral to our commitment, we strive to incorporate the UNGC and its principles For Computacenter in 2013, the year has into our strategy, culture and day-to-day been about building a strong platform for the operations. We do this through the Group to enjoy sustained success. However, development, communication and we recognise that the people that carry implementation of relevant policies to out business on our behalf, the people we manage and monitor our progress towards do business with and the societies and these principles. Since our commitment environment in which we operate are vital to the core principles, we have adopted contributors to delivering value and achieving and revised a number of policies and our strategic objectives. Whilst we pride procedures across the Group, and will ourselves on the provision of technologicallycontinue to do so on an ongoing basis. Mike Norris, Chief Executive Officer advanced information solutions, we We are communicating our sustainability recognise that our business occurs within efforts and achievements with all our a wider community including employees, shareholders in our Annual Report and contractors, shareholders, customers, Accounts, as well as on our Company suppliers and business partners. website. We continue to believe that what is Since 2007, the Group has been committed not measured is not effectively managed and to the 10 core principles of the United in line with this, following the implementation Nations Global Compact (‘UNGC’), aimed of our Group ERP system across our main at demonstrating ethical, environmental operating geographies, we are endeavouring and social responsibility towards our own to identify at least one standard indicator workforce and in our business interaction (‘SI’), as recognised by the Global Reporting within each community and country in Initiative (‘GRI’), per core principle. which we operate. In 2009, the Group Much work remains to be done over published its first Communication on the coming years, in relation to the Progress (‘CoP’) on the UNGC website, and measurement indicators we elect to we have been doing so on an annual basis demonstrate our progress. ever since that time. We believe that the We actively seek to collaborate with and UNGC provides us with an appropriate encourage our suppliers, contractors and framework through which to measure our customers to operate in a similar socially development and progress in this area. responsible manner, as guided by the UNGC Additionally, the Group retains its 10 core principles. We have already secured membership of the FTSE4Good support from the majority of our suppliers Index Series. and contractors, but we acknowledge that The Group’s Corporate Sustainable this remains an ongoing task. Development (‘CSD’) Policy is annually reviewed by the Computacenter plc Board of Directors, and is implemented and monitored through the Group’s Corporate Sustainable Development Committee, constituted out of representatives from across the Mike Norris Group as a whole. Chief Executive Officer 10 March 2014 02 Computacenter plc Corporate Sustainable Enabling IT Users Development report 2013 Our Progress in 2013 2014 objectives Maintain the AIR at below 2.5 and the AFR at below Human rights 1.0 across all of our main operating geographies. 1(a). Support and respect the internationally proclaimed Continued stress prevention training for managers human rights – Human Rights in German business. In France, continued training of increased numbers 2013 objectives and achievements – SI not formalised of employees in fire risk. Maintain human rights awareness through the Company’s * AIR – Number of accidents per 1,000 employees ‘Principles of Employee Behaviour’. AFR – Number of accidents per 100,000 working hours Our human rights related policies across the Group have been reviewed and continue to be made available to new starters through an employee handbook, new employment contracts 2. Ensure that the Group is not complicit in human and/or the Group intranet. Training in this area remains rights abuses available to our employees. 2013 objective and achievements – SI not formalised Enhance focus through a Sustainable Development principles Continue to maintain key and new vendor assessments week in April 2013, in France. through the vendor conformance questionnaire and monitor More than 180 members of staff were trained on Sustainable the returns. Development principles during an ‘Integration Day’ and New supplier questionnaire, developed but not yet implemented ‘Sustainable Development Principles week’, held by our in Germany. French Business in April 2013. In France, the questionnaire developed in 2012 continued to Further extend the LEO (Lebensereignisorientierte be circulated to vendors, and responses are being monitored Mitarbeiterentwicklung) programme in Germany, with a appropriately. roll-out of a ‘Healthy Leadership’ module. Supplier Assessment questionnaires returned continue to be This has been successfully extended during 2013 in Germany reviewed in respect of Anti-Bribery and Corruption exposure, – the module was conducted three times, and over 45 and this information is shared between the various companies managers within the German business attended it. in the Group. 2014 objectives 2014 objectives Across the Group, continue to maintain human rights Continue to maintain key and new vendor assessments awareness through the Company’s ‘Principles of through the vendor conformance questionnaire and the Employee Behaviour’. monitoring of returns. In France, to continue awareness through the Sustainable In Germany, the implementation and circulation of the updated Development Principles Week held in April 2014. supplier questionnaire. In Germany, the continuing provision of ‘leadership guidance’ workshops which, amongst other things, focus on the human rights of the Group’s employees. Labour standards Completion of updated compliance training in ‘Business Ethics’ 3. Uphold employees’ freedom of association and ‘Anti-corruption and fair competition’ to be completed by 2013 objective and achievements – SI not formalised employees in German business. Maintain current status and reassess vendor conformance, 1(b). Support and respect the internationally proclaimed through the review of questionnaire responses and maintain human rights – Health and Safety positive interaction with all Works Councils. Positive interaction with the Works Councils in Germany and 2013 objectives and achievements – SIs = AIR and AFR* France has been achieved on a significant number of business Maintain the Accident Incident Rate (‘AIR’) at below 2.5 issues during the year in France and Germany. and the Accident Frequency Rate (‘AFR’) below 1.0. 19 meetings of the Works Committee Council in France In the UK, the average AIR increased to 0.82 (2012: 0.79) have taken place. and the average AFR increased to 0.46 (2012: 0.44). The Works Council has continued its work throughout 2013 In Germany, the average AIR increased to 1.48 (2012: 0.99) in Germany. and the average AFR increased to 0.85 (2012: 0.55). Review of vendor conformance has continued within France In France, the average AIR reduced to 0.93 (2012: 1.41) and Germany. and the average AFR reduced to 0.51 (2012: 0.76). 89 employees trained in fire risk on the French site at Roissy. 2014 objectives Establish an e-learning platform in Germany to facilitate the Continuation of positive interaction with French and German availability to all of a variety of health and safety presentation Works Councils within new Group operating structure. awareness modules. Maintain current status and reassess vendor conformance, The e-learning platform has been launched with additional through the review of questionnaire responses. training on ‘safety at work’ for all employees. In Germany, intensive training sessions around ‘Handling of stress in leadership situations’ and the rollout of stress prevention webinars have been conducted for an additional 100 members of staff. Successful health and safety management audit completed in Germany. Computacenter plc Corporate Sustainable 03 Enabling IT Users Development report 2013 Corporate Sustainable Development report continued 4. Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour 2014 objectives Continued provision of online training relating to the 2013 objective and achievements – SI not formalised General Equal Treatment Act for German employees. Maintain current status and reassess vendor conformance, Continuation of the ‘Family Service’ offering to employees through the review of questionnaire responses. and the development of the project ‘Women at Work’. In France, the questionnaire developed in 2012 continued In France, to continue awareness through the Sustainable to be circulated to vendors, and responses monitored Development Principles Week held in April 2014. appropriately. The new supplier questionnaire is not yet implemented in Germany. Environment 7. Apply precaution to activities which can impair 2014 objective the environment Maintain current status and reassess vendor conformance, through the review of questionnaire responses. 2013 objectives and achievements – SI not formalised Continue to monitor the energy consumption levels at the Group Head Office and the CO2 emissions of the UK and 5. Abolish all forms of child labour Germany vehicles, with the aim of improving further. 2013 objective and achievements – SI not formalised An estimated 29,725 mwh of Green Climate Change Exempt Continue to develop young careers and seek assurance from electricity was purchased for all the UK locations, including all key vendors that no child labour is deployed, on behalf of its datacenters. the Group, in non-European geographies. The average CO2 emitted per UK fleet vehicle reduced In Germany, the Exploras programme, which regulates from 168 g/km in 2009, to 146 g/km in 2010, to 129 g/km conditions for working students at Computacenter Germany in 2011 to 124 g/km in 2012 and finally to 121 g/km in 2013 was continued. – the average CO2 emitted per Germany fleet vehicle reduced The Handelsblatt fund Junge Carriere’s seal of a Fair from 139 g/km in 2011 to 129 g/km in 2012 and to 117 g/km Company was retained by Computacenter Germany. in 2013, following ongoing expansion of our ‘Green Fleet’ Computacenter France continued its support for the programme. Non-governmental organisation ‘Aide et Action.’ Achieve certification to ISO 14001 level 3 of the 1, 2, 3 2014 objectives Environmental Standards in France. Continue to develop young careers and seek assurance from Not yet achieved. Relevant audit to be completed in all key vendors that no child labour is deployed, on behalf of October 2014. the Group, in non-European geographies. In France, full audit of waste management suppliers used In France, aim to maintain the level of charitable fundraising by the business carried out. and fulfil the terms of the agreement signed with Aide 2014 objectives et Action. Continue to monitor the energy consumption levels at the Group Head Office and the CO2 emissions of Computacenter 6. Support equality in respect of employment and UK and Germany vehicles, with the aim of improving further. occupation and eliminate all discrimination In Germany, successful completion of audit of quality and environmental management system (ISO: 9001:2000 and 2013 objectives and achievements – SI not formalised ISO 14001:2005) In France, reinforce awareness during the Sustainable Development Principles Week and conclude 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater involvement intergenerational negotiations. in the community Both of these targets were achieved by the French business in 2013. 2013 objectives and achievements Continue the ‘Family Service’ offering in Germany. Aim to improve the current level of charity fundraising and This was continued, and through the Family Service offering, other activity. Computacenter supports its employees in almost all aspects Employees in the UK raised nearly £130,000 of life – support ranges from child care and a back-up (2012: £73,612) during 2013, for the Group’s chosen charity kindergarten, through to a consulting service in the event of partners. Support for the Hertfordshire Fire and Rescue dogs conflicts at work and also the provision of a 24-hour hotline for continued, as well as support as a founding member of individuals to discuss any personal or professional issue that Herts 100. they wish. The UK business supports Kidsafe, a schools initiative to teach A project entitled ‘Women at Work’ for women’s promotion, children about road safety, the danger of drugs and bullying. equality and the reconciliation of family and working life Computacenter in France continued its support to Noncommenced in September 2013. Government Organisation Aide et Action. There was continued provision of anti-discrimination training In Germany, several blood donation campaigns were organised in Germany for employees, based on the requirements of the to take place within working hours, in association with the German General Equal Treatment Act. Red Cross. Complete pension ‘auto-enrolment’ in the UK for all eligible Continue to track and monitor charity fundraising activities. employees, in line with new legislation. Our French business has maintained its partnership with Process successfully implemented during the course of Aide et Action to support schooling for children worldwide the year. who are forced to work due to their circumstances. 04 Computacenter plc Corporate Sustainable Enabling IT Users Development report 2013 2014 objectives Continue to track and monitor, and increase the level of, charity fundraising activities. Our CSD approach for 2014 Maintain partnership with Aide et Action in France to support schooling for children forced to work due to As outlined within our Strategic Report, during the reporting their circumstances. period, Computacenter has completed the implementation of its Group ERP system within its UK, German and French business subsidiaries. We look forward to using this 9. Encourage the development of environmentally standardised tool to measure progress in the area of CSD friendly technologies consistently across the Group. In alignment with our move 2013 objectives and achievements – SI = Proportion of towards a Group operating structure, this will also be the customer contract wins where ‘Green IT’ was part of the case for our approach on CSD, where new initiatives will be contract scope launched in 2014 to replicate the best progress being made Continue to track customer demand for ‘Green IT’ offerings. in-country across the Group, and to discuss innovative In 2013, 13.4 per cent (2012: 12.53 per cent) of new contract ideas in this area more closely. Through a drive towards wins included a ‘Green IT’ brief. the efficiencies gained by working together more closely, Computacenter France will expand on its ‘Green IT’ Advisory we will continue to improve our CSD standards alongside Services for customers, with the addition of audit and the Group’s growth in revenue and profitability. We are consulting services. committed to ensuring that we do business in the right way, The ‘Green Initiative’ of our French business has been and additionally to giving something back to the community extended with a specific offering developed to assist which continues to allow our business to flourish. The UNGC customers in reducing their packaging waste. is a wholly appropriate tool and framework to guide us towards achieving these aspirations and, as such, we will 2014 objective remain wholly committed to it during 2014. Continue to track customer demand for ‘Green IT’ offerings. Anti-corruption 10. Impede corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 2013 objective and achievements – SI not formalised Invite an external review concerning the adequacy of the Simon Pereira Group’s Anti-bribery policy and procedures and implement Company Secretary plans following the review’s findings. 10 March 2014 A full external review of the adequacy of the Group’s Anti-bribery policy and procedures was carried out by the Good Corporation in August 2013, and a full analysis of the results has been carried out by the Group’s management. A plan has now been put in place to address any recommendations made, and it is expected that these will be implemented during 2014. 2014 objective To complete the implementation of recommendations arising from the external audit of the Group’s Anti-bribery policy and procedures. Computacenter plc Corporate Sustainable 05 Enabling IT Users Development report 2013 Computacenter plc Hatfield Avenue Hatfield Hertfordshire AL10 9TW United Kingdom Tel: +44 (0) 1707 631000 Fax: +44 (0) 1707 639966 E&OE. All trademarks acknowledged. © 2014 Computacenter. All rights reserved. www.computacenter.com
