Growing New Gold Responsibly 2013 Sustainability Report Summary About New Gold We are an intermediate gold mining company with assets on three continents, with four producing mines – the New Afton Mine, the Mesquite Mine, the Peak Mines and the Cerro San Pedro Mine – and three significant developments – the Rainy River project, Blackwater project and El Morro project. The Rainy River project is a newly acquired asset, purchased in the second half of 2013. Everywhere we operate, we are a significant participant in, and a major economic contributor to, local communities. We understand that our long-term success depends on our ability to earn, and maintain, the trust of our host communities and regions – a trust that comes from our demonstrated respect for local culture, care and concern for the environment, and support for the long-term economic well-being of local communities. We are committed to contributing to sustainable development wherever we operate by acting ethically and with integrity, and by acting responsibly with respect to the impacts of our decisions and actions on communities and the environment. We consistently apply this approach through the mine life cycle, from early exploration, development and operation, to decommissioning and mine closure. ABOUT THIS REPORT CONFLICT-FREE GOLD STANDARD This is a summary version of our full-length Sustainability New Gold complies with the World Gold Council’s Report, which is available online at www.newgold.com. Conflict-Free Gold Standard. We were provided with For additional detail on any category of information or a statement of assurance from an external auditor that our stories, please refer to the online version, which is confirms we have the processes in place to ensure our written to GRI G3.1 Level B. operations produce gold in a way that does not cause, support or benefit unlawful conflict, or contribute to This report includes the assets illustrated in the map serious human rights abuses or breaches of international of our properties, with the exception of the El Morro law. The statement of assurance is available on project, which is managed by our partner Goldcorp Inc. our website. Tables and figures are a compilation of information from across all sites except when noted. Given its recent acquisition, only financial, human resources and health and safety information on the Rainy River project are included in this report. All currency is in United States dollars (US$) unless otherwise noted. Figures have not been externally audited. Message from the President and CEO I am pleased to present New Gold’s sixth annual Sustainability Caring for Our Environment Report, which I hope again demonstrates our responsibility There were no major environmental incidents at any New Gold to our many communities of interest in every country where operation in 2013. we operate. In 2013, we developed and began to implement our New Gold New Gold made remarkable progress in 2013, despite the Environmental Management Standards, which adopt the most serious challenges that beset our industry. No matter what relevant elements from several international standards. At each economic factors face us, we understand that we will always be operation, the new standards are being used to guide a sitemeasured by our actions. We are responsible for protecting our specific Environmental Management System (EMS). By the end of people and our environment, and for supporting the social and 2013, New Gold operations were 80% through implementing the economic welfare of our host communities. New Gold EMS elements. Full implementation of the New Gold Environmental Management Standards is expected by the end We remain committed to the United Nations Global Compact’s of 2014. principles on human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. Our People Our people are our greatest asset and the core of our success. In 2013, the safety performance at our operations was exemplary. I believe that this was due to the company-wide implementation of our Health and Safety Management System. The system is based on training and design initiatives that focus on accident prevention, rather than the common focus on analyzing incidents after they occur. Our Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate was approximately 90% lower than the mining industry averages in the jurisdictions where we operate. The values-based leadership training program that we initiated in 2012 was designed to develop principled leaders and decisionmakers at various supervisory and management levels. This year, it is being expanded to target the training of future leaders The Mesquite Mine was certified under the International Cyanide and potential successors for management positions, so that the Management Code in 2012. We are in the final phases of certifying Company is agile and prepared for change. Peak Mines and Cerro San Pedro, the last two of our cyanide-using Our Communities mines. Final certification requirements are expected to be met in 2014. This year’s major achievement was the development of Community Engagement and Development Management Looking Ahead Standards, which clearly define the requirements for community 2013 was a year of great strides in developing our corporate culture outreach and community development. As of the end of of safety, respect and responsibility, with the new standards for the year, our operations were more than halfway into the environmental management and community engagement and implementation of the new standards’ components. I expect it development, and remarkable safety performance. Everyone, at will be fully implemented in 2014. every operation, has contributed to these efforts, and I extend my Last year was the New Afton Mine’s first full year in operation, gratitude to the people of New Gold. I look forward to continually thanks in part to our Participation Agreement with the Tk’emlúps improving our policies, procedures and performance in the years and Skeetchestn Bands. In addition to direct royalty payments to come. received from New Gold, the bands received their first royalties from the BC government (representing a portion of the mining taxes that we pay to the province). Currently, we are working on continuing to expand on the scope and the scale of opportunities for local First Nations businesses at New Afton. At our Cerro San Pedro Mine, we significantly improved our community consultation processes to engage a broader Robert Gallagher spectrum of the population. We want to guide our investments President and CEO, New Gold Inc. and actions, and work towards a strong, diversified local economy after the eventual closure of the mine. 2013 New gold Sustainability Report Summary 1 New Gold Properties Blackwater • Development Project • Southwest of Vanderhoof, BC, Canada • Potential open pit, gold and silver mine Rainy River • Development Project • Northwestern Ontario • Potential open pit, gold and silver mine El Morro • Development Project • 30% New Gold, 70% Goldcorp Inc. (operator) • East of Vallenar, Northern Chile • Potential open pit, copper and gold mine • For corporate social responsibility information regarding El Morro, see http://csr.goldcorp.com Operation Exploration/ Development Project Corporate Offices 2 2013 New gold Sustainability Report Summary New Afton 2013 Key AchiEvements • Operation (since 2012) #14 overall in the Future 40 Most • West of Kamloops, British Columbia (BC), Canada • Underground copper, gold and silver mine Responsible Corporate Leaders in Canada by Corporate Knights Cerro San Pedro New Afton Mine • Operation (since 2007) • Cerro de San Pedro, San Luis Potosí, Mexico First mining operation in British Columbia • Open pit, run-of-mine, heap leach gold and silver mine to receive the Certificate of Recognition from WorkSafe BC Mesquite • Operation (since 2008) Champion, 2013 BC Underground Mine • Imperial County, California, USA Rescue Competition • Open pit, run-of-mine, heap leach gold mine Cerro San Pedro Peak Mines Recognized as “Empresa Socialmente • Operation (since 1992) Responsable” (Socially Responsible Company) • Cobar Shire, New South Wales, Australia • Underground gold and copper mine for the fourth consecutive year, by the Mexican Center for Philanthropy Recognized as “Empresa Segura” (Safe Company) by the Mexican Ministry of Labour Recognized as “Empresa Familiarmente Responsable” (Family Responsible Company) by the Mexican Ministry of Labour Peak Mines Received the Environmental Achievement Award at the Cobar Business Awards Rainy River Awarded the Canadian Mineral Exploration “Safe Day Every Day” Award by the Prospectors and Developers Association of Canada 2013 New gold Sustainability Report Summary 3 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AT NEW GOLD We understand Social Responsibility as the way we contribute to Community Engagement and Development sustainable development by acting ethically and with integrity, and We are committed to establishing relationships based on mutual by acting responsibly with respect to the impacts of our decisions benefit and active engagement with our host communities to and actions on communities and the environment. contribute to healthy communities and sustainable development. Performance in 2013 Environment In 2013, we completed the development of our Environmental We are committed to preserving the long-term health and viability Management Standards as well as the Community Engagement of the natural environments affected by our projects and operations. and Development Management Standards. Along with our Health and Safety Management System, which was developed in 2012, Human Rights and Ethics these provide clear and consistent guidance to sites on corporate New Gold is committed to integrating human rights and antipolicies and their implementation. corruption best practices into our business operations and decisionmaking processes. In observation of the Voluntary Principles on Health, Safety, Environment and Corporate Security and Human Rights and as signatory to the United Nations Social Responsibility (HSE & CSR) Policy Global Compact (www.unglobalcompact.org) we are committed to reflecting its 10 principles relating to human rights, labour, Summary of Commitments environment and anti-corruption in all of our business operations. Health and Safety New Gold’s Human Rights and Anti-Corruption Policy was adopted We are committed to promoting and protecting the well-being of in 2012 and is available on our website. our employees through safety-first work practices and a culture of safety excellence. We are committed to leading industry practices To Learn More and systems in health and safety that focus on prevention of The purpose of this summary is to provide an accessible overview accidents and incidents as a priority. of what we did and how we did in terms of Corporate Social Responsibility in 2013. A comprehensive look at our policies and Employment Practices performance with respect to Human Rights and Ethics, Health and We are committed to upholding fair employment practices and Safety, Labour Practices, Community Engagement and Development, encouraging a diverse workforce, where people are treated with and Environment can be found in our full-length Sustainability Report respect and are supported to realize their full potential. available on our website. our story Cobar Enterprise Facilitation helps businesses diversify In response to 2013’s economic downturn in gold mining, the Cobar Enterprise Facilitation (CEF) – an organization established by Peak Mines to help new businesses get off the ground – found itself with a new kind of client: they were approached by established businesses seeking strategies for weathering harder times. Said Mark Workman, Peak’s CEF Facilitator, “Clients from the trades and mining supply business began to come in. They’re under pressure to expand their client base, and they looked to us for strategies.” Helping a struggling business is completely different than starting a new one, and the CEF had to adapt. “When you look at an existing business, the guidance can be entirely different. We may encourage them to take a fresh look at services they offer. In some cases, they may need to learn how to use the Internet to attract clients from further away.” To the Cobar region, the value of the CEF has been its versatility. In adapting to serve the changing business climate, it proves the importance of economic depth in a mining-dependent community. 4 2013 New gold Sustainability Report Summary The market judges New Gold on one thing: our performance, on what we do. When it comes to Corporate Social Responsibility, we expect – actually, we ask – to be held to the same standard: judge us by what we do. 2014 TARGETS PERFORMANCE 2013 TARGETS Advance reporting practices towards compliance with GRI achieved G4 Core reporting standards Maintain Level B Global by 2016. The 2012 Sustainability Report was Transparency Reporting Initiative (GRI) published as GRI G3.1 Level B on May 1, 2013. reporting. & Metrics Fully implement the New Gold Environmental Management achieved Standards and the Community Develop the New Engagement and Development The New Gold Environmental Management Gold Environmental Management Standards. Standards and the Community Engagement Management Standards and Development Management Standards were and the Community developed in alignment with ISO 14001, ISO Scorecard 1: Corporate Governance Performance Engagement and 26000 and Towards Sustainable Mining. Development Standards Management Standards In 2013, we achieved 80% in alignment with ISO implementation of the Environmental 14001, ISO 26000 and Management Standards and 55% & Guidelines Towards Sustainable Mining, and initiate of the Community Engagement implementation of and Development Management priority elements. Standards. Achieve full International Cyanide Management Code certification at achieved Cerro San Pedro and Peak Mines. Achieve International Cerro San Pedro and Peak Mines have been Maintain World Gold Council Cyanide Management recommended by auditors as “substantially Conflict-Free Gold Standard Code certification or compliant” this year; full certification is compliance. substantial compliance expected in 2014. for Cerro San Pedro and Peak Mines. Progress toward World Gold Council Conflict-Free Standards Gold Standard compliance for its first reporting year. We achieved World Gold Council Conflict-Free Gold & Guidelines Standard compliance for its first reporting year. The assurance statement is available on our website. 2013 New gold Sustainability Report Summary 5 GROWING OUR PEOPLE New Gold operates in Canada, the United States, Australia and Health and Safety Mexico, and is involved in a joint development project in Chile. Our people are the core of our success and we depend on skilled, Each country and region where New Gold operates is unique, and hard-working and empowered employees to contribute to our we strive to respect and support local customs. At the same time, business. It is a fundamental goal at New Gold that everyone we are rigorous in applying certain universal standards in health and should return home injury-free after each workday, and we seek safety, as well as in our human rights and non-discrimination policies. to create a culture in which everyone is motivated to do the right thing in order to keep themselves and their colleagues healthy and Healthand Health and Safety Safety Performance Performance injury-free. While we have had considerable success in achieving and maintaining excellent health and safety statistics, we recognize 6 the human risks that mining operations represent and, as a result, the need to be constantly vigilant. 4 Performance in 2013 Our injury and incident prevention activities, which focused on three critically targeted areas (Education/Training, Workplace 2 Behavioural Observations and Risk Assessment/Management & Mitigation), had a completion rate of 141% and for all other measurable prevention activities a completion rate of 100%. 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Four of our sites went without a lost-time injury in 2013. Two Lost-Time Injury Frequency Total Reportable Injury operations achieved over one million worker hours without a Rate (LTIFR)1 Frequency Rate (TRIFR)2 lost-time injury and another reached over two million worker 1 hours without a lost-time injury. In 2013 our Lost-Time Injury Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) is the number of lost-time injuries per 200,000 hours worked. (Lost-Time Injuries x 200,000 hours) ÷ Rate and Total Reportable Injury Rate decreased by 71% and total hours worked. 57%, respectively. 2 Total Reportable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) is the number of injuries per 200,000 hours worked. (Lost-Time Injuries + Medical Treatment Injuries + Restricted Duties Injuries) x 200,000 hours ÷ total hours worked. our story Unbeatable record of zero Lost-Time Injuries earns Mesquite mine NEW GOLD’s LTI Award In 2013, the Mesquite Mine operated for a full calendar year without a single lost-time injury, earning company-wide recognition from New Gold’s President, who awarded the mine’s Safety Team the first annual LTI Award. “We attribute this year’s safety record to a focus on ‘leading’ safety indicators among our supervisors and managers,” said Demetra Johnson, Mesquite’s Health and Safety Coordinator. Leading safety indicators are those that identify and avoid potential dangers before an accident occurs. At Mesquite, this meant a focus on workplace inspections, oneon-one contact with employees, participation in safety and pre-shift safety meetings, and thorough investigations of any incidents that occur. Johnson said, “We believe that focusing on leading indicator activities is the only way to get to Zero Incidents.” Her team’s record is a demonstration of the success of the approach. 6 2013 New gold Sustainability Report Summary EMPLOYMENT Practices At New Gold, people are treated In all the jurisdictions in which we operate, we strive to create a with respect and are supported culture of inclusiveness and acceptance that begins at the top and carries through hiring, promotion and worker-to-worker to realize their full potential. relationships. Our reputation for safety, competitive wages and benefits, and our recognition of employee performance and opportunities for career advancement, make us an employer of choice everywhere we operate. Our commitment to fair and equitable employment practices extends throughout our operations. We adhere to the labour principles of the UN Global Compact and have identified employee development and teamwork as corporate values. Performance in 2013 In 2013, market pressures led to significant challenges at some of our operations. At Peak Mines, about 35 voluntary and 12 involuntary redundancies occurred. These were very difficult decisions made by our leadership at Peak. Several meetings occurred with the workforce to allow for an open dialogue about the redundancies and implications to morale and to operations. We are making significant efforts to engage and empower employees, and to seek their input into identifying options for cost and productivity gains. A community meeting provided an open forum to address concerns and the implications of the reduction in the workforce to the local community. At New Afton, a reduction to our workforce of 22 people resulted from a decrease in underground development rates to match the operating plan for 2014. This change in employee numbers was anticipated during life of mine planning. The affected employees were provided with severance packages above those required by statute, in recognition of their efforts on behalf of New Gold. Leadership training at Cerro San Pedro. The New Gold values-based leadership training program initiated in 2012 is developing principled leaders and decisionmakers at various supervisory, management and executive levels. our story Blackwater: “Mining 101” The Blackwater project actively promotes the economic growth of the local communities, with a particular emphasis on support for First Nations. In 2013, we hosted British Columbia Institute of Technology’s Aboriginal Mining program, “Mining 101”, on reserve. The innovative two-day course is an educational tool, not an exercise in public relations. “The course is a detailed overview of the process of mining, from exploration through environmental assessment, construction, operations, through to reclamation,” said Amber Teed, Blackwater’s First Nations Coordinator. If participants become interested in careers in mining, we let them know about other courses we sponsor, which are specifically geared for band members. “The courses lead to core-cutting jobs, for example, and geotechnical roles,” said Teed. “As well, we offered life skills training. We’ve seen how important it is to be supportive and build these relationships. In fact, I think that the life skills support we provide can be more important than anything.” 2013 New gold Sustainability Report Summary 7 Growing Our People Cerro San Pedro is an example of our efforts to ensure we are an been endorsed as a “Socially Responsible Company” by the Mexican inclusive company. The operation was recognized in 2009 as an Center for Philanthropy every year since 2010. In 2013, Cerro San “Inclusive Company” by the State Government of San Luis Potosí Pedro was also recognized by the Federal Ministry of Labour with the for its employment of people with disabilities and seniors, and has designation of “Family Responsible Company.” 2014 TARGETS PERFORMANCE 2013 TARGETS Maintain 2013 Lost-Time Scorecard 2: Health, Safety, Human Resources and Professional Development Injury Frequency Rate achieved level. Complete the The remaining seven components of Maintain 2013 Total implementation of the Health and Safety Management Reportable Injury the Health and Safety System were implemented across all sites. Frequency Rate level. Management System across all sites. 100% of target lead indicators were met or exceeded. Reduce Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate by 10% year on year. Health & Safety Reduce Total Reportable 71% 57 % Injury Frequency Rate by 10% year on year. Complete 95% of target lead indicators. (0.15 vs. 0.52) (2.43 vs. 4.94) Lost-Time Total Reportable Injury Frequency Injury Frequency Rate reduced Rate reduced Maintain 2013 completion level. achieved Implement performance 98 % and development plans for 90% of employees. Employment & Professional Performance and development plans completed for employees Development Expand the values-based leadership training program achieved to target the training of Complete implementation future leaders and potential Leadership training for first line supervisors of leadership training for successors for management was carried out at all our operations. Leadership & first line supervisors at positions. our operations. TeamworK 8 2013 New gold Sustainability Report Summary our story Capacity Building and Employee Development at Cerro san Pedro One of the major legacies that the Cerro San Pedro Mine will leave is a trained, capable workforce. From basic education to professional training, we offer our people the opportunity to better themselves through learning. Last year dozens of employees took advantage of primaryand secondary-level adult education programs that we offer in collaboration with private and public institutions, and 16 employees pursued higher education with the Company’s support. We held three five-day employee retreats, in which approximately 60 employees built their teamwork and leadership skills and absorbed New Gold’s corporate values. We also trained employees in workplace-specific topics such as human resources, health and safety, quality control, and the environment. The courses were popular: for personal development, leadership and teamwork topics, training hours in 2013 increased by over 50%. 2013 New gold Sustainability Report Summary 9 GROWING OUR COMMUNITIES We foster open communication with residents and community Community Engagement leaders, from a project’s earliest development phase, through the At New Gold, community engagement begins while a project is in mine’s life and after closure. the exploration and development stage, and continues through the mine’s life and after closure. Our engagement activities are guided Our goals are to understand the impacts of our operations on by our Community Engagement and Development Management local communities, to be a catalyst for increasing quality of life, Standards, which are compliant with several standards and and to contribute to sustainable development within our host guidelines including the Mining Association of Canada’s Towards communities. We believe that it is important to thoroughly Sustainable Mining protocol on Aboriginal and Community understand the people, their histories and their aspirations, as Outreach. The Community Engagement and Development well as their needs and concerns, so that we can truly engage and Management Standards guide us to identify our communities contribute to healthy communities and long-term social, cultural of interest, effectively engage and maintain dialogue, maintain a and economic development. feedback mechanism and report on performance. Wherever our operations interact with Indigenous peoples, we endeavour to understand and respect traditional values, customs and cultures. We are committed to mutually We take meaningful action to serve their development needs and beneficial and active engagement and priorities through collaborative agreements aimed at creating jobs, training and lasting socio-economic benefits. By being committed to contributing to healthy communities to regularly hosting meetings with local representatives, New Gold remains connected to host communities to understand their priorities and sustainable development. and concerns, which helps to resolve existing or potential issues. Performance in 2013 This year’s major achievement in this area was the development of Community Engagement and Development Management Standards, which clearly define the requirements for community outreach and community development. As of the end of the year, our operations were more than halfway into the implementation of the new standards’ components. They are expected to be fully implemented in 2014. our story Blackwater builds the foundation for our future “We take every opportunity to talk to people,” said Amber Teed, Said Teed, “We are actively engaged... We now have Blackwater’s First Nations Coordinator. In 2013, the Blackwater exploration agreements with two bands whose lands overlay project hosted eight open houses in six communities, opened the mine site. In the case of three other bands, our transmission feedback channels, brought community leaders together, held line and access road cross their territory. We’re in the process four Community Liaison Committee meetings and ran four of securing cooperation agreements with them. There’s another Citizens’ Forums and two focus groups. “It’s important to get a band whose asserted traditional boundaries are affected, and sense of what the community is thinking,” she said, “even when even though in that case the government doesn’t require it, it means answering difficult questions.” we have a cooperation agreement with them. I’m in frequent As the project nears the environmental assessment process, contact with them.” it’s essential to create bonds of trust. Blackwater hosted 12 site tours for Aboriginal groups, and supported educational courses on mining specifically geared to First Nations communities. 10 2013 New gold Sustainability Report Summary New Gold mines and development projects host meetings with local residents to remain connected with their priorities and concerns. 2014 TARGETS PERFORMANCE 2013 TARGETS All operations’ engagement plans to achieve substantial achieved compliance with newly Scorecard 3: Community Engagement and Development Formalize and implement created Community Engagement plans have been formalized engagement and Engagement and at all sites. communications plans Development Management Engagement at all sites. Standards. All operations’ grievance mechanisms to achieve achieved substantial compliance Formalize external with newly created A complaint mechanism has been grievance procedures Community Engagement and formalized at Blackwater. at Blackwater project. Feedback Development Management Standards. & Complaints Initiate the Cerro San Pedro Responsible Closure Program, achieved including a collaborative Continue to implement process with local communities The Cerro San Pedro Sustainable the Cerro San Pedro to identify priorities for Development Program continued Sustainable Development community development. through 2013. Program. Work with Blackwater The Blackwater Local Economic Community Liaison Committee to identify Community Liaison opportunities for Committee maximizing local Impacts economic impacts. was instrumental in identifying opportunities for maximizing local economic impacts. 2013 New gold Sustainability Report Summary 11 our story Cerro san Pedro rolls out its Community Engagement Program In 2013, the Cerro San Pedro Mine implemented its Community historical, technical and community-related information on Engagement Program, with the aim of establishing and the mine and its operations. Over 6,700 people visited the maintaining open channels of communication with local Information Centre in 2013, including student groups from communities. In 2013, approximately 30 community meetings primary schools through to universities. The mine itself were held in 10 communities, and over a dozen household was visited by residents’ groups from Cerro de San Pedro, visits were made. We hired a local organization to pilot La Zapatilla, Cuesta de Campa, Monte Caldera, Divisadero participatory community visioning workshops, which more than and Planta del Carmen. A visitor remarked, “It is an impressive 25 people have joined so far. place. It is amazing to see that Cerro de San Pedro has had mining activities throughout centuries, and a mine is still Our Information Centre is at the core of the Community operating here. I enjoyed the visit; presentations were Engagement Program: located at a scenic viewpoint that looks excellent. The facilities are very good, and the safety standards over the mine, it is open to the general public and provides are quite high.” 12 2013 New gold Sustainability Report Summary Growing Our Communities As a signatory to the UN Global Compact we are committed to reflecting its principles on human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption in all of our business operations. Feedback Mechanisms We maintain open channels through which complaints and suggestions can be received and addressed. All of our operations maintain external feedback mechanisms. A detailed discussion of the complaints received through our feedback mechanisms in 2013 can be found in the full Sustainability Report available online. Community Development and Economic Impacts Our commitment to local socio-economic sustainability is demonstrated in the opportunities we create for local employment, the investments we make in community infrastructure projects, scholarships, through facilitating local entrepreneurship, as well as capacity building and economic diversification projects. We strive to hire locally, and engage local services and suppliers whenever it is practical. This is a powerful tool for creating direct and indirect economic benefits for local communities, and very often, hiring and purchasing locally makes good business sense. For example, at the Cerro San Pedro Mine, our safety vests and sun hats are sourced from an independent seamstress living in the community of Cerro de San Pedro. At Blackwater, the boxes we use for storing our core samples have been manufactured by a local First Nations business. Our sponsorships and donations support education, health and wellness, economic diversification, job creation and food banks. New Gold has generated significant economic value for our host communities. At the corporate level, our Corporate Donations Committee meets Employee wages and benefits paid in 2013 were $195 million. on a quarterly basis to review requests, with a priority on health, environment, education and community development investments. At New Gold, we understand that our business success is dependent on the support of local communities. Only through respectful, mutually beneficial dialogue can we maintain our meaningful, trust-based relationships with our local communities and other communities of interest. 2013 New gold Sustainability Report Summary 13 Growing Our Communities NGD In 2013, we produced 397.7 thousand ounces of gold, 85.4 million pounds of copper and 1.6 million ounces of silver. Revenues totalled $779.8 million. Economic Values Generated and Distributed ($ millions)1 – Includes all New Gold sites Revenues Operating costs Employee wages and benefits (includes payroll taxes paid to governments) Payments to governments (production, property and income taxes) Community investments2 1  Unaudited figures. Additional information on economic values, and site-specific economic value generated, is BILLS TO PAY disclosed in our 2013 Financial Review available on our website. As defined in the GRI 3.1.EC1 Protocol. Expenditures for 2  New Gold is one of the lowest-cost voluntary donations and investment of funds in the producers in the industry. Operating costs broader community where the target beneficiaries are external to the company. These include contributions to include payments for materials, products charities, non-governmental organizations and research and services. Also include institutes (unrelated to the Company’s commercial $20.6 million in exploration research and development), funds to support community infrastructure and direct costs of social programs. Include expenditures. sites as well as corporate offices’ community investments. $36.75 million ($32.46 million to Mexico, $3.83 million to 3  Canada, and $0.46 million to the U.S.) minus $2.17 million of non-recurring tax refunds in Australia as a result of amending prior year tax returns. 14 2013 New gold Sustainability Report Summary PEOPLE We are proud of the impact of the salaries brought home by our employees and contractors – our wages and benefits expenditures have increased from approximately $180 million in 2012 to approximately $195 million in 2013. 2013 779.8 479.5 194.7 ROADS, SCHOOLS, POWER 34.6 3 LINES, WATER, HOSPITALS The taxes we pay support local governments in providing for 3.6 infrastructure, health, education and other community services. Environmental, health and community programs Our donation and sponsorship dollars supported a range of local environmental and community programs in every jurisdiction where we operate. 2013 New gold Sustainability Report Summary 15 Growing Our Communities We endeavour to understand and respect traditional values, customs and cultures and take meaningful action to serve development needs and priorities through collaborative agreements with Aboriginal peoples. Working with Aboriginal Communities At New Gold we are proud of our strong relationships with Aboriginal peoples. Education and training of local community members are key to our policy of striving to hire locally, and sourcing services and supplies from nearby. In communities where the required skill sets and/or work experience are in short supply, we provide funding for education and training. We also offer numerous apprenticeship programs to help Aboriginal workers on their path to a career in mining. Performance in 2013 In 2013, both Blackwater and New Afton averaged 23% Aboriginal employees. In 2013, New Afton became a sponsor of the Adult Basic Education program for the Skeetchestn Indian Band and Tk’emlúps te Secwépemc Bands. Sponsorship includes financial contributions in addition to donations of computers and classroom furniture. We believe that this program will allow more local band members to achieve their education goals. New Afton also granted ten postOur positive relationships with Aboriginal peoples have already facilitated considerable employment and contracting opportunities at our sites. secondary scholarships during 2013 to band members to allow them to continue to pursue higher education. our story Blackwater: working together as a region Contracting services to a mine like Blackwater can be a rich source of economic development. Blackwater project has contracted local community and First Nationsowned businesses to provide a broad range of services, including camp catering, first aid, equipment leasing, core box construction and road maintenance. In 2013, following a recommendation of the Community Liaison Committee, the Blackwater team brought together Economic Development officers from every regional centre, including Quesnel, Burns Lake, Fort St. James, Vanderhoof and Fraser Lake. In a workshop setting, they identified economic development opportunities in the region, explored New Gold’s role in that economic development and identified potential opportunities for joint action. One participant summed up the collaborative effort by stating, “Communities are stronger when they work together.” Our contributions to community infrastructure – through employment, contracting and education – will provide a foundation of sustainable economic strength in the region that will continue, long after the mine’s productive years are over. 16 2013 New gold Sustainability Report Summary our story New Afton mine recognized for diversity-focused training and hiring In recognition of its training and hiring practices that support a diverse, First Nationsfriendly workplace, the New Afton Mine was awarded the inaugural Mining HR Diversity Award by the Mining Association of BC and the BC Mining HR Task Force. The award was shared with the Aboriginal Mentoring and Training Association (AMTA) – formerly known as BC Aboriginal Mine Training Association – an organization that New Afton helped found. AMTA CEO Laurie Sterrit said that the award reflects a novel approach in recruiting local candidates. In contrast with the common practice of hiring only experienced employees, “we seek local people with potential, and we support their training plan to help set them up for a long-term career.” Hiring locally makes turnover low and job satisfaction high. As a result, three-quarters of New Afton’s workforce was hired from Kamloops and the surrounding area, and almost one-quarter of the workforce is Aboriginal. 2013 New gold Sustainability Report Summary 17 Caring For Our Environment At every New Gold site, we take a proactive risk management Performance in 2013 approach to safeguarding the environment and reducing our In 2013, we developed and began to implement our New Gold impact. At every stage of a mine’s life cycle, we apply best Environmental Management Standards, which are derived from practices in environmental management, guided by international several internationally recognized standards. The standards ensure standards, and comply with all relevant laws and regulations that operations identify and manage environmental aspects, adopt in the countries in which we operate. From the earliest site a consistent approach to identifying and managing environmental investigations, we carry out comprehensive environmental studies risks, continuously improve through audits and assessments, and to establish baseline measurements for flora, fauna, soil, air display a high level of environmental stewardship. and water. As mining operations proceed, we work to minimize environmental impacts and maintain robust monitoring programs By the end of 2013, New Gold operations were 80% through that include groundwater and air quality. We strive to minimize implementing the new standards. Full implementation of the New energy and water consumption, and reduce material consumption Gold Environmental Management Standards is expected by the through recycling and reuse. end of 2014. We also formalized a Tailings, Leach Pad and Waste Rock Policy to comply with the Mining Association of Canada’s Towards Sustainable Mining protocol. At New Gold, planning for a mine’s closure begins at the design stage and continues through the mine’s life. our story Great Basin Spadefoot studied, wetlands expanded at New Afton “People ask me, why should we care about a little toad?” said New Afton’s Environmental Systems Technician Jo-Anne Hales. For her MSc studies at Thompson Rivers University, she has done extensive fieldwork on the Great Basin Spadefoot, a blue-listed amphibian found in the wetlands near the mine. “The spadefoot helps keep the insect populations down. It provides a food source for the raptors and the coyotes and other wildlife. It’s all part of the web of life.” Hales has contributed to wetland remediation that will improve spadefoot habitat. She continues her research, including putting transmitters on spadefoots to learn their movements and improve management of spadefoot populations and habitat. “It’s been an excellent opportunity for me,” she said. “Working on site at New Afton is amazing.” 18 2013 New gold Sustainability Report Summary 18 2013 New gold Sustainability Report Summary New Gold is a signatory of the International Cyanide Management Institute, the global benchmark for transporting, storing and using cyanide. 2014 TARGETS PERFORMANCE 2013 TARGETS Perform root cause analysis on 10% of all incidents and take achieved pro-active initiative to reduce/ Establish an automated eliminate root causes. An automated incident recording and incident recording tracking system has been established Establish an environmental and tracking system across all sites. committee at all operations, across all sites. including representation from operational areas, that reviews hazards, risks and significant incidents at least quarterly. Incidents At all operations: provide training for 100% of significant environmental risks as defined by site’s risk assessment. Establish a detailed water balance and a Water achieved Management Plan at all Continue to monitor and operations. All sites continued to monitor and report report water recycling water recycling and use. and reuse. Scorecard 4: Environmental Performance Complete evaluation of the pilot project at Not Achieved Cerro San Pedro to utilize The full development of a pilot project at treated city water in leach Cerro San Pedro to utilize treated city water Water piles as an alternative to in leach piles as an alternative to groundwater groundwater. was put on standby given the focus on work required to progress certification under the International Cyanide Management Code. Determine baseline across major energy sources through achieved metering and sub-metering Achieve Towards where feasible. Towards Sustainable Mining Energy and Sustainable Mining GHG Management Level B was achieved Energy and GHG in all operations. Management Level B in all operations. New Afton: first mine Achieve ISO 50001 in North America to obtain Energy (Energy Management) compliance at New Afton. ISO 50001 certification, achieved in early 2014. 2013 New gold Sustainability Report Summary 19 Caring for Our Environment Our environmental practices include progressive reclamation of mining areas as well as the reforestation and conservation of lands that are undisturbed by mining operations. 2014 TARGETS PERFORMANCE 2013 TARGETS Continue reporting to Carbon Disclosure Project. achieved Achieve Towards Towards Sustainable Mining Energy and Sustainable Mining GHG Management Level B was achieved Energy and GHG in all operations. Greenhouse Management Level B in all operations. Initiated reporting to Carbon Disclosure Project. New Gold data was not received in Initiate reporting to gases (GHG) time for publication. Scorecard 4: Environmental Performance (Continued) Carbon Disclosure Project. No target defined for 2014. achieved Increase overall recycling across sites by 10%. 35% 11.5% Waste increase increase in recycling of in recycling of tires, paper, plastic oils and lubricants Management and metals across across the corporation the corporation At Cerro San Pedro, reforest 75 hectares of land at Monte achieved Caldera. Complete the restoration The restoration of higher-risk historical mine Initiate the development of a of higher-risk historical shafts at Peak Mines was completed. New Gold Integrated Closure mine shafts at Peak Mines to a safe, stable and nonStandard. Reclamation 76 polluting state. reforested at At Cerro San Pedro, Monte Caldera, reforest 70 hectares of at Cerro San Pedro & Closure land at Monte Caldera. HECTARES 20 2013 New gold Sustainability Report Summary our story Peak Mines wins Environmental Achievement Award for Kultarr awareness program The small, nocturnal Kultarr is an endangered marsupial that has been seen – rarely – in the area surrounding the Peak Mines’ operations. To learn more, the mine enlisted the local community. Chris Higgins, the operation’s Environment and Social Responsibility Superintendent, developed the Kultarr Awareness and Identification Program to teach school-age locals how to identify the elusive marsupial. Beginning in 2012 and continuing through 2013, Higgins and other staffers presented educational seminars at schools and other community events. Soon Kultarr sighting reports began to come in – to date, 17 formally recorded sightings. “These are the first Kultarr sightings in many years,” said Higgins. “When we have good data on the population and distribution, we’ll bring in an external expert. We want to know why the Kultarr are attracted to a specific area, and what they need.” The success of the program was recently recognized with an Environmental Achievement Award at the Cobar Business Awards. 2013 New gold Sustainability Report Summary 21 Caring for Our Environment Water Management Energy and Emissions Management Water management is a prime concern for any mining or processing Improving our energy efficiency and reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) operation and for its neighbours. Our objective at every New Gold emissions not only reduces climate-related risks to the broader site is to minimize water use through recycling and reuse, and environment, it brings inherent cost advantages. We recognize that apply efficient designs and technologies. All water used in our mine our activities result in GHG emissions, from the mobile equipment sites is contained in a closed circuit, with only evaporation and required to operate a mine, for example, and indirectly from entrainment in ore or tailings allowing water to leave the cycle. off-site generated electric power that we purchase to supply our No process water discharges to the environment. operations. We make efforts to decrease our energy consumption and minimize GHG emissions throughout our operations. Performance in 2013 Performance in 2013 We continue to seek opportunities to reduce our raw water consumption and increase water recycling. In 2013, we recycled Greenhouse Gas Emissions Efficiency approximately 25.5 million cubic metres of water – just above four Efficiency: Total Emissions per Tonnes of times the amount of raw water we used from surface, groundwater Ore Processed, Greenhouse as Tonnes Gas Emissions of CO2-e Emissions1 Efficiency and water utilities. 10 Across the company’s operations, raw water efficiency (raw water used per amount of ore processed) has slightly declined over the last four years despite the efforts to minimize water consumption. 8 For example, Peak Mines uses water-efficient “thickened tailings”, which uses much less water than traditional lower-density tailings 6 deposition. At the New Afton Mine, water is recycled through the tailings facility and returned for use in processing. At the Mesquite 4 and the Cerro San Pedro mines, water used for processing ore in 2013 was recycled at a 91% and 72% rate, respectively. The overall 2 increase in water consumption in 2013 is due to New Afton’s water Approximate hectares1 use during its first year of operation. 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 Raw Water Efficiency 1 Co 1 Bitatem 2 to carbon -e refersexplis dioxide maionec tiscim quaecteemissions. equivalent esequi dolorenda dolectem aliquia spicimporio qui consequ isseque voluptur, ut quidunt iorpore Raw Process Water (cubic metres) ptature illiqui atibusa aspellacit dusa volorem endi tempore sanisti. per Tonnes Raw Water of Ore Processed The total GHG emissions per ore processed in 2013 increased to 0.20 2010 levels, following two years of reductions. The increase in 2013 is mostly due to an increase in the use of electric power that resulted from a full year of production at New Afton and increased 0.15 demand of power for ventilation systems at Peak. Significant efforts towards reducing energy consumption and increasing energy efficiency have been made at New Afton, where a new 0.10 Energy Management System (controlled by an innovative Energy Management Information System) was implemented in 2013. 0.05 A compliance audit took place at New Afton in late 2013, and the operation was certified ISO 50001 early in 2014 – the first mine in Approximate hectares1 North America to achieve this certification. 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 Cyanide Management 1 Bitatem explis maionec tiscim quaecte esequi dolorenda dolectem aliquia spicimporio qui consequ isseque voluptur, ut quidunt iorpore While cyanide has inherent toxic properties, its safe transport, ptature illiqui atibusa aspellacit dusa volorem endi tempore sanisti. handling, use and destruction are well understood and manageable. All three New Gold operations that use cyanide in the gold extraction process follow procedures that are strictly controlled for the safety of personnel and the environment. In October 2010, New Gold was accepted by the International Cyanide Management Institute as a signatory to the International Cyanide Management Code (ICMC), the international benchmark for transporting, storing and using cyanide. ICMC is a voluntary initiative for the gold mining industry and the producers and transporters of the cyanide used in gold mining and is intended to complement an operation’s existing regulatory requirements. 22 2013 New gold Sustainability Report Summary The Cerro San Pedro nursery is the cornerstone of the mine’s reforestation and revegetation program, which employs people from several local communities. Biodiversity Management Performance in 2013 At New Gold sites, environmental stewardship means more than In 2013, restoration activities were carried out in approximately just applying restoration practices to lands that are affected by 80 hectares across all operations and projects. These included a mining to promote a habitat conducive to natural biodiversity. It also wide range of reclamation activities such as seeding, replanting, means conserving and enhancing lands that are undisturbed by subsidence work of mine shafts, and removal of contaminated mining operations. material within and outside our properties. For example, at Blackwater we modified the original exploration program to protect the adjacent Provincial Ungulate Winter Range Habitat under Restoration across All Sites and established a Northern Caribou Management Plan. The main Approximate Hectares Habitat under Restoration objectives of this plan are to minimize impacts of mineral exploration and predator and human access to Northern Caribou habitat, and to 120 minimize disturbance and displacement of Northern Caribou. 100 At all our sites we have identified various levels of at-risk species, and have put management plans and/or procedures in place to 80 ensure adequate management of these species. A complete list is available in the full-length Sustainability Report available online. 60 Performance in 2013 40 At New Afton a Biodiversity Conservation Plan was prepared 20 to comply with the Towards Sustainable Mining standards. This plan outlines projects, activities and partnerships with respect to 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 managing biodiversity. An Environmental Monitoring Board made up of First Nations and regulatory partners was also established Approximate Hectares to provide input with regard to reclamation area targets based on At New Afton, despite recently starting production, we have begun land available for reclamation, as well as partnerships with a local researching the metrics that will be used at the end of mine life. university. Biodiversity projects are defined based on opportunities This has included the innovative “Barcode for Life” project through identified and inputs by the Board. the University of Guelph. New Gold is the first company to use this cutting edge technology to set biodiversity-related closure targets Reclamation AND CLOSURE PLANNING based on species diversity. It has also included research into the New Gold operations practice progressive rehabilitation of lands effectiveness of various soil treatments to enable re-establishment affected by their activity as soon as areas become available after of grassland species, including species of cultural significance to our operations cease. We also rehabilitate historic mining areas within First Nations partners. our leases. In the Cerro de San Pedro municipality, we are returning areas Each of our mines has obtained regulatory approval for their closure heavily deforested by logging to their former state, planting rehabilitation plans, which are reviewed and updated regularly. approximately 1,100 plants per hectare. At Cerro San Pedro, our reforestation objective is to cover nearly 373 hectares of land while the mine is in operation. As of 2013, nearly 60% of that target had been achieved. In 2013 we planted 83,665 plants on about 76 hectares. 2013 New gold Sustainability Report Summary 23 Concept and Design: The Works Design Communications www.worksdesign.com Writing: Eric Brown our story New Afton’s Biodiversity Conservation Management Plan enhances biodiversity for future generations New Afton’s Biodiversity Conservation Management Plan is a core component of the mine’s commitment to enhancing and conserving biodiversity. Current biodiversity and conservation initiatives include grassland and wetland recovery projects, and habitat enhancement for a variety of bird, bat and amphibian species. Several are run in conjunction with local First Nations and graduate students at Thompson Rivers University (TRU). Said Jo-Anne Hales, a Tk’emlúps Band member who is an Environmental Systems Technician at New Afton, and MSc candidate at TRU, “The plan guides us toward a common goal – which is to enhance biodiversity for future generations. When New Gold is finished here, we want to be able to say we did everything we could to understand the natural ecosystems in the area, and used that knowledge to recreate a natural state on the former mine site.” 24 2013 New gold Sustainability Report Summary At New Gold, we view transparency as essential to maintaining trust with our stakeholders and to upholding our corporate reputation. Our annual performance targets are based on our ongoing drive to improve our performance, and on feedback received from our communities of interest. We invite you to send any questions and comments on this report to sustainability@newgold.com. memberships supporters of recognized by WorkSafe BC Prospectors and Developers Association of Canada Cobar Shire Federal Ministry of Labour, Mexico TORONTO OFFICE VANCOUVER OFFICE INVESTOR RELATIONS Royal Bank Plaza Two Bentall Centre t: +1.888.315.9715 South Tower 555 Burrard Street f: +1.416.324.9494 200 Bay Street, Suite 3120 Suite 1800 e: info@newgold.com Toronto, ON M5J 2J4 Vancouver, BC V7X 1M9 www.newgold.com t: +1.416.324.6000 t: +1.604.696.4100 TSX/NYSE MKT:NGD f: +1.416.324.9494 f: +1.604.696.4110 Scan to visit our website for the full New Gold Sustainability Report For inquiries about this report and social responsibility at New Gold: sustainability@newgold.com
