To the Stakeholders of Gabriel Resources Ltd : Gabriel Resources Ltd. is fully committed to responsible mining by fulfilling its business performance through continuous improvement to its social and environmental performance. During 2013, despite the progress we have made, working with all decision-makers to fulfil the environmental and socio -economic assessment, the permitting process for the proposed mining project in Rosia Montana is still awaiting government approval. Even in such a difficult context – which has led the Company to take retrenchment measures with mass lay-offs in the first half of 2014, we have made every attempt to act responsibly towards our employees and contractors, to manage properly the impacts of such decisions toward the community and all affected stakeholders, considering our responsibility beyond basic legal requirements. Despite the fact that the Company wa s forced to lay off 80% of its workforce, it remains willing to invest significant financial resources to build the first modern gold and silver mine in Romania. The Company hopes that this restructuring proces s will be a temporary measure until such time as the government approves the mining projec t. Our 2013 Report enclosed here demonstrates that we have continued to follow the United Nations Global Compact Principles and to act responsibly through integrating the universal principles relating to human and labour rights, environmental standards and anti-corruption practices, into our business strategies, operations and culture. Signed, _______________ Jonathan Henry President & Chief Executive Officer Gabriel Resources Ltd1 1 Gabriel Resources Ltd. Is a Canadian-listed resource company committed to responsible mining and sustainable development 1 2013 Communication on Progress In Romania, the national legislative framework is fully compliant with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Even more, Romanian’s Constitution states that all its provisions regarding human rights and liberties shall be interpreted and applied in conformity with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Romanian national legislation also ensures people the right to a clean and safe environment; to proper information regarding environmental conditions and to be consulted in the decision-making process of proposed projects which may have potential social and environmental impacts. Finally, Romanian national labour legislation is in many aspects more restrictive than the International Labour Organization’s principles. Complementary to national legal requirements, our Company has made numerous voluntary commitments, such as respecting the Equator Principles, implementing the IFC’s Performance Standards and being among the first European signatories of the International Cyanide Management Code. Human Rights Gabriel Resources Ltd. not only complies with all legal requirements in force as concerns human rights at national and international level (Bill of Human Rights; International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work) but exceeds them by applying zero tolerance to non-compliance to any fundamental human rights, customs and values when dealing with employees and others who are affected by the Company's activities. The Company is fully committed not only to respecting human rights, but also to identifying, preventing and mitigating any adverse impacts on human and the (local) communities’ rights that may be caused by the Project, through ongoing monitoring at all levels of the business, through internal decision-making, budgetary allocations and oversight processes. This should enable effective responses if such impacts occur, by drawing on feedback from both internal and external sources, including all affected stakeholders. Labour, Health & Safety The Company is committed to bring sustainable benefits to the region where it operates and to enhance community capacity to become self-sustainable in its future development. In order to increase the benefits for the operational area, the Company has implemented a local hiring policy and procurement policy and imposes the same on its contractors and providers. By the end of 2013, the Company had over 500 direct employees – more than 85% hired from local community, while generating approximately 700 indirect jobs for their contractors and providers – the most important selected from the local community as well. Unfortunately, due to the unjustifiably long delays in the permitting procedures of the Rosia Montana mining project, the Company has been forced to take a decision to retrench 80% of its workforce in 2014. Starting in April 2014, about 1,000 families lost their major source of livelihood following the reduction of the Company’s activity leading to collective lay-offs of the majority of employees and suspension of all social and investment programmes in the area. During this retrenchment process, the Company has acted in full compliance with national labour law and with all Romanian legislation and has endeavoured to find the best solution for all affected employees in order to minimise the impact of the retrenchment decision on their lives. In order to 2 consider the consequences of this process, the Company consulted with employees, local authorities and the labour union as part of its commitments in undertaking social mitigation measures. As a result of employee consultations, these mitigation measures have included a redundancy payment scheme for all affected employees regardless as to the duration of their contracts (determined or undetermined) that went beyond the basic cover provided under Romanian legislation. The Company has also organised individual dialogue with the affected employees providing management of complaints and occupational consultancy. Despite the fact that the Company has been constrained to lay off 80% of its workforce, it remains willing to invest significant financial resources to build the first modern gold mine in Romania. The Company hopes this restructuring process will be a temporary measure until such time as the government approves the mining project which will allow RMGC to employ numerous people in an area heavily affected by unemployment, resulting from prior mining closures. Promoting safety as a value of the Company The Company includes in its operations all necessary measures aimed at protecting the health and safety of employees, consultants and/or contractors, as well as of people living and working in areas potentially affected by the Project’s implementation. Thus, all employees are properly trained to ensure their own safety, as well as the safety of the people around them. The Project places professional ethics and employee safety at the heart of its daily activities and provides a working environment free of any discrimination or any other arbitrary barriers that would hold back professional development and progress within the Company. Key results and improvements in 2013:  No lost time incidents or first aid injuries occurred in 2013;  RMGC continued its efforts in improving the OHS performance by providing training to employees and contractors along with safety audits and monitoring;  Exercises / practical applications in case of emergency (first aid, working at heights, firefighting, etc.) as concerns how to act and report emergency situations;  Ensuring proper work equipment for all tasks. Immediate elimination of any hazardous situations encountered;  Improving social conditions for employees;  All employees have been supplied with proper personal protective equipment (PPE) as appropriate;  Safety induction for all RMGC visitors during the ‘Fan Fest’ and ‘Miner’s Open Days’ and other community events, regardless of the organiser. Monitoring & Reporting on Safety aspects  Development and launching KPI reporting Follow-up monthly on safety KPIs;  Daily safety on site inspections;  Incident reports raised for non-compliance with RMGC’s HSEMP requirements;  Safety Alerts issued for major incidents;  Quarterly Safety Steering Committee;  Anti-Alcohol Campaign continued. Employees Programmes In 2013 Company continued the most important part of the programmes that addressed its employees:  Monitoring and improving the health of employees (healthcare cards) and annual medical examination to all RMGC employees; 3  Meal tickets for all employees;  Safety equipment and trainings as previously described;  Car and transportation policy for daily & weekly commuting;  Housing policy (continued);  Employee annual health monitoring;  Hot meals for the miners working underground; and  Employee self-service restaurant. Stakeholder Engagement According to Romanian legislation, international standards and best practices and as part of its Social & Environment Management System, the Company engages with a large range of stakeholders: decision-makers, local, regional and national authorities, the directly affected community and nearby communities, NGOs, as well as large public, mass-media and others as required. The dialogue carried out by the Company with its stakeholders is a continuous process aimed at raising, increasing and maintaining awareness as to the Project as well as receiving necessary feedback for long-term planning efficiency. Our approach regarding dialogue with stakeholders is based on Romanian legislation and international standards which specify that stakeholders have a right to actively participate in gathering information, planning, establishing directions and making decisions as to the results which influence their lives. The information we receive from the stakeholders helps us improve our activity, mitigate any possible adverse impacts and strengthen those positive impacts in line with our sustainability objectives. These intensive engagement efforts led over the last years to the foundation and consolidation of the “Rosia Montana Project Support Group”, a civil society platform which represents mainly the voice of mining communities, with the objective of enhancing their efforts for restarting of mining activities in Romania. The Rosia Montana Project Support Group includes more than 18,570 members and adherents from a variety of stakeholders including mayors from over 40 entities representing their local communities and 18,500 people living in local communities in and around the Project area. During 2013 the Company continued to engage in addressing all clarifications required by the Technical Analysis Committee, Special Parliamentary Commission, other institutions, NGOs and interested parties. Although the Rosia Montana Project has been intensively evaluated by the Technical Analysis Committee; Inter-Ministerial Commission; Special Parliamentary Commission and all members of the Romanian parliament, a final response to authorising the Project has still not been granted. Anti-mining protests in late 2013 generated for the Company the opportunity to answer those matters of public concern, to explain in detail all aspects of the Project whether economic, social, environmental and cultural. Based on a gold price of 1,200 USD/ounce, the Project could bring direct economic benefits of over USD 5 billion to the Romanian economy, from which USD 2.3 billion would be state revenue from taxes and USD 2.9 billion as revenues of Romanian suppliers and employees. In total the Project would bring USD 24 billion in direct and indirect benefits and would be one of the largest foreign investments in Romania. In addition, RMGC would provide an environmental guarantee of USD 146 million and substantial investments for cultural patrimony. The Rosia Montana mine would generate thousands of jobs, complying with all Romanian and European Union environmental legislation and applying the best available technologies. Since its foundation, the Company has engaged with all relevant stakeholders through public consultation during various permitting stages, public meetings for urban planning & development plans; community debates requested by affected people; grievance management; community 4 events; site visits; face-to-face meetings; daily interaction; letters; emails; community hotline, etc. The Company has also participated in multi-stakeholder fora concerning the sustainable development of the operational area. During 2013 the Company participated in the public consultation process organised by Alba County Council in order to update the Alba County Economic Development Strategy over the next 7 years (2014-2020), an opportunity for the Company to emphasise the role of mining in the sustainable development of Alba County. RMGC has shown an open-minded and responsive attitude in answering all NGO concerns to their reasonable proposals. This way, significant improvements have been brought to the Project based on input from both types of NGOs, supportive and opposing mining. Community The Company proposes to develop a modern mining project in a traditional mining community where mining has been the main occupation for more than 1,800 years. The Project affected area comprises approximately 25% of the total area of Rosia Montana; the rest of Rosia Montana’s territory remains available to non-mining socio-economic activities. The Company is committed to promoting the sustainable development of the Rosia Montana community and to demonstrate the positive impact the Project will have on the people of the Rosia Montana area, currently isolated, in poverty and lacking jobs. The Rosia Montana Project is planned so as to contribute to the sustainable development of the community; to consider the economy; environment; cultural heritage and social development through its components and programmes:  Direct and indirect job creation;  Local business development;  New local infrastructure;  Improvements of environmental conditions, ‘greening’ of old abandoned mining sites;  Research, restoration, maintenance and enhancement of cultural heritage;  Development of new facilities for the community;  Improved human capital through programmes and partnerships in health, social and cultural areas;  Human capital development through professional training programmes;  A new village for the commune with a new community centre and new institutions;  A prosperous community able to offer a rich cultural and industrial tourist potential. Community Relations Management The local community represents a major stakeholder for the Company. The Company implements a complex set of policies, codes of conduct and instruments aimed at building and maintaining good and respectful relations with the community throughout the whole of the Project life-cycle.  To put a Community Relations Department in place; a space for permanent dialogue with the community;  Internal Company regulations; business code of conduct and code of conduct of employees in the community – compulsory for all employees; employees are periodically trained, with penalties stipulated for non-compliance and bad behaviour;  Ziarul de Apuseni newspaper, distributed free of charge throughout the community in the Project area (its distribution continued in 2013 and was suspended in 2014);  Community Information Centre, Rosia Montana, Square (its activity continued in 2013, suspended in 2014);  Community relations centres in the localities around Rosia Montana Bucium, Abrud, Campeni (their activity continued in 2013, suspended in 2014); 5  Dedicated sections of community relations department for ongoing dialogue on relocation and resettlement covering various aspects e.g. information on rules and procedures relating to land access and the process around property acquisition – offering counselling and support for the resettlement and relocation process; social and occupational counselling; information about the mining project; eligibility of property, support for relocation, etc.  Regular debates in locations accessible for the communities in the Project area and in the resettlement site in Alba Iulia;  Project newsletters and factsheets;  Meetings of community members with the Company’s senior management;  Site visits to the resettlement areas;  Grievance policy – an accessible and free mechanism to solve community complaints;  Permanent hotline for receiving Project-related suggestions, notifications and questions from the community (0800 876 742), free-of-charge from mobile and land networks;  Community suggestion and notification mailboxes in 5 points accessible to the community in the Project area; Input collected following the dialogue with the community in the Project area is recorded, reported, reviewed and considered in the decision-making process. The Company has organised, in total, almost 50,000 individual and public consultations. Community consultation in the Project area, surveys and monitoring carried out from 2006 to 2013 emphasised the negative impact on the community of delays in restarting mining activity in the mining area of the Apuseni Mountains, where the potential for other economic activity is very low. The most frequent issues addressed by the community to the Company management were the following:  Job requests and concerns related to employment – the Company registered more than 8,000 job requests in its Human Resource data base to the end of 2013;  Concerns relating to delays in starting the mining project;  Why is it that small and noisy groups of people having jobs in the big cities – should have more rights and should decide the fate of the mining communities from the Apuseni Mountains?  Concerns about what would happen with the area in the absence of the mining project;  Fear that the area would further depopulate in the absence of the Project. As a result of these efforts and of the intensive engagement over the previous 15 years of the Company’s presence in community, a strong level of support has been established in favour of the Rosia Montana Project. During the anti-mining protests that took place in 2013 in Bucharest and other big Romanian cities, the entire community of Rosia Montana and other mining localities were involved in a series of promining actions – one of them being a protest initiated by miners who blocked themselves into the Catalina Monulesti underground mine gallery demanding Government approval of the special Law for the Rosia Montana Project in order to restart mining activity and to protect the livelihoods of their families. Monitoring of relocated and resettled families According to the monitoring obligations set out in the Relocation and Resettlement Action Plan, in the Community Sustainable Development Plan, in the Environment and Social Management Plan, as well as Chapter 6, volume 17 Monitoring in the Environmental Impact Assessment Report, RMGC carries out social impact monitoring, evaluations of the efficiency of the measures proposed and improvements thereto. 6 The largest number of programmes, measures and social impact mitigation actions that have been addressed directly to the impact area have been directed to those communities affected by relocation and resettlement. In order to manage the negative impact of resettlement and relocation, the Resettlement and Relocation Action Plan, 2006 version with subsequent updates, sets out:  a set of strategic measures (compensation system based on the replacement value, employment for at least one member of the family during the construction of the mine , the strategy encouraging individuals to remain in Rosia Montana by subsidising housing construction with 25% for the resettlement option, a compensation system for businesses and professional development grant;  a set of support measures throughout the resettlement or relocation tailored to the needs and issues encountered by the affected families along the whole chain until full integration in the new locations has occurred. By the end of 2013 there were 4,167 community support interventions under the Support Programme for Relocation and Resettlement recorded in the Intervention Register for the Support Programme. Social Mitigation programmes for the directly affected community In respect of all Romanian legislation, human rights and international standards applied to land access and resettlement, the Company purchased on a voluntary basis 794 households to date requiring the resettlement or relocation of 1,850 people. Monitoring the relocated and resettled families is an obligation assumed by the Company under the Relocation and Resettlement Action Plan, an essential part of a performing social impact management system. A major component for the Social Impact Management System is the database referring to the situation of the families undergoing a resettlement/relocation process. The Company’s Community Relations Department keeps an updated intervention register which lists the forms of assistance granted based on the difficulties encountered by each family in the resettlement/relocation process. The situation of the households relocated in series I (2002-2005) and series II (2006-2008) was monitored and documented in the independent and internal monitoring reports drawn up so far. Social programmes aimed at assisting the relocated families and of the Recea Resettlement Community continued in 2013. Development of the Recea neighbourhood is the result of a shared vision built through consultation between all stakeholders – the community, authorities from Alba Iulia and urban development experts. In order to track and properly assist the integration of the resettled families in the host community, the Company established an Information, Orientation and Support Office in the resettlement site which facilitates the integration of the new community into the host community by:  Information and general counselling for rural-urban resettlement;  Regular dialogue of management with the community;  Facilitating meetings with the local administration according to the issues encountered: places in schools and kindergartens, taxes and fees, expansion of the local transportation network, medical system registration etc.  Facilitating the renewal of identity documents, transfer of medical files, pension files, bill payments especially for old people;  Support in concluding contracts with the providers of utilities and other services;  Ongoing monitoring of the integration of the active resettled population on the employment market in Alba Iulia;  Monitoring of the elderly;  Monitoring of school integration; 7  Facilitating relations with construction companies – management of construction-related notifications and corrections based on the guarantee for the constructions in the neighbourhood; and  Events organised to contribute to the reconstruction of community identity. As set out in the Urbanism Plan for the Recea area, the neighbourhood is planned to expand as follows: in addition to the infrastructure and 125 houses built in the first development phase of the Recea neighbourhood, 9 new houses were built and 3 new houses are undergoing construction (construction work in conservation has been suspended pending a new decision regarding the permitting process for the Project); there are still 72 lots where the neighbourhood could expand based on the options expressed by the owners of the households still left to be purchased. Support for the larger Community The community has great expectations relating to the start of the mining project, particularly involving employment in the community, involvement of the Company in local and regional development. In 2013 the Company partly continued with the programmes and partnerships committed towards Rosia Montana.  Social Programme in the broader community in partnership with local NGO ProRosia, focused on helping elderly and isolated locals was continued in 2013 and suspended in 2014.  Covering Community Transportation Needs – for elderly, isolated, poor people, as well for those with health problems.  Elderly programmes in partnership with local NGO Elderly Association Abrud and Elderly Association Campeni (continued in 2013 and suspended in 2014).  Different support activities counted in labour hours in the community, as registered within the Community Support Register, exceeded 9,500 labour hours during 2013. Community Sponsorship In 2013 community sponsorship (Churches support, Cultural and Living Traditions Programmes, community infrastructure, Schools and Education, Hospitals and Healthy support, “Future of Mining” Union) amounted to €508,800. Other community support (individual households support for elderly and disadvantaged groups, medical transportation, etc.) amounted to RON 212,100 or approximately €48,000 and 9,678 working-hours for the community. The Company continued to support the “Living Traditions” programme, aimed at regenerating the Rosia Montana community by increasing social cohesion, community identity and community participation. Safeguarding the intangible cultural heritage of Rosia Montana means designing and developing a background to enable cultural transmission to the next generation and thus turn Rosia Montana into a viable tourist attraction. The Company has been the main sponsor of the annual ‘Miners’ Day’ Festival involving all communities around the Rosia Montana Project which attracts more than 5,000 participants. At the event in the summer of 2013 elected representatives of more than 40 communities adopted a Memorandum addressed to the central authorities presenting the socio-economic situation in their area and asking for the mining to restart in the Apuseni Mountains. Cultural Heritage The Company continues to be fully committed to restoring and honouring Rosia Montana's valuable cultural heritage, preserving its authenticity and integrity and proving that modern mining and tourism may co-exist and contribute to the sustainable development of the community. 8 In 2013, the Company continued its investments aimed at both the conservation of the community’s historic town centre; the historic buildings and monuments, the architectural decorations and aesthetics as well as at the recovery of cultural artefacts by preserving cultural and social assets of the community. The Company carried on its maintenance works on 160 houses located in the historic centre of the village of Rosia Montana (the ‘Protected Area’) in order to prevent any further deterioration. This emergency conservation works will continue through a multi-year programme, which will run in parallel with the construction and the operational phases of the Project. To date, the restoration of 20 houses in the historic old town centre of Rosia Montana and the design work for the restoration/re-functionalisation of 110 houses within the Protected Area have been completed. The works at the old school have advanced so that the building structure has been reinforced and is now protected from further weather damage. At the same time, works started for re-opening the underground protected area Piatra Corbului and making it accessible for the public. These are just a few examples of a commitment of approximately USD 70 million to be invested in local heritage and cultural aspects in and around Rosia Montana over all phases of the lifetime of the Project. This commitment also includes the proposed establishment of a special committee to include independent experts who will monitor the work undertaken by the Company. The archaeological research works at the now partially-opened Catalina Monulesti gallery old underground mining galleries that lie under the Protected Area – have continued and led to the discovery of an important wooden water evacuation system. The Roman gallery can now be visited by small groups (10 persons at a time) while at the same time, maintenance and reinforcement measures are carried out for ensuring visitor safety. As far as the Company's long term plans are concerned, these include the restoration of at least 300 houses in the protected area and the historic centre of Rosia Montana, the expansion of the original mining museum, setting up the Catalina Monulesti underground gallery complex for visiting and planning and preparing for future visits of the archaeological sites preserved and restored in situ such as Taul Gauri, Carpeni, Piatra Corbului. Environment In building a state-of-the-art mine and implementing the highest environmental standards, the Project is committed to remedying past environmental damage caused by over 2,000 years of previously poorly-regulated mining activity. Currently there are 100 hectares affected by 18 waste stockpiles and two pits with 140 km of underground galleries generating acid rock water including heavy metal contamination up to 40 km downstream from the site. Remediation of this adverse environmental situation is expensive and has only very limited hope of being funded without implementation of the Project. In this context, the Company is planning to invest millions of dollars to continuously tackle such pollution legacy problems. In 2013, the Company continued to assist with cleaning up the legacy of local environmental degradation from past unregulated mining activities. One such initiative demonstrating the positive impact the Company can have on the clean-up of the local water systems which are currently in a much poorer condition than the EU and Romanian water standards require is a pilot water treatment plant located at the main source of the acid rock drainage at Adit 714. Tests have successfully shown that a full scale plant will be able to clean up any resulting water discharge from the Project to levels fully compliant with all regulations in place (and even to drinking water standard). The Company has also continued to work alongside its partners to use the pilot plant for additional testing of other contaminated old mine sites within Romania where water discharge needs to be brought to a level that is safe and compliant with EU and Romanian regulations. An updated version 9 of the Waste Management Plan to reflect legislative modification was provided to and approved by the authorities in the past year. The long-term commitment of the Company also depends on the capacity to establish new environmental responsibility standards. In this regard, the Company is striving to:  Establish and maintain a management system to identify, monitor, control and improve the Company’s environmental performance activities;  Finance independent audits to assess the Company’s environmental performance in relation to its objectives;  Comply with all the applicable laws in Romania and the EU, subject to the reporting requirements and other obligations, such as those set out by the EU Directive on Mining Waste and the EU Water Directive;  Use Best Available Techniques (BATs) in all Company operations and activities to enhance environmental protection during the operational phase of the mine and ensuring there are sufficient financial resources to fulfil all environmental obligations and commitments, including re-integration of the exploited areas in the natural circuit;  Implement efficient and transparent communication with stakeholders with regard to the environmental aspects of the Company’s activities, and to encourage public debate on environmental matters; and  Co-operate with national and international institutions and organisations in developing efficient, cost-effective and environmental-friendly measures. The impact on biodiversity will be different in the construction, exploitation and closure phases of the Project. The Company’s ecological restoration and rehabilitation efforts shall reflect these phases and shall focus on:  Establishment of a network of protected areas to ensure the conservation of priority habitats;  Establishment of a network of vegetal corridors within and between the protected areas so as to allow for the migration of species;  Planting of native species along the degraded river banks and other water courses which should provide reproduction and migration corridors for wildlife;  Establishment of micro-habitats; and  Rehabilitation of watercourses. Through an independent consultant, the Company continues to monitor and update the area’s biodiversity baseline. Beyond these national and site-specific activities, in 2011 the Company also participated in an EUwide effort convened by the European Commission to pilot-test the EC methodology for an Organisational and Product Environmental Footprint of the Project. In the course of 2012 and 2013 the Company continued to be in dialogue with the European Commission on this matter, especially as concerns the Environmental Footprint pilot projects launched by the European Commission in 2013 (Study: Metal sheets for various applications). The environmental aspects of the Project have been exhaustively analysed by various Romanian competent authorities, as well as by a large number of international experts who confirmed that it complies with, or exceeds, all relevant Romanian and European Union legislation in force as well as the highest global industrial standards. 10 In July 2013, the analysis stage of the Environmental Impact Assessment procedure was stated by the Technical Analysis Committee (“TAC”) as having been completed and with all technical issues clarified. The Company continues its dialogue with the Romanian Ministry of Environment and Climate change and with all relevant stakeholders in order to clarify any other issues of concern. Corporate Governance The Company seeks to achieve high standards of corporate governance. To that end, Gabriel Resources has adopted new and revised group policies and practices to meet these requirements for compliance such as those laid down by the UK Bribery Act (2010) which entered into force on July 1, 2011. The Company is also committed to guarantee its undertakings regardless of the Project’s financial status by means of legally enforceable pre-funding of those undertakings. In addition, the Company is committed to insurance and arbitration in order to provide financial protection should there be an accident. With these standards and with its independent monitoring of compliance and transparency, the Project will provide a ‘model’ for industrial projects in terms of sustainable development. Finally, as noted in earlier reports, the Company’s commitment to sustainable development is demonstrated by its willingness to adopt and embrace key initiatives and processes that drive best practices. The Company recognises and supports, amongst others, the following external initiatives:  International Council on Mining and Metals, 10 Principles for Sustainable Development (www.icmm.com)  International Cyanide Management Code (ICMC) (www.cyanidecode.org)  International Finance Corporation (IFC) performance indicators for environmental and social protection (www.ifc.org)  International Labour Organisation (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights to Work (www.ilo.org)  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change – Best Available Techniques for the mining field (www.epa.ie)  Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development guidelines for multinational enterprises (www.oecd.org)  United Nations Global Compact (www.unglobalcompact.org)  World Bank and IFC guide for resettlement and relocation activities (www.ifc.org). *** 11
