2 1 December 20 14 Georg Kell Executive Head Global Compact ( _ . L . , ~ u b ~ ' ~ u b m i s sof i oCommunication n on Progress Dear Mr. Georg Kell, I am pleased to submit Communications on Progress (COP) for the year 2014 fiom Rahimafiooz Batteries Ltd that signifies supports to the ten principles of the Global Compact in respect to human rights, Labor rights, the protection of the Environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to support and advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We support public accountability and transparency that reflects in this COP. Feroz Rahim , ; Managing Director ' Rahimafiooz Batteries Limited (RBL) Global Compact HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: (Business should support and respect the protection of internationally ' proclaimed human rights) COMMITMENT: Committed to protect human rights through complying with national angjntemational laws appropriate to our business activities. ? ? . A SYSTEM:E~ year ~ ~we~ conduct training on HR policies and procedures and established a strong compliance team to monitor the policies and system violence analyze and investigate compliance failure. ACT1VITY:Provide financial support to employees who may face sudden economic hardship fiom employee welfare fund. a Conducting training to all employeeson our company values and I+10 habits. PERFORMANCE : < .> * .-.I . '1. Total 450 man-hour training on values and 75 man-hour training on HR policies .have been conducted last year. .' 21' BothITwo way communication regarding company's activities has increased. # . ! IMPROVEMENT OVER THE LAST YEAR:Employees have become more polite and professional in terms of verbal and physical communication. Blaming culture has been reduced drastically. Principle 2: (Business should make that they are not complicit in human rights =?-.--abuses): x h COMMITMENT: We set high standards of ethics and moral virtue for ourselves. We firmly believe in religious, ethical, social and legal righteousness and we strictly adhere to those. SYSTEM:Employees are directly involved in hazard identification, risk assessments and determining controls, incident investigation, development and review occupational health & safety policies objectives. ACTIVITY: Through employee participation and consultation RBL set weight lifting i limit and safety standard in all its activities. PERFORMANCE: Awareness on safety precaution among the employees are continuously increasing. IMPROVEMENT OVER THE LAST YEAR: Peoples' are now feeling better and safe. Number of incidents has reduced to 11 (including property damage) fiom 25 in last six months. A , -, Rahimafrooz Batteries Limited (RBL) > . Principle 3: (Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining): The company respects the right and the labors of the company have freedom of 6' association, but the workers (labors) have not formed aTrade Union as the company ? encourages open communications with workers and goes beyond the labor code in providing the employees with monetary & non-monetary benefits. SYSTEM:We formulated our Canteen and Welfare policy where workers participated equally and appreciatelgave their feedback for improvement. ACTIVITY: RBL review its employee salary & other benefits every year through collecting the classified information from Bangladesh Consumer Association and Bangladesh Bank regarding inflation rate, consumer price index and make adjustment in the salary accordingly. PERFORMANCE: Workers' representative actively participated in selecting candidate for Scholarship program. In Canteen committee meeting workers' representative spontaneously participated and took part in decision making. IMPROVEMENT OVER THE LAST YEAR: The present minimum GTH (Gross Take Home) is 6530Tk. (five thousand four hundred twenty one) which was 6074 Tk. ( five thousand one hundred forty six) in the previous year. On the other hand government declared minimum wage is4480 Tk. Principle 4: (Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor): COMMITMENT: As our aspiration statement reads, we want to be the most admired and trusted organization, by excelling in everything we do and following ethical business practices. SYSTEMS: We are sincerely following the Bangladesh labor law-2006 (Arnrnendment2013) for working hour guideline of employees which is monitored and inspected by the Factory inspection department. ACTIVITY: Each employee of the company is getting holiday and leave as mentioned in the law and in addition we reduce the working hours of worker from eight hours to sixand halfhours in the month of Ramadan so that they get time for prayer and spend time with family. (If any one did eight hours duty in Ramadan they get 1.5 hours overtime) Rahimafiooz Batteries Limited (RBL) --PERFORMANCE: For overtime duty each employee get double benefits of hisher basic salary. IMPROVEMENT OVER THE LAST YEAR: Now all employees get salary through Bank transfer which ensures on time (1'' day of month) salary disbursement without backlog. ,.. Principle 5: (Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labor): COMMITMENT: We are committed to not engage any one below the age of 18 in any form of labour. SYSTEMS: Our recruitment policy does not support enrollment of child labor in any kind of jobs. ACTIVITY: During recruitment of worker we ask for the birth certificate or national ID for age verification. ,I PERF0RMANCE:In our company the minimum acceptable age of workers is 18years. Even the age group fiom 18 to 20 years in 201 1-12 was below 10% of the population. ' IMPROVEMENT OVER THE LAST YEAR: Our education scheme for employees' children under welfare policy supports them to continue their education up to SSC level and not forced in to child labor. Last year RBL has supported 27students of different education levels (primary & secondary) whereas it was only 23 in the previous year. Principle 6:(Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation): COMMITMENT: The Company has been providing equal opportunityto all employees. Rahimafiooz never compromises on ethical business practices. One of its prime concerns is to respect and promote the principle of non-discrimination in all levels of our Human Resources. Our recruitment, training and career development policy reflects the commitment and respect. SYSTEMS: Our HR Vision to Drive business excellence and create a rewarding workplace through people encourage in building performance oriented culture which is a reflection of nondiscrimination and respect to the individuals. ACTIVITY: During recruitment every candidate has undergone a unique scrutiny process. From that the best performer has been selected irrespective of gender, religious consideration. PERFORMANCE: Last year RBL has recruited 56employees through a comprehensive recruitment process. Rahimafrooz Batteries Limited (RBL) IMPROVEMENT OVER THE LAST YEAR: The company encouraging women employees in all positions and role get equal benefits in all aspects. Principle 7: Business should support to a precautionary approach to environmental Challenges: COMMITMENT: To address environmental challenges, this is a policy of Rahimafrooz Batteries Limited to consider environmental viability of its activities including planned or new developments in the overall assessment process. SYSTEM: Under existing environmental management system Rahimafiooz Batteries Limited (RBL) sets new Environmental objectives, targets and programs to control the aspects having significant impact on the environment. ACTIVITY: RBL set environmental objectives to reduce the consumption of raw materials in the financial year 2013-14. To achieve the objectives, initiatives were taken to improve operational process and ensure optimum usage of recycled raw material. PERFORMANCE: Lead and Polypropylene consumption has reduced. IMPROVEMENT OVER THE LAST YEAR: Lead consumption has reduced to 131.44 kg from 131.85 kg for every thousand (1000) plate. Poly Propylene consumption has reduced to 1.05 kg from 1.07 kg for every N50 battery. Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility COMMITMENT: For sustainable development in the earth Rahimafkooz Batteries Limited (RBL) utilizes the available scopes for the development of environment to a greater extent. SYSTEM: In the process of continual improvement of environmental management system, initiatives are taken that have impact on environment to a greater extent. ACTIVITY: RBL planned and executed technical modification to reduce the consumption of electricity. PFI bank has been installed to improve power factor to ensure optimum use of the current-input. PERFORMANCE: Electricity consumption has been reduced remarkably. IMPROVEMENT OVER THE LAST YEAR: Last year RBL managed to reduce 15% of its electricity consumption where power factor improvement was one of the contributors. 7COP 2014 Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies COMMITMENT: As a part of its policy to prevent environmental pollution for sustainable growth, Rahimafrooz Batteries Limited (Rl3L) is keen to adopt environmentally friendly technologies. SYSTEM: During installation of new machinery and implementation of new projects eco-friendliness is considered as a prerequisite. ACTIVITY & PERFORMANCE: Conventional tube and halogen lights are being replaced with environment friendly energy saving lights which is contributing in reducing energy consumption.. IMPROVEMENT OVER THE LAST YEAR: During last year, 20% of the conventional light has been replaced by environment friendly energy saving light which is one of the contributors in reducing energy consumption by 15% from previous year. Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. COMMITMENT: Employees of the company are committed to live up to one of the company's core values in regard to integrity. Rahimafrooz Batteries Limited (RBL) wants to be the most admired and trusted organization through excelling in everything done by the organization and following ethical business practice. One of the values maintained by the organization is Integrity in all our dealings . SYSTEM: The issue integrity and ethical business practice is mentioned in all dealings with our suppliers and vendors Serious actions are taken against employees for any activities in regard to corruption. ACTIVITY: RBL has regularly maintained supplier communication on ethical business to develop a congenial work environment by maintaining integrity and fairness. All the vendors and suppliers have signed the Statement of Commitments & Integrity which is in other word a commitment for being lawful, honest, fair, trustworthy and ethical. Measurement of outcomes : RBL evaluate its suppliers and vendors every year through maintaining a evaluation form and take decision to continue business on that evaluation. Rahimafrooz Batteries Limited (RBL) rovement over the last year: On last September RBL has evaluated all its approved Rahimafrooz Batteries Limited (RBL)
