0 Siloso Beach Resort Sustainability Report 2014 Acknowledgment & contacts: Review: Report committee 2013: Sylvain Richer de Forges, Director of Sustainability Internal Review: sylvain@silosobeachresort.com Reviewed by Sustainability Kelvin Ng, Managing Director Committee Karl Fischer, CSR Manager csr@silosobeachresort.com 24th Oct 2014 Lee Hui Ting, student intern from Ngee Ann Polytechnic Kang Wei Kiat and Liu Jiahao, student interns from Singapore Polytechnic All SBR Sustainability Committee Members Blending Life and Leisure with Nature www.silosobeachresort.com 1 Siloso Beach Resort Sustainability Report 2014 This report follows the latest ISO 26000 guidelines on Social responsibility as well as the GRI 3.1 Blending Life and Leisure with Nature www.silosobeachresort.com 2 Content Highlight “ ’ ” “ ” Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 5 Siloso Beach Resort Sustainability Report 2014 Main Reporting Content Global Compact Support and Statement………… 7 – 8 Managing Director Statement 2013………………….. 11 This report provides GRI Guidelines index…………………………..…. 153 158 Introduction…………………………………………….… 12 14 content according to The SBR story…………………………..……….…....... 16 17 GRI 3.1 Guidelines, Impact risks and opportunities………….….…... 20 36 Organizational profile………………..………..….... 38 52 but also a range of Report Parameters…………………..….…..….……. 53 56 case studies on best Governance………………………….…..….…..…..... 58 83 Environment…………………………………..…...… 84 130 sustainability Human Rights…………………….…..…….………. 128132 practices. Employment…………………….……..….………... 132 139 Public Policies ………………..………...……….... 140 145 Economic……………………………………………….. 146 150 Annex…………………………….………...…………... 159 161 SBR’s Villa Wing Blending Life and Leisure with Nature 6 www.silosobeachresort.com SBR’s United Nations Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Global Compact Commitment Global Compact 10 Principles UN Global Compact As of 1st February 2012, SBR is proud to be a member of Categories Global compact 10 principles the United Nation Global Compact. Human rights • Principle 1: Businesses should About the United Nations Global Compact support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human The United Nations Global Compact is a call to companies rights; and everywhere to voluntarily align their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the • Principle 2: make sure that they are areas of human rights, labour, environment and antinot complicit in human rights corruption, and to take actions in support of UN goals, abuses including the Millennium Development Goals. Endorsed by chief executives, the UN Global Compact is a leadership platform for the development, implementation, and Labour • Principle 3: Businesses should disclosure of responsible corporate policies and practices. uphold the freedom of association Launched in 2000, it is the largest corporate responsibility and the effective recognition of the initiative in the world – with over 8,000 signatories based in right to collective bargaining; more than 135 countries. • Principle 4: the elimination of all For more information: www.unglobalcompact.org. forms of forced and compulsory labour; The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of • Principle 5: the effective abolition of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, child labour; and the environment and anti-corruption. • Principle 6: the elimination of Engaging in the Global Compact and implementing the discrimination in respect of principles will help SBR to: employment and occupation. •improve organizational integration of environmental, social Environment • Principle 7: Businesses should and governance issues. address the company’s expanded business opportunities and risks; support a precautionary approach •improve operational efficiencies; to environmental challenges; •access the experiences and good practices of peers; •acquire practical know-how; • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to •attract, motivate and retain employees; promote greater environmental •increase trust in the company and renew its license to responsibility; and operate; •improve corporate reputation and brand image; • Principle 9: encourage the •engage in a proactive and constructive dialogue with civil development and diffusion of society and other stakeholders; environmentally friendly •strengthen stakeholder relations, both globally and locally; technologies •establish better links with the United Nations; •take a leadership role on critical issues & network with other organizations;. Anti• Principle 10: Businesses should •respond to financial market expectations and improve corruption work against corruption in all its access to capital. forms, including extortion and bribery SBR fully supports and follows the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 7 SBR’s United Nations Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Global Compact Commitment In 2012 SBR submitted its first sustainability report which was granted an A level rating from the GRI. This year we have updated our report to include latest developments and performance indicators. All elements of the previous report have been maintained to continue to comply with GRI 3.1 A level standards GRI Application Level Check from 2012 Sustainability Report: Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 8 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Welcome Siloso Beach Resort is an Eco Resort on the island of Sentosa in Singapore Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 9 Siloso Beach Resort Main resort entrance Blending Life and Leisure with Nature At SBR the structures blend with the surrounding vegetation Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sutainability Report 2014 10 Managing Director Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Statement 2014 The year 2013-2014 has been another happening one for Environment: As always our commitment to environmental Siloso Beach Resort. We have made great progress in our causes remains strong. While we have continued with journey towards sustainability through the reinforcement existing strong measures and programs we also have of existing initiatives such as our strong as ever eco tour developed new initiatives. Some include classes on (over 7500 attendees reached, exceeding our targets) and herbology and green living for hotel guests, development of the development of new ones such as joining the global our rooftop garden, investment (again) in a new component Plastic Disclosure Project. of our chiller systems making it even more energy efficient, supporting a range of environmental causes and events. Our continuous push for environmental and social efforts SBR will put more emphasis on the benefits of energy saving has been further recognized through a number of through passive design rather than technology (for instance, remarkable awards and recognitions of which the National by showcasing our roof top garden as a case study). Parks Community in Bloom Platinum Award and Enabling Employers Award – In Recognition. These awards further Anti-corruption: SBR has never had any case of corruption. motivate us to continue on our current sustainable We have put in place all the proper measures to avoid such development path and offer unique opportunities to raise including regular third party external audits and awareness on the need for businesses to adopt a more transparency in financial information through reporting sustainable path. initiatives. One of the major upgrades in the upcoming year will be to expand on the service offerings. It is clear that SBR fully adheres to the commitments, initiatives and principles of the UN Global Compact and We have reached most of our targets set in our previous that we will unconditionally continue to do so in the years report (refer to annex) and have set ourselves new targets ahead. for the year ahead that will be even more challenging. SBR has taken a number of practical actions to implement We are proud to see a continuous improvement from our the Global Compact principles: last report which showcases that our initiatives are not short-term efforts, but have been constantly developing and Human rights: We have always been following the UN growing. Global Compact ten principles including on human rights. SBR has never had any infringement of these principles I look forward to reporting on our progress next year and and we intend to keep it this way. Going beyond just our continuous support to the UN Global Compact. adhering to these principles we actually have put into place a range of practices that help to raise awareness on Kelvin Ng stronger human rights policies especially with regards to Managing Director social employment and supporting a range of social causes Siloso Beach Resort such as disaster relief efforts or various social groups. Labour: We have reinforced and implemented a number of measures which make us a more responsible employer. Some initiatives include new work life balance programs for the staff, continuing our efforts to employ people with disabilities (In 2014 our employment of PWD remains strong with 14% of our workforce that would fall under this category), improvement of facilities and systems for staff usage and comfort. 11 Siloso Beach Resort Introduction Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Our journey towards sustainability Going beyond preserving the vegetal coverage and its inhabiting biodiversity, the buildings were constructed in a way that: At Siloso Beach Resort (SBR), we like to see ourselves as a very special hotel when it comes to sustainability and •Maximise natural lighting through an open concept; environmental values and I would like to highlight what I mean by this: •Maximize natural cooling through efficient design as well as the implementation of unique features such as what Our vision of a sustainable business remains (to the best of our knowledge) the longest selfmaintained roof top garden in Singapore; Even before SBR was conceived more than 9 years ago, it was decided that it would become an eco-hotel. This hotel •Making use of a very significant amount of re-used would not only adopt unique sustainable features in its materials in the built structure; design, but also act as a showcase of best sustainable practices to all our stakeholders. •Making use of the natural shape of the terrain (for instance our landscape swimming pool has been placed on top of an Coming from a construction background, I have noticed existing maintenance road). first hand over the years the level of very significant impacts that this sector has on our environment. It was •Rainwater harvesting and purification passive features; our vision that perhaps the construction of a hotel, which showcases how things can be done differently while still At SBR we believe that real sustainability can only come remaining a viable business model, could play a significant from good initial design to minimize environmental role in progressing towards a less impactful industry impacts and maximise energy efficiency through passive sector. means. This is what we are actively trying to promote. Since this vision was first conceptualized, we have gone a Post-construction long way and are still growing strong into what has become our journey towards sustainability. Following the success of the construction phase, it quickly became apparent that much more could be achieved than The construction phase just growing the business without further consideration for the environment. On the contrary we had to take This journey did not start without major obstacles. At the advantage of this unique position to continue on our path time of construction, our vision of a sustainable hotel was of sustainability through retrofitting and Cleantech seen as very unusual by many of our contractors and investments. stakeholders and it took determination and passion to proceed in making it a reality, the way we wanted it to be. As such, numerous initiatives and investments have gone into further reducing the environmental impacts postPerhaps one of our strongest and most unusual construction. To site a few: determinations was to preserve all the existing trees on site. The location on a forested part of Sentosa Water minimization through numerous water saving and on a hill side was did not prove easy. In order to features including an elaborate water treatment system. preserve these trees we had to apply most unusual This system makes use of an underground natural spring construction techniques. These measures have reservoir which was discovered during construction (all allowed us to construct a 200 room hotel while the water for gardening and other applications such as the preserving over 200 fully grown trees and pool is not making use of any precious tap water but instead uses a natural resource that we have the chance of planting another 450 trees post construction. At having on site); SBR the trees are literally integrated within the building’s structures. Energy use minimization through smart appliances (best in class energy efficient lighting solution) but most notably through the early investment in a third generation heat exchange… 12 Introduction Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Our journey towards sustainability ..system which was one of the first to be installed in direct donations or providing facilities. Singapore; We have donated to various environmental and social causes •Waste management: through various practices but also including a single donation for the amount of half a million through investments such as our food waste decomposer dollars to the National University of Singapore for the (one of the first to be tested in Singapore) as well as purpose of raising funds to bring real dinosaurs to Singapore. through our active recycling program. Special projects and R&D Management and outreach SBR has embarked on a range of very special projects that The next logical step in our journey towards becoming a many might see as very unusual in a hotel environment. Some more sustainable business model was to relook into our of these projects include: management to incorporate sustainable practices at all level of operations. This was already -Roof top gardening: where we produce our own implemented since the beginning but we went into a great vegetables organically using an experimental worm deal of effort to revamp our policies, staff training and composting system that we manage on site. Part of the outreach policies to push the concept of sustainability production goes back to our F&B department. even further and making sure that it is well integrated and communicated throughout the organization, not just as -The display of real dinosaur bones on site in order to guidelines, but more like a corporate culture. promote the upcoming Singapore Natural History Museum and outreach on conservation issues. CSR -Numerous environmental outreach messages onsite through CSR was the most visible change in our outreach initiative. various means such as mascots, display panels, in house The level of commitment to outreach on sustainable environmental TV channels and more, which we use to initiatives through our CSR programs is truly an promote awareness on the most pressing global and local achievement. SBR has since been running very successful environmental issues such as Global Climate Change, pollution, outreach programs. biodiversity losses, water conservation… Some of our most visible outreach platforms to date Our credentials as a small business promoting include the Biodiversity.sg platform sustainability practices: (www.biodiversity.sg) as well as our very successful Eco Tours which we use to communicate our practices to SBR is the winner/recipient of serval awards of which: various stakeholders (to date more than 7000 people from sectors as diverse as schools, universities, corporations, •Singapore President’s Award for the Environment government agencies…have undertaken our eco tours). •ASEAN Business Award for CSR •Singapore Environment Achievement Awards (Top achiever We regularly outreach on global environmental issues 2010); through our contribution to various media platforms •The Singapore Sustainability Award including www.eco-business.com (one of Asia pacific’s •Singapore Sepcial Mention CSR Award largest environmental business communities). We are •The first hotel in South East Asia to be certified as an Eco Hotel regularly featured in press releases as well as articles and from TUV Rheinland (international certification body); blogs on sustainability best practices not just in Singapore •The first hotel in Singapore to be certified under the Singapore but increasingly on an international level. Environment Council Eco hotel certification Scheme (we served as the model to develop this scheme); Donations •One of the first hotels in Singapore to join The UN Global Compact; •And numerous very unique environmental related programs, We regularly donate to various environment or social related causes should it be in the form of sponsorship of events, Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 13 Siloso Beach Resort Introduction Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Our journey towards sustainability Commitment At SBR we are convinced that corporate sustainability is the only way forward and we will continue on our journey towards continuous improvement in this direction. We believe that a single small business like ourselves can play a role by not just adopting such practices to our own business but, in our opinion even more importantly, to remain active in sharing these practices by outreaching to society and possibly inspiring many others to adopt a similar development path. Perhaps our most driving conviction behind all of this is that as a hotel we are indeed in a position to influence and possibly educate people from all kinds of origins, nationalities, business sectors and interests, on a range of pressing environmental issues. The feeling that we are actually doing this is one of our greatest achievements. I hope that the above very brief highlights give you an overview of what we are trying to do for the environment and sustainability in general even though we are just a small business, and that the following report could inspire many other businesses to embark on this journey of sustainability with us. Sincerely, Mr Kelvin Ng, Managing Director, Siloso Beach Resort SBR’s waterfall Pic: Our latest eco pond Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 14 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR’s Central Court & pool by night Vision: The Resort aims to set the environmental •Each one of us needs to change our critical benchmark to allow our guests and the community behaviors and be environmentally conscious on a to experience a quality eco friendly environment daily basis; that will encourage them to adopt environmental initiatives •Community and customers are essential to our long term success and we need their involvement and Mission: The Resort will continuously strive to support to build a successful and sustainable reduce its ecological impact by adopting best environment program; practices and applying appropriate new technologies •We need a complete and holistic approach in Values: At the resort we believe that: tackling environmental challenges; •Our commitment to the environment begins with •Our plans, strategies, people and processes must be our employees, stakeholders, customers and built on the foundations of continuous community. It requires both enormous dedication improvement. and real ingenuity and is a long term process; •Providing quality services and accommodation to our customers Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 15 The story of Siloso Beach Siloso Beach Resort Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature The SBR Story This sustainability report, the second of the series, is set to mark a new era at Siloso Beach It is precisely this potential to make a real change by (SBR) is a very Resort. Siloso Beach Resort influencing the numerous guests who transit unique hotel in many ways and this through the facilities that has pushed SBR in this direction. The hotel industry is one that has the most potential to report intends to highlight the reasons why. influence many people, yet it is also one of the sectors that has made little progress in this field. Following the implementation of numerous sustainable initiatives, best practices and policies, it One single business adopting and showcasing sustainable became apparent that the next step for SBR to practices can influence many others to adopt a similar embark on would be to produce a sustainability development path: report that would provide a highlight of the journey into a single document. Single business SBR is proud to be one of the very few hotels which purposely built, from its Influence was conception, to be an Eco Hotel and to apply best sustainable practices throughout all its operations. The commitment of SBR to be a Other businesses reference in the sustainability field is strongly present in daily operations. This report tells the Story behind the mind-set that has led to what SBR is today, the different stages of development and the unprecedented commitment of its management to set the benchmark of a new Significant changes era of sustainable business models in the leisure industry and to continually pursue in this direction. Realisation of a rapidly changing world One of the main drivers behind SBR adopting a sustainable business model is the realisation and acceptance by its management that we live in a fast changing world in which environmental issues are high on the agenda and in which businesses have an important role to play in helping limit its impacts on Constructing an eco-resort from the very start the environment. Global concerns such as climate change, pollution, biodiversity losses, fresh water SBR’s view is that in this type of business (built depletion and more, are of great concern to current environment/hospitality) integrating sustainable practices and future generations and something needs to be from the very beginning (and in particular the construction done. phase) is key as there is only so much that can be achieved in reducing environmental impacts post-construction. If a SBR believes that it can play its part by reducing developer is in a position to implement sustainable environmental impacts on its premises through the thoughts from the very beginning, then it should be done at adoption of sustainable practices at all levels of this stage. operations but also by sharing its opinions and initiatives with society through its CSR programs. It is apparent that while one single organisation can only make small and often insignificant differences on a national or even global scale through its daily operations, it can have very significant impacts on a larger scale by influencing various stakeholders and society at large. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 16 At Siloso Beach Resort (SBR) the concept of Siloso Beach Resort sustainability is not new, in fact even before the Blending Life and Leisure with Nature The SBR Story hotel was built more than nine years ago, it was decided that SBR would adopt a sustainable business model. At this stage three key decisions were made which were considered highly unusual Economically viable: with average high hotel occupancy, at the time: SBR is not only a sustainable hotel but an economically viable business as well that will continue to use its facilities as a showcase of sustainable practices and a test-bed of Our 3 guiding principles: environmentally friendly technologies. 1) The natural terrain would be preserved; Siloso Beach Resort, Sentosa, is a recognised and certified eco-hotel from TUV-Rheinland and the 2) The trees would be preserved; Singapore Environment Council (certified from 2010/2011). Additionally SBR is the winner of several awards. 3) The resort would have minimum covered area. Our philosophy Since then the concept of sustainability has been well established and remains a core component of the business model with strong initiatives at all “Making money? Our life, besides making levels of operations: money, is also about happiness, enjoyment, health, and continuity. This is our company philosophy.. ..How can businesses continue into the future if they cannot anticipate the world environmental problems? It is for the simple fact that consumer awareness will lead to less profitability in the long run for those who do not practice sustainability.” Unique Environmental attributes: with features such as truly innovative environmentally friendly construction techniques; the longest self-sustained Mr Ng Swee Hwa rooftop garden in Singapore; the only 100% spring Chairman/Owner of Siloso Beach Resort water landscape swimming pool in Singapore; and numerous other unique environmental practices and initiatives in a hotel environment. Socially responsible: with features such as SBR Eco Tours; regular sponsorship of numerous sustainability events; and its latest CSR program: The Biodiversity.sg website, SBR continuously gives back to society and actively promotes the concept of sustainability. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 17 Case study : Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR’s Pendulum of SustainabilityTM 1 “ 2 “ ” 4 3 “ “ ” 5 “ ” 6 “ ” “ 7 ” ” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 18 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Deck near reception SBR environmental statement: “SBR is committed to provide a memorable leisure experience while adopting and showcasing environmental and sustainability best practices. Our model is to first protect nature, then to reduce, reuse and recycle” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 19 Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Siloso Beach Resort SBR’s Waterfall Blending Life and Leisure with Nature In addition to being an enjoyment for our guests, our waterfall is also part of an innovative swimming pool treatment system Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 20 Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Siloso Beach Resort A jungle resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR Central space At SBR, the vegetal coverage is so dense that most of our buildings & structures appear hidden in the vegetation Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 21 Impacts, Risks & Opportunities 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and Siloso Beach Resort opportunities Blending Life and Leisure with Nature As a hotel business, Siloso Beach Resort acknowledges the fact that its operations have Main processes in place to address performance impacts on the surrounding environment and sustainability in general. and/or relevant changes In order to address performance, SBR has a sustainability Key environmental impacts are of committee in place. The committee meets at least twice various sorts, the below points highlight the major a year to assess the progress made and benchmark against ones: standards and targets. Under the guidance of the committee, annual targets are set to address key SBR key impacts sustainability issues. Key performance indicators are •Use of natural resources: Concrete products also put into place by the committee to monitor and track (sand, limestone…), steel and other metals, wood changes and progress over time. products, living resources (F&B)… During these meetings, issues regarding performance and •Atmospheric Emissions: Mostly from energy potential changes are addressed which often leads to consumption which in Singapore originates from strategic planning and setting targets and objectives. the combustion of natural gas. Other emissions are from activities such as transportation, gardening and other maintenance activities. •Land disturbance: Construction activities have required some disturbance to the original landscape (despite the tremendous and unique efforts that have been made to limit the impacts). •Noise disturbance: During construction and hotel operations •Water consumption: Consumption of tap water from the network •Water contamination: Rejects of contaminated water from operations to drains •Wastes : Various wastes (organic & non-organic) •Biodiversity: As a forested terrain, SBR activities SBR sustainability committee regularly addresses have an impact on biodiversity (despite tremendous performances and applies changes as needed and unique efforts made to reduce the impacts). Approach to prioritizing these challenges and opportunities SBR considers all the above impacts to be important but it also acknowledges that some have higher impacts than others and therefore should be given different reduction priorities. Many of these impacts (not all) are regulated under Singapore law (e.g. noise, water contamination…). SBR is proud to meet and in most instances SBR acknowledges the fact that its exceed these legal requirements. activities, as a business, have impacts on the surrounding environment and that it can work towards reducing these impacts Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 22 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature The beginning: Picture: Mr Ng (owner) and contractor entering the forest site of what will become Siloso Beach Resort (2003) “When we first saw the site it was very apparent to us that if we were going to build an eco-hotel here the terrain and its trees will have to be preserved to a great extent. We took this as a challenge not an obstacle ; this is precisely why we chose this site” Mr Ng Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 23 Constructing the Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature resort Building the resort inside a rainforest was a major challenge Constant reminders and training of the construction team was a daily exercise to ensure the preservation of the trees. Panels were put in place reading “keep the trees alive!” Littering was constantly monitored throughout the site and emphasised through staff meetings. Monitoring was intense. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 24 Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Siloso Beach Resort Constructing the resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature In order not to damage the trees roots, a special technique known as micro bore piling had to be used (vibrations were greatly reduced by doing so) Constructing within a rainforest surrounded by trees also meant to use smaller machineries so as to navigate within the terrain to limit damage to the surrounding. Heavy machineries could not be used. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 25 Constructing the Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature resort Building on stilts allowed better protection to the trees and to build on a sloped terrain Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 26 Environmental Impacts Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Siloso Beach Resort •Use of natural resources: (high priority) As a hotel Blending Life and Leisure with Nature the usage of natural resources is high. There are however a multitude of ways in which these impacts can be reduced. Key conclusions about progress in addressing •Atmospheric Emissions: (high priority) SBR these topics and related performance in the acknowledges the seriousness of climate change reporting period and believes that it can play its role by significantly reducing its emissions and showcasing these efforts. •Use of natural resources: Numerous progress have been made to reduce the usage of natural resources of all sorts. •Land disturbance: (high priority) Because SBR has Current achievements are judged satisfactory and SBR will been built on a pristine forested environment, continue to pursue its natural resources minimization preserving the terrain has always been of high strategy with targets for continuous improvements. importance. •Atmospheric Emissions: Numerous initiatives have been •Noise: (low priority) SBR operates at below legal taken to reduce energy consumption. There is still a lot that noise level. Noise has never been an issue within can be achieved at SBR in terms of reducing emissions. SBR the hotel facilities. SBR however closely monitors its has identified this aspect as one of its priorities for the noise levels to ensure that there is no disturbance coming years. to its guests and wildlife. •Land disturbance: Tremendous efforts have been put in •Water consumption: (high priority) SBR place since the very beginning of construction work. Land continuously pushes to reduce its tap water usage. disturbance reduction efforts have been very successful. However, due to the unique location of the resort SBR will continue to push for limited impacts in this field. above a natural water source and numerous water saving measures in place, tap water consumption is •Noise: Noise levels have never been an issue within the already very low for a hotel of its size. premises. SBR will continue to push for limited impacts in this field. •Wastes: (high priority) SBR already has many programs in place to reduce its wastes, often by •Water consumption: Initiatives undertaken at SBR since its reusing whatever waste can be utilised in other conception have resulted in very low water consumption. ways. SBR actively practices the 3R’s. Water saving has been evident. SBR will continue to push for limited impacts in this field. •Biodiversity: (high priority) Because SBR has been built on a pristine forested terrain, preserving the •Water contamination: SBR does not have rejects of biodiversity on site has always been of high hazardous substances in significant amounts. Water importance. contamination at SBR is judged insignificant to date . •Energy use: (high priority) SBR is continuously •Wastes: Since its conception, SBR has implemented trying new ways to reduce its energy usage through numerous programs to reduce its wastes. Initiatives have the adoption of new practices and technologies. resulted in very minimal waste being generated including from the F&B department. SBR will continue to push for limited impacts in this field. •Biodiversity: Since its construction phase, SBR has taken extreme measures to preserve the biodiversity on site. This aspect has been very successful and exemplary. SBR will continue to push for limited impacts in this field. •Energy use: Great achievements have already taken place at SBR to reduce energy usage and the hotel will continue to push for improvements. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 27 Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Siloso Beach Resort Our Villa Wing Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR Villa Wing A truly unique retreat surrounded by nature… Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 28 Case study : Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature The “War Room”: our arguments 2 for sustainability “ ’ 1 “ ’ ’ ’ ” ” 3 “ ” “ 4 5 ” “ 7 ” “ “ 6 ” 8 “ ’ ” 9 “ ’ ” ’ ” “ 10 ” In summary: Be sustainable…or else..!!! Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 29 Assessing Materiality Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Siloso Beach Resort Elements of primary importance: Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Of course as a business, our priorities are not only towards the environment. The below highlights a bigger picture of our priorities: •Through various surveys and internal discussions the below profile of materiality for the organization emerged. While all aspects listed below are important to SBR and its stakeholders , we can within this shortlist assign areas of importance based on the compilation of both SBR’s as well as stakeholders preferences. •First it is not surprising that as a hotel, guest satisfaction and safety rank high. •It is probably surprising to most people that SBR does not see marketing or financial profit as its top priority. Marketing: SBR always had a soft marketing policy and relies mostly on a word of mouth approach to marketing rather than actively promoting its services. Financial profit: SBR has always been more of a social enterprise rather than a for profit business. It is important for SBR that its business is self-sustaining and from a financial point of view the hotel has been doing reasonably well since it started business which can be seen as a good example that a business applying sustainability practices can also do well financially. 10 Service quality Marketing Guests satisfaction Importance to stakeholders Safety (guests + staff) Regulatory requirements Energy consumption Water resources Carbon emissions Financial profit Social responsibility Environmental outreach Waste generated Onsite Biodiversity Ethical business practices Employees satisfaction Customer feedback Innovation and R&D 0 10 Internal importance Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 30 Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Description of the most important risks Siloso Beach Resort and opportunities for the organization Blending Life and Leisure with Nature arising from sustainability trends; SBR is conscious that many sustainability trends Prioritization of key sustainability topics as risks both local and international are a risk to the and opportunities; business but SBR tends to see them as opportunities. The below points highlight what SBR SBR addresses sustainability topics in a very holistic way. Its has identified as major risks to its operations both in approach is not just focused on local issues but also on the short and long term and the opportunities that international sustainability aspects. they create. SBR has identified the following aspects as priorities: Risks Opportunities Climate change related Global Climate Change; risks: -Opportunity for Global Biodiversity Loss; Investment in Cleantech in Global depletion of fresh water resources; -Sea level rise (as a beach anticipation of rising Operations Financial growth. resort, SBR is very energy costs. concerned about this SBR believes that it can play its role in all of the above to trend) . -Opportunity for various extents (mostly by raising awareness on the issues), partnerships with various however it also believes it can be more effective by focusing -Increase of occurrence of stakeholders in raising on particular aspects. For this reason, biodiversity issues vector borne diseases (e.g. awareness on these have been chosen as SBR’s primary focus point. Dengue). As SBR’s facilities topics. are on a densely vegetated terrain, Tables summarizing: Targets, performance increase of mosquito against targets, and lessons learned for the occurrence is a concern. current reporting period; -Rise in ambient SBR is very target oriented. The following sections highlight temperatures (and these targets therefore rise in energy needs) . “ -Implementation of more severe government tax on aspects such as emissions, water consumption in response to mounting environmental pressures. Global financial instabilities: World financial instability. ” -Opportunities to secure As a business significantly business sustainability by dependant on foreign diversifying the business tourists, financial crises have a direct impact on SBR’s operations. -Opportunities to invest in cleaner technologies Local pollution and anticipate for future pollution taxes Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 31 Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Siloso Beach Resort Targets Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR is very target oriented, every year old targets are reviewed and new ones are set. SBR has in fact been setting itself targets since its conception and has an excellent track record of meeting the targets that it fixes itself. Below is a list of our latest targets which have been set over the years. Most of these targets have been achieved. A list of targets set for years prior to the reporting period are available in annex Targets for the 2014 – 2015 reporting period: Component Target Comment Marketing Significant rebranding of the hotel main website to give In progress a new look and image reflecting an eco-concept Financial profit To continue on a recovery path from a financial In progress slowdown in 2012 Guests satisfaction To continue to improve guest satisfaction through In progress improvements in both services and infrastructure upgrades Service quality To start providing weekly training to F&B and front In progress office staff on service quality Safety To maintain current Bizsafe level 3 certification In progress Regulatory To maintain compliancy with all regulatory In progress requirements requirements Energy Consumption To reduce energy consumption further through an In progress upgrade of the main chiller system Water resources To continue all water management initiative and aim In progress for further reduction (if possible) Carbon emissions To develop the now implemented carbon offset In progress partnership with Nexus Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 32 Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Siloso Beach Resort Targets Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Targets for the 2014 – 2015 reporting period (continued): Component Target Comment Employees satisfaction To continue ongoing employee welfare In progress programs and develop new ones Customer feedback To expend the current customer feedback In progress mechanisms Innovation and R&D To continue ongoing R&D partnerships and In progress possibly develop new ones Social responsibility To continue all CSR programs and possibly In progress develop new ones Environmental outreach To continue the outreach through our different In progress media and regular updates through updates press releases Waste generated To continue current waste management In progress initiative. To further develop SBR’s plastic disclosure as part of the plastic disclosure project Onsite biodiversity To continue all initiatives and possibly develop In progress new ones Ethical business To continue with current beliefs and practices In progress practices Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 33 Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Our swimming pool is one Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature of a kind Our swimming pool is the heart of our resort Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 34 Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Targets for the next reporting period and Siloso Beach Resort mid-term objectives and goals (i.e., 3-5 Blending Life and Leisure with Nature years) related to key risks and opportunities. Category targets Targetsperiod: for the next reporting Natural resources Reduce the use of natural resources by another 3% (relative to previous reporting Global Biodiversity Loss: period) •Objective: Preservation of biodiversity remains a key aspect of how SBR operates. SBR is committed to preserve Atmospheric Reduce carbon emissions by 3% a rich biodiversity on its premises and to actively promote emissions (relative to previous reporting global biodiversity conservation through outreach period) programs. •Goal: SBR will continue in its efforts to preserve and Land disturbance Continue to increase vegetal increase habitats on its premises in order to host a variety coverage by 3% through roof of species . This includes the preservation of existing trees top gardening and use of other and ponds and existing surfaces their associated species. Noise Keep noise levels at current Water Reduce tap water consumption consumption by 3% (relative to previous Operations financial growth: reporting period) •Objective: SBR takes the concept of sustainability in an Water Further improve the treatment holistic way which encompasses not only environmental contamination of waste water from the resort and social issues but also financial sustainability and before being discharged (e.g. economic growth. SBR intends to continue its business in an further improve grease trap environmentally and socially sustainable way while treatments) remaining financially viable. Wastes Reduce waste by another 3% •Goal: SBR intends to continue to grow the business and (relative to previous reporting achieve long term financial growth. period) Biodiversity Continue to increase Depletion of fresh water resources: biodiversity by providing new habitats for species •Objective: At SBR the water management is already very good and tap water consumption very low for an hotel of its Energy use Further improve energy size. SBR will however continue to intensify efforts to even efficiency through Cleantech. push the water saving initiatives further by both improving Reduce by 3% on water efficiency and by maintaining the health of its spring water reservoir. Mid term objectives and goals •Goal: Invest in Cleantech to better control water Global Climate Change: consumption in guest rooms (where most of the current tap water consumption occurs). •Objective: SBR takes the risks posed by climate change very seriously and will continue to develop Reducing by 3% may not by integrating elements which will both reduce its seem much but carbon emissions and provide adaptive advantages because our waste, to a changing environment. water and energy usage •Goal: In the medium term SBR intends to become is already very low it is a carbon neutral hotel by offsetting its emissions. actually a challenge Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 35 Governance mechanisms in place to Impacts, Risks & Opportunities specifically manage these risks and Siloso Beach Resort opportunities, and identification of other Blending Life and Leisure with Nature related risks and opportunities. Governance mechanisms: Risks Bi-annual SBR believes that the approach is to integrate ways review to manage these risks within the long term plan of the organisation rather than to ignore them. A long and slow adaptation is a better path than a sudden and unplanned change. The risks identified as significant are taken into consideration during sustainability committee Sustainability Committee meetings and minimisation targets are set to address these risks. Previously set targets and goals are then reassessed during the next meetings and a new set of targets and management decisions are taken to best address these risks. Guidelines Targets Other related risks and opportunities In addition to the primary risks and opportunities identified, SBR has also highlighted other elements Risk Opportunities Safety at work To take appropriate measures to (HSE) ensure a first class safety environment for its staff “ Guests safety To ensure that the place is safe for the guests Development To make the business even more of new hotels competitive especially by in Singapore focusing on our eco concept New To put more emphasis in government developing a local work force rules on foreign hires Increase To put further emphasis in guests improving quality of services and expectations facilities Humidity To redesign aspects of the resort related issues in order to cope better with such in hotel issues facilities Potential To further improve safety onsite Burglary issues through greater surveillance and monitoring Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 36 Siloso Beach Resort Our open air corridors Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Our open concept corridors SBR’s Open Concept Many places at SBR adopt an open concept, should it be for the corridors, the café area, the gym and other public spaces. This concept allows amongst other benefits to have a feeling of being surrounded by greenery Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 37 Organizational Profile Organizational Profile Siloso Beach Resort REPORT PROFILE Blending Life and Leisure with Nature 2.1 Name of the organization Using less plastic, energy-saving light bulbs and a smart Siloso Beach Resort Pte Ltd. heat-exchange system can only do so much, so, throughout the Resort, we assimilate nature with comfort recluse, The name of the resort simply reflects the location greenery with cutting-edge technology in a bid to have our name: Indeed, SBR is adjacent to Siloso Beach on guests come to appreciate nature's infinite value. Sentosa Island. At Siloso Beach Resort, the only Eco resort residing on the beautiful island of Sentosa, guests can enjoy the only 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or natural spring water landscape pool in Singapore, complete services. with a waterfall feature, while relaxing amongst the balmy shades of flora to the soothing sounds of cascading waters. Siloso Beach Resort services are in the leisure There are rooftop garden suites complete with rooftop industry which include: bath, one of a kind in Singapore. •Providing hotel rooms for stay; Facilities: e.g. Sitting at the heart of Singapore's hippest beach Siloso swimming pool, waterfall, water slides, children Beach in Sentosa, the resort's strategic location and lush playground, in-house TV channels, exhibits of foliage within its surroundings, guests find themselves faced various type on site (mostly biodiversity) with a strewn of choices. Bay-windows looking out to white sandy beach rooms, a walk away to the beach, various •Food and beverage: SBR has a single restaurant entertainment outlets and activity booths located along the café in which breakfast and daily meals are served. beach's stretch, offers both scenic and convenient leisure. Company logo: The resort provides an experience of an ideal getaway, for honeymooners and lovers in the mood for a romantic getaway or holidaymakers in search of tranquility on an island beachfront. SBR brands its services under Siloso Beach Resort SBR is directly involved in providing these services and does not outsource for aspects directly related to main business stream. As a family owned and operated business, unlike most other hotels, SBR Nestled within its lush foliage surrounding, Siloso Beach does not outsource the management. Resort hosts a range of rooms to fit the needs of the various guests, from romantic getaways for couples to retreats for Contractors are involved from time to time for holidaymakers. aspects such as: With the main foyer of rooms facing beachfronts, guest •Consultancy rooms are provided a natural backdrop of the sea landscape •Architecture while decking the inner courtyard sprawls a 95m long •Legal affairs natural spring water landscape pool with a waterfall feature, providing a relaxing atmosphere. Hotel services information: It is a love and passion for the environment and Every room is fitted with amenities to ensure that your stay nature that will act as an impetus for us to begin to is both enjoyable and comfortable. care unconditionally for the waning ozone layer, depleting forests and out-of-control pollutants. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 38 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Central roof top , along suite wing SBR’s extensive roof top space One of the main roof top at SBR is used for a variety of purposes going from a plant nursery to a roof top vegetable farm to open air Jacuzzis to a flexible event space used for special occasions. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 39 Siloso Beach Resort Our very unique luxurious villas Blending Life and Leisure with Nature One of the villas, living room Luxury villas with a very special touch While offering 12 luxury high end villas to its guests, the most unusual aspect of these villas is that most of them have several live trees passing straight through the living space. This feature was done as one of the extraordinary efforts to preserve the existing trees on site. It also provides a very special atmosphere to the rooms. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 40 Organizational Profile Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Eco Alfresco Café Dining Our dining experience caters to more than just an experience, care is taken in minimising carbon footprint while guests enjoy their meals. Dishes are prepared with homegrown herbs within the resort's own garden, from mints to basil and many more spices of a variety. Savour some of our all-time favourites such as fish and chips or try out the grilled fish platter for healthier choices. Our green conscious café Every ingredients used in the menu are ensured with care to minimise carbon foot print, this includes purchasing ingredient primarily from local sources first and when unavailable purchases will then be made from the next nearest source possible including countries such as Vietnam and Malaysia. Event decors are prepared fully using home grown leafs and flowers as decor, this in turn leads to minimum or no usage of tablecloths. Through a food disposal system, use of garbage bags are also minimised. While appreciating the nature around the vicinity, we hope to share the finer details to the dining experience with our valued diners. From embracing what nature has to offer around us and aspire to continuously bring that experience to the plate. Leave the fins in the sea! No to Blue fin tuna And many others… Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 41 Organizational Profile Our villas offer a unique retreat Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature and peaceful atmosphere SBR 2 bedroom villa with pool Villa self maintained pond Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 42 Case study: Our Eco Conscious Cafe Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR’s restaurant (like the rest of our resort) has put into place very special policies when it comes to sustainability issues: Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 43 2.3 Operational structure of the Organizational Profile Siloso Beach Resort organization Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Siloso Beach Resort is a family owned Company structural diagram: hotel. Its only site and operations are on Sentosa island. SBR does not have any other operating companies, subsidiaries or joint ventures. SBR has a unique yet simple corporate structure formed of a general management core and dependant departments. Main Divisions Description Front office Takes care of first contact with guests (registration, check out…) and general inquiries Housekeeping Daily rooms and facilities cleaning Maintenance Electrical/mechanical maintenance F&B Food and beverages services Security Resort security and observation Reservations Handling of all reservation matters Sustainability Environment/society/financial sustainability Accounts Handling all accounting matters Human Handling all employees related As this diagram sustainability highlights, the Resources matters Quality services Quality of services monitoring and committee plays a very important role at SBR actions as it serves as a filter to most decisions taken regarding the Gardening All gardening matters (gardening is an company’s operations. The presence of this structure important department at SBR ensures that sustainability is not just a practice but rather considering the extent of vegetal an integral part of the business structure. coverage) 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters The corporate structure at SBR is unique because: Location: SBR operates from a single site in Sentosa. Sentosa is a small island off the southern coast of •It is a family owned and managed business; Singapore. It is considered part of Singapore and is easily •Corporate sustainability is an integral part of the accessible through various types of transportation. overall management Registered address: Singapore, 51 Imbiah Walk Sentosa “ Singapore 099538 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either ” “ major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. Number of countries where the organization operates: just 1 ” Despite that SBR only operates in Singapore, the sustainability initiatives that it adopts are relevant in any country and due to the international nature of the guests staying at the facilities (from over 50 countries). SBR hopes to outreach on sustainability issues and the role that the hotel industry can play. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 44 Organizational Profile Country Reason of importance Siloso Beach Resort Europe Europe has taken a lead over Blending Life and Leisure with Nature many South East Asian countries on the sustainability agenda. SBR has great pride in sharing its initiatives with European guests People from all around the world as a lot can be gained in learning transit through SBR which makes it from best overseas practices a prime sustainability awareness within the European union hub North Same as above America South East Being countries close to home, Asian SBR believes that it can influence countries local SEA guests to apply similar changes within their own countries All other SBR believes that there is a wincountries win situation in interacting with guests from any countries both through learning foreign best The fact that SBR is a privately owned and managed hotel sustainability practices and plays an important role in the unique sustainable initiatives which have taken place at the resort since its creation. influencing foreigners to apply SBR practices in their own Indeed, most hotels around the world are not managed by countries. the owners themselves, which usually employ management companies to do so. However, because the management of One of the driving forces for adopting a sustainable an eco-hotel is very unique and requires passion and business model lies in the fact that as a hotel attention to details in order to achieve minimization of environment, numerous people from impacts at all levels, the owners at SBR have chosen to various countries and background transit manage the hotel themselves. through the facilities. This also means that there is a great potential to passively educate the Limitation factor: Additionally, many hotels are part of bigger chains and the management is often located guests on a range of sustainable best practices overseas. Even if local managers have strong commitments while spending a good time at the resort. As a to make a change by adopting a sustainable business socially responsible corporate citizen, SBR believes model, decisions are often out of their hands which makes it can play its part in educating the society at large. procedures much more complicated. SBR sees itself as a local operation with an international outreach. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Siloso Beach Resort is a privately owned and managed hotel. Chairman/Owner: Mr Ng Swee Hwa Managing Director: Mr Kelvin Ng Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 45 Organizational Profile 2.7 Markets served (including geographic Siloso Beach Resort breakdown, sectors served, and types of Blending Life and Leisure with Nature customers/ beneficiaries) Proportion (%) of guests origin from for 2013 US, 5% Great Britain, 3% Others, 12% Russia, 4% Germany, 1% India, 11% Australia, 8% Taiwan, 2% Indonesia, 3% Hong Kong, 3% China, 9% Singapore, 27% Japan, 2% South Korea, 3% Malaysia, 4% Philippines, 3% SBR accommodates guests from all around the world. As a hotel business, anyone willing to stay at SBR is welcomed to do so and SBR does not apply any discrimination of any kind on the origin of its guests. Sector served: SBR serves clients from all types of sectors (no discriminations) Types of customers: SBR serves all types of customers (no discriminations) ’ Business and markets: SBR categorises its market into 3 categories: National: Singapore Local: South East Asia International: the rest of the world Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 46 Organizational Profile Reservation modes Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature At SBR , the guests bookings originate from four main forms: Proportion of Reservation Type (%) from 2013 4% Corporate 32% 47% FIT Travel Agent Online Travel Agent 16% SBR has had to date a soft marketing campaign policy. Indeed, marketing outreach has never been very aggressive at SBR in a sense that the hotel has relied a lot on word of mouth awareness of its facilities and services rather than active promotion through brochures and other means. For a long time, SBR has remained a “hidden secret”. Many locals who have come to the resort have been surprised that they did not hear about the place before through advertising. One of the reasons behind this lies in the philosophical concepts behind SBR that self awareness is always favored over active and often excessive marketing. It appears to SBR that letting the guests judge for themselves and communicating on what they have experienced to Word of mouth awareness others is a more sincere way of spreading the word on the resort. is a preferred marketing It is only in recent years that awareness on the resort has spread mean at SBR including through its unique environmental and sustainability initiatives which have attracted a lot of visibility and public interest both in Singapore and beyond. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 47 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization Organizational Profile Siloso Beach Resort 2010: audited Blending Life and Leisure with Nature 2011: unaudited 2012: unaudited 2013: unaudited Number of employees: SBR is a reasonably scaled hotel with a staff of 50-100. Sales/revenues by region: 100% from Sentosa site in Singapore Number of operations: 1 single operation on Sentosa Costs: (Cost is exclusive of depreciation) Net revenue: •2010: 7,444,218.00 •2011: 8,387,625.00 •2010: 11,009,265.00 •2012: 9,853,503.00 •2011: 13,005,658.00 •2013: 8,863,984.00 •2012: 11,615,059.00 •2013: 11,234,395.00 Total capitalization: •2010: 7,892,356.00 •2011: 10,795,185.00 •2012: 10,089,480.00 •2013: 6,561,821.00 Quantity of services provided: 3 main services: “ Room accommodation, meetings/events facilities, and food and beverage. Sub-categories: Breakfast, Café, laundry, room charges, room services, romantic packages, tel/fax, internet access, Shuttle services, pool bar, Spa. ’ Beneficial ownership: •Ng Swee Hua ” •Ng Yu Teck 14,000,000.00 12,000,000.00 10,000,000.00 8,000,000.00 Total Revenue Total Capitalization 6,000,000.00 Costs 4,000,000.00 2,000,000.00 0.00 2010 2011 2012 2013 Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 48 Organizational Profile Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Employees breakdown Cultural diversity and origin is one of the strengths of SBR. This is reflected in the staff which comprises a multitude of cultural backgrounds. Employee Minority Groups * 8 Foreign Worker 6 Singaporean Chinese 4 33 Singaporean Indian Singaporean Malay Singaporean PR/Other 18 *Singaporean includes Singapore Citizens and Permanent Residents “ SBR takes a lot of pride in diversifying it’s workforce. A diversification of the origin of its workforce means diversity in ’ ” cultures and languages, but also brings an international atmosphere to the resort. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 49 Organizational Profile 2.9 Significant changes during the Siloso Beach Resort reporting period regarding size, structure, Blending Life and Leisure with Nature or ownership There have not been any changes in the capital 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period structure since the start of operations. recipient of various Siloso Beach Resort is the Development phases: There have been two main phases of development of the facilities: prestigious awards and certifications which it has received in recognition of efforts to reduce its impact •Principal hotel wing (standard rooms, deluxe rooms on the environment, foster a company-wide culture of and roof top suites) environmental awareness, and give back to society and •Villas wing nature through educational tours and CSR projects. Renovation work: Main guest rooms: SBR is currently in a renovation phase which is ongoing and being conducted in several phases through the various room types. Villa wing: SBR is currently modifying its villas to accommodate more family oriented guests. General works: Small upgrades (e.g. new staircases/corridors, new floor mats…) are taking These awards and certifications are an important way to place throughout the resort. communicate to the stakeholders the sincerity of the commitment to preserving the environment. Through these achievements, we hope to set the environmental benchmark higher for the tourism industry in Singapore and South East Asia. Below is a summary of SBR’s latest awards: Landscape Excellence Assessment Framework 2013 Landscape Excellence Assessment Framework (LEAF) is a voluntary certification scheme by National Parks Board (NParks) that seeks to encourage property developers to focus on landscape enhancement as an integral part of development and marketing. Provide recognition for excellent efforts by developers in greenery provision, protection of trees, and encouragement of biodiversity. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 50 Below is a summary of SBR’s latest awards: Organizational Profile Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Singapore President’s Award for the Environment 2013 Community In Bloom 2014 – Platinum Band Community In Bloom is a program by the National The President's Award for the Environment Parks Board to promote community gardening. (PAE) Our Eco-Resort achieved this recognition due to The President’s Award for the Environment is various green and community activities, including the highest environmental accolade for preservation of biodiversity, earthworm composting, individuals, organisations and companies that and promoting sustainable growing methods to have made significant contributions towards schools and the community. environmental and water resource sustainability in Singapore. It recognises and honors the sustained environmentand water-related contributions by environmental champions from the People, Public and Private (3P) sectors. Beyond that, this prestigious award also aims to inspire more individuals, organisations and companies to step forward and join the effort to tackle our environmental challenges. Enabling Employer Awards 2014 – In Recognition The Enabling Employers Awards gives recognition to organisations that have hired people with disabilities and have made efforts to integrate them with their workforce. About 14% of SBR’s staff are persons with disabilities. Siloso Beach Resort received the President’s Award for the Environment from President Tony Tan Keng Yam on 24 September 2013, at the Singapore Environment and Water Awards Ceremony 2013. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 51 Previous Year’s Awards Organizational Profile Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature •ASEAN Business Award (CSR Category, 2012) • Singapore Environment Achievement Awards (top achiever 2010) The resort was recognized for its social and environmental programs as a “Most The criterion for the SEAA focus on assessing the Admired ASEAN Enterprise” under the leadership displayed by the company, the real Corporate Social Responsibility award environmental improvement made as well as the category for SMEs (Small-Medium ability of an organisation to establish procedures, train Enterprises). The award recognizes staff and innovate in order to achieve breakthroughs admired ASEAN businesses in four areas: in environmental performance. growth, employment, innovation and CSR. Siloso Beach Resort achieved recognition for its This award is unique because unlike commitment to sustainability and ecological previous awards received by the resort, preservation and was awarded the SEAA Top Achiever this was regional and those applying for Award for 2010. Since the SEAA was started in 1997, the award came from the various ASEAN this is the first time that the award has been given countries. The criteria for the award was to a hotel. also heavily focused on not just the environmental impact, but also •First Eco-certified hotel in South East Asia from contributions to the community and TUV Rheinland society. •Singapore Sustainability Award (top achiever 2011) TUV Rheinland performed a certification audit at Siloso Beach Resort with the objective to determine, whether the implemented environmental management system meets the requirements for obtaining the TUV Rheinland’s “Eco-Hotel” certification program. The certification requirements In 2011, a total of 68 companies submitted also encompassed ISO 14000 criteria for an for the Singapore Sustainability Awards, environmental management system. with 9 winners chosen among the various categories, with SBR being the only Top •Special mention from Singapore CSR Compact Honour Winner in its category. At the 1st Singapore Compact CSR Awards, held during Although SBR has achieved other awards, the international Singapore Compact CSR Summit, SBR this one is the first to take all 3 aspects of received the Special mention Award for our strong sustainability into equal consideration: commitment to the environment and corporate social responsibility. The award and summit are organized by economic, social, and environmental. the Singapore Compact for CSR, which “functions as a national society in furthering the CSR movement in Singapore”. In the last 4 years, SBR has been awarded important awards & certifications for its sustainability efforts… Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 52 Report Parameters Siloso Beach Resort Report Parameters REPORT PROFILE Blending Life and Leisure with Nature 3.1 Reporting period SBR sustainability committee comprises executives and This report covers information for the period of managers of various departments and meets at least two times a year to review achievements, assess progress and 2013 (1 Jan 2013 to 31 Dec 2013) set new targets for continuous improvement in our sustainability journey. However, many of the data collected covers a longer time period, often since the very conception of the hotel more than 9 years ago. It is important SBR Environmental committee members: in order to capture the level of achievements at SBR that the report portrays not only some data for the Designation of sustainability committee last two years but also puts this into context of the members greater picture since the construction days. Managing Director Director of sustainability One can only appreciate the efforts and CSR Manager achievements in the pursuit of sustainability when F&B Manager gaining an understanding of the history of this sustainability journey at SBR. Housekeeping Manager Front Office Manager It is a journey that SBR has embarked on, not Sales & Reservations Manager punctual achievements. SBR prefers the term of Finance Manager journey as becoming a more sustainable company HR Manager is something that requires constant efforts and adjustments. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report REPORT SCOPE AND BOUNDARY This sustainability report is SBR’s Third, previous report was published on 25 Oct 2012. 3.5 Process for defining report content 3.3 Reporting cycle This report is written using the GRI 3.1 guidelines. Materiality: This report covers all indicators highlighted in SBR sustainability reports will be re-edited to GRI 3.1 guidelines. SBR wishes through this report to be include up to date information on a yearly fully transparent in reporting the information which SBR is basis. willing to publicly share in the hope that it may inspire other organisations in the hospitality field or others. 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding Focus area: As an eco-resort, the environment topic is the report or its contents. important to us and therefore we have chosen to give it a particular attention. The Story of SBR is unique Primary contacts regarding this report: especially with regards to the initiatives which have been taken to preserve the environment on site and to spread Report lead and principal author: awareness on environmental issues. Sylvain Richer de Forges, Director of sustainability sylvain@silosobeachresort.com However, as we adopt an integrated sustainable business concept we also take into consideration economic and Managing Director: Kelvin Ng social aspects which are also reported. kelvin@silosobeachresort.com CSR Manager: Karl Fischer Stakeholders: This report is targeted at all our csr@silosobeachresort.com stakeholders. A list of stakeholders is given in section 4.14 Additional contacts: This report was approved and voted by SBR sustainability committee. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 53 Siloso Beach Resort Our unique “jungle feel” Report Parameters Blending Life and Leisure with Nature One of our villa wing paths Many areas of our resort offer a natural immersive environment Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 54 Siloso Beach Resort Report Parameters 3.6 Boundary of the report Blending Life and Leisure with Nature As a single site operated business, boundaries of the report are clearly defined: 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any reThe Report covers single operations of statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement Siloso Beach Resort in Sentosa Island. This is SBR’s Third sustainability report.There are no re3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report statements. This report intends to cover all areas of 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting environment, social and economic aspects of the periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement organisation and to report on all key indicators methods applied in the report. according to the guidelines of GRI 3.1. There are no specific limitations. Second sustainability report. There are no This is the 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, changes from previous reporting periods. subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can GRI CONTENT INDEX significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between 3.12 Table identifying the location of the organizations. Standard Disclosures in the report Category/sections Location SBR is not involved in joint ventures nor does it have any other subsidiaries. Strategy and Analysis 1.1P 11-36 Outsource operations are mentioned throughout 1.2 the report and are considered part of our Organizational Profile 2.1P 38-52 sustainability efforts (i.e. Siloso Beach Resort is 2.10 selective with regards to its outsourced operation/contactors with a consideration for sustainability practices). Report Parameters 3.1P 53-56 3.13 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including Governance, commitments P 58-83 assumptions and techniques underlying and engagements 4.1-4.17 estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in Disclosure of Management Refer to GRI Content Index the report. Approach, per category P 153-158 The data is collected and reported according to the Core performance Refer to GRI Content Index guidelines of the GRI indicator protocol indicators P 153-158 •Collection: Data for key reporting indicators are collected by various departments on a regular basis. Each department managers have been assign to Any GRI Additional Refer to GRI Content Index supervise the data collection efforts according to Indicators that were P 153-158 strict guidelines given to them by the management included and in line with GRI. •Compilation: Most of the data is compiled monthly Any GRI supplement Refer to GRI Content Index through department inputs and then summarized indicators included in the P 153-158 on an annual basis to observe annual trends. report Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 55 Siloso Beach Resort Report Parameters ASSURANCE Blending Life and Leisure with Nature 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. The below table provides a list of some third party verifications (there are many others): The validity of the information provided in this report is subject to stringent review both internally Verifying Aspect verified Documental evidence and externally. Third Party •Internally: This report has been reviewed by our Singapore Environmental Certificate: Singapore sustainability committee. Data collection from Environment achievements Environment Achievement various departments follows company guidelines Council Awards (Top achiever -2010) and internal quality control procedures. Singapore Sustainability Certificate: Singapore •Externally: SBR sustainability statements are Business achievements Sustainability Award (Top publicly available and have been subjected to Federation (social, honour – 2011) review by a number of stakeholders including Environment awards and certifications provided by third party and economical) organisations: As part of the process of obtaining our numerous awards and TUV SUD Risk assessment: Certificate of Audit by TUV “bizSAFE level 3 SUD certifications (e.g Singapore Environment certified” Achievement Award, Singapore Sustainability Award, Singapore Compact Merit Award for CSR, Government Financial Audit report Eco Hotel certifications from TUV Rheinland and the accredited statements Singapore Environment Council), the statements auditor provided in this report have been extensively Singapore Green initiatives Certificate: SEC Eco Hotel reviewed, analyzed and verified by these Environment and operations certification (2011 -2012) parties in much more depth than just a simple third Council party verification assessment (e.g.: water/energy audits). TUV Green initiatives Certified eco hotel (first to Rheinland and operations be certified in South East Through the detailed internal and external Asia (2009 – 2012) verifications, SBR is confident of the accuracy of the information hereby provided in this report :“ ” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 56 Case study : the fear of a Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature sustainable path 2 “ 1 “ ” ” 3 “ ” “ 4 ” 5 “ ..It is easier to start by ” climbing a hill! You do not climb to the top of a high mountain straight away.. Climbing Corporate sustainability ..It is easier to adopt a progressive approach progressing step by step You do not become a towards this goal. sustainable business straight away.. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 57 GOVERNANCE Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 4.2 Chair of the highest governance body Senior Management: The chairman, Mr Ng Swee Hwa, is also an executive officer in the organisation. Siloso Beach Resort is a family owned and operated business. Senior management (responsible for Highest authority in the organisation is by the owner executive decisions ) comprises of family himself which is also an executive officer in the members: organisation. •Mr Ng Swee Hwa: Chairman/Owner The reason for this arrangement is that SBR was built from •Mr Kelvin Ng: Managing Director/Owner the very beginning with direct guidance from the owner to •Ms Felicia Ng: Sales and Reservations Manager make SBR a very unique hotel with a strong commitment to sustainability and environmental preservation. As a small family run organization, the number of company executives is limited and comprises of a As outsourcing an environmentally conscious management majority of male representatives. Ratio 2:1 is proven very difficult and rare to find, It was crucial in order to pursue in achieving this goal that the owner and Senior advising group is comprised of a family members remained actively involved in the sustainability committee. Decisions of management of SBR. the committee have influence on family members decisions. 4.3 Unitary board structure The sustainability committee, responsible for SBR is a family owned and managed resort hotel. SBR analysing key executive decisions in the organisation however has a breakdown of does not have a unitary board structure. male/females. Below is the ratio. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees The sustainability committee is comprised of to provide recommendations or direction to the 10 members of which 5 male and 5 female: highest governance body Shareholders engagement: SBR has various mechanisms in place to collect feedbacks from its stakeholders which includes service providers, suppliers and hotel guests. Female Male Hotel guests are able to provide feedback through various means which includes : •pre established feedback forms available in every room and which are then collected by the staff during room cleaning; •by approaching one of the staff directly who will then A detailed composition of the sustainability report to their department managers; committee is given at section 3.4 •through websites: The resort’s website provides various sections especially designed to collect feedbacks as well as through third party sites such as Tripadvisor which allows travelers to comment on their stay. SBR regularly scans these sites in order to collect feedback and take corrective action if necessary. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 58 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance Employees feedbacks: SBR has a well-established process for collecting feedbacks from its employees. In order to do this, regular meetings are organized at two levels: Intra-department meetings: Managers of the different departments meet with their respective staffs to collect feedback. Feedback is then transmitted to the sustainability committee Inter-department meetings: These meetings involve departments managers with general management. Several committees have been established for this purpose: -SBR sustainability committee SBR has open policies with regards to -SBR safety and risk management committee collecting feedbacks from its employees -SBR Annual review committee A feedback collection box is another mechanisms for employees General feedback collection to provide feedback mechanism anonymously should they not wish to interact with the management directly. Incoming feedback Every feedback is taken seriously and analyzed by the management which will SBR Feedback then decide of an First analysis (manager level) collection box appropriate action “ Significant Insignificant ” Sustainability Committee Action recommended Action denied Action denied Executive Corrective Action Director approved Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 59 4.5 Linkage between compensation for Siloso Beach Resort members of the highest governance body, Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance senior managers, and executives Linkage between compensations Every employee of the company is subject to employees rules and regulations which include employees rights. These rules are highlighted in the Level Compensation employment contract and agreed between the employee and the employer at the time of Highest Highest governance is the owner of the employment. governance company. Compensation is not fixed but proportional to company profit as per These include (but are not limited to): shareholders stakes -Number of paid leave and holidays Manager Higher base pay than executive and -Fixed salary and bonuses options More annual leave entitlement Performance bonuses •Compensation: SBR has flexible compensation options for various levels of management which are Executive Monthly pay package customized based on experience and qualifications. Two annual leaves entitled Performance bonuses •Departure arrangements: These are the same for all employees and are subject to one month notice. Others Monthly pay package Other departure arrangements may occur and Rank and Allowance arrangements are made on a case to case basis. File Performance bonuses Part timers Hourly rated 4.6 Processes in place for the highest Allowance governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. As part of our compensation all full time employees benefit from healthcare options SBR Chairman As a small organization, should conflicts of interest occur between members of the highest governance body (ED and sustainability committee), Executive decision the chairman of the organization which has the highest authority makes the settling decisions. Conflict of interest Sustainability Managing Director Committee members Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 60 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. SBR has a process in place in order to assign members of its various governance boards: Governance boards are comprised of advisory committees of which: •The sustainability committee •The risk management committee •The general review committee New committee members are appointed for a period of 2 years after which their relevance on the board is reassessed. Diversity: SBR does not conduct discrimination of gender when appointing new members. Efforts are made to aim towards an equilibrium between number of man and women in the committees. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission, values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. SBR a well-established has code of conduct which covers principles relevant to economic, social and environmental attributes. These guidelines are compulsory and applied throughout the departments.. General orientation, covers: safety, environment training , work ethics, corporate values Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 61 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. A number of indicators have been put in place in order to regularly assess the performance of the organisation with regards to economics, environment and social aspects. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. During meetings, the performance of existing targets and objectives are reviewed. Each department managers will then give the results of the performance of previous fixed targets in the environment, social and economic fields. If targets have not been achieved, an investigation is launched to determine the reason and to fix a new target. Department managers Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 62 Siloso Beach Resort COMMITMENTS TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization SBR has put into place stringent codes of conduct when it comes to adopting a precautionary approach at all levels of its operations. The SBR sustainability committee plays a crucial role in the company applying the precautionary principle at all levels of operations and systematically. The below diagram highlights the procedure: Recently SBR has undergone a risk management training and application in which external auditors have conducted a risk assessment audit. Following recommendations from the auditors, numerous changes have been made to manage risks in a most effective and ethical way. “ “ ” ” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 63 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature 4.12 Externally developed economic, Governance environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which Below are some of the guidelines: the organization subscribes or endorses. Standard Where Date of Stakeholders Type SBR adheres to a range of externally developed applied adoption charters and principles. While some of them are government regulations, many are voluntary UN Global SBR Feb 2012 MultiBinding initiatives by SBR to follow these standards and Compact stakeholders often even exceed them. Risk SBR Jan 2012 Multi bizSAFE While SBR implements many of its own regulations management level 3 and principles, it is important to base these Fire safety SBR since Multi Legally principles and adhere to a range of internationally 2006 binding agreed standards. F&B/ food SBR since NEA Legally hygiene 2006 binding Adopting a range of externally developed standards Eco Hotel SBR Jan 2011 Multi Voluntary also reinforces SBR’s management policies and Guidelines/TUV insures that the company has a strong backbone Rheinland and set of standard operation procedures (SOP’s) in Eco Hotel SBR Nov 2010 Multi voluntary place. guidelines/SEC Singapore SBR Since Multi Legally Construction construct binding codes ion “ “ ” ” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 64 4.13 Memberships in associations Siloso Beach Resort SBR is associated with a range of stakeholder Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance organizations. While some are related to the hotel business many have been established through the sustainability programs and CSR outreach. Association Comment UN Global Compact Signatory/Member. The United Nations SBR believes that being a member of these global CSR initiative is the world's largest associations extends its sphere of influence and in CSR initiative that aims to drive more many instances allows it to play its corporate sustainable practices in businesses throughout the world. Since 2012. citizen role. eco-business.com Asia-Pacific’s largest environmental Association Comment business community. As a member and an Ministry of the SBR meets a few times a year with approved client, SBR submits regular Environment members of the ministry to network environmental related articles to this Youth and share best sustainability platform . Environmental practices and involvement of the Singapore SBR is actively supporting the work of SEC Engagement youth community in Singapore. Environment through sponsorships or direct Council involvements. Sentosa Island Sentosa Island regularly organises PUB’s Friends of SBR is an active member of the Public Utility Partner meetings between its island Water Network Board’s Friends of Water Network, and partners and often by inviting third supports efforts to promote water party organisations to discuss about conservation. future and potential development Singapore Nature As a member SBR regularly attends events plans of the island. Society organized by this organization. It also has sponsored some of their initiatives. Singapore A primary point of contact for CSR Compact for related events and support in National Learning Journey partner for PS21 Excel CSR Singapore. As a member, SBR is Environment Convention 2010. SBR is the first learning regularly involved in seminars and Agency journey partner from the private sector . meetings organized by this St Andrew’s Autism SBR actively supports the integration of organization. SBR has also Centre people in need through its partnership with sponsored some of these events. the organization. Through its various memberships, SBR significantly expands its sphere of influence Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 65 Association Comment Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance Make a wish SBR regularly donates to this Foundation foundation which aims to give children with life threatening illness an opportunity to realize a SBR is active in engaging wish with Stakeholders through National University Member, Raffles Museum. SBR memberships and active of Singapore financially supports many causes of the museum contributions. While many Singapore Business Member as a corporate but also partnerships are already Federation as a participant in their sustainability forums established, SBR constantly seeks new engagements Singapore Signatory/Member. SBR is Packaging committed to reducing its opportunities…interested? Agreement packaging waste. Tripartite Signatory/Member. SBR Agreement on Fair implements and supports fair Employment employment practices and a Practices (TAFEP) diverse workforce. Open Door Fund Member. Facilitating recruitment (recruiting disable for the disabled and the senior and senior persons) persons and many others… In the past 3 years alone, SBR has established numerous partnerships with various stakeholders in very different fields from environmental and social NGO’s to government organization and the private sector. So far for SBR, joining an organization through membership has usually resulted in other means of collaboration going beyond the simple membership (e.g. organizing mutual events, sponsorship of events, working on mutual programs…) “ ” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 66 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Siloso Beach Resort The following Disclosure Items refer to general Blending Life and Leisure with Nature stakeholder engagement conducted by the Governance organization over the course of the reporting period Organization Program partner 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. www.eco-business.com : SBR eco articles Our stakeholders include all the various partners with whom we work with on the various programs Origin exterminators. that we have. Sustainable solution to mosquito control Main programs supporting organizations SBR has developed a number of high level outreach Singapore compact for CSR programs. Some of these programs have gained CSR. Various events a lot of support from leading organisations in their respective fields. Below is a selection of latest Singapore Polytechnic engagements with stakeholders. SBR Eco Tours/internships University of Nevada Las Organization Program partner Vegas. SBR Eco Tours World Wide Fund for Nature: SBR Biodiversity Portal …And many others… Conservation international: SBR Biodiversity Portal Tropical marine Science Institute: SBR Biodiversity Portal Raffles Museum of Biodiversity Research : SBR Biodiversity Portal Census of Marine Life: SBR Biodiversity Portal The Singapore Institute of Other stakeholders comprise the following Biology : SBR Biodiversity Portal Singapore Environment Council: Stakeholders Comments SBR Biodiversity Portal Customers Guest staying at the hotel as well as passing Science Centre Singapore: SBR guests (e.g. F&B guests) Biodiversity Portal Civil Society SBR is very active in reaching out to society through its numerous CSR programs Employees SBR puts a lot of attention on its employees National University of and other and contract workers which play a very Singapore: SBR Biodiversity workers important role in the success of the business Portal Suppliers As an hotel environment, SBR works with United Nations Environmental numerous suppliers many of which are active Programme: SBR biodiversity in the sustainability field portal Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 67 SBR CSR initiatives Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance Eco Tours Green Sanctuary –This area is where our own gardening staff grow plants and herbs for use around the Resort. Sustainable Farming – Learn more about the healthy vegetables that are grown on our rooftop. Landscape Pool – A unique swimming pool that is better for both people and the environment. Wormery – Learn how our earthworms turn food waste The eco tours have taken place for the last 3 into organic compost fertilizer for our plants. years. The aim is to showcase and share the sustainability achievements at the hotel with Green Technology – Explains how the Resort uses various stakeholders in order to inspire others to technology to reduce energy and waste. embark on the same path. This program has been very successful and to date more than 7000 Al Fresco Café – Learn about how we apply the 4Rs (Respect, Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle) in our Café. people from university students to fortune 100 companies top executives have attended the tours. Cost: The tour is free as part of our Corporate Social Purpose Responsibility program, in order to promote We use the resort and its environmental aspects as compassion for the environment and our sustainable business model. However, there is a small fee to gain a case-study for the environmentally sustainable entrance to Sentosa Island. business model. The aim is to create awareness of environmental issues and help to develop more compassion for the environment. Events sponsorships SBR regularly financially supports meaningful events. Duration 1.5 to 2+ hours, followed by 15 minutes for Q&A. Below is a list of some of the latest events SBR has financially supported: Who The Eco Journey is mainly tailored towards • PUB’s Friends of Water Networking Session (2014) company groups and tertiary students and above, however we offer the tour to anyone who is • Singapore Compact’s International CSR Summit (2010, interested in environmental sustainability. This 2011, 2012, 2013) includes stakeholders like in-house guests, partners, and suppliers. • Singapore Packaging Agreement CEO’s :Luncheon (2014) The Program • Make A Wish Foundation Zecia’s Birthday Celebration (2012) The Eco Journey has 8 major “stations” or areas of interest all around the resort. • Sentosa’s Clean and Green Workshop 2012 Introduction – Explains the purpose of the tour, • Singapore CSR Compact: “Sustainability is about the general eco-concept, and the guidelines for Ecology, Economy, and Equity” event (2013) constructing the resort. • St Andrew’s Autism Centre’s Teachers and Coaches Day Villa Wing – This area aims to showcase blending 2013 leisure with nature, with trees even incorporated into the design of buildings. Rooftop Terrace – A stunning view of the South And many other causes which we China Sea, and below our 100m long selfhave financially supported maintenance rooftop garden. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 68 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR Eco Tours, newly implemented logo • SBR Eco Tours were implemented less than 4 years ago. In such a short time, the tours have grown in popularity and have become one of the main means for SBR to showcase and share its sustainability initiatives with various stakeholders. • SBR intends over the next years to continue to grow and develop this program especially in providing more customized tours for various groups (e.g. universities, corporate, young children…) Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 69 SBR Eco Tours Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Every tour that we conduct is synonymous with the success of sharing a cause which is close to our heart. We have many success stories to tell about this program and continuously receive feedbacks on people and groups which found that they have really learnt something useful. We are continuously adjusting this project to improve even further overtime.. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 70 SBR Biodiversity Portal Program Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance Recently, Siloso Beach Resort (SBR) has developed the Biodiversity website: biodiversity.sg, which it manages in collaboration with a range of institutions both in Singapore and internationally. The CSR project was developed during the International Year of Biodiversity in 2010 to raise awareness of the intensifying trend of the extinction of species on Earth. The portal was conceptualized and developed based on a book: “The diversity of Life on Earth: from Heritage to Extinction”. More than merely a unique educational platform on biodiversity, the website was specifically designed to serve as a hub for individuals and organisations willing to learn and act on the subject both locally and internationally. The website has 3 main parts: Learn – For those looking to increase their knowledge about biodiversity, the book “The Biodiversity of Life on Earth: from Heritage to Extinction” provides a comprehensive overview of general knowledge and issues relevant to the loss of biodiversity. This book is created to be interesting Donations (with lots of pictures!) and readable by just about anyone, no matter what your knowledge of SBR regularly donates in order to support meaningful biodiversity. causes. Discover – There are various ways that you can One of the latest was a single donation of SGD expand your interest in biodiversity, be it through photos, videos, additional informational resources, 500,000 to the National University of Singapore in order scientific work, or finding out the places where you to support the implementation of a real dinosaur can see rich biodiversity. All these resources are exhibit within the upcoming new Natural History Museum provided here for you to tap into and discover. in Singapore. Act – Given the rapid loss of biodiversity hotspots around the world and the urgency of saving species As more “conventional” donations, SBR from extinction, taking action is of utmost regularly donates to sponsor causes such importance. We help link you to the conservation projects that matter most to you. Please note that as seminars, social causes, events… none of these donations are made through our site, but rather we simply provide links to credible conservation groups and projects. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 71 Our Commitment to Biodiversity Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Conservation Governance SBR central court Many aspects of how the resort is built and overall dense vegetal coverage reflect our strong commitments of biodiversity conservation Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 72 SBR mascots program Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance SBR eco articles program Siloso Beach Resort has introduced a cartoon concept to promote key environmental One of SBR’s program is to actively participate and drive messages throughout its facilities. dialogues on key environmental issues. In order to do this, SBR regularly publishes articles on www.ecobusiness.com The idea is to make use of two created fictional which is Asia Pacific’s largest environmental business characters (Prof Monitor and Squirzy) in order to community. Through its contribution, SBR is an approved outreach to our guests in a fun and yet partner of eco business. effective way. List of articles recently published: While, numerous environmental educational messages are already present throughout the resort Title Content summary (e.g. Eco huts, TV channels…), we feel that the The power of human and The potential to generate power by cartoons will outreach more effectively to a wider recovered energies recovering wasted energies public including young children. Food security: asking the Thoughts on the real concerns of right questions the availability of food on the Concept: Our aim is to passively provide planet and sustainable solutions environmental information and to use our resort as Ozone: the forgotten The ozone crisis, the evolution of a showcase of sustainable best practices. We will threats recovery efforts and potential new always respect the choices of our guests to either coming threats ignore or take the time to appreciate the The value of water: a The state of water scarcity on the information that we make available. Our concept is lesson from arid areas planet and sustainable solutions to provide our guests the possibility to learn something new about the environmental issues Climate forcing and the The threat posed by feedback that we face and to reflect upon it, while having a threat of feedback mechanisms and sustainable good time at our resort. mechanisms climate remediation solutions Demystifying the concept How to build a sustainable Characters role: The principle behind the of sustainable construction construction project characters is simple: Prof Monitor plays the role of the knowledgeable source which we use to convey Renewing renewables A detailed analysis on energy accurate key messages. Squirzy (the squirrel), on supplies, trends and sustainable the other hand, is a more funny character which solutions serves the purpose of asking the right questions, Driving an innovation The biodiversity crisis and how we but sometimes in a humoristic way. revolution through could use biodiversity to our biomimetic advantage Characters choice: We chose a monitor lizard Can global sustainability be An analysis of issues posed by and a squirrel to act as our eco ambassadors achieved without demography and sustainable mascots for the simple reason that these two demographical solutions animals can been seen at our resort (mostly in the considerations café area) and they also represent our commitment Putting CSR and The role of corporates in to the preservation of wildlife and biodiversity on sustainability at the heart addressing environmental and our site. of a business social issues “ ” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 73 SBR Environment Outreach Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature (Mass media) Biodiversity Portal SBR Eco-business.com articles “Renewing Renewables” “Biomimetics” “Food security” “The power of human energy” “The global water crisis ” “Demography” … Press releases/blogs/student reports… SBR is regularly featured in press releases as well as students and companies reports to highlight its sustainable initiatives Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 74 Eco Panels Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Numerous: panels describing the resorts environmental initiatives are displayed throughout the hotel Eco Huts SBR Eco Huts: a total of 7 huts throughout the resort display extensive information messages each hut on one key environmental topic Biodiversity picture exhibit Our café biodiversity exhibit showcasing pictures of wildlife taken within the resort as well as general text on biodiversity Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 75 Sustainable farming Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance • SBR ECO games: SBR has developed its own environmentally oriented board games which it makes available to guests within public areas. SBR produces its own compost using an innovative vermicomposting system. The compost is then used as an organic fertilizer to grow vegetables on our Eco huts rooftop. Organic vegetables are then supplied to the F&B department. The aim is to provide chemical and pesticide free leafy vegetables for some of our dishes. The benefits are that because they are SBR has numerous huts on its site. Each hut has been grown on-site by our own staff, we can ensure they utilised to convey key environmental messages on are free of harmful chemicals. We are also lowering our environmental footprint: specific topics. Each hut deals with a particular environmental concern. 1.Carbon footprint is lower since there is no fuel involved in transporting the final product. There are 7 eco huts: 2.Water footprint is lower, since we use • The climate change hut our own spring water source that does not compete • The biodiversity hut with the public water supply. • The water hut • The sustainable development hut 3.Land footprint is lower, since it is located on • The resources hut our Resort, and using the concept of urban farming • The population hut to make the most out of limited space. • The pollution hut 4.Ecological footprint is lower, since there are no pesticides and no fertilizers running off into the Eco TV channels environment. 5.Food waste is recycled, as we use vermicomposing (worm) to produce top-quality 100% natural fertilizer for our soil, using the food SBR has dedicated two in-house TV channels to scraps from our F&B operations. environmental awareness. Eco leisure • One station showcases an environmental documentary •Sentosa nature trails: SBR actively promotes the • Another station showcases a 1.5 hour presentation use of nature walks and trails located behind its developed by SBR which explains the main resort. While many parts of Sentosa island have environmental concerns of the century. been sacrificed for development purposes, large areas of forested terrain still remain in the central “ part of the island. Numerous nature trails have been put into place for nature lovers to enjoy. •Singapore natural parks: SBR also promotes within its premises and marketing material eco tourism activities within Singapore which are ” largely unknown to travelers. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 76 Our unique roof-top organic Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature farming Governance “ “ ” ” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 77 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Actively Promoting Eco leisure activities SBR Eco Games Promoting Sentosa Island Eco Trails at the resort as well as Eco tourisms activities in Singapore in General (nature reserves…) to our guests: SBR has developed board games on the thematic on Climate Change and Biodiversity for its guests Eco trails in SBR’s backyard campaign Our website features a lot of information of our environmental initiatives as well as general environmental resources Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 78 Siloso Beach Resort SBR Environment Mascots Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR mascots helps to convey key environmental messages throughout the resort in a fun way SBR in house Eco TV Channels SBR Eco Channels are available in all our 180+ guests rooms and are a very effective way to outreach on these issues to a broad audience transiting through the hotel Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 79 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of Siloso Beach Resort stakeholders with whom to engage. Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance As an eco-hotel, SBR takes particular care to select stakeholders which share its vision of sustainability. The below diagram highlights the systematic process by which SBR chooses its stakeholders: This selection is targeted at different levels with different levels of stringency: Stakeholders Comments Hotel Guest SBR primary target is to attract eco conscious travellers. In order to achieve this, SBR primarily advertises its services in eco travel platforms. However, SBR remains open to accept any type of guests to its facilities. Suppliers/service SBR takes great care in assessing every purchased product to be sustainable. In providers order to do this, particular care is taken to assess every purchased item and to identify potential alternatives which are less impactful on the environment. Program partners As most of SBR programs are into sustainability, SBR is very selective on organisations with whom it partners “ ’ “ ’ ” ” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 80 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of Siloso Beach Resort engagement by type and by stakeholder Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance group SBR has various approaches to engage with Community panels stakeholders: SBR sits on a number of community /discussion panels , of which some include: Surveys •Ministry of the Environment and Water Resources. SBR is regularly approached by stakeholders who Corporate and education institutions engagement wish to undertake surveys. In recent years many of these surveys have been targeted at third parties •Sentosa Island partners discussion group gaining a better understanding of SBR sustainability initiatives. Written communications Focus groups SBR engages with various stakeholders through written SBR is open to collaboration and partnership with communications means. all stakeholder groups. •Reports on environmental initiatives In the past years, SBR has gained strong •Sustainability and CSR programs stakeholder partnerships with groups as diverse as: •Articles/news •Marketing material •Government Organisation (e.g. Ministry of the •Audiovisual materials Environment and Water Resources, National •Eco tours Environment Agency, National Parks Board, Public Utilities Board, Ministry of National Development…), and many more… •NGO’s (e.g. Singapore Environment Council, World Wide Fund for Nature, Conservation International, Frequency of engagement Singapore Compact for CSR…) •Private Sector: SBR is regularly engaging with various private sector entities, from suppliers to manufacturers or service providers Stakeholder group Frequency •Public Sector: SBR engages with many public sector Hotel Guests Constantly organizations such as universities, schools, community services… Government Frequently. Mostly Our 3 focus groups: organizations through attendance of events and events sponsorship Private sector Constantly through our supply chain and various programs (e.g. eco tours) NGO’s Frequently. Mostly through our CSR programs (e.g. biodiversity portal) and events sponsorships Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 81 Siloso Beach Resort On site engagement Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance SBR has a range of programs aiming to engage stakeholders on its site: Stakeholder engagement Description Environmental Channels Two channels in the Resort are dedicated to providing environmental information, and are available in all guest rooms and in common areas. Eco-Huts Various huts (7 in total) around the resort contain environmental messages. It is a passive learning concept, where information is made available in a very relaxing environment. SBR Mascots In an effort to make their environmental messages more fun and appealing to kids, SBR has created two mascots. Self-Guided Eco Journey For those guests who wish to know more about the Resort, there are selfguided Eco Journey panels placed throughout the resort. These panels provide key facts and figures about the hotel environmental achievements which are elaborated in much more depth in the guided eco tour Eco Corner Located just outside SBR’s reception, it is a starting point for guests to learn about the environmental activities of the Resort. Most importantly, the area hosts a large map of the resort, pointing out the environmental messages and highlights. Guest Conservation Messages Messages to guests about conservation of resources are present at SBR’s Reception, and in the rooms which have “10 tips to have a greener stay” Café Biodiversity Exhibit SBR’s Café features large pictures of biodiversity taken around the Resort. On the side of each picture information about the species, and a message about nature conservation are present. Real Dinosaur Bones Display In collaboration with NUS, SBR is displaying real diplodocus vertebrae bones. Eco Leisure A Climate change themed board game is available for guests to play. Through playing the game, they are made aware of some of the most important consequences of climate change. “ ’ and many more… ’ “ ” ” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 82 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder Siloso Beach Resort engagement, and how the organization Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance has responded to those key topics and concerns “ Guests: misunderstanding of the concept to preserve much wildlife on site including monitor lizards and insects. SBR response: As an Eco Hotel, SBR has a strong commitment to preserve biodiversity on site. As such it made significant efforts to minimize the impacts through the built environment by preserving the initial terrain, trees and plants. It also takes great care in pest control and cleaning ” products to use less impactful products. As a result, one would expect to find more species at SBR than in a conventional hotel where these could be considered as pest. SBR is trying hard to communicate this message to its guests that biodiversity preservation is important and a primary Guests: misunderstanding on open door concept goal of SBR in order to blend leisure and nature throughout the resort (non air conditioned public spaces). together and provide a memorable staying experience for nature lovers. SBR response: Indeed, at SBR only 28% of the terrain is covered area. The rest has been kept open space as much Guests: misunderstandings on the concept not to as possible. One of the main reason for this was to preserve provide amenities in the rooms (tooth brush, the existing trees on site (more than 200 initial trees have shampoo bottles...). It has come to our attention been preserved). The other reason is for energy efficiency. that there has been a few misunderstandings on By having open public spaces, which are either using natural the fact that SBR does not provide amenities kit in cooling (wind) or ventilators, SBR is able to significantly the rooms. The misunderstanding is on the fact reduce its energy consumption. SBR believes that the that SBR is trying to reduce on cost by doing so. excessive use of air conditioning in public spaces is not necessary to achieve a desired level of comfort. SBR response: SBR has been very clear that the reason for not systematically providing amenities in Guests: misunderstanding on the need to apply mosquito the guests rooms has nothing to do with cost saving control treatment on site. but is purely an environmental initiative to reduce wastage within the resort and to promote good SBR response: There has been some complains that SBR practices to our guests. We wish to highlight that was using fogging methods to treat its mosquitoes. Some any guest can request for such services and that guest found it to be disturbing while they are enjoying the amenities are indeed available on request by the outdoor environment and that as an eco hotel SBR should guest should they need it. not use chemicals. We believe that too often amenities provided in As a resort which is located in an environment with very hotels throughout the world result in tremendous high vegetal coverage, SBR has no choice but to apply wastage and resource usage. Serious studies also mosquito control procedures. This is actually not only SBR’s highlight that many guests would not make any use choice but also a government regulation in Singapore as of such amenities and usually bring their own part of the fight against dengue fever potential cases. products with them (e.g. tooth brushes, shampoos…). However SBR has taken feedbacks into account and since over a year is trying a new pest control technique that makes use of alternative treatments using a bacterial based solution around the perimeter of the resort. This process is much less impactful on wildlife which is very important to SBR has resumed to provide SBR. amenities in all the guest SBR would like to highlight that it is very mindful of guests rooms. comfort and wildlife welfare but it is also concerned about assuring a safe environment for its guests and staff. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 83 Environment Siloso Beach Resort Environmental MATERIALS Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment Since its conception, SBR has always made use of a EN1 Materials used by weight or volume very significant amount of reused and recycled materials within its facilities. Various materials have been used in the construction of the The concept has overtime been implemented into resort and its daily operations. Two of the most important operational standards and management guidelines. materials are wood and paper inputs. Total weight of paper used for The below highlights some of the elements: 120 2013 •Many of the stairways at SBR have made use of unwanted old train tracts wood from Australia. SBR 100 has a permanent wood workshop and all the wood coming into SBR is from reused or 80 recycled sources. Recycled KG 60 paper usage •Extensive surfaces of indoor corridor floorings are made from recycled tires (rubber mats) 40 Normal paper usage • 100% Reused children playground furniture 20 In addition to active implementation of recycled 0 and reused elements, SBR is active at promoting and practicing the 3 R’s (Reduce, reuse, recycled). In fact, SBR has come up with its own version by adding another R. Indeed, SBR’s policy is first to Total weight of paper used for 2010 : 1042.6 KG respect the surrounding environment (especially Total weight of paper used for 2011 : 1094.6 KG natural features and its inhabiting biodiversity), and Total weight of paper used for 2012 : 1070.0 KG then reduce, reuse and recycle. Total weight of paper used for 2013 : 923.0 KG Efforts to reduce are very present throughout the resort with practices implemented in areas such as Total volume of wood used from 2005F&B and housekeeping. 2013 (by cubic meters) “ 120, 23% Primary wood Reused wood 404, 77% ” Total volume of wood used from 2006 to 2013*: 524 cubic meters *The amount of wood used in 2012 and 2013 was negligible, as such the data has not changed since the last reporting period. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 84 Siloso Beach Resort Plastic Disclosure Project Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment SBR is committed to reducing its plastic waste, and this year will be Plastic Bottle Usage (Kg) disclosing information about its use of plastic through the Plastic 558 397.8 Disclosure Project Survey. For 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% more information, visit Plastic Recycled Plastic not recycled www.plasticdisclosure.org EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. • Maximize use of reused wood Usage of input materials like paper and • For primary wood, incorporate sustainability wood are a necessity to running our (FSC certified) and durability (cheap wood business, which unfortunately can will need to be replaced frequently) contribute to deforestation, climate • Use recycled paper for selected printing change, and loss of biodiversity. For this • When normal paper is used, ensure it is not reason we apply the following wasted and always used on both sides and guidelines: then recycled. Material Comment Weight/Volume % of Total Wood At SBR some of the outdoor staircases (numerous 120 cubic 23% considering the hill type of terrain) are from reused meters source from dismantled train rails from Australia. SBR has its own wood workshop and full time carpenters on site which make use of waste wood items collected from demolition sites to make and repair items within the facilities. Outdoor children The children playground has been collected from an Not available 100% playground unwanted source (second hand) Corridor rubber All SBR main corridors carpets have been changed Not available 100% mats to recycled rubber mats Paper We use recycled paper for selected areas, such as 41.6 kg 1.5% printing of brochures, name cards, feedback forms (2010/11/12) for Eco Tours, various posters, and reports. We plan to increase our percentage of recycled paper 10.4 kg 1% usage in the following years. (2012 alone) 15.6 kg 1.69% (2013 alone) We actually practice our 4R’s: we believe that we should first Respect nature then Reduce, Reuse and last Recycle. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 85 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature ENERGY Environment Yearly Electricity Usage from Monthly Electricity Usage in 2013 2006 to 2013 May 3000000 2007 250000 Jun Aug 2013 Apr Jul 2008 2010 2011 2012 Mar Sep Oct 2500000 Nov 2009 200000 Jan Feb Dec KW/H 2000000 150000 KW/H 1500000 100000 1000000 2006 50000 500000 0 0 MONTHS YEARS At SBR, energy management is well taken care of. The uniqueness of our practices is however towards good initial passive design of the structures at the resort. Indeed, the hotel was designed from the very beginning to be energy efficient. SBR’s electricity consumption is below average for a hotel of this size. The most surprizing aspects of the above graphic is that energy consumption has remained relatively stable over the past few years. This is not due to a lack of actions to reduce our energy consumption, but rather due to the fact that the hotel was designed from the beginning to be energy efficient (mostly through good structural design and energy efficient appliances). At SBR Energy management Phase 2: Retrofitting has been progressive Once the hotel was built, numerous energy efficient technologies and appliances have been and continue to be Phase 1: Good implemented structural design The hotel’s unique architecture allows passive and significant energy efficiency Phase 3: Management Numerous management guidelines were put into place Phase 4: Sharing We are now at the stage of sharing what has been done in order to influence others to adopt energy efficient practices especially on aspects of passive design Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 86 Energy efficiency through good Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature design Environment SBR central court, open corridors Our open concept combined with high vegetal coverage and other features such as rooftop gardens already account for very high energy efficiency at SBR Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 87 ENERGY Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Technology Energy saved While it is difficult to evaluate with precision, SBR is confident in saying that 3rd generation 30% savings compared modular heat to more conventional through the combined efforts of the exchange chiller chillers energy efficient technologies, good system energy passive design and good Balanced wave 10% saving on management practices, SBR facilities are systems installed appliances at least 30-40% more energy Efficient lighting 15% compared to throughout incandescent lighting efficient than a conventional building Passive construction 30-40% or more than would be. design conventional buildings What about all the trees? Management 5-10% of energy from guidelines lighting and appliances Furthermore, the decision by the management to Energy efficient 15% compared to preserve a vegetal coverage and trees on site contributes water heater conventional heater to an additional very significant energy saving which we have yet to gain clarifications on. Indeed, trees provide shading, retain humidity and therefore significantly contribute in reducing the building heat load. EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source At SBR the energy source is currently from grid electricity. In Singapore the vast majority of grid electricity is produced through the combustion of natural gas. We also have on site emergency energy generators which operate on diesel. However, these generators are only used in case of main energy supply cut off. Energy used in 2013 by gigajoules 10000 8805.638 9000 8545.481 8000 Natural Gas (Electricity) 7000 Natural Gas (Gas) 6000 Gigajoules 5000 Total 4000 3000 Almost all of the energy used 2000 at SBR is from grid electricity which in Singapore is almost 1000 260.1576 entirely from the combustion 0 of natural gas Type of Energy Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 88 ENERGY Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment Percentage of Energy Used Based on Source (by gigajoules) 260, 3% “ Natural Gas ’ (Electricity) Natural Gas ” 8545, 97% (Gas) “ ” “ “ ” ” EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Indirect Energy Consumption for 2013 Gigajoules Source Indirect Energy Purchased 8805.638 Electricity (nonrenewable) Estimated* Primary Energy Consumed in 10212.94 Natural Gas production of Indirect Energy *As no data is available regarding primary energy consumed to produce indirect energy, we have estimated the amount of primary energy used based on the Singapore data for 2009 provided to the International Energy Agency: http://www.iea.org/stats/electricitydata.asp?COUNTRY_CODE=SG Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 89 Energy efficiency Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Third generation modular heat exchange Chiller system. At SBR we believe that investing in more energy efficient technology makes both economic and environmental sense Energy efficient lighting solutions and appliances throughout the resort State of the art Energy efficient water heater for our kitchen Systematic use of LED &CFL And much more… lighting throughout the hotel Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 90 Some of our Cleantech Siloso Beach Resort systems Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Swimming pool Ionization treatment systems Swimming pool sand filtration Our pool does not use conventional chlorine treatment but various filtration and purification steps E-clean balance wave technology units: technology that reduces heat loss from incoming electrical current Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 91 SBR is home to one of the longest Siloso Beach Resort self maintained roof top gardens in Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Singapore SBR is home to one of the longest self maintained rooftop gardens in Singapore. This helps to significantly increase vegetal coverage and energy efficiency Section of green roof seen from central rooftop Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 92 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR case study : Roof Top Garden Technology There are numerous roof top technologies now available (some more proven than others). The advantage of self-sustained roof top gardens is that they provide a significant advantage for naturally cooling the space below. Furthermore, they increase the vegetation coverage and provide habitats for species. It is important to consider implementing a rooftop garden from the beginning as they will add significantly more weight on the structure which needs to be accounted for in the construction design. A simple yet effective methodology consist of constructing containers on the roof. The containers bottom should have a slight angle and be connected to a drain so that water does not accumulate. The first layer comprises an egg shell substrate (to retain humidity); on top a layer of sand (about 30cm) so that roots will not penetrate the structure; on top soil is finally added. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 93 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Open air pathways SBR open air structural Open air corridors concept plays a significant role in passively reducing the energy use around the resort (natural air flow + natural lighting). At SBR more than 70% of the terrain has remained open space And much more… Open air cafe Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 94 EN6 & EN7 Initiatives to provide energyefficient or renewable energy based Siloso Beach Resort products and services to reduce indirect Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment energy consumption and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. Energy saving through outreach •Management Energy Saving Guidelines for staff: SBR has specific staff guidelines for energy management. The guidelines highlights best practices and limitations that SBR staff must respect and that contribute in reducing our energy usage. These guidelines include (but are not limited) to aspects such as: Switching lights off in areas not in use (e.g. seminar rooms after events) or switching off specific appliances when not in use. SBR Energy unit •Messages to initiate guests to save energy: Our third generation modular heat exchange chiller system is very efficient and was customized for our resort to we try to involve Our approach at SBR is that maximize energy efficiency output our guests as much as possible. As an eco resort we promote environmental messages •Third generation modular heat exchange chiller system throughout the site. We however believe that in a •Energy efficient boiler in kitchen hotel environment we cannot force our guests to •Energy efficient TVs and general electrical appliances take such actions but we are doing everything we •Window films: all the rooms windows are fitted with can to encourage our guests to take part in our protective films which serve the purpose of filtering sun environmental initiatives. Such measures include: radiation and dimming the sunlight. By doing so, the rooms numerous environment education messages are kept at a cooler temperature throughout the resort ( messages are strongly present in all locations starting from the reception); Energy Saving through initial design 2 in-house TV channels are dedicated to environmental awareness. One showcases a movie Open concept: All the room corridors have an open concept on general environmental trends, while another which serves the purpose of maximizing natural air flow and one is a slide show designed by SBR that intends to natural lighting therefore significantly reducing energy educate the guests on main environmental issues consumption for cooling or lighting purposes. At SBR and to take actions to contribute in reducing these numerous public spaces adopt an open air concept such as impacts (water management, climate change, the café/restaurant area, outdoor gym. It was in fact one of biodiversity losses…). the original guidelines that the built area would be kept to a minimal (built-up environment is only 28%). Energy Saving through technology All the buildings are on stilts: It was decided that all the buildings were to be constructed on stilts (main buildings as •LED & CFL lights: throughout the resort, well as the villas). Having the structures on stilts allows air •Energy efficient pumps: flow to circulate from below the buildings as well as •Extensive use of fans instead of air conditioning: between buildings which provides a natural cooling effect •Balanced wave technology: (a technology that re(only slight cooling is achieved through this mean). shapes the incoming electrical current therefore making it more stable and significantly reducing Roof top garden: SBR is home to one of the longest rooftop energy loss through heating). gardens in Singapore which also plays a key role in passive •3rd generation heat exchange chiller system: energy efficiency. Despite common disbelief, very significant energy savings can be achieved through good design Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 95 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR Spring Water Swimming Pool One of the unique features at SBR is the natural spring that lies below our resort. This natural source of water which would otherwise naturally flow out to sea is used for various purposes including gardening and to provide water for our landscape swimming pool. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 96 Case study : Our Swimming pool Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature treatment process At SBR, our swimming pool is truly unique in many ways. Through the way it was built following the natural terrain, to the way it is treated going away from conventional chemical uses to the source of the water which is from an underground reservoir The below diagram provides a very schematic overview of the process 2. Waterfall oxygenation process 3. Salt treatment We regularly add salt to treat the pool. This ionization process is much better than using chlorine 1. Bio-filters Treatment ponds These 80m+ long ponds contain various plants and fishes which serve as bio-indicators of the quality of the pool There are two sections of the pond: 1)Only plants 4. Pool 2) Plant + fishes The pond also serves the purpose of rebalancing the pH to neutral Our swimming pool uses an integrated natural treatment process 5. Sand filtration 6. Spring Water Source. At the source, the water is cleaned through a decantation process to get rid of larger particles and clear the water Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 97 •Roof top gardens: To date (2012) SBR still has one Siloso Beach Resort of the longest self maintained roof top gardens in Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment Singapore. This extensive roof top covers the entire surface area of the main building. In addition to ecological benefits it also serves the purpose of cooling the building below therefore significantly reducing the energy requirements for cooling the below indoor spaces. WATER Water saving initiatives at SBR •Spring water usage: Below SBR lies a natural spring reservoir. SBR has made good use of this natural resource in order to minimize water wastage. Spring water is mostly used for the swimming pool as well as for all gardening purposes. Government regulations impose the usage of tap water for other usages such as guests rooms and F&B. •Water saving appliances: SBR has installed water efficient appliances throughout the resort including guests rooms and public areas. These include: •Water efficient taps (sensors) •Water control valves •Water efficient taps and shower heads •Waterless urinals (in all public toilets) •Water saving policies: SBR has put in place specific guidelines for its staff to minimize water consumption which are part of our environmental management guidelines. •Water awareness: SBR spreads awareness on the need to conserve water resources through numerous educational panels throughout the resort including one of its huts (“the water hut”) which is dedicated to water issues. There is also information on this topic within SBR in-house eco TV channels. “ •Water harvesting/roof top garden: SBR’s self sustained rooftop garden allows water to be harvested and naturally purified. Plants on the rooftop do not need extra watering due to the water retention properties of the rooftop garden. ” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 98 Siloso Beach Resort EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment Water Usage from 2006 to 2013 Monthly water usage in 2013 2007 Apr 60000 3500 Mar 50000 2008 3000 Jun Aug Oct May Jul Dec 2500 Feb Sep 2011 40000 Jan Cubic Metres Cubic Meters 2010 2012 2013 2009 2000 Nov 30000 1500 2006 20000 1000 10000 500 0 0 Year Months The above graphic represents the water consumption of SBR since august 2006. While water Because SBR has a natural supply of fresh water that consumption has slightly decreased overtime, it continuously comes out, its tap water consumption has remained quite stable. remains very low. SBR makes use of two distinct sources of fresh water: one comes from the spring and It is important to highlight that SBR has very special conditions when it comes to water usage. Indeed, the other is tap water from the network. Spring water is mostly used for the swimming pool and gardening whereas below SBR lies a nature spring reservoir which the tap water is used for guests services in rooms naturally flows out to sea. During the construction (showering…). SBR has a very significant positive impact by phase, this underground source was discovered and allowing the management of Sentosa island to pump water SBR has since made good use of the resource. from its spring which is used to water the surrounding areas ( for gardening and landscaping purposes). Water Withdrawal by Source in 2013 “ 5464.1 Tap Water (guest rooms, kitchen) ” Spring Water (Swimming 29,130,6 pool, gardening, general cleaning) Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 99 Siloso Beach Resort Most of SBR water consumption originates from an Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment underground spring water reservoir. The water that is taken from this source is of natural origin and if EN10 Percentage and total volume of water not taken would otherwise flow out to sea. As such recycled and reused. SBR water usage from this source has no impacts on diminishing water reserves within the In addition to its very efficient water consumption spring. practices, SBR also has initiatives in place to recycle and reuse the water. Such initiatives include: •Roof top garden: allows a significant amount of rainwater to be collected if needed SBR’s has a very limited consumption •Swimming pool closed loop system •Extensive use of groundwater for gardening of city tap water (due to its natural spring •Excess water from the spring goes to a reservoir which is source and water saving initiatives) used by Sentosa management to collect and water the entire island EN9 Water sources significantly •Spring water excess: affected by withdrawal of water The below graphic highlights the volumes reused/recycled: SBR water sources are: “ ’ None of these sources are significantly affected by the withdrawal of water from SBR as usage is well managed and kept to a minimal. Actually, the spring water is not actively pumped from the ground but naturally flows out. As such, if SBR was not making use of it, it would just flow out to sea. Furthermore, the Spring is regularly refilled with rainwater. ” No sources of the water used at SBR are from protected areas/areas of biodiversity value or sources of importance to local community. Recycled Water for 2013 SBR takes great efforts into managing the source in the most sustainable way possible. 5,464.1 Discharged Water (Tap Water) Recycled Water (Spring Water) 29,130.6 Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 100 Siloso Beach Resort Water management Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR is involved in a very special and major water initiative. Indeed, it allows Sentosa water contractors to extract water from its pond to water the entire island Numerous water saving features throughout the resort And much more… Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 101 BIODIVERSITY Siloso Beach Resort At SBR biodiversity has a very special Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment significance. Indeed, because the location EN12 Description of significant impacts of of the resort is on pristine forested terrain, biodiversity is relatively high especially activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity when compared to other parts of value outside protected areas. Singapore. As the site surrounding SBR is a forested terrain, SBR’s EN11 Location and size of land owned, activities do have certain impacts on biodiversity: leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high SBR significant impacts on biodiversity biodiversity value outside protected •Noise: Despite that noise levels are kept at reasonable areas. levels, some disturbances on biodiversity resources do occur. The location of SBR is on a forested mountain hill. Around and behind the resort lies protected •Built environment: As building structures have been terrains which hold many trees and a relatively rich developed on site, some disturbance on biodiversity have inhabiting biodiversity. occurred during the construction phase. It is however important to highlight that extraordinary measures to SBR was constructed with minimal digging, does not preserve the original terrain and minimize the impacts on own any underground area. biodiversity have been taken. Measures taken at SBR to preserve the natural terrain are unique and exemplary. The property of SBR is not listed as protected status nor considered as protected by any organization. •Gardening (e.g. cutting down branches): Occasional maintenance work in order to insure guests safety are Location: carried regularly. These activities mostly include cutting Map of resort with surroundings. down tree branches which may cause slight disturbances to wildlife. •Mosquito control (spraying of chemicals on plants) : In order to meet government standards and insure guests comfort and safety (dengue control), mosquito treatment do have to be carried on site. SBR has in the past used the traditional fumigation treatment. However, since the last few years, a new treatment using less impactful chemicals is under trial. Habitat protected or restored •Overall resort environment: Despite the built environment, a significant portion of the land has been preserved. •All trees : All grown trees on site have been We can see from the satellite image that SBR is preserved. surrounded by forested terrain. While •Ponds: Many ponds around the resort have been large parts of Sentosa island have been allocated for preserved in order to maintain their rich inhabiting development of the built environment, only a patch biodiversity. Furthermore, many other man made ponds of greenery remains in the central part of the island have been added throughout the resort. •Roof top garden: SBR’s extensive roof top gardens not only around the resort. SBR is conscious of this, and has energy efficiency attributes, but they also allow has taken strong measures to ensure the additional greenery coverage including the plantation of preservation of wildlife not only on its site but various species that attract insects. also insuring that its operations have very limited impacts on the surrounding. At this time SBR is not working with any other organizations to protect or restore habitat, however this may be a Size of land owned: consideration for future CSR initiatives. We are are actively using the Biodiversity Potal website to promote parties that 15,449.0 m2 protect natural habitat. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 102 Biodiversity on site Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Birds nesting on site Numerous squirrels can be spotted on site By preserving the trees and areas of forested terrain, SBR has managed to maintain a higher degree of biodiversity on its premises… 8 species of frogs have been monitored on site Numerous insects and invertebrates in our forested areas Numerous species of plants on site (mostly local species) Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 103 Siloso Beach Resort Alternative Environmentally Blending Life and Leisure with Nature friendly mosquito control Numerous self sustained ponds have been implemented throughout the resort. In addition to providing habitats for a diversity of species, these ponds are also growing grounds for fish that eat mosquito larvae as well as dragonflies which effectively serve as a natural mosquito control agent In addition SBR is using an alternative mosquito control treatment (instead of traditional fogging) using a bacterial based solution instead of conventional fogging. This treatment allows much less impact to the variety of species on site (insects, reptiles…) Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 104 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Live trees passing through all our villas Our unique concept of blending the natural surrounding environment with structures: Throughout the resort in order to preserve many of the existing trees, we have integrated the trees within the built structure. As such almost all of our villa rooms as well as many parts of the buildings actually have trees passing through them. Other techniques of preserving the trees are also found throughout the resort. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 105 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature A few snap shots from the resort of integrations of trees within the structures. There are in fact countless examples of such practices throughout the resort. Indeed, whenever possible, trees have been preserved and integrated into the built design Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 106 Siloso Beach Resort Trees VS structures Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment Our concept of allowing trees to pass through the structure is highly present throughout our resort Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 107 Dinosaur bones exhibit Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Display of real dinosaur bones within our reception area and information on conservation Waste wood workshop SBR wood workshop. A significant portion of the wood at SBR originates from unwanted wood from construction sites. We then reprocess the wood for maintenance, furniture… Roof top farming Roof top garden growing facility. We produce vegetables and spices without any use of chemicals Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 108 Case study: Dinosaur Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment At SBR we have recently become very involved with dinosaurs in the most unusual way. At SBR we want to share Siloso Beach Resort is proud to showcase Real Dinosaur Bones on its premises. our passion for The display of these bones is a joint venture between Siloso Dinosaurs Beach Resort (SBR) and the National University of Singapore (NUS). Background: So how did SBR get into possession of real dinosaur bones??! Well it all started with the close collaboration that SBR has with the Raffles Museum of Biodiversity Research http://rmbr.nus.edu.sg/ (NUS). SBR has been in close contact with this reputable institution since SBR started the development of the Biodiversity.sg (www.biodiversity.sg ) which is one of its CSR programs. Following this SBR has been actively involved with some of the Museum activities. Recently it came to our attention that the RMBR intended to expend into a new National History Museum for Singapore. One of the main attractions the upcoming Museum was looking forward to was to have a unique display of complete and real dinosaur skeletons. In order to make this a reality the RMBR embarked on an ambitious fund raising exercise to raise enough money to purchase 3 unique and almost complete dinosaur skeletons (believed to be from the same family), a world first! SBR immediately responded to this by gifting a significant amount of money for this unique and most worthy cause. SBR was the first donor to put money on the table which sparked other donors to come on board as well. Since then, the necessary funds of 12 million have been collected from various donors (including SBR) and the dinosaurs skeletons are now under way to Singapore! In appreciation of our move in initiating this much needed funding exercise, the RMBR has accepted to collaborate with us in mounting this preliminary dinosaur exhibit which intends to inform the guests passing by the hotel and various stakeholders on the importance of dinosaurs, biodiversity preservation and to promote the upcoming National History Museum where the full skeletons will be displayed starting in 2014. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 109 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and Siloso Beach Resort future plans for managing impacts on Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment biodiversity. SBR is Fully compliant with national regulations and Anyone coming to SBR will quickly notice the extent of the goes above and beyond regulations for preserving efforts which have been made to preserve the trees and trees and biodiversity. incorporate them within the structure. Since its construction stage, very significant •Different innovative construction techniques were applied consideration has been taken to preserve the to incorporate the trees. biodiversity on site. Biodiversity preservation and •In some parts, buildings have been built around trees. education remain to date one of the main •In some parts, trees literally go through the structure. •In other parts, trees are in close proximity of buildings. guidance of SBR. Going beyond just preserving the trees, one other During the initial development stage very special important initial guidance in the development of SBR was to care and measures have been applied to preserve as much as possible the biodiversity on site. preserve the terrain. In order to do this, a minimum of built surface area has been allocated while the vast One of the strongest decisions was to preserve majority of the resort remains open terrain, much all the trees. This was a very serious commitment of it with its original vegetal coverage. which required a lot of special attention and extra efforts: In order to preserve the terrain, the resort was built making use of original shape of the land. For instance, the SBR conducted an environmental site assessment of swimming pool was just placed where an old dirt road used to be. The same concept was applied in many other the trees affected by construction. More than locations such as the villa wing where villas emplacements 200 fully grown trees have been preserved were chosen according to the less impactful locations for on site: In order to achieve this, special construction the trees and surrounding vegetal coverage. techniques had to be applied. This included the use of micro bore pilling techniques. This pilling In a later phase of development of SBR, further targets technique using lighter equipment bores a hole were developed to enhance biodiversity. In particular, 450 instead of compacting the earth, which allows to additional trees were planted, and numerous man-made significantly reduce the amount of vibrations near ponds have been placed in various locations of the resort. the tree roots and to preserve the trees (the use of These self-maintained ecosystems, attract a variety of conventional pilling techniques would have killed wildlife including frogs, dragonflies and many others. most of the trees). Pushing the concept, SBR is trying hard new solutions Training and supervision. Such decision to of mosquito control (which is usually done by preserve the trees was very unusual at the time of fumigation) that would be less impactful to biodiversity. A construction in Singapore and therefore required new control mechanisms using BTI technology is currently extra attention during construction. Indeed, under trial. These treatments are meant to be more constant supervision of the worker’s teams was focused on certain species (mosquitoes) and therefore required to make sure that no toxic spills or other known to have lesser impacts on other species inhabiting common practices were going to affect the trees. the premises. Because there were so many trees to preserve, buildings had to be built around these trees. This A future objective would be to better understand and was a particular challenge and each tree required monitor the biodiversity of the area by establishing a photo an average of 10 consultants to make sure that both database to record the various species and sightings. the trees and the surrounding structures would coexist well. Having done so many efforts to preserve the biodiversity on site, SBR is very active at promoting not only the preservation of species on site but also educating on the concept of biodiversity on a large scale. Indeed, SBR has implemented various educational programs on this topic. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 110 SBR Biodiversity Outreach Programs Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment •Biodiversity Exhibit: permanent A EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and picture exhibit on biodiversity within national conservation list species with habitats our café area. The pictures (both medium in areas affected by operations, by level of and large size) on display were all taken extinction risk. within the resort. Our aim is to promote biodiversity and to showcase that our Singapore National Parks board has published a book conservation efforts have allowed to highlighting endangered species in Singapore. preserve a rich variety of species on site. SBR has a copy of this book for its reference and information can also be obtained from the following •Biodiversity SBR Portal: has website: developed the Biodiversity.sg Website which has gained strong support Singapore red list from leading organisations in the field both http://www.nparks.gov.sg/cms/index.php?option=com_co locally and internationally. ntent&view=article&id=146&Itemid=128 Program supported by: United Nations, Conservation International, World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), National University of Singapore, Singapore Science Centre, Singapore Institute of Biology, Singapore Environment Council. Website:(www.biodiversity.sg) •Eco tours: SBR eco tours have a special emphasis on biodiversity preservation on Number of IUCN red list species potentially affected: 2 our site. To date, more than 7000 persons According to the Singapore Red List, both these species are present on Sentosa and thus could potentially be affected have attended the tours from various by our operations: stakeholders: schools, universities, corporates, guests… Spotted Owl (Strix occidentalis) Status: Near Threatened •TV eco channels: Two in-house TV Oriental Magpie -Robin (Copsychus saularis) channels are dedicated to environmental Status: Least Concern awareness and both cover elements of biodiversity issues amongst other We are also concerned about these issues and we provide a environmental issues. range of information on species including links to endangered species in Singapore from our biodiversity site . Biodiversity.sg www.biodiversity.sg Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 111 EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS, AND WASTE Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment Total Electricity Usage in 2013 250,000.00 Apr May Jun Jul Aug Mar Sep Oct 200,000.00 Jan Nov Dec Feb KW/H 150,000.00 100,000.00 50,000.00 0.00 Months SBR takes the consequences faced by global climate change seriously. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Despite that it is aware that its own operations have insignificant impacts on a global scale (and climate In Singapore 1kwh corresponds to 0.5233 kg of CO2 change is a global scale issue), it also recognises the (equivalent) (source NEA) fact that any given business including its own has an important role to play in doing the right thing by SBR monthly average electricity consumption is 197,812.1 reducing its Green House significantly KWh Gas Emissions. But most importantly to Therefore SBR monthly carbon emission is 0.5233 x actively promote, share and showcase how it does 197,812.1= 103,515.07193 kg CO2e so in order to inspire many other businesses to do the same, especially in its own line of business: the And for one year: 103,515.07193 X 12 = 1,242,180.8632 hospitality and leisure sector which is a global significant contributor. kg CO2e or 1,242,180 tonne of CO2e Numerous efforts have been done at SBR to cut SBR annual estimated carbon footprint: 1242 tonne of down atmospheric emissions. Some related to CO2e energy management while others are more towards a passive approach. (This value is only an estimate based on electricity consumption; it does include external operations, supply The below section provides an evaluation of SBR’s chains and transport) emissions based on energy use at the resort: Furthermore, the above amount should be significantly “ reduced once taken into account the trees present on site. ” SBR annual carbon footprint: Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 112 Siloso Beach Resort SBR Dense Foliage Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment Elements of canopy at SBR Due to its extent of vegetal coverage , SBR benefits from an excellent air quality environment Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 113 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse Siloso Beach Resort gas emissions by weight Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment The main source of GHG emissions at SBR is primarily from electricity consumption Our gardening which originated from the combustion of natural gas. activities account for a very small In addition to this primary consumption, several amount of smaller and irregular activities are also contributing but to a much smaller extent. While aware of these emissions sources, SBR is still in the process of gaining a more precise understanding of the emissions involved EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas from these sources. emissions and reductions achieved. Other indirect GHG sources: •Tree preservation and planting (passive Gardening activities: May involve from time to time approach): preserving trees on site, has also in the process the usage of machineries which burn fuel, significantly contributed to offset emissions on site. Indeed, these include: preserving the trees also preserves the carbon stored within the trees as well as the carbon dioxide removal -Land-mowers potential of these trees. While it is very difficult to evaluate -Chainsaws how much carbon emissions is saved through this means, It -Various other cutting machines -Emergency generator is significant. SBR has preserved over 200 trees on its site and additionally planted another 450. Fumigating (mosquito control) •Good design (passive approach) :Due to the energy The chemicals are sprayed through a blowing efficient design of the buildings, SBR energy use is machine which consumes fuel. significantly reduced which translates to significant reduction in atmospheric emissions. Transports: SBR operates two small buses to transport its guests to and from the resort. The trips involved are however short (about 4 km) and •Active approach: SBR has numerous initiatives to therefore the emissions involved through this reduce its energy consumption through the use of new means is relatively small. energy efficient technologies. The reduction in energy usage translates to reduction in atmospheric SBR 12 seater van emissions. SBR 15 seater van Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 114 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment SBR has a policy in place to avoid the usage of ozone depleting substances. As such, very few if any are actually used on site. These substances may only be contained in: •Coolants in fridges •Sprays of various sorts SBR is free of any CFC’s Small amounts of HCFC’s are HCFC’s are present in small amounts and within government regulations. contained in our fridges and cold rooms in refrigerants liquids Emissions by weight: insignificant EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. The only SBR related activities that involve some of these substances are transportation and gardening. Values have not been directly measured but are very low considering the amount of transport and gardening requiring machineries involved. Insignificant amounts of SOx and NOx originate from gardening machineries At SBR atmospheric emissions of either ozone depleting substances or Nitrous or Sulfuric oxides are: Very small amount of SOx and NOx come from our bus exhausts (our bus trips only cover small distances) Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 115 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and Siloso Beach Resort destination. Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment Total amount of water discharge for 2013: 28,930 cubic meters (based on estimates EN22 Total weight of waste by type and from employee and guest water usage). disposal method. All of our discharged water comes from the A large portion of the waste at SBR is recycled, public water supply, and goes back to the public especially from the housekeeping and food and water treatment. Almost all of the water used is beverage departments, which recycle many plastic discharged through guest activities like drinking bottles, tin cans, and cardboard containers. showering and flushing of toilets. A very small As SBR does not produce any hazardous wastes, percentage (less then 1%) of our water 100% of the waste that is not reused or recycled is withdrawn is consumed as drinking water by our collected and sent for incineration (as Singapore is guests or used by our housekeeping staff for land-scarce, the default method of disposal is general cleaning and evaporates. incineration). We are constantly improving our monitoring systems, and plan to provide more Our other sources of water, such as spring water information about the amount of total waste and rain water, are not discharged, but rather the produced in subsequent sustainability reports. excess is used for gardening purposes by SBR and Sentosa. Much of the food waste is also recycled using the natural methods of vermicomposting (using earthworms) or aquaculture (tilapia and other fish). We also recycle some of our cardboard through the vermicomposting process. In total for 2013, the amount of waste recycled through the earthworms : 6.88 tonnes. Our earthworms hard at work! Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 116 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment Foodwaste collected for vemicomposting for 2013 700 600 500 400 KG 300 200 100 0 Months Cardboard recycled via vermicomposting for 2013 80 70 60 50 KG 40 30 20 10 0 Months “ “ ” ’ ” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 117 At SBR we have a unique approach to promote recycling by linking the end Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment product to the source. Below are some of the panels that we developed and display Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 118 EN23 Total number and volume of Siloso Beach Resort significant spills. Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment To date, SBR did not have any instances of spills whatsoever. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related No Spills to date and SBR intends to keep habitats significantly affected by the reporting it this way organization’s discharges of water and runoff . EN24 Weight of transported, imported, No water body is directly affected by exported, or treated waste deemed SBR’s water runoff. hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and Water runoff goes to the Sentosa drain which then percentage of transported waste shipped flows to treatment facilities. internationally. SBR actually has a positive impact in water SBR does not have, produce or use any conservation through two activities. waste that is considered hazardous under the Basel convention. •SBR has constructed numerous ponds throughout the resort which bring biodiversity back to these As a hotel environment, hazardous waste areas. are very limited. •SBR has set up a main pond nearby its resort where Cleaning products used are selected to be the overflow of the spring goes. This pond has environmentally friendly. created a natural habitat for various species of insects fish and frogs. “ ” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 119 Waste management Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Metals recycling Stone table At SBR we make use of waste in Recycling bins for the guests any way we can Cartons recycling In-room messages All guest rooms equipped with soap and shampoo dispensers And much more… Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 120 Siloso Beach Resort Waste management Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Making use of recycled materials At SBR many of the items are actually from 100% recycled origin or simply from unwanted sources. A few of these items include: A large portion of the Outdoor stairs from outdoor steps are from railways wood reused timbers from a railway trail in Australia All the corridors and a large portion of walkways are layered with rubber mats If we could we would do more… which are 100% recycled However there are limitations to the amount of recycled items that can be used in core construction under current Singapore law The children playground comprises items which are have been reused from an unwanted source And much more… … Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 121 Waste management Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Closed-Loop Cycles for Food Waste At SBR there are two closed loop cycles which are used to naturally deal with much of the food waste: 1. Aquaculture: Tilapia and other fish in our pond eat a wide variety of food items such as bread, vegetables, and meat (as long as no oil). The tilapia also produces nutrient-rich water which is then used for watering the plants. 2. Worm-Composting closed loop: FoodWaste Food Waste Earthworms About 5KG of Earthworms Food waste gets About 25KG of vegetable andfruit fruit Food waste gets vegetable and eaten by our about wasteisiscollected collected eaten by our 40,000 waste 1 million daily for daily for earthworms, earthworms,and and vermicomposting vermicomposting turned into castings turned into castings No Wastage O% Restaurant Vegetables Castings are fertilizer Vegetables from for vegetables free of farm supply about pesticides and 20% of event needs chemical fertilizers Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 122 SBR Worm Composting Data Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature & Progress Indicators Environment NUMBER OF WORMS AND TRAYS 120 TRAYS (per 1)/ WORMS (per 100 80 60 40 Trays 10,000) 20 Worms 0 31-May-11 13-Jun-11 15-Oct-11 8-Nov-11 19-Dec-11 12-Jan-12 27-Jan-12 6-Feb-12 8-Feb-12 11-Feb-12 14-Feb-12 14-Apr-12 23-May-12 26-Aug 31-Dec-12 20-Jan-13 30-Feb-13 31-Mar-13 25-Apr-13 26-May-13 25-Jun-13 27-Jul-13 28-Aug-13 30-Sep-13 31-Nov-13 30-Dec-13 MONTHS Foodwaste collected for vermicomposting for 2011 to 2013 700 600 500 400 KG 300 200 100 0 Months O – Sustainable Farming Worm castings (Organic Fertilizer) Monthly 500 400 300 KG 200 100 0 Months Community and educational impact: SBR has donated worm castings to more than 30 schools and community gardens, and conducted training on vermicomposting for more than 10 schools! Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 123 PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and EN27 Percentage of products sold and their extent of impact packaging materials that are reclaimed by mitigation. category. Such initiatives are highlighted throughout the report. The table below tentatively summaries the SBR Eco Shop? main initiatives : To date SBR does not really sell products. It has plans to open a shop on its premises in the near Impacts Initiatives to reduce impact future. This shop would focus on selling ecological products of various sorts. Materials • Minimize Amenities, such as Use only providing toothbrush and Currently the only products sold that involve toothpaste upon request packaging are F&B items such as cans of soft drinks. • Extensive use of recycled wood for poolside furniture and various other areas. 100% of the packages (empty cans) or other Water • Extensive use of spring and rain packets are sent for recycling. Use water. • Water saving taps and showerheads in rooms, and In room products (shampoos, soap…) are only encouraging guests to change provided if requested by the guests. By doing so, towels/linens alternate day. wastage of packaging and products is significantly • Use of Waterless urinals reduced. Emissions • Controlled shuttle bus timings to reduce vehicle emissions. Effluents • Not a significant impact. Noise • Not a significant impact. Waste • Recycling of food waste through worm composting and food waste decomposer machine. • Extensive waste recycling program. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 124 Combining a sustainably designed and Siloso Beach Resort maintained environment with messages is Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment our key formula Messaging is very present throughout the resort. Our newly introduced mascot concept allows to pass key messages to our guests including on aspects of recycling Our mascots. In this scene, our two characters explain the concept of water conservation Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 125 Siloso Beach Resort COMPLIANCE Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment SBR has always been compliant with TRANSPORT national regulations and has not received any fines for misconduct. EN29 Significant environmental impacts of SBR will continue to apply most stringent practices transporting products and other goods and when it comes to meeting regulatory requirements. materials used for the organization’s operations, many of the initiatives carried In fact and transporting members of the workforce. at SBR go far beyond the legal •Environmental impacts of transporting the workforce: requirements. This includes aspects such as energy efficient design, water management, energy SBR has 2 small buses in operation to transport both the management, waste management and more. hotel guests and the workforce. As the buses are only used over short distances (in and out of Sentosa island). Overall SBR has an holistic approach to sustainable the environmental impacts of transporting the workforce management and believes in test-bedding new are very minimal if not insignificant. practices and technologies in order to continuously improve. Having done this for many years now, it Impact Description has also put SBR a significant step ahead of government regulations. Atmospheric Emissions of carbon dioxide, Nox, and emissions Sox from the combustion of fossil fuels EN28 Monetary value of significant fines Oil leaks from Very minimal. The buses are new and and total number of non-monetary engine into the well maintained sanctions for noncompliance with environment environmental laws and regulations. •Environmental impacts of transporting products To date, SBR has never endured any fines or and other goods and materials used for the non-monetary sanctions of any kind for noncompliance with environmental laws and organization’s operations regulations. Monetary value is 0 SBR outsources the transport of goods to and from the SBR is a very responsible business and takes great resort. It is therefore out of its influence. However, SBR has policies in place for the selection of responsible care in applying the precautionary transporters that are fully compliant with transport safety principle. rules and regulations. Impact Description Potential (This has to date • Potential never occurred) spills of contamination of soil chemicals on the way to and water ways and from the hotel • Potential impact on wildlife Noise pollution from Very minimal engines Oil leak from engine to the Remains very minimal environment As a hotel environment, SBR is not involved in the transport of hazardous materials that can be of great risk to the environment. Overall transportation potential impacts are very minimal. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 126 OVERALL Siloso Beach Resort EN30 Total environmental protection Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment expenditures and investments by type. Total Environmental Protection Expenditures in 2013 Waste Treatment $42,020.00 Emissons Treatment $0.00 Remediation Costs $0.00 Prevention $13,000.00 Environmental Management $32,000.00 Total Expenditures $87,020.00 0 20000 40000 60000 80000 100000 Singapore Dollars Program Cost Type Normal Waste Disposal S$ 16,560 Waste Disposal Vermicomposting System S$ 25,460 Waste Disposal to deal with food waste Guest Environmental S$ 13,000 Prevention Educational Program Extra working activities S$ 32,000 Environmental dedicated to training and Management environmental management Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 127 Human Rights Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Human Rights INVESTMENT AND PROCUREMENT PRACTICES HR1 Percentage and total number of HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies significant investment agreements and and procedures concerning aspects of human contracts that include clauses rights that are relevant to operations, including incorporating human rights concerns, or the percentage of employees trained. that have undergone human rights Total hours of employee training on policies and screening. procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations: 48 hours per year As a small hotel business, SBR is not involved in investment agreements. Proportion of employees trained: 94%. All new hires are To date no business agreement has been signed or required to undertake a compulsory training which includes undertaken with organizations which have had aspects related to human rights throughout. human right issues. As SBR operates in Singapore, activities in the hospitality business are already very controlled by the government. Total number of agreements: 0 Percentage: 0% We only do business with responsible employers! HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. NON-DISCRIMINATION SBR has policies in place to make basic background HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination checks on the ethical practices of its suppliers and and corrective actions taken. contractors. SBR only does business with like minded individuals Total number of incidents of discrimination: 0 and companies which share its principles with regards to sustainability including human rights. So far SBR did not have any incidents of To the best of our knowledge we never have or had any reports of our business partners which have discrimination and we intend to keep it been involved with human right screening and/or this way sanctions. Percentage: 0% Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 128 At night our resort offers a Siloso Beach Resort unique atmosphere Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Human Rights Usage of lights is carefully planned to procure both a comfortable resort feel and also to limit the usage of energy Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 129 FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND Siloso Beach Resort COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Human Rights HR5 Operations and significant suppliers SBR has strict policies on the selection of suppliers which identified in which the right to exercise systematically include a basic background check including freedom of association and collective child labor risks. This screening is done for suppliers, bargaining may be violated or at especially for countries that are involved in child labor. significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor: Operations: At SBR, employees have a total right to SBR is not particularly involved in movements that promote exercise freedom of association and collective the abolition of child labor at this point in time. However, it bargaining through joining relevant trade unions or supports the cause of the abolition of child labor. associations. The management always takes great attention to what its employees SBR is a member of the UN Global Compact and has have to say and take feedbacks into pledged publicly not to practice or involve with companies consideration which in many instances has which are known to practice child labor. influenced the decision making process. FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOR Suppliers: SBR has not identified any suppliers which would not meet the above. SBR is always HR7 Operations and suppliers identified the mindful to select suppliers which share its ethical significant risk for incidents of forced or and sustainability principles. compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. SBR does not practice child labor nor does it practice forced labor and does not do business with companies which have such practices We actively showcase a children friendly hotel At SBR employees have a Environment to send the message that child has the rights voice and the right to express their of childhood and should not be working. thoughts Our hotel provides CHILD LABOR Various children Friendly facilities HR6 Operations and suppliers identified the significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. SBR does not practice child labor! So far, SBR has not identified any supplier having potential risk for incidents of child labor. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 130 SECURITY PRACTICES Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Human Rights HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Proportion of security personnel trained: 100 %. All new security personnel including 3rd party security personnel hired are required to undertake a compulsory training which includes aspects related to human rights throughout. INDIGENOUS RIGHTS HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. Our security personnel are Total number of incidents of violation: 0 well trained in human rights Singapore, as a relatively new country and multicultural issues and are requested to look out for society does not has a clear definition of “indigenous any infringements and report such people”. However, SBR has strict human rights policies which incident to the management respects all ethnical backgrounds and cultures. REMEDIATION ASSESSMENT HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and HR10 Percentage and total number of operations resolved through formal grievance that have been subject to human rights reviews mechanisms. Labor Practices and Decent and/or impact assessments. Work. All of our departments have been subject to human rights SBR has taken various actions against the reviews and impact assessment. 100% Specific management guidelines cover aspects of human employees to fix issues related to resource and ethical behavior at work. These guidelines are misconduct, unprofessionalism and other followed by all departments and are an integral part of our internal matters over the years. However, management and new hires training process. none of these were related to human rights. Feedbacks are regularly collected from employees to assess satisfaction and human rights. Our employees have always been treated Recently we have stepped up our efforts by conducting an with respect and we did not have issues overall risk assessment of our resort including operations related to human rights. and departments . This assessment has identified various areas that we need to improve. Number of grievances related to human We are also in the process of implementing guidelines which rights: 0 will improve our management with respects to human rights. Some of the latest implemented measures include: -Raise of employees’ salaries -Implementation of various employee benefits which include dental care, health care, physical & sport activities -Employee development training -Attending seminars Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 131 EMPLOYMENT Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature LA1 Total workforce by employment type, Employment employment contract, and region, broken down by gender Total workforce: 73 employees (as of September 2014) Female : 35 employees Male : 38 employees Employment type: Full time employee: 69 (95%) (34 female / 35 male) Part time employee: 4 (5%) (1 female/ 3 male) Region: All our workforce is on a single site which is the island of Sentosa Our workforce can be SBR is a single site operated business. All of our workforce is actually at our hotel. described as: We have a relatively well sized workforce in the range of 60-100 employees which varies from time to time. Thebalance between men and women is well distributed, and he numbers tend to change slightly with part timers Eco conscious intakes. We are also constantly having long term Interns. They are part of our workforce during the Attentive attachment. SBR is an equal opportunity employer We support: -Diversity -People in need -Fairness -Honesty -Responsibility Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 132 Siloso Beach Resort LA2 Rate of new employee hired and Blending Life and Leisure with Nature employee turnover by age group, gender, and Employment region. Breakdown of New Employees Hired 2013 “ 0 2 30 & Below male 3 30 & Below female 8 31-50 male 31-50 female 24 51 & above male 7 51 & above female ” New Employees Hired 2013 Group Persons Rate Male 35 0.48 Female 9 0.12 Below 30 31 0.42 31-50 10 0.14 LA3 Benefits provided for full-time employees by Above 51 3 0.04 significant locations of operation. Employee Turnover 2013 •Leave entitlement •Medical Group Persons Rate •Dental Benefit Male 41 0.56 •Public holidays •Island partner card Female 17 0.23 •Bonuses . •Special allowances Below 30 39 0.53 31-50 16 0.22 Above 51 3 0.06 *All employees are in the same region/operation at Siloso Beach Resort “ ’ ” ” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 133 LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS Siloso Beach Resort LA4 Percentage of employees covered by Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Employment collective bargaining agreements. SBR has created various employee committees LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented which aim to engage discussions with the in formal joint management–worker health and management and to advise. safety committees that help to monitor and advise on occupational health and safety Such committees include: programs. -The Sustainability Committee -The Health and Safety Committee SBR is active in participating with various groups looking for -The Human Resource Committee the improvement of workers health and safety. SBR -The Annual Review Committee regularly sends representative staff to attend such training which include: These committees are composed of department -Fire safety training managers and cover about 20% of the -CPR and AED training workforce -Risk assessment Percentage of total workforce: 25% LA5 Minimum notice period(s) on operational changes, including whether it Only staff that are most relevant in applying these skills to improve the safety of others are sent for training. is specified in collective agreements. LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, While some decisions are made by the and risk-control programs in place to assist management, a significant portion of all workforce members, their families, or decisions made for SBR will involve employee consultation committees and a feedback community members regarding serious diseases. collection. Since 2012, SBR has put into place a free and This process of engaging employees collective compulsory health screening program for bargaining usually takes 2 weeks to 2 months. all of its employees (the program continued to be conducted in 2013). This screening process also aims to raise awareness on a range of common illnesses and OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND chronic diseases (SBR does not have any occupational SAFETY activities that are related to a high incidence of occupational disease). During this screening, health LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, professionals come on site to conduct a series of tests and to educate the staff on health related topics. lost days, absenteeism, and number of work related fatalities by region and Our health screening gender. program combined with our employee health We abide by the Singapore national laws in recording and reporting accident statistics, which package provides a follow the recommendations of the International good medical coverage Labor Organization. Lost Days** on Medical/Hospitali Occupational Disease Year Number of Staff* Gender zation Leave Injury Rate Rate Lost Day Rate 2010 3 (no fatalities) Male 54 5.6 0 100 2011 1 (no fatalities) Male 10 1.9 0 18.5 2012 0 2013 1 (no fatalities) Female 13 1.3 0 17.8 * Not including minor injuries. No independent contractors were injured or suffered from occupational disease. ** Lost Days refers to scheduled working days and is counted when more than half of a working day is lost. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 134 Siloso Beach Resort Assistance Programs regarding Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Serious Diseases Employment Education/Training Counselling Prevention/Risk Treatment Control Program Recipients Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No Workers X X X X Worker’s Families X X X X Community X X X X Members LA9 Health and safety topics covered in LA12 Percentage of employees formal agreements with trade unions receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender SBR does not have any formal health and safety agreements with trade unions. Health and safety All our employees receive performance and is very important to SBR, which is why we are career development reviews once a year. BizSAFE Level 3 (SBR has recently obtained this local health and safety endorsement). – 100% (males and females) TRAINING AND EDUCATION LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category All of our employees are required to undertake a 2 day compulsory training upon joining the organization. In addition every employee as 1-2 days of additional training every year regardless of gender or employee category. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings In addition, numerous opportunities are offered to the staff to attend training programs and At SBR we offer our staff a educational talks which varies depending on what opportunities for learning come available range of options to (conferences, trade shows., workshops…) In improve their skills Singapore the CPF fund , for which SBR contributes, is a main mean for employees to throughout the duration of manage their career ending their employment with us Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 135 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Employment LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Composition of Nationality Above 50 years 30-40 years Male Female Governance Body: 100% Singaporean 33% 67% 67% 33% Employee Minority Groups * 8 Foreign Worker 6 Singaporean Chinese 4 33 Singaporean Indian Singaporean Malay Singaporean PR/Other 18 *Singaporean includes Singapore Citizens and Permanent Residents “ ’ ” Age and Gender 4 6 16 Age below 30 Male Age below 30 Female Age 30-50 -Male 15 Age 30-50 Female Age above 50 Male Age above 50 Female 17 13 “ ’ ” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 136 Case study : Why should Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature organizations practice CSR and give 2 back to society? “ 1 “ ’ ” ” 3 ” ” “ 4 ” 5 “ ” “ 6 7 ” ” ” 8 “ 9 ” ” 10 “ ’ ” ” “The private sector is the only hope of a faster change” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 137 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Employment EQUAL RENUMERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN We do purposefully create plans on how to engage our stakeholders, and use stakeholder mapping to assess which stakeholders would be most impacted and LA14 Ratio of basic salary and interested in our activities. remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant Community engagement: SBR has put into place a range of programs which intend to engage our staff with the department of operation. community. SBR is an equal opportunity employer. The Such programs include helping community groups in salary ratio of women/men is 1. need such as the St Andrew’s Autism center or the older workers. We encourage our staff to participate in such At equal carrier level and background, women and social movements and offer rewards for those who do. men can expect the same salary range and the same level of consideration and attention. Impact assessment: SBR has recently conducted an in depth assessment of its operations and a range of LA15 Return to work and retention rates surveys both internal and external to gain a better after parental leave by gender. understanding of the impacts of its various programs and guests satisfaction. Employees entitled to parental leave / took parental leave / returned to work after SBR is currently implementing a six sigma program as parental leave ended / are still employed 12 well as various customer centric management months after leave ended for 2013: initiatives. Female: 1, Male: 1 retention and return to work rate = 100% SBR supports Society LOCAL COMMUNITY & participates SO1 Percentage of operations with in various implemented local community community engagement, impact assessments, initiatives and development programs. 100% of our operations are implemented with Development programs: such community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. SBR is actively participating to various community development programs. Such programs include the An initial impact assessment of potential sponsorship of university scholarships, schools construction damage to trees and terrain was educational programs, the make a wish foundation and conducted (this was for internal use as has not been publically disclosed). We have a sustainability many others… committee and a Health and Safety Committee which deal with the relevant environmental and social impacts. We engage with the community for feedback on any grievances, however as an SME located in a primarily tourist destination, we have not found it necessary to establish formal community consultation committees or formal local community grievance processes. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 138 CORRUPTION Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Employment SO2 Percentage and total number of •Singapore Tourism Board business units analysed for risks related to corruption. SBR is active in participating in meetings with the Singapore Tourism Board that intend to shape the future of tourism in Singapore. 100% (one business unit) All departments are required to strictly follow the •Sentosa Island Partners anti corruption guidelines. Managers of all departments are instructed to screen and report As an island partner, SBR actively participates in various on any suspicion of corruption to the meetings and discussions that intend to shape the future management. developments of Sentosa island. In Singapore, corruption is controlled and Influencing: In addition to this, we feel that our main severally punished, therefore the occurrence of contribution is to actively promote the concept of corruption is very low. adopting sustainability within the hotel industry and we hope that sharing best practices will influence decisions SO3 Percentage of employees makers in imposing more stringent standards in the field. trained in organization’s antiSO6 Total value of financial and in-kind corruption policies and procedures. contributions to political parties, All employees are trained on corruption matters politicians, and related institutions by and company policies during the general country. employee training upon commencement of employment at SBR. SBR has to date not given direct financial contributions to political institutions. We have however provided SO4 Actions taken in response to numerous in-kind contributions mostly incidents of corruption. in the form of sponsorships of events and providing free or discounted venues and accommodations for SBR takes corruption matters very seriously and organizations which champion environment-0oriented has not had any case of corruption to date. public policy; Any instance of corruption involving the staff •Ministry of National Development visit would be subject to immediate action which could lead to dismissal from the company •Sponsorship of accommodation for Jose Ramos Horta, without compensation. former President of Timor Leste Employees are made aware of the strict policy •Providing venues for the Ministry of the Environment during their general employment training. and Water Resources SO5 SBR Public Policies Involvement •Sponsoring venue for the Singapore Packaging Agreement (through the National Environment Agency) Some of our recent involvements include: •Sponsorship of award prizes for Public Utility Board’s contest, and venue for Friends of Water Event SBR was a key contributor in the development of Singapore’s Eco Hotel certification scheme. SBR •Hosted PS21 event for the National Environment served as the case study to develop this scheme Agency (providing Eco Tour for over 60 delegates) and was subsequently the first hotel to be certified under this newly implemented scheme •Host for various events and venues for the Singapore by the Singapore Environment Council. Environment Council Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 139 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Public Policies ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behaviour, anti-trust, SO9 Operations with significant and monopoly practices and their potential or actual negative impacts on outcomes. local communities. As a single operated business on the island of no legal actions have To date, Sentosa (considered a leisure and entertainment been taken against SBR for such hub), SBR does not have significant negative matters. impacts on local communities. SBR is not a very competitive business. Our On the contrary, SBR has a positive impact by primary aim is not to be competitive but to providing leisure services while operating its sustain the business while providing good business in a sustainable way. services to our guests as well as being a socially responsible company. This philosophy is reflected in our moderate marketing campaign which is not aggressive. We believe that our sustainable business model will give us a competitive advantage in the future COMPLIANCE SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonSO10 Prevention and mitigation monetary sanctions for measures implemented in operations noncompliance with laws and with significant potential or actual regulations. negative impacts on local communities. As our operations do not really have significant SBR did not Since its opening, impacts on local communities, we do not have have any fines or nonmitigation programs in place. monetary sanctions for Should we identify such issues, we will definitely come up with mitigation programs and solutions non-compliances with laws and regulations. to reduce such potential impact. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 140 Some of our community Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Public Policies donations include: (SBR regularly donates to causes which are close to its heart) Make a Wish Foundation We regularly support this cause that aims to grant children facing life threatening illnesses a wish Sichuan Earthquake Disaster relief aid We were one of the first companies to fund the relief efforts Tribob Singapore Sprint Series And many more… Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 141 Product Responsibility Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Public Policies CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. Finished product Products: SBR does not produce its own products, however has policies in place to purchase in the most responsible manner. This involves analyzing the products that we purchase in order to get the most sustainable options and which will also be safe for our staff and guests to use. •Services: The services that we offer have gone through a health and safety risk assessment and audited by a third party. As such every aspects of our operations follows stringent health and safety standards. Even from the beginning development stages of the Resort, health and safety impacts were assessed for improvement. PR2 Total number of incidents of nonList of life cycle stages subject to health and safety compliance with regulations and voluntary assessment: codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by Yes No type of outcomes. Development of X product and concept Since opening, SBR did not have any incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes R&D Not Applicable concerning health and safety impacts of products and services. Certification Not Applicable There has been in 2013 no incidents at the hotel Manufacturing and Not Applicable for aspects such as: Production Marketing and X -Fall from Slippery floor after rain: 0 promotion -Cuts after broken glass: 0 -Fall in staircases: 0 Storage distribution X and supply These incidents were found to be accidental and Use and Service X not related to non compliance Disposal, reuse, and X recycling Percentages of products and services At SBR the level undergoing such procedure: Products: Not Applicable of incidents Services: 100% Is very low Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 142 PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING Siloso Beach Resort PR3 Type of product and service information Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Public Policies required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. 100% of relevant product and service categories Products: As a hotel business, many of the products that SBR uses are purchased from third parties. As such, these products already contain the regulatory labels on them with regards to content, safety, disposal and other specific aspects. SBR ensures that these labels remain on the products before handling by staff and guests. Relevant information regarding the sourcing of component products of our hospitality At SBR all required labeling services, where applicable, is required. Are present on site Services: Labels and banners promoting various types of services are widely present at SBR. SBR meets all regulatory requirements with regards to labeling of safety aspects which include: •Fire exits/extinguishers location/emergency exits •Food type (e.g., nuts, spices…) •Non-smoking signs But also extensive labels and panels on services location: -reception/café/roof top garden… SBR has gone much beyond this by setting a range of information corners such as location panels at each elevator floor or our Green Hub Corner where a large scale map of the Pic: Our pool signage resort is displayed. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes. We are compliant with Since opening, SBR did not have any incidents of rules and regulations and non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes no we do not use concerning product and service information and labeling. inappropriate of funny SBR intends to keep it this way and is constantly collecting feedbacks in order to improve such aspects even further. signs when it comes to There are currently truly numerous information panels and serious aspects or legal labels throughout the resort informing on the nature of requirements products and services. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 143 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, Siloso Beach Resort including results of surveys measuring customer Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Public Policies satisfaction. The below graphic showcases compiled monthly customer satisfaction feedbacks over a year period. SBR conducts monthly survey of customer satisfaction. Different means are used to do this which include: -In room feedback forms -Random surveys -Website surveys Percentage of Feedback as Positive Guest Experience 100% 90% 80% 70% 60% 50% 40% 30% 20% 10% 0% Months/ Years SBR is currently in the process of a major facilities renovations which include a total refurnishing and design change for all our rooftop suites and facility rooms in a first phase. In a second phase our standard and deluxe rooms will also be upgraded. This major upgrade should significantly contribute towards customer satisfaction improvement in addition to a range of other measures which are also currently being implemented. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 144 MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Public Policies PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for communications, including advertising, noncompliance with laws and regulations promotion, and sponsorship. concerning the provision and use of SBR does not sell any banned or similarly questionable products and services. products. We follow the DMAS (Direct marketing Association of Singapore) marketing code of To date SBR did not have any conduct. We are not one of the members, however, the code of practice serves as a general guideline. We fines for noncompliance with laws and review this voluntary codes on a yearly basis. regulations concerning the above PR7 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. We have not had any reported incidents so far. SBR has a soft approach to marketing and our approach is not aggressive or competitive with other hotels. CUSTOMER PRIVACY Customer data and privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints protection is important regarding breaches of customer privacy and to us losses of customer data. Like any other hotels, we are always dealing with a range of “ customer complaints, however so far, we have never had any issues or complaints regarding breaches of ’ customer privacy and losses of data. ’ At SBR, customer privacy is one of our priority and we treat such data with care and professionalism. ’ Recently SBR has invested and put into place a major ’ internal backup computer system that allows all the customer data to be safely stored on our servers. SBR does not store information without prior approval of its customers. Most of the data that we collect is on a temporary basis between the time the customer makes a ” booking to the time he leaves the hotel or cancels the reservation. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 145 Economic Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Economic EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Total business revenue for FY 2013: S$11,234,395.00 Distribution of Total Revenue (in Singapore Dollars and by %) Salary (including bonus and Central Provident Fund contribution) 1,784,902, 16% Costs (excluding Salary) 2,370,411, 21% 184,840, 2% Social and Environmental Investments (CSR activities) 6,894,242, 61% Profit (before provision for income tax) “ “ Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 146 EC2 Financial implications and other risks Siloso Beach Resort and opportunities for the organization’s Blending Life and Leisure with Nature activities due to climate change. Economic SBR takes climate change issues seriously. SBR EC4 Significant financial assistance acknowledges the fact that climate change is real received from government. and that progressive changes as a result will be felt throughout the century. SBR has not received any financial assistance from the government so far. The construction of the hotel was Short term: While SBR does not see any significant privately funded. financial impacts in the short term, many aspects of how it operates and plans its business in the SBR is however starting to look into a range of government medium to long term to take climate risk into funds especially for the implementation of new energy consideration. efficiency projects Medium and long term: SBR foresees that financial risks in the medium to MARKET PRESENCE long term may include: EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage •Adaptive costs of various sorts: e.g. coastal by gender compared to local minimum wage at erosion from sea level rise, stronger and more significant locations of operation. frequent rainfall events and tropical storms which could cause structural damages and associated Our wages are in line with standard minimum entry problems such as floods, water infiltration in buildings… level wage in the hotel industry in Singapore.  As ambient temperature will increase, SBR will We have recently increased our minimum wages to make have to find new solutions to deal with mosquito them more competitive. This process is also part of our control. This will add cost to our operations. strategy to attract and retain local talents.  As the impacts of climate change will increase, the world economy will suffer heavily. This will affect Ratio for both genders is in the range of 0.93 (in our leisure travels and therefore SBR’s business. favor).  As a beach front business, in the long term sea level rise will become a major issue for SBR.  The potential of future environmental regulations EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending and taxes serve to potentially increase operating on locally-based suppliers at significant locations cost. of operation. Opportunities SBR has a strong policy to purchase its supplies as much as  With climate change also comes the opportunity possible from local suppliers. to provide sustainable hospitality services.  Having been environmentally conscious from the For aspects such as F&B, local is defined as within South very beginning, climate change also could add a East Asia. One of our primary reasons for purchasing locally competitive advantage to the resort as other is to reduce our carbon footprint. businesses work to catch up and improve their environmental credentials. More than 70% of our purchases are done locally (as a EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined percentage of the total purchasing budget) benefit plan obligations? In addition to the geographic location, we also take into account cost and quality, carbon footprint of transport, the Our coverage includes the below: sustainability of the supplier in its production and disposal processes, and social performance. CPF Contribution Work/life balance Compulsory Accommodation Transportation Meals Our purchasing Medical insurance (+ hospital coverage) policy is Asia centric Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 147 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Economic Recently, SBR has implemented a sustainability fund This fund collected through various means will help to fund our sustainability Projects with the aim of having our sustainability programs self sustained In the future Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 148 Procedure for local hiring Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature EC7 Procedures for local hiring and Economic proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation. SBR is an equal opportunity employer. It has a clear procedure in place when it comes to foreign verses local hires. Priority is always given to locals in situation of equality of skills and experience. Proportion of senior management hired from the local community: At SBR Senior management is 100% local and “ composed of family members (senior management is defined as those above the normal department manager positions). Breakdown of Department Managers: Total: 9 ” Locals (including Permanent Residents): 8 Foreigners: 1 Locals Foreigners SBR has a balance between locals and foreigners in its management Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 149 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS Economic EC9 significant indirect economic impacts, and EC8 Development and impact of the extent of impacts. infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit SBR works with various organizations who advise us on the through commercial, in kind, or pro-bono economic needs of Singapore and help us to understand engagement. our indirect economic impacts. Infrastructure Investments: While many of the Indirect Significance of Impacts infrastructure at SBR was developed with guest economic satisfaction and the environment in mind, they impacts were not developed primarily for public benefit. Seasonality of Negative: Seasonality can result in Most of the resort's infrastructure has a direct Tourism Industry some economic instability. economic return such as rooms and restaurants facilities. Attracting tourists Positive: Attracting more tourists to Singapore will bring additional money into Services: Before implementing a new service, SBR the Singapore economy. This is conducts a financial analysis of how much it’s going aligned with the national policy of to cost verses financial returns. Initiatives are promoting Singapore, and Sentosa subdivided into two categories: Island in particular, as a tourist destination. -Financial investments: Investments for which a Employment of Negative and Positive: Hospitality positive financial return is expected Foreign Talent is an industry that by necessity -CSR investments: Investments for which no financial employs a significant percentage of return is expected. foreign talent. This can have a positive effect on the economy, For CSR projects, a budget is allocated from the but also it may result in otherwise total hotel revenues. SBR has no financial interest in lower wages for some occupations. doing so but also believes that acting as a responsible corporate citizen in giving back to Raising awareness Positive: Actively promoting society is an important moral task that any business of sustainable sustainable business serves to have should consider. business a positive effect on the Singapore economy. This is a better model Our Eco Tour program in particular is a CSR project for creating long-term prosperity that is for public benefit by teaching students, and in line with Singapore’s pledge companies, and the community about sustainable to cut GHG emissions 16% by 2020. business using SBR as a case study. Although a local Extent of Impacts: For all of our indirect economic impacts, community assessment has not been conducted, the extent of the impact is very small, and not possible to we are confident of the importance of this program observe in relation to the overall Singapore economy. as it has been requested by many teachers and However, as a responsible business, we still feel it is business. We believe that knowledge about important for us to study and understand our indirect sustainable business will benefit the public as they economic impacts will have better quality of life from business impacts when society accepts that sustainable and responsible practices are the only viable way of doing business. Our Eco Tour program is conducted free of charge (pro bono) and since its start in 2007 has been conducted for more than 7500 participants (as of October 2014). For 2013, there were over 1900 participants! The estimated cost of running the program for each year is about S$12,000 per year. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 150 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Our final key message ’ Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 151 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Thank you for reading through! That’s all folks! Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 152 GRI 3.1 Content Index (Concise) Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Profile Disclosures Profile disclosure & Report section or full GRI content index Reported Page category Strategy and 1.1 Statement from the Owner/Executive Director Fully 11 – 14 Analysis 1.2 Description of impacts , risks and opportunities Fully 22 – 36 Organisational 2.1 Name of the organization Fully 38 Profile 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services Fully 38 – 42 2.3 Operational structures Fully 44 2.4 Location of headquarters Fully 44 2.5 Countries of operation Fully 44 – 45 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Fully 45 2.7 Markets served Fully 46-47 2.8 Scale of organization Fully 48-49 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Fully 50 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period Fully 50-52 Report 3.1 Reporting period Fully 53 Parameters 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Fully 53 3.3 Reporting cycle Fully 53 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report Fully 53 3.5 Process for defining report content Fully 53 3.6 Boundary of the report Fully 55 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Fully 55 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased Fully 55 facilities, etc. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations Fully 55 3.10 Effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier Fully 55 reports 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Fully 55 scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied 3.12 GRI content index Table identifying the location of the Fully 55 Standard Disclosures in the report 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external Fully 56 assurance for the report Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 153 GRI 3.1 Content Index (Concise) Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Profile Disclosures Profile disclosure & Report section or full GRI content index Reported Page category Governance, 4.1 Governance structure of the organization Fully 58 commitments, and engagements 4.2 Chair of the highest governance Fully 58 4.3 Unitary board structure Fully 58 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Fully 58-59 recommendations 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest Fully 60 governance body, senior managers, and executives 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to avoid Fully 60 conflicts of interest 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and Fully 61 expertise of the members of the highest governance body 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of Fully 61 conduct and the status of their implementation 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the Fully 62 economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body Fully 62 performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance 4.11 Implementation of precautionary approach or principle Fully 63 4.12 Subscription or endorsement to externally developed Fully 63 economic, environmental, and social charters or other initiatives 4.13 Membership in associations Fully 65-66 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Fully 67 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with Fully 80 whom to engage 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of Fully 81-82 engagement by type and by stakeholder group 4.17 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder Fully 83 engagement and response by the organization Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 154 GRI 3.1 Content Index (Concise) Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Performance Indicators Economic Performance indicator Report section or full GRI content index Reported Page Economic EC 1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Fully 146 performance EC 2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the Fully 147 organization’s activities due to climate change EC 3 Coverage of defined benefit plan obligations Fully 147 EC 4 Significant financial assistance received from government Fully 147 Market presence EC 5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender Fully 147 compared to local minimum wage EC 6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based Fully 147 suppliers EC 7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior Fully 147 management hired Indirect economic EC 8 Infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for Fully 150 impact public benefit EC 9 Significant indirect economic impacts, and the extent of impacts Fully 150 Environmental Materials EN 1 Materials used by weight or volume Fully 84 EN 2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Fully 85 Energy EN 3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Fully 88 EN 4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Fully 89 EN 5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvement Fully 88 EN 6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy Fully 95 based products and services EN 7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption Partially 95 Water EN 8 Total water withdrawal by source Fully 99 EN 9 Water source significantly affected by withdrawal of water Fully 100 EN 10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Fully 100 Biodiversity EN 11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or Fully 102 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN 12 Significant impacts of activities on biodiversity inside and Fully 102 outside the protected areas EN 13 Habitats protected and restored Fully 102 EN 14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing Fully 110 impacts on biodiversity EN 15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation Fully 111 list species with habitats in areas affected by operations Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 155 GRI 3.1 Content Index (Concise) Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Performance Indicators Environmental Performance indicator Report section or full GRI content index Reported Page Emissions, EN 16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Fully 112 effluents and waste EN 17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Fully 114 EN 18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and achievements Fully 114 EN 19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Fully 115 EN 20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight Fully 115 EN 21 Total water discharge by quality and destination Fully 116 EN 22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Fully 116 EN 23 Total number and volume of significant spills Fully 119 EN 24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated hazardous Fully 119 waste and percentage shipped internationally EN 25 Size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and Fully 119 habitats affected by discharges of water and runoff Products and EN 26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts Fully 124 services EN 27 Percentage of products sold and packaging materials reclaimed Fully 124 Compliance EN 28 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws Fully 126 and regulations Transport EN 29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and Fully 126 other goods and members of the workforce Overall EN 30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments Fully 127 Social: Labor practices and decent work Employment LA 1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and Fully 132 region, broken down by gender LA 2 Number and rate of new employee hired and employee turnover Partially 133 by age group, gender, and region LA 3 Benefits provided for full-time employees Fully 133 LA 15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave Partially 138 Labour/ LA 4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining Fully 134 management agreements relations LA 5 Minimum notice period(s) on operational changes Fully 134 Occupational LA 6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint Fully 134 health and management–worker health and safety committees safety LA 7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, Partially 134 and number of work related fatalities LA 8 Education, training, counselling, and risk-control program Fully 134 regarding serious diseases LA 9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with Fully 135 trade unions Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 156 GRI 3.1 Content Index (Concise) Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Performance Indicators Social: Labor practices and decent work Performance indicator Report section or full GRI content index Reported Page Training and LA 10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, Fully 135 education and by employee category LA 11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning Fully 135 LA 12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and Fully 135 career development reviews, by gender Diversity and LA 13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Fully 136 equal opportunity employees per employee category Equal LA 14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by Fully 139 remuneration for employee category women and men Social: Human rights Investment and HR 1 Percentage and number of investment agreements that Fully 128 procurement include human rights clauses or screening practices HR 2 Percentage of suppliers, contractors and other business Fully 128 partners have undergone human rights screening HR 3 Total hours and percentage of employee trained on policies Fully 128 and procedures concerning aspects of human rights NonHR 4 Number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions Fully 128 discrimination taken Freedom of HR 5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the Fully 130 association and right to exercise freedom of association and collective collective bargaining may be at significant risk and actions taken bargaining Child labor HR 6 Operations and suppliers identified the significant risk for Fully 130 incidents of child labor, and measures taken Prevention of HR 7 Operations and suppliers identified the significant risk for Fully 130 forced and incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures taken compulsory labor Security practices HR 8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the human rights Fully 131 policies or procedures Indigenous rights HR 9 Number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous Fully 131 people and actions taken Assessment HR 10 Percentage and number of operations that have been subject Fully 131 to human rights reviews Remediation HR 11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed Fully 131 and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 157 GRI 3.1 Content Index (Concise) Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Performance Indicators Social: Society Performance indicator Report section or full GRI content index Reported Page Local communities SO 1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community Partially 138 engagement, impact assessments, and development programs SO 9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts Fully 140 on local communities SO 10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented with Fully 140 significant potential negative impacts on local communities Corruption SO 2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for Fully 139 risks related to corruption SO 3 Percentage of employees trained in anti-corruption policies Fully 139 and procedures. SO 4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Fully 139 Public policy SO 5 Public policies involvement Fully 139 SO 6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political Fully 139 parties, politicians, and related institutions Anti-competitive SO 7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior and Fully 140 behavior the outcomes Compliance SO 8 Significant fines and sanctions for non-compliance with laws Fully 140 and regulations Social: Product responsibility Customer health PR 1 Life cycle analysis of products and services Fully 142 and safety PR 2 Number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and Fully 142 voluntary codes (health and safety impacts of products and services) Product and PR 3 Type of product and service information required by Fully 143 service labelling procedures PR 4 Number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and Fully 143 voluntary codes (product and service information and labelling) PR 5 Practices related to customer satisfaction Fully 144 Marketing PR 6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary Fully 144 communications codes related to marketing communications PR 7 Number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and Fully 144 voluntary codes (marketing communications) Customer privacy PR 8 Number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of Fully 144 customer privacy and losses of customer data Compliance PR 9 Monetary fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations Fully 144 concerning the provision and use of products and services Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 158 Annex “ ’ ’ ” 159 Annex Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature 1. Review of 2013 -2014 targets Since the construction of the Resort, the Owners had a vision to develop an eco friendly resort. Below details the targets that have been set by the Sustainability Committee: LIST OF TARGETS AND INITIATIVES: 2013 2014 Component Target Comment Marketing To upgrade the hotel website and integrate a Website has been upgraded section on sustainability reporting. however major rebranding of the site as been delayed to next reporting period To market the new family villas A brochure and website updates have been produced Financial profit To continue a positive financial growth compared This year has seen a consistent to previous financial year finance with previous year Guests satisfaction • To implement CCI guidelines (customer centric Done initiative) and S-class Service quality • Implementation of a new interactive customer Delayed to next reporting I – Sustainability Targets feedback system period and to be included in new website design Safety • Implement various safety messages All safety targets met. Messages and training have been provided Regulatory Continue to comply and exceed with all regulations Done. SBR is compliant with all requirements regulations Energy Consumption Upgrade of the chiller system for energy efficiency Done. Trial in progress Trial of new led technology Water resources Build a new water retention tank on the 5th floor Done. Main water tank was installed Carbon emissions Develop new carbon offsetting programs in Done. The program is now partnership with Nexus active Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 2012 160 Annex Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature 1. Review of 2013 2014 targets Component Target Comment Employees satisfaction Undertake various staff satisfaction surveys and Done. Surveys have been implement changes conducted Customer feedback Set up a link with tripadvisor.com for the guests Done to feedback Innovation and R&D New aquaculture project to expend on the Tilapia farm is now operational vermicomposting system on the 2nd floor Further on vermicomposting system in partnership with Singapore Poly Social responsibility • Sponsorship of various CSR related events. Various sponsorships (e.g. • Continue to expend and develop the eco Singapore Packaging Agreement, tour program PUB’s Friends of Water Network) have been provided. Eco tour has grown significantly now exceeding 7500 attendees Environmental outreach • Upgrades on biodiversity.sg platform Done. A new section on • Sustainability reporting biomimetic has been included. • Publish environmental articles Articles regularly published Waste generated • Continue to segregate various types of In progress, as stronger I – Sustainability Targets wastes emphasis on plastic is expected • Print new concept for recycling posters over next reporting period. around the resort • Improve waste collection by 3% compared New posters have been printed to previous year and recycling bins installed in partnership with Tetrapack Onsite biodiversity • Continue to trial an alternative mosquito Current mosquito treatment control treatment using bacteria ongoing. • Implement 3 new self maintained ponds New enzyme technology tested throughout the resort Two new ponds implemented Ethical business • Continue to practice business in the most SBR is compliant with all ethical practices ethical way business practices • Attend various seminars and events on ethical business practices Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 2012 161
