Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance An investigation Environment We strive to mitigate our contribution to climate change and to reduce our not a showcase use of resources. In addition, we offset our carbon emissions and support climate change adaptation projects. Responsible Business Report 2013 Read more on page 21 – 23 We want to conduct our business in an ethical and sustainable manner. As part of our commitment to the UN Global Compact (UNGC), we have sought to integrate the 10 UNGC principles into our business, People Performance including through our values, culture, operations and business decisions. To be the leading international law firm, we We aim to be open and transparent This report outlines our progress to date. need to recruit, develop and retain the best in reporting on our responsible people. Talent can come from anywhere, business activities. and our employees want to work in a culture that’s diverse and inclusive. Turnover Read more on page 2 – 4 Read more on page 13 – 17 Profit Business Pro bono Communities Beyond regulatory compliance, we We have the most impact when we do At Freshfields, the theme of our community want to conduct – and be known for what we do best: giving legal advice, investment programme is social inclusion. conducting – our business ethically whether to tackle the complex We believe that, whatever their background Profit per equity partner (PEP) and with integrity. multi-jurisdictional issues that NGOs face, or circumstances, everyone should be able or to help vulnerable individuals navigate to participate in – and contribute to – society. a legal system. Read more on page 5 – 12 Read more on page 18 Read more on page 19 – 20 Read more on page 24 – 30 Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Senior Partner statement Going beyond For us, minimum compliance is not enough. We want to conduct our business in an ethical and sustainable manner. The Board includes external representatives Sir Ian Cheshire, Polly Courtice LVO and Sir Nicholas Young. Key figures 2012/13 We want to act with integrity and sensitivity to our impact We have explained to them our CR ambitions and The debate about the role of business on the world around us. We want to make a real and have asked them to challenge the way we do things. in society continues unabated. Our positive difference to the communities in which we operate. We recognise that we do not have all the answers to some stakeholders, and society in general, Not only is this expected of us, it is the right thing to do. of our challenges, including: want us to help advance a broader social Our corporate responsibility (CR) programme is stronger than ever. It is recognised as a market leader having been • the need to keep our carbon footprint under control, 4,859 employees1 agenda and not just focus on our own while helping our clients wherever they need us around awarded CR Programme of the Year at the UK Legal the world; and results. These expectations are reflected Business Awards 2013. • aligning our commitment for supporting the rule of law in corporate reporting requirements But for us, CR is not an isolated programme. As part of our and human rights with ethical duties to defend clients which are becoming ever more robust commitment to align our operations and strategy with the who may have stumbled along the way. 28 offices worldwide 10 UN Global Compact (UNGC) principles, we have sought In the spirit of transparency we asked the Advisory Board in this regard. The challenge is how, in to integrate CR into our business, including through our to give us their frank and robust views on our report. values, culture, operations and business decisions. This practice, to ensure that businesses deliver affects everything we do, from our client and mandate These views are plain for you to see throughout the report. on these expectations and whether they acceptance decisions, to our procurement processes, Our ambition to go beyond minimum compliance remains turnover to the way we interact with the communities in which a journey and we invite you to comment in any way that choose to go beyond the minimum level we operate. helps us move forward. of compliance. Despite great progress, however, we recognise that we need constantly to challenge ourselves as to whether we are doing the right things and whether we could do more. With this in mind we created a CR Advisory Will Lawes Board to help us with our journey to even better Senior Partner performance. For more on this see CR Advisory Board 1 D  ata shown is average number of employees in 2012/13 financial year excluding contingency staff and contractors. Freshfields has an exclusive agreement in Riyadh with the law firm of Salah-Al-Hejailan but it is not included within our reporting boundary. Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 2 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Introducing our Corporate Responsibility Advisory Board In 2013 we established our Corporate Before rejoining the Red Cross in 2001, Nick Ian was appointed Group Chief Executive of  Polly is Director of the University of Cambridge’s Responsibility (CR) Advisory Board to was Chief Executive of Macmillan Cancer Kingfisher plc in January 2008. Prior to this Programme for Sustainability Leadership provide us with external perspective and Relief, a large UK cancer organisation. Prior he held a number of other roles at Kingfisher, (CPSL). She is also Co-Director of The Prince of challenge us on our approach. The Board to that he was Director of UK Operations at including Chief Executive of B&Q. Before joining Wales’s Business & Sustainability Programme. includes Sir Ian Cheshire, Polly Courtice the British Red Cross, following five years with Kingfisher in 1998 he worked for a number of Polly is a member of the University of Cambridge’s LVO and Sir Nicholas Young. the Sue Ryder Foundation setting up new retail businesses including Sears plc where he was Board of Executive and Professional Education Sue Ryder Homes for people with disabling Group Commercial Director. Board meetings are held twice each year and the agenda and Academic Director of CPSL’s Master of diseases. Nick started his career as a commercial is developed based on the views of the members of the Ian is Chairman of the British Retail Consortium. Studies in Sustainability Leadership. She is NonBoard and of the partners responsible for the various solicitor in the City of London, and then as a He is a Non-Executive Director of Whitbread plc Executive Director of Jupiter Green Investment strands of our CR programme. partner in a firm of lawyers in East Anglia. and lead non-executive member on the Department Trust and an Adviser for the Lloyds Banking Since the inaugural Board meeting in January 2013,  Nick was knighted in the year 2000 for services to for Work and Pensions Board. He is also Chairman Group Sustainability Advisory Group. In 2007 agenda items have been as wide and varied as cancer care and was made a Freeman of the City of the Prince of Wales Corporate Leaders Group she was appointed by Al Gore to run his Climate responsible procurement and human rights to client and mandate acceptance. of London in 2007. In 2011, Nick was awarded the on Climate Change and President of the Business Project in the UK, helping leaders deepen their Outstanding Leadership Award by the Civil Society. Disability Forum President’s Group. Ian was understanding of climate change and explore We are proud to have such high calibre members on our CR Advisory Board and look forward to them helping knighted in the 2014 New Year Honours for services appropriate action. In 2008 Polly was made us achieve our CR ambitions by challenging the way we to business, sustainability and the environment. a Lieutenant of the Victorian Order (LVO) currently do things. announced in the Queen’s Birthday Honours list. In the spirit of transparency we asked the Advisory Board to give us their frank and robust views on our current approach. These views are plain to see throughout the report. Sir Nicholas Young Sir Ian Cheshire Polly Courtice LVO Chief Executive Group Chief Executive Director, CPSL The British Red Cross Kingfisher plc University of Cambridge Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 3 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Our 2012/13 highlights Launched our global Won CR firm of the year at Launched our first Senior Our London office procurement policy the UK Legal Business Awards Partner’s Volunteering Award. environmental and responsible for our CR programme management system procurement guidelines. and collaborative work was accredited to for the London Olympic and Paralympic Games. Launched our Corporate Responsibility Advisory Board. Business in the British Red Cross – our new Launched the Community Big climate change adaptation Freshfields Stephen Tick awards for partner, voted for by staff. Lawrence Scholarship. Work Inclusion and Education. The value of our community response to our global and pro bono programme. engagement survey. Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 4 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Our business We need a talented, diverse workforce Getting this wrong is not an option – the risks range We work worldwide to meet our clients’ needs. We also from a drop in revenues to severe reputational damage, so we take being a responsible business seriously. At Freshfields, we want to be known as ‘the worldwide firm’. In the last three years we’ve helped clients in over 200 Practices need to earn their trust as a responsible But we still have some way to go to confirm our position jurisdictions – from Afghanistan to Zambia, and Greenland • Antitrust, competition and trade to Guyana. Our clients come from all over the globe, and business. We need to be clear that we as an ethical brand. That’s our challenge now, and we expect us to help them anywhere in the world. • Corporate intend to seize the opportunity to distinguish ourselves have – and follow – guidelines that as much as for being a responsible business as for We partner with world-class law firms with know-how where • Disputes uphold the highest ethical standards our excellent legal and commercial reputation. we don’t offer in-house services. We also train our staff • Employment, pensions and benefits wherever we operate. to develop a commercial, worldwide perspective from day • Finance Our services for clients one, and build teams based on the right people for the We advise clients on transactional, contentious matter – with lawyers from across our global talent pool, • Real estate and regulatory work across all sectors. not on who happens to be in the local office. • Tax Some examples of our work include: This means we can give clients the best legal advice quickly and in a cost-effective way, without needing • Xstrata’s €90bn merger with Glencore – the biggest an office on the ground. mining deal in history; • the Greek government’s privatisation programme to meet Sectors its bail-out conditions – the first time a law firm has taken Helping clients through their most complex matters • Consumer and healthcare a role of this nature; and • the restructuring of the Royal Mail, the world’s oldest We’ve worked on more cross-border M&A in the last five • Energy and natural resources postal system. years than any other law firm; in 2012 alone we worked • Financial institutions on almost 250 deals, with a value of over $255bn. We also played a unique role as the official legal services • Global financial investors provider to the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Since 2010 we’ve advised on half the in-depth merger Games, a commitment that extended over a decade. investigations by the European Commission. And we are • Infrastructure and transport handling more high-value arbitration cases than any other • General industrial Our approach is to build strong relationships with our firm, worth over $80bn. clients, for example we’ve advised our oldest client, • Pro bono the Bank of England, for over 250 years. Clients turn to our firm when it matters most. • Real estate We share our strong commitment to corporate responsibility with many of our clients; we collaborate with them on pro bono • Telecoms, media and technology advice, volunteering, diversity and environmental activities. For more information on our services go online Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 5 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Firm profile We’re one of the world’s 10 largest law firms, with over 2,500 lawyers worldwide. Global employees2 We provide business law and operate as an English Limited Liability Partnership (LLP) in all our offices except Hong Kong, Office average 2012/13 Japan and the US. We are a collegiate Abu Dhabi 5 Amsterdam 164 firm and have no head office; all Bahrain 5 28 offices work together in the best Barcelona Beijing 16 54 interests of our clients. Berlin 106 Brussels 140 The firm has sustained a successful period of growth Cologne 189 despite business and economic uncertainties in the Dubai 63 Dusseldorf 194 markets. This has been achieved through the considerable Frankfurt 387 efforts of all partners and staff across the firm and reflects Hamburg 167 our strength throughout all regions and practice areas. Hanoi 24 Obviously we care about financial success, but we don’t Ho Chi Minh City 16 manage the firm to maximise short-term profit. We care Hong Kong 207 London 1871 much more about sustainable success. Madrid 122 Milan 108 Moscow 145 2013 2012 2011 Munich 93 New York 201 £m £m £m Paris 247 Turnover 1,229.4 1,177.0 1,115.7 Riyadh 7 Profit 312.3 329.1 372.6 Rome 54 Shanghai 45 PEP 0.94 0.974 1.072 3 Singapore 10 Tokyo 36 Vienna 135 Washington 50 Total 4,859 2 figure refers to average number of employees excluding contingency staff and contractors 3 We opened our Singapore office in October 2012 For more information go online Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 6 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Our approach to responsible business Beyond regulatory compliance, we Governing responsible business want to conduct – and be known for Our Senior partner has overall responsibility for our responsible business programme. In addition we have a Responsible business at Freshfields conducting – our business ethically global CR partner, a global environment partner, a global pro bono partner, and our global head of HR. and with integrity. Not only is it the Office managing partners around the network are responsible right thing to do, our clients expect it for implementing our corporate responsibility strategy of us. Our ambition to be the leading and commitments. They consider local issues, such as international law firm is inextricably office size and the needs of the communities in which they Supporting our operate. Community investment, pro bono and environment communities linked with our leadership in this field. co-ordinators in each office support these partners. Our strategy maximises the value CR can bring to our Managing corporate responsibility is a challenge. Our business. We focus our efforts on where we can make central CR team is based in London, Frankfurt and Paris. the greatest difference: Offices and regions have different priorities and needs, but we’ve tried to balance centralised activity and local • using our professional skills for the greater good autonomy to overcome these issues. (ie pro bono); Business ethics Pro bono • creating a positive impact on the communities In 2013 we launched our CR Advisory Board, comprising in which we operate; Sir Ian Cheshire, Polly Courtice LVO and Sir Nicholas • being an excellent employer, promoting inclusiveness Young. The Board meets biannually and their remit is to Responsible and diversity; and provide strategic guidance on our responsible business business • minimising our impact on the environment. activities and responsible business report. Our approach focuses on those social and environmental issues that are important to our business and to our ‘ Freshfields’ pro bono, social and environmental practices stakeholders. are exemplary. The next step is for the firm to offer See Our material issues. leadership defining the role of the legal profession Managing our The UN Global Compact (UNGC) also forms an integral as societies develop the necessary new Valuing our environmental part of our approach to responsible business. We have business, economic and governance people impact been proud participants of the UNGC since March 2009 models that will be required to see and are fully committed to aligning our operations and strategies with the 10 UNGC principles in the areas of us through the coming decades.’ human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We describe our progress later in this report. Polly Courtice LVO External CR Adviser Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 7 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Our material issues Our report covers the issues that In the last year we’ve reviewed our material issues, Promoting a diverse and inclusive workforce and asked employees, clients and our charitable and To be a successful business we must promote diversity ‘ I assume (and hope) that we have, for each of our major are important to our firm and our environmental partners which issues we should prioritise. and recruit from as wide a pool of talent as possible. clients, a good vision of their reputational risks and a stakeholders. Our key stakeholders are The results – listed below – reflected our existing approach For more on this see Valuing our people statement ready to make (publicly or through discrete our employees (past, present and future), to responsible business and we’re using the survey to make channels) in case a situation arises in which we are sure we address any issues. clients, suppliers, local communities, Using our skills for good associated with their practices.’ Issues ranked as most important were those relating to our We can use the skills of our people both through pro bono charities, non-governmental people and our clients. legal advice and skills-based volunteering. Verbatim comments organisations (NGOs), the legal sector For more on this see Supporting our communities Materiality survey 2012 and wider membership groups, as well Excellent client service We aim to give our clients excellent service. As times change, Minimising our environmental impact as governments and regulatory bodies. how we give legal advice changes. We must make sure we use our resources efficiently. We’ve identified these groups as having This includes our energy, paper and water use a direct interest in our business or Business ethics and disposing of waste. We want to make sure that we work in a strong culture of as being impacted by our business. We must also reduce our carbon footprint – we measure ‘ Diversity seems to be fixated on ethnicity, it should business ethics. So we address social, environmental and ethical considerations when acting for a client. our energy use and business travel emissions. cover social mobility regardless of ethnicity. However For more on this see ethnically diverse a workplace may strive to be, if all For more on this see Our business Managing our environmental impact are from the same social group, it isn’t diverse. I would Attracting and retaining talent like to see far more in way of social mobility regardless We aim to attract and keep excellent people across our Collaboration of gender and ethnicity, the most easily identifiable business. We use our annual global engagement survey to We collaborate with our peers, partner law firms, suppliers ‘gauges’. How many state school educated people make check how our employees feel about working for the firm. and clients to have a more positive impact on society. it to the higher levels?’ Our priorities now are to promote a work/life balance Verbatim comments and keep women at senior levels. Materiality survey 2012 For more on this see Valuing our people Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 8 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Stakeholder engagement Being a responsible business means Stakeholder group Our engagement methods Examples in 2012/13 minimising the negative and maximising Clients • We meet with our clients regularly during projects. We also request feedback • Completed numerous client surveys and requests the positive impacts our operations on service levels, delivery and quality of work at the end of projects. for information on responsible business. have. We focus on the issues that are • We engage with clients on joint CR initiatives. • We are incorporating the feedback from the • We asked our clients to take part in our 2012 materiality review. materiality survey into our working practices. important to our stakeholders and our • Helped to develop CourtNav in response to cuts in Legal Aid. business, and where we can make the Employees (past, • We hold an annual employee engagement survey. • Launch of the Learning Portal. biggest difference. We undertake various current and future) • We asked our employees to respond to our 2012 materiality review survey. • Launch of Families’ Network to promote • We hold regular meetings for employee networks and social activities. support for work/life balance. forms of engagement such as surveys, • One-to-one interviews. • Launch of women’s networks to support gender diversity. newsletters, meetings and events. • Employee development programmes. • Launch of the Freshfields’ Stephen Lawrence Scholarship. • Work placements. • Launch of the Senior Partner’s Volunteering Award Feedback in recent years has led to changes, for example, • Competitions. to recognise our employees’ hard work. results from our annual engagement survey led to the • Volunteer surveys. • Roll-out of Smart Business coffees for creation of our women’s networks to help address gender • Intranet/newsletter communications. employees on topics of interest. diversity. Our response to issues, such as widening access • Conferences. • Hosting lunches with female clients. to the legal profession, are a direct result of our stakeholder • Regular campus and recruitment events. engagement process. Legal sector membership • Ongoing active memberships in legal groups and associations, bars • Drafting the CR guidelines for CCBE. groups, Governments and lawyers associations and other membership. eg Council of Bars and regulators and Law Societies of Europe (CCBE), Legal Sector Alliance. • Ongoing direct dialogue, participation in working groups and advisory panels, collaboration on policy and position statements. • Hosting events. • Responding to consultations. • Drafting law. NGOs, charities • Regular and ad hoc meetings with major pro bono clients and community investment • Sit on the London Benchmarking Group Steering Group. and community partner organisations to improve relationships and programme outcomes. • Grown our relationship with our partner secondary school organisations • Hosting events to enhance dialogue. in London to include mentoring for more year groups. • Ongoing strategic partnerships. Suppliers • Ongoing dialogue through procurement questionnaires. • Launched our global procurement policy. Regular and ad hoc meetings to gather feedback. Responsible • Meetings to uncover best practices in responsible business. • We’ve held two meetings with our CR advisory board and business experts • Events. are responding to their suggestions for improvement. Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 9 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Governance Our governance structure aims to Senior partner and practice group leaders support and drive the delivery of the The partnership elects the senior partner for a five-year term. The senior partner has overall responsibility for Management structure of the firm firm’s objectives and values. identifying corporate responsibility opportunities and risks, supported by the committees for community investment, Partnership pro bono, environment and diversity. council Partnership and partnership council The partnership council is the firm’s highest governance Leaders of our seven worldwide practice groups meet and policy body; it can make decisions on behalf of regularly, together with the regional managing partners, in the the partnership. firm’s practice committee, chaired by the managing partner. Global Other structures – our regional management group, London CR advisory Senior partner people partner It delegates day-to-day decisions to the central management group and Germany management group – board Will Lawes Richard Norbruis management team – the senior partner and the look after matters within their spheres and geography. managing partner, supported by the executive partner, the general counsel, the global people partner and the General counsel global client partner. Managing risk Business services Peter Jeffcote The regional management group manages risk and • Information technology The partnership council’s responsibilities include reviewing compliance across the business and non-executive • Finance Executive Managing Global business strategy and monitoring the firm’s performance, the oversight is provided by the finance and risk committee. • HR partner partner client partner quality of its practice and achievement of aims and goals. A global risk and compliance team and local risk • Marketing and Stephan Eilers David Aitman Bruce Embley partners help implement the firm’s risk management business development The partnership council is ultimately responsible for the • International tax firm’s corporate responsibility strategy and performance. policies and procedures. • Partnership secretary Sector groups • Risk & compliance The partnership council The partnership elects 15 members to the partnership council, which the senior partner chairs. All partners can stand for election except those in management positions. All regions where the firm has operations are represented Regional Global practice Matrix group 4 in proportion to the number of partners in each region. management group leaders group Members of the partnership council do not have executive Practice powers, apart from the senior partner. committee 4 The various management streams (Central, Practice groups, Sector, Office and Business services) come together from time to time in the ‘Matrix group’ to discuss form strategy and other matters of mutual interest. Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 10 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Business ethics We are committed to high standards Listening to clients Any issues are subject to senior level review. Feedback from clients is essential to monitor how we’re ‘ Freshfields has done a good job in defending of governance and conduct our working and to develop our client services. Our global Our client engagement letters refer to the UN Global Compact (UNGC), which asks companies to embrace core the human rights of its clients – including some business with the ethics and integrity client partner makes sure we gather and act on feedback values for human rights, labour standards, the environment impressive pro bono work on human trafficking – but across the firm. expected from a responsible and highly and anti-corruption. has more to do as a business. Whilst many corporates If a client complains, we have a procedure to reflect the UK regulated business. Solicitors Regulation Authority’s requirements. We do not base our decisions to take on new clients on have introduced human rights policies aligned to the any discriminatory reasons and we accommodate their Guiding Principles, no law firm has done so to date. needs regardless of gender, race, disability, age or Data privacy and protection sexual orientation. We would like to see Freshfields provide leadership We are subject to data protection laws in many countries in this area.’ where we have offices. We have a global data privacy Equality policy with regional variations, where local law demands it. We uphold equality and diversity with our people, clients, Our global privacy officer maintains this policy, manages suppliers and stakeholders data privacy risk and reports data privacy compliance to All our staff have to observe our policies in this area. the firm’s information security committee. Our partners and global people partner hold the ultimate responsibility to make sure we comply with this. Ethics For more on this see UN Global Compact (UNGC) Polly Courtice LVO As members of bar associations or law societies, our External CR Adviser lawyers are bound by legal and ethical requirements. Anti-bribery and corruption The firm is also regulated by local bars and complies with We’ve introduced new anti-bribery policies to reflect the UK their codes of conduct. We ask all our employees to adhere to the same ethical standards. Bribery Act 2010. We offer all employees training on this. United Nations In some jurisdictions we have to report any suspicion of We train all new starters on the firm’s standards and money laundering and bribery. Our internal policies and Global Compact procedures. We take offences seriously and take action procedures reflect this. In 2009 we signed the United when needed. We are subject to local bar associations’ and law societies’ Nations Global Compact ethical duties, so our lawyers could be debarred or struck (UNGC), which asks businesses Taking on new clients and mandates to embrace, support and off if they are involved in corruption. We check new clients and mandates to consider: enact within their sphere • their reputation; of influence. Whistleblowing • NGO sanctions; We have a worldwide policy for staff to report any deviation • other client relationships; and from our ethical and compliance standards. This includes • our suitability to act. a confidential hotline for all staff. Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 11 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Business ethics Human rights and labour standards We’ve trained 55 staff on responsible procurement and Promoting human rights is an important goal for us. In 2009 we were the first international law firm to sign the UNGC, include standard clauses on responsible business in contracts with new suppliers. We plan to include these Supporting social which asks businesses to embrace, support and enact provisions in all new and existing contracts. enterprise within their sphere of influence values for: We work with external organisations, such as arc, to • human rights; make sure there is fair access to our supply chain, and • labour standards; encourage consultants we use to consider these areas. In 2012 we became associate partners of • the environment; and Business in the Community’s arc programme, Responsible procurement forms part of our ISO 14001 along with other Olympic sponsors. This supports • anti-corruption. environmental management system (see Managing our social enterprises in East London and aims to More recently, the UN Human Rights Council adopted environmental impact). In 2012 we piloted a responsible create at least 1,000 jobs in the host boroughs the ‘Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights’. business questionnaire with 10 of our suppliers to our by 2015. The programme has now been extended So our policies (eg our procurement policy and London office. to support social enterprises to create a further environment policy) reflect: We plan to roll this process out in London so that by April 1,000 jobs across West London boroughs by 2016. • the UNGC; 2014 we have completed supplier questionnaires for all We advised on how to set up the programme, and • the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; and major new suppliers, and for our top 50 existing suppliers. we now contribute thought leadership through the • the International Labour Organization’s Declaration Other countries are bound by different legislation, so arc forum and offer business skills and knowledge on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. we have yet to agree what’s possible for these places. through our volunteers. We uphold employee rights, and respect collective A number of our people act as business advisers bargaining and freedom of association. We also have to social enterprises, to help them develop their a harassment policy in London business strategies and overcome challenges. Our procurement policy and supporting responsible Others use their professional skills to support on business questionnaire help us address any issues in ‘ We were pleased to see the firm launched its specific projects identified by social enterprises our supply chain, such as the risk of forced or child labour. new global procurement policy and responsible as a priority. For more on this see UN Global Compact (UNGC) procurement guidelines; this is a huge step We plan to grow our partnership over the coming in the right direction. We look forward year to help social enterprises access the supply to seeing how their implementation chains of large organisations. Procurement We are trying to reduce the ethical, social and is monitored.’ environmental impact of our supply chain. In 2013 we launched a global procurement policy along with responsible business procurement guidelines. These reflect the UNGC principles and outline what we expect Sir Ian Cheshire from suppliers. External CR Adviser Photography by Sam Mellish For more information go online Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 12 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Valuing our people To be the leading international law Gender diversity Gender diversity at senior level is one of the biggest Employee profile by gender 5 (per cent) firm, we need to recruit, develop and challenges we face. We’ve developed practical initiatives retain the best people. Talent can come to improve the imbalance between the number of female Global London Asia DACEE MENA ROCE US lawyers we train and those who reach partnership. from anywhere, and our employees The main strands of our gender strategy include: want to work in a culture that’s diverse Partner 88 12 and inclusive. • sponsorship and mentoring; • increasing our number of women partners; Associate 55 45 • creating an inclusive and supportive environment; Diversity and inclusion • flexibility; and Trainee 45 55 An important part of our efforts is engaging our staff in our • maternity. diversity programme. One of the ways we do this is through Our London women’s network aims to help address some Other fee earners 32 68 celebrating religious and cultural festivals throughout the of these issues. It’s made up of three groups – a senior year – such as Chinese New Year, Diwali, Ramadan and women’s group, an associates’ women’s group and a Business services 24 76 Black History Month. business services women’s group – to provide a forum We want to create a workplace where our people can for discussion, arrange events and: Key: Male Female develop, and create a reputation as an employer of choice. • support, encourage and target information for women Our diversity strategy covers all areas of diversity: gender, DACEE – Germany and Austria. MENA – Middle East and North Africa. ROCE – Rest of Central Europe. investing in their personal and professional growth; race, sexual orientation, religion, disability and age. • help build relationships and communication between However, our priority areas reflect those that are most individuals and groups (internally, with external material to our business: organisations and with clients); • gender diversity; • give women opportunities to engage across departments ‘ It’s good to see a strong gender balance at trainee and Gender diversity • social mobility; and in the London office and with clients; associate levels but disappointing that this isn’t better • supporting lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender • help them develop their careers and encourage reflected at partner level. It is a real problem across the 12% of our partners are women. (LGBT) employees. leadership skills; legal sector, but in addition, the firm lags behind other We’ve developed practical activities • promote understanding of issues for women to improve the imbalance between For more on this see UN Global Compact (UNGC) magic circle firms when comparing in the workplace; and the number of female lawyers we train • increase the attractiveness of a long-term career the number of female partners and and those who reach partnership. at Freshfields for women. we would like to see this improve Our associates’ women’s group has created a crossover the coming years.’ departmental mentoring platform to match mentee requests with mentor skill-sets. We now have a strong community of Sir Nicholas Young mentors keen to progress their mentees’ ambitions. External CR Adviser 5 Figure refers to average number of employees excluding contingency staff and contractors Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 13 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Valuing our people To be the leading international law Gender diversity Gender diversity at senior level is one of the biggest Employee profile by gender 5 (per cent) firm, we need to recruit, develop and challenges we face. We’ve developed practical initiatives retain the best people. Talent can come to improve the imbalance between the number of female Global London Asia DACEE MENA ROCE US lawyers we train and those who reach partnership. from anywhere, and our employees The main strands of our gender strategy include: want to work in a culture that’s diverse Partner 82 18 and inclusive. • sponsorship and mentoring; • increasing our number of women partners; Associate 52 48 • creating an inclusive and supportive environment; Diversity and inclusion • flexibility; and Trainee 45 55 An important part of our efforts is engaging our staff in our • maternity. diversity programme. One of the ways we do this is through Our London women’s network aims to help address some Other fee earners 31 69 celebrating religious and cultural festivals throughout the of these issues. It’s made up of three groups – a senior year – such as Chinese New Year, Diwali, Ramadan and women’s group, an associates’ women’s group and a Business services 31 69 Black History Month. business services women’s group – to provide a forum We want to create a workplace where our people can for discussion, arrange events and: Key: Male Female develop, and create a reputation as an employer of choice. • support, encourage and target information for women Our diversity strategy covers all areas of diversity: gender, DACEE – Germany and Austria. MENA – Middle East and North Africa. ROCE – Rest of Central Europe. investing in their personal and professional growth; race, sexual orientation, religion, disability and age. • help build relationships and communication between However, our priority areas reflect those that are most individuals and groups (internally, with external material to our business: organisations and with clients); • gender diversity; • give women opportunities to engage across departments ‘ It’s good to see a strong gender balance at trainee and Gender diversity • social mobility; and in the London office and with clients; associate levels but disappointing that this isn’t better • supporting lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender • help them develop their careers and encourage reflected at partner level. It is a real problem across the 12% of our partners are women. (LGBT) employees. leadership skills; legal sector, but in addition, the firm lags behind other We’ve developed practical activities • promote understanding of issues for women to improve the imbalance between For more on this see UN Global Compact (UNGC) magic circle firms when comparing in the workplace; and the number of female lawyers we train • increase the attractiveness of a long-term career the number of female partners and and those who reach partnership. at Freshfields for women. we would like to see this improve Our associates’ women’s group has created a crossover the coming years.’ departmental mentoring platform to match mentee requests with mentor skill-sets. We now have a strong community of Sir Nicholas Young mentors keen to progress their mentees’ ambitions. External CR Adviser 5 Figure refers to average number of employees excluding contingency staff and contractors Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 13 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Valuing our people To be the leading international law Gender diversity Gender diversity at senior level is one of the biggest Employee profile by gender 5 (per cent) firm, we need to recruit, develop and challenges we face. We’ve developed practical initiatives retain the best people. Talent can come to improve the imbalance between the number of female Global London Asia DACEE MENA ROCE US lawyers we train and those who reach partnership. from anywhere, and our employees The main strands of our gender strategy include: want to work in a culture that’s diverse Partner 79 21 and inclusive. • sponsorship and mentoring; • increasing our number of women partners; Associate 47 53 • creating an inclusive and supportive environment; Diversity and inclusion • flexibility; and Trainee 40 60 An important part of our efforts is engaging our staff in our • maternity. diversity programme. One of the ways we do this is through Our London women’s network aims to help address some Other fee earners 26 74 celebrating religious and cultural festivals throughout the of these issues. It’s made up of three groups – a senior year – such as Chinese New Year, Diwali, Ramadan and women’s group, an associates’ women’s group and a Business services 14 86 Black History Month. business services women’s group – to provide a forum We want to create a workplace where our people can for discussion, arrange events and: Key: Male Female develop, and create a reputation as an employer of choice. • support, encourage and target information for women Our diversity strategy covers all areas of diversity: gender, DACEE – Germany and Austria. MENA – Middle East and North Africa. ROCE – Rest of Central Europe. investing in their personal and professional growth; race, sexual orientation, religion, disability and age. • help build relationships and communication between However, our priority areas reflect those that are most individuals and groups (internally, with external material to our business: organisations and with clients); • gender diversity; • give women opportunities to engage across departments ‘ It’s good to see a strong gender balance at trainee and Gender diversity • social mobility; and in the London office and with clients; associate levels but disappointing that this isn’t better • supporting lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender • help them develop their careers and encourage reflected at partner level. It is a real problem across the 12% of our partners are women. (LGBT) employees. leadership skills; legal sector, but in addition, the firm lags behind other We’ve developed practical activities • promote understanding of issues for women to improve the imbalance between For more on this see UN Global Compact (UNGC) magic circle firms when comparing in the workplace; and the number of female lawyers we train • increase the attractiveness of a long-term career the number of female partners and and those who reach partnership. at Freshfields for women. we would like to see this improve Our associates’ women’s group has created a crossover the coming years.’ departmental mentoring platform to match mentee requests with mentor skill-sets. We now have a strong community of Sir Nicholas Young mentors keen to progress their mentees’ ambitions. External CR Adviser 5 Figure refers to average number of employees excluding contingency staff and contractors Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 13 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Valuing our people To be the leading international law Gender diversity Gender diversity at senior level is one of the biggest Employee profile by gender 5 (per cent) firm, we need to recruit, develop and challenges we face. We’ve developed practical initiatives retain the best people. Talent can come to improve the imbalance between the number of female Global London Asia DACEE MENA ROCE US lawyers we train and those who reach partnership. from anywhere, and our employees The main strands of our gender strategy include: want to work in a culture that’s diverse Partner 93 7 and inclusive. • sponsorship and mentoring; • increasing our number of women partners; Associate 63 37 • creating an inclusive and supportive environment; Diversity and inclusion • flexibility; and Trainee 100 An important part of our efforts is engaging our staff in our • maternity. diversity programme. One of the ways we do this is through Our London women’s network aims to help address some Other fee earners 29 71 celebrating religious and cultural festivals throughout the of these issues. It’s made up of three groups – a senior year – such as Chinese New Year, Diwali, Ramadan and women’s group, an associates’ women’s group and a Business services 17 83 Black History Month. business services women’s group – to provide a forum We want to create a workplace where our people can for discussion, arrange events and: Key: Male Female develop, and create a reputation as an employer of choice. • support, encourage and target information for women Our diversity strategy covers all areas of diversity: gender, DACEE – Germany and Austria. MENA – Middle East and North Africa. ROCE – Rest of Central Europe. investing in their personal and professional growth; race, sexual orientation, religion, disability and age. • help build relationships and communication between However, our priority areas reflect those that are most individuals and groups (internally, with external material to our business: organisations and with clients); • gender diversity; • give women opportunities to engage across departments ‘ It’s good to see a strong gender balance at trainee and Gender diversity • social mobility; and in the London office and with clients; associate levels but disappointing that this isn’t better • supporting lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender • help them develop their careers and encourage reflected at partner level. It is a real problem across the 12% of our partners are women. (LGBT) employees. leadership skills; legal sector, but in addition, the firm lags behind other We’ve developed practical activities • promote understanding of issues for women to improve the imbalance between For more on this see UN Global Compact (UNGC) magic circle firms when comparing in the workplace; and the number of female lawyers we train • increase the attractiveness of a long-term career the number of female partners and and those who reach partnership. at Freshfields for women. we would like to see this improve Our associates’ women’s group has created a crossover the coming years.’ departmental mentoring platform to match mentee requests with mentor skill-sets. We now have a strong community of Sir Nicholas Young mentors keen to progress their mentees’ ambitions. External CR Adviser 5 Figure refers to average number of employees excluding contingency staff and contractors Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 13 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Valuing our people To be the leading international law Gender diversity Gender diversity at senior level is one of the biggest Employee profile by gender 5 (per cent) firm, we need to recruit, develop and challenges we face. We’ve developed practical initiatives retain the best people. Talent can come to improve the imbalance between the number of female Global London Asia DACEE MENA ROCE US lawyers we train and those who reach partnership. from anywhere, and our employees The main strands of our gender strategy include: want to work in a culture that’s diverse Partner 100 and inclusive. • sponsorship and mentoring; • increasing our number of women partners; Associate 83 17 • creating an inclusive and supportive environment; Diversity and inclusion • flexibility; and Trainee 0 0 An important part of our efforts is engaging our staff in our • maternity. diversity programme. One of the ways we do this is through Our London women’s network aims to help address some Other fee earners 41 59 celebrating religious and cultural festivals throughout the of these issues. It’s made up of three groups – a senior year – such as Chinese New Year, Diwali, Ramadan and women’s group, an associates’ women’s group and a Business services 33 67 Black History Month. business services women’s group – to provide a forum We want to create a workplace where our people can for discussion, arrange events and: Key: Male Female develop, and create a reputation as an employer of choice. • support, encourage and target information for women Our diversity strategy covers all areas of diversity: gender, DACEE – Germany and Austria. MENA – Middle East and North Africa. ROCE – Rest of Central Europe. investing in their personal and professional growth; race, sexual orientation, religion, disability and age. • help build relationships and communication between However, our priority areas reflect those that are most individuals and groups (internally, with external material to our business: organisations and with clients); • gender diversity; • give women opportunities to engage across departments ‘ It’s good to see a strong gender balance at trainee and Gender diversity • social mobility; and in the London office and with clients; associate levels but disappointing that this isn’t better • supporting lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender • help them develop their careers and encourage reflected at partner level. It is a real problem across the 12% of our partners are women. (LGBT) employees. leadership skills; legal sector, but in addition, the firm lags behind other We’ve developed practical activities • promote understanding of issues for women to improve the imbalance between For more on this see UN Global Compact (UNGC) magic circle firms when comparing in the workplace; and the number of female lawyers we train • increase the attractiveness of a long-term career the number of female partners and and those who reach partnership. at Freshfields for women. we would like to see this improve Our associates’ women’s group has created a crossover the coming years.’ departmental mentoring platform to match mentee requests with mentor skill-sets. We now have a strong community of Sir Nicholas Young mentors keen to progress their mentees’ ambitions. External CR Adviser 5 Figure refers to average number of employees excluding contingency staff and contractors Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 13 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Valuing our people To be the leading international law Gender diversity Gender diversity at senior level is one of the biggest Employee profile by gender 5 (per cent) firm, we need to recruit, develop and challenges we face. We’ve developed practical initiatives retain the best people. Talent can come to improve the imbalance between the number of female Global London Asia DACEE MENA ROCE US lawyers we train and those who reach partnership. from anywhere, and our employees The main strands of our gender strategy include: want to work in a culture that’s diverse Partner 94 6 and inclusive. • sponsorship and mentoring; • increasing our number of women partners; Associate 52 48 • creating an inclusive and supportive environment; Diversity and inclusion • flexibility; and Trainee 51 49 An important part of our efforts is engaging our staff in our • maternity. diversity programme. One of the ways we do this is through Our London women’s network aims to help address some Other fee earners 33 67 celebrating religious and cultural festivals throughout the of these issues. It’s made up of three groups – a senior year – such as Chinese New Year, Diwali, Ramadan and women’s group, an associates’ women’s group and a Business services 22 78 Black History Month. business services women’s group – to provide a forum We want to create a workplace where our people can for discussion, arrange events and: Key: Male Female develop, and create a reputation as an employer of choice. • support, encourage and target information for women Our diversity strategy covers all areas of diversity: gender, DACEE – Germany and Austria. MENA – Middle East and North Africa. ROCE – Rest of Central Europe. investing in their personal and professional growth; race, sexual orientation, religion, disability and age. • help build relationships and communication between However, our priority areas reflect those that are most individuals and groups (internally, with external material to our business: organisations and with clients); • gender diversity; • give women opportunities to engage across departments ‘ It’s good to see a strong gender balance at trainee and Gender diversity • social mobility; and in the London office and with clients; associate levels but disappointing that this isn’t better • supporting lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender • help them develop their careers and encourage reflected at partner level. It is a real problem across the 12% of our partners are women. (LGBT) employees. leadership skills; legal sector, but in addition, the firm lags behind other We’ve developed practical activities • promote understanding of issues for women to improve the imbalance between For more on this see UN Global Compact (UNGC) magic circle firms when comparing in the workplace; and the number of female lawyers we train • increase the attractiveness of a long-term career the number of female partners and and those who reach partnership. at Freshfields for women. we would like to see this improve Our associates’ women’s group has created a crossover the coming years.’ departmental mentoring platform to match mentee requests with mentor skill-sets. We now have a strong community of Sir Nicholas Young mentors keen to progress their mentees’ ambitions. External CR Adviser 5 Figure refers to average number of employees excluding contingency staff and contractors Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 13 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Valuing our people To be the leading international law Gender diversity Gender diversity at senior level is one of the biggest Employee profile by gender 5 (per cent) firm, we need to recruit, develop and challenges we face. We’ve developed practical initiatives retain the best people. Talent can come to improve the imbalance between the number of female Global London Asia DACEE MENA ROCE US lawyers we train and those who reach partnership. from anywhere, and our employees The main strands of our gender strategy include: want to work in a culture that’s diverse Partner 88 12 and inclusive. • sponsorship and mentoring; • increasing our number of women partners; Associate 56 44 • creating an inclusive and supportive environment; Diversity and inclusion • flexibility; and Trainee 100 An important part of our efforts is engaging our staff in our • maternity. diversity programme. One of the ways we do this is through Our London women’s network aims to help address some Other fee earners 48 52 celebrating religious and cultural festivals throughout the of these issues. It’s made up of three groups – a senior year – such as Chinese New Year, Diwali, Ramadan and women’s group, an associates’ women’s group and a Business services 31 69 Black History Month. business services women’s group – to provide a forum We want to create a workplace where our people can for discussion, arrange events and: Key: Male Female develop, and create a reputation as an employer of choice. • support, encourage and target information for women Our diversity strategy covers all areas of diversity: gender, DACEE – Germany and Austria. MENA – Middle East and North Africa. ROCE – Rest of Central Europe. investing in their personal and professional growth; race, sexual orientation, religion, disability and age. • help build relationships and communication between However, our priority areas reflect those that are most individuals and groups (internally, with external material to our business: organisations and with clients); • gender diversity; • give women opportunities to engage across departments ‘ It’s good to see a strong gender balance at trainee and Gender diversity • social mobility; and in the London office and with clients; associate levels but disappointing that this isn’t better • supporting lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender • help them develop their careers and encourage reflected at partner level. It is a real problem across the 12% of our partners are women. (LGBT) employees. leadership skills; legal sector, but in addition, the firm lags behind other We’ve developed practical activities • promote understanding of issues for women to improve the imbalance between For more on this see UN Global Compact (UNGC) magic circle firms when comparing in the workplace; and the number of female lawyers we train • increase the attractiveness of a long-term career the number of female partners and and those who reach partnership. at Freshfields for women. we would like to see this improve Our associates’ women’s group has created a crossover the coming years.’ departmental mentoring platform to match mentee requests with mentor skill-sets. We now have a strong community of Sir Nicholas Young mentors keen to progress their mentees’ ambitions. External CR Adviser 5 Figure refers to average number of employees excluding contingency staff and contractors Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 13 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Diversity 01 priority area We’ve developed practical initiatives to improve the Gender diversity imbalance between the number of female lawyers we train and those who reach partnership. Diversity 02 priority area In 2012 we created a long-term partnership with the Stephen Lawrence Charitable Trust. Social mobility Diversity Supporting lesbian, gay, 03 We held the first Halo priority area (our LGBT network) conference, which over 65 employees from 10 offices attended. bisexual and transgender (LGBT) employees Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 14 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Valuing our people Social mobility Supporting LGBT employees Reward and recognition In 2012 we launched a long-term partnership with the Stephen Lawrence Charitable Trust. Part of this relationship This year we expanded our LGBT network, Halo, to cover the whole firm. We also held the first Halo conference, Our competitive pay package makes sure we reward our people’s efforts fairly. It includes benefits and a Smart Balance is to develop the Freshfields Stephen Lawrence Scholarship which over 65 employees from 10 offices attended. performance-related bonus in many offices. We benchmark In Germany and Austria we launched gender – to broaden access to the legal profession, by addressing our salaries to make sure they’re appropriate to attract and initiative programmes for female staff. Halo is a worldwide network to share ideas and best the disproportionate under-representation of black men retain the people we need. practice; it has a strong focus to connect with client LGBT Smart Balance is part of the firm’s commitment from low-income families in top law firms. networks and is gaining a strong internal profile. During We have started to review the benefits we offer in all our to move away from a rigid promotion structure The scheme offers scholarships to talented students who 2012/13 membership increased by 50 per cent – this offices to make sure the rewards we offer are consistent from junior lawyer to senior associate. had not previously considered applying to Freshfields. is largely attributed to increased communications and with external markets. 29 students attended an assessment day and six were awareness raising. Junior lawyers are now assessed against transparent Employee Benefits Magazine named us Employee Benefits ‘milestone’ criteria, so that career progression successful in gaining a scholarship. Each scholar is given ‘ I want to continue the good progress we have Team of the Year 2012, recognising the work our in-house is based firmly on merit, technical and business a bespoke programme to develop the skills and abilities benefits team does to meet our HR and business strategies. skills development, and good performance. they need for a career in law, as well as a trainee interview. made over recent years to make sure our firm is the kind of place where the LGBT community feel The judges said: The scheme includes flexible working options, For more on this see Supporting our communities welcome and supported and willing to be open training, and an updated IT system to allow ‘ T he team showed good innovation for this sector. people to work remotely and manage their work/ about their sexuality.’ Understanding its own environment and shaping life balance. It aims to improve gender diversity Will Lawes it to its own particular needs made a big difference.’ through training and a partner mentoring programme Senior Partner for female associates. New lawyers also get In 2013, Azur magazine, the German law student and career guidance counsellors and buddies. Recruitment graduate magazine voted Freshfields ‘Top Employer of the We encourage people from diverse backgrounds to Year’. Freshfields ranked first out of 230 law firms in Azur’s Since launching the programme two and a half years consider a career in law, in line with our diversity work list of Germany’s most attractive employers for lawyers, ago, 60 partners have undertaken mentor training. ‘ Freshfields should be applauded for its part and the focus of our community investment programme. based on hundreds of associate interviews. Partners and associates have also had more than 680 hours of training on how to deliver feedback. in widening access to the legal profession. We have a process in place in order to ensure that we The Freshfields Stephen Lawrence Scholarship have integrated the London Living Wage (LLW) into London scheme is innovative and exciting. contractor contracts. We believe we have achieved this We hope this will encourage other across existing contracts in London. law firms to launch similar schemes.’ We’re widening access to the profession and inspiring ‘ The scheme puts real weight and commitment students to pursue further education. behind the firm’s policy to attract and keep For more on this see Supporting our communities the best talent.’ Polly Courtice LVO Klaus-Stefan Hohenstatt Partner, Hamburg External CR Adviser Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 15 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Valuing our people Engaging employees Learning and development Our aim is to create a friendly and supportive working environment. We want to offer great career and We’ve tailored our learning and development programmes to legal and non-legal staff. They help our people progress China Academy development opportunities, deliver fair rewards their careers and deliver exceptional client service. As an international law firm, it is essential that for our employees’ efforts, and give our employees we can work to the highest standards in all Last year, over 600 associates and 350 business services a good work/life balance. jurisdictions. So we’ve developed the ‘China Academy’ staff attended global learning programmes in management Our annual employee engagement survey helps us assess and leadership skills. to recruit, retain and develop great lawyers who have staff and workplace issues. In 2012/13 we had a 75 per cent Mandarin language skills and who appreciate Chinese Around a fifth of our associates attend a global business culture. response rate. development programme each year, usually when they The survey showed that our people feel very proud move to a new career milestone. The Academy gives business and cross-cultural about the quality of the work they do for clients and they’re training and shares best practice, legal know-how At least a third of our global staff in management and and market intelligence. Through this we can position more willing than ever to recommend Freshfields as a place leadership roles have attended a learning development ourselves as the adviser of choice, and make sure to work. programme since the full suite was launched in 2011 our people can support our Chinese clients wherever We plan to improve our scores and address disparity in – in many cases, such as Asia, US and Germany, they do business. scores between populations. Focus areas include improving it is closer to three-quarters of staff. opportunities to use and develop our people’s skills and We will expand the academy concept for other We encourage secondments because they help us broaden high-growth markets, such as the Middle East, improving work/life balance. our business knowledge and skills and build our working Africa and Latin America. We work where there is the greatest scope for improvement relationships – externally with clients and charities, and and intend to learn from those groups with the highest internally between offices and departments. scores. We’ve created an intranet site where we share This year we launched the Freshfields Learning Portal, examples of good practice. a ‘one-stop-shop’ for all learning in the firm. It lets our people see all the available courses and training Learning and Engaging employees ‘ We’ve seen some encouraging changes since we started the global engagement survey four years ago, but we materials, register for courses, and access learning development support, including e-learning. want to be even better.’ The Learning Portal will also accurately record all training Kevin Hogarth hours for legal and non-legal staff. Global Head of HR 75% response to our global engagement survey in 2012/13 hours of training for lawyers in London Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 16 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Valuing our people Managing performance Health and wellbeing As well as formal appraisals and interim reviews, we encourage day-to-day conversations about performance Our priority is to protect the health, safety and wellbeing of our employees. Our US and London offices offer an ‘ If the firm is to achieve its goal of improving Mental health gender diversity, then more needs to be done and development. employee assistance programme that’s free, confidential Mental health issues in the workplace are to encourage flexible working. Investing in IT and available 24 hours a day to our staff, their partners common, but it’s rare to talk about about these Regular feedback from peers and colleagues forms a vital infrastructure to assist with remote working and any family members who live with them. in the legal sector. We’re trying to change this. part of our approach. To help achieve this, we’ve introduced is a necessary but not adequate part of the an online tool to increase feedback completion rates. In London we have an on-site gym, doctor, dentist, In 2012 we ran a psychological wellbeing month. This physiotherapist, parent and baby room, contemplation solution to the problem.’ featured psychologist Bill Mitchell, who ran workshops Flexible working room and access to a nutritionist. to raise psychological resilience. We also launched Flexible working is one of our biggest challenges. We have an online tool and held a talk on staying resilient while flexible working arrangements for a number of our staff but Accidents coping with family needs, run by My Family Care. recognise that we still have more to do. We report health and safety figures for our London office For more information go online only. Our target for 2012/13 was an accident rate of less We need flexible working to make sure we retain a diverse than one accident per 100 people, and less than one workforce. We have to balance the need to give our clients reportable incident per 1,000 people. exceptional service at all times with the needs of our employees, who want to work flexibly at different stages In 2012/13 the number of accidents increased slightly of their career. compared with 2011/12. On the whole we’ve seen Polly Courtice LVO accidents level off in recent years compared with Our Freshfields Continuum network allows past External CR Adviser previous years, but we’re keen to meet our target. employees to do ad hoc work for the firm. Both lawyers and non-lawyers can submit their details and be called We also aim to have zero reportable accidents. upon during busy periods. Health and safety data (London) In the past year we’ve upgraded our IT infrastructure for a more reliable remote working system allowing employees to access email and our internal contact database through Accidents by staff Accidents by contractors RIDDOR 6 mobile devices such as iPhones and iPads. We will review our approach to flexible working and identify 2012/13 16 new opportunities to develop this. 2011/12 13 2010/11 17 2009/10 30 6 Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 17 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Valuing our people Managing performance Health and wellbeing As well as formal appraisals and interim reviews, we encourage day-to-day conversations about performance Our priority is to protect the health, safety and wellbeing of our employees. Our US and London offices offer an ‘ If the firm is to achieve its goal of improving Mental health gender diversity, then more needs to be done and development. employee assistance programme that’s free, confidential Mental health issues in the workplace are to encourage flexible working. Investing in IT and available 24 hours a day to our staff, their partners common, but it’s rare to talk about about these Regular feedback from peers and colleagues forms a vital infrastructure to assist with remote working and any family members who live with them. in the legal sector. We’re trying to change this. part of our approach. To help achieve this, we’ve introduced is a necessary but not adequate part of the an online tool to increase feedback completion rates. In London we have an on-site gym, doctor, dentist, In 2012 we ran a psychological wellbeing month. This physiotherapist, parent and baby room, contemplation solution to the problem.’ featured psychologist Bill Mitchell, who ran workshops Flexible working room and access to a nutritionist. to raise psychological resilience. We also launched Flexible working is one of our biggest challenges. We have an online tool and held a talk on staying resilient while flexible working arrangements for a number of our staff but Accidents coping with family needs, run by My Family Care. recognise that we still have more to do. We report health and safety figures for our London office For more information go online only. Our target for 2012/13 was an accident rate of less We need flexible working to make sure we retain a diverse than one accident per 100 people, and less than one workforce. We have to balance the need to give our clients reportable incident per 1,000 people. exceptional service at all times with the needs of our employees, who want to work flexibly at different stages In 2012/13 the number of accidents increased slightly of their career. compared with 2011/12. On the whole we’ve seen Polly Courtice LVO accidents level off in recent years compared with Our Freshfields Continuum network allows past External CR Adviser previous years, but we’re keen to meet our target. employees to do ad hoc work for the firm. Both lawyers and non-lawyers can submit their details and be called We also aim to have zero reportable accidents. upon during busy periods. Health and safety data (London) In the past year we’ve upgraded our IT infrastructure for a more reliable remote working system allowing employees to access email and our internal contact database through Accidents by staff Accidents by contractors RIDDOR 6 mobile devices such as iPhones and iPads. We will review our approach to flexible working and identify 2012/13 18 new opportunities to develop this. 2011/12 10 2010/11 9 2009/10 13 6 Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 17 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Valuing our people Managing performance Health and wellbeing As well as formal appraisals and interim reviews, we encourage day-to-day conversations about performance Our priority is to protect the health, safety and wellbeing of our employees. Our US and London offices offer an ‘ If the firm is to achieve its goal of improving Mental health gender diversity, then more needs to be done and development. employee assistance programme that’s free, confidential Mental health issues in the workplace are to encourage flexible working. Investing in IT and available 24 hours a day to our staff, their partners common, but it’s rare to talk about about these Regular feedback from peers and colleagues forms a vital infrastructure to assist with remote working and any family members who live with them. in the legal sector. We’re trying to change this. part of our approach. To help achieve this, we’ve introduced is a necessary but not adequate part of the an online tool to increase feedback completion rates. In London we have an on-site gym, doctor, dentist, In 2012 we ran a psychological wellbeing month. This physiotherapist, parent and baby room, contemplation solution to the problem.’ featured psychologist Bill Mitchell, who ran workshops Flexible working room and access to a nutritionist. to raise psychological resilience. We also launched Flexible working is one of our biggest challenges. We have an online tool and held a talk on staying resilient while flexible working arrangements for a number of our staff but Accidents coping with family needs, run by My Family Care. recognise that we still have more to do. We report health and safety figures for our London office For more information go online only. Our target for 2012/13 was an accident rate of less We need flexible working to make sure we retain a diverse than one accident per 100 people, and less than one workforce. We have to balance the need to give our clients reportable incident per 1,000 people. exceptional service at all times with the needs of our employees, who want to work flexibly at different stages In 2012/13 the number of accidents increased slightly of their career. compared with 2011/12. On the whole we’ve seen Polly Courtice LVO accidents level off in recent years compared with Our Freshfields Continuum network allows past External CR Adviser previous years, but we’re keen to meet our target. employees to do ad hoc work for the firm. Both lawyers and non-lawyers can submit their details and be called We also aim to have zero reportable accidents. upon during busy periods. Health and safety data (London) In the past year we’ve upgraded our IT infrastructure for a more reliable remote working system allowing employees to access email and our internal contact database through Accidents by staff Accidents by contractors RIDDOR 6 mobile devices such as iPhones and iPads. We will review our approach to flexible working and identify 2012/13 4 new opportunities to develop this. 2011/12 0 2010/11 1 2009/10 1 6 Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 17 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Pro bono We have a professional responsibility CourtNav is an online tool that helps people who can’t to use our legal knowledge for the public afford a lawyer navigate the court system. As well as our legal input, Freshfields IT and PR professionals advised 2012/13 Highlights good. We have the most impact when on the tool. The prototype secured funding from the Ministry of Justice to develop the first module. We worked on 431 matters we do what we do best: giving legal for 253 pro bono clients. advice, whether to tackle the complex Pro bono multi-jurisdictional issues that NGOs In Europe we’re working to embed a pro bono culture in the legal sector. We were instrumental in setting up Pro bono face, or to help vulnerable individuals Deutschland eV, Germany’s first pro bono organisation, We recorded 43,212 pro bono hours, navigate a legal system. which has grown to 31 members. We also helped develop an all-time record for the firm. the Paris Pro bono round table. At Freshfields, we recognise that we owe pro bono clients the same duties as paying clients. We don’t distinguish Microfinance CourtNav between pro bono and billable time for internal purposes We helped FINCA International, the Washington DC-based – such as for bonuses, appraisals and work allocation. Professional skills pro bono hours CourtNav is an online tool that helps people who microfinance non-profit, create a first-of-its-kind socially We call the combination of chargeable and pro bono amounted to an additional 3,002 hours. can’t afford a lawyer navigate the court system. responsible investment partnership with development banks time, ‘client hours’. and investment firms. Watch the video We also use the professional skills of non-lawyers in our The deal created a new model for microfinance business, which we call ‘professional skills pro bono’. organisations to raise equity capital and was commended Many pro bono programmes only respond to client demand. in the Financial Times US Innovative Lawyers report 2012. But we take proactive steps to shape the areas in which we work – especially around: Human rights Five year global pro bono data (hours) Over 1,000 of our lawyers undertook pro bono • the rule of law; We acted pro bono for the children’s commissioner in a test work this year – 41 per cent of our average 2012/13 43,212 • access to justice; and case in the England and Wales Court of Appeal (Criminal fee-earner headcount. • global poverty. Division) – believed to be the first third-party intervention 2011/12 36,990 in this court. We do this by working with our clients to develop projects ‘ Without your assistance it is inconceivable that [the] when we see a gap in service provision or an issue we can The case involved victims of human trafficking – including 2010/11 37,917 three children who had been put to work in cannabis factories OCC would have had the capacity to undertake the challenge, or where we can steer a culture shift in pro bono. in the UK – who, instead of being treated as trafficking intervention […] The availability of pro bono services 2009/10 42,561 victims, were convicted of drugs and immigration offences. has been critical to my securing policy objectives in Access to justice 2008/09 26,168 Faced with cuts to legal aid and local government funding All the appeals were allowed and the court gave strong guidance this important area of child exploitation […] You have for advice in the UK, we pitched ‘CourtNav’ to our pro bono to make sure this sort of injustice does not happen again. a dedicated staff who are a credit to your [firm].’ 2007/08 16,120 client, the Royal Courts of Justice Advice Bureau. For more on this see UN Global Compact (UNGC) Dr Maggie Atkinson Children’s Commissioner Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 18 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Supporting our communities At Freshfields, the theme of our As well as helping communities, our long-term sustainable Since the programme began, we’ve offered work partnerships with community groups and charities add experience placements to 227 people, 22 of whom have community investment programme value to our business – particularly by developing volunteer gone on to get full or part-time work at the firm, and many is social inclusion. We believe that, skills, and raising motivation and job satisfaction. more elsewhere. whatever their background or Employability skills Raising aspirations circumstances, everyone should be In 2012/13 we helped improve the employability skills In Frankfurt, Berlin and Cologne we work with START able to participate in – and contribute of over 4,000 people. Foundation to run a two-day workshop for students Pull this out as a case study? between the ages of 16 and 20 from immigrant Write some copy? to – society. We were awarded ‘highly commended’ for our flagship backgrounds on their scholarship programme. This is Ready for Work programme in the Business in the to help young people understand more about careers Ninety per cent of our employees feel that supporting Community (BITC) Big Tick awards for Work Inclusion. in law and encourage a more diverse group to consider charitable organisations and community needs is important, Run in partnership with BITC, this programme aims to break the legal profession. according to our 2012 survey. the cycle of homelessness and support socially excluded Our Brussels office participates in the annual Discover Ready for work Our community investment programme lets all our people people into work. Through work experience, training and job – lawyers and non-lawyers – give their time and skills to coaching, we help participants learn essential employability Your Talent workshop with other businesses, to help young people from less advantaged backgrounds build their skills programme tackle social issues. skills, so the people furthest from the job market can get and employability. You can watch a film about and keep jobs, and live independently. Each office tailors its community activities to focus on one of our former Ready for education, raise aspirations and help people build their The people we support face barriers into work, including: ‘ We wanted to help youngsters increase their chances to Work participant’s journey employability skills. This is where we can make the get access to the job market by giving them basic skills, out of homelessness. • being at risk of homelessness; most impact. including “learning by doing” sessions and giving them • being in care; Watch Solomon’s Story In the last year our community programme has gone from • long-term unemployment; advice about what is expected of them. strength to strength. In 2012/13: • criminal convictions; and • not having the right qualifications. T hese youngsters often don’t know how to prepare • just under a quarter of our people took part in ‘ The Ready for Work programme changed my life. community projects; for an interview because they have no link with the Businesses can play a large part to cut re-offending It escalated me to heights I could never have reached • they gave 17,666 hours; a 22 per cent increase through employment, so we’ve introduced procedures to professional world. We wanted to create a bridge to through my own efforts and has allowed me for on the previous year; and let us work with ex-offenders. This involves working closely that world, and to make the “working world” more • our work has directly benefited over 12,000 individuals with London Probation Service and completing stringent the first time ever to achieve my full potential in my tangible for them.’ and more than 70 organisations. risk assessment. personal life and in my working life. I am eternally Angélique de Brousse grateful to all of those involved in the programme, The increase in hours volunteered this year is largely Principal Associate, Antitrust, due to focusing our efforts on strategic relationships. Competition and Trade, Brussels they really do change lives for the better.’ Former Ready for Work participant now on an apprenticeship scheme at Freshfields Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 19 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Supporting our communities Supporting education Recognising our volunteers In London last year we hosted over 300 young people on work experience placements at the office, with many more A major development this year has been recognising our volunteers. We launched the Senior Partner’s Volunteering Ban the Box ‘ Freshfields staff make a huge contribution to the communities in which they live and work. attending careers days. Award, which celebrates the great work of some of our We support Business in the Community’s ‘Ban the Box’ campaign to encourage employers to remove the tick-box 60,000 hours of pro bono and community volunteering people around the network. Both these programmes actively develop skills, such as asking about criminal convictions from their application in the reporting year is an impressive benchmark. negotiation, communication and teamwork, to equip young We have also developed closer links with our learning and forms. The tick-box creates a barrier into empoyment for We agree that the focus for the coming years should people with the knowledge they need for a career in the development programmes. We encouraged participants to the 9.2 million people in the UK with a conviction. legal profession. recognise how volunteering has boosted their skills and talk be in increasing engagement across all offices and about this in their appraisals. This is not about banning disclosure altogether or – for pro bono – ensuring consistent In Paris we have been working for over five years with removing the legally needed checks for ‘regulated’ roles. secondary school, Paul Verlaine, in a disadvantaged We also support individuals in their fund-raising efforts for international implementation The campaign aims to move disclosure to later Parisian suburb. Each year we welcome a class of pupils their own chosen causes through the international matched in the recruitment process so that businesses can of the client hours policy.’ into our offices for a ‘discovering business’ day. They funding policy, which was launched this year. And we offer assess the candidates’ suitability for the role first. are also accompanied by volunteers on a day trip to our people in some offices the chance to give tax efficiently the Paris Courts of Justice. After a selection process, to charity through payroll giving schemes. Removing the tick-box lets candidates show their progress several pupils return to the office for a two-week work since their conviction, so that employers no longer miss experience placement. out on committed and reformed individuals who want to Looking forward get into work and have the right skills for the role. Our New York office supports Legal Outreach, which works A real challenge has been involving all our offices in Sir Nicholas Young with exceptional high-school students from under-served community activities and the consistency of their approach. We plan to ban ours by May 2014. External CR Adviser communities to teach them professional skills through A small number are struggling to fully engage and this will law-related activities. be something we will work on in the next year. We plan to Students complete week-long internships during which they launch a flagship international programme, which will go Employee involvement in pro bono and community investment (CI) programmes 7 work on a mock deal, conduct due diligence interviews, some way to achieving this. Our aim is for at least half of develop negotiation skills, analyse their findings and our offices to be actively involved in this programme over the next two years. Employee Total hours Total hours Total value present their recommendation to a ‘board of directors’ made up of New York partners. involvement contributed to pro contributed to including management We introduced impact measurement tools for our community programmes this year. We plan to increase (per cent) bono programmes CI programmes costs (£m) the number of partnerships and offices that collect this data so we can give a more fair reflection of the people and organisations we’re reaching. 2012/13 37 2011/12 39 2010/11 39 7 These figures refer to average number of staff including contingency staff and contractors. Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 20 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Supporting our communities Supporting education Recognising our volunteers In London last year we hosted over 300 young people on work experience placements at the office, with many more A major development this year has been recognising our volunteers. We launched the Senior Partner’s Volunteering Ban the Box ‘ Freshfields staff make a huge contribution to the communities in which they live and work. attending careers days. Award, which celebrates the great work of some of our We support Business in the Community’s ‘Ban the Box’ campaign to encourage employers to remove the tick-box 60,000 hours of pro bono and community volunteering people around the network. Both these programmes actively develop skills, such as asking about criminal convictions from their application in the reporting year is an impressive benchmark. negotiation, communication and teamwork, to equip young We have also developed closer links with our learning and forms. The tick-box creates a barrier into empoyment for We agree that the focus for the coming years should people with the knowledge they need for a career in the development programmes. We encouraged participants to the 9.2 million people in the UK with a conviction. legal profession. recognise how volunteering has boosted their skills and talk be in increasing engagement across all offices and about this in their appraisals. This is not about banning disclosure altogether or – for pro bono – ensuring consistent In Paris we have been working for over five years with removing the legally needed checks for ‘regulated’ roles. secondary school, Paul Verlaine, in a disadvantaged We also support individuals in their fund-raising efforts for international implementation The campaign aims to move disclosure to later Parisian suburb. Each year we welcome a class of pupils their own chosen causes through the international matched in the recruitment process so that businesses can of the client hours policy.’ into our offices for a ‘discovering business’ day. They funding policy, which was launched this year. And we offer assess the candidates’ suitability for the role first. are also accompanied by volunteers on a day trip to our people in some offices the chance to give tax efficiently the Paris Courts of Justice. After a selection process, to charity through payroll giving schemes. Removing the tick-box lets candidates show their progress several pupils return to the office for a two-week work since their conviction, so that employers no longer miss experience placement. out on committed and reformed individuals who want to Looking forward get into work and have the right skills for the role. Our New York office supports Legal Outreach, which works A real challenge has been involving all our offices in Sir Nicholas Young with exceptional high-school students from under-served community activities and the consistency of their approach. We plan to ban ours by May 2014. External CR Adviser communities to teach them professional skills through A small number are struggling to fully engage and this will law-related activities. be something we will work on in the next year. We plan to Students complete week-long internships during which they launch a flagship international programme, which will go Employee involvement in pro bono and community investment (CI) programmes 7 work on a mock deal, conduct due diligence interviews, some way to achieving this. Our aim is for at least half of develop negotiation skills, analyse their findings and our offices to be actively involved in this programme over the next two years. Employee Total hours Total hours Total value present their recommendation to a ‘board of directors’ made up of New York partners. involvement contributed to pro contributed to including management We introduced impact measurement tools for our community programmes this year. We plan to increase (per cent) bono programmes CI programmes costs (£m) the number of partnerships and offices that collect this data so we can give a more fair reflection of the people and organisations we’re reaching. 2012/13 43,213 2011/12 36,990 2010/11 37,916 7 These figures refer to average number of staff including contingency staff and contractors. Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 20 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Supporting our communities Supporting education Recognising our volunteers In London last year we hosted over 300 young people on work experience placements at the office, with many more A major development this year has been recognising our volunteers. We launched the Senior Partner’s Volunteering Ban the Box ‘ Freshfields staff make a huge contribution to the communities in which they live and work. attending careers days. Award, which celebrates the great work of some of our We support Business in the Community’s ‘Ban the Box’ campaign to encourage employers to remove the tick-box 60,000 hours of pro bono and community volunteering people around the network. Both these programmes actively develop skills, such as asking about criminal convictions from their application in the reporting year is an impressive benchmark. negotiation, communication and teamwork, to equip young We have also developed closer links with our learning and forms. The tick-box creates a barrier into empoyment for We agree that the focus for the coming years should people with the knowledge they need for a career in the development programmes. We encouraged participants to the 9.2 million people in the UK with a conviction. legal profession. recognise how volunteering has boosted their skills and talk be in increasing engagement across all offices and about this in their appraisals. This is not about banning disclosure altogether or – for pro bono – ensuring consistent In Paris we have been working for over five years with removing the legally needed checks for ‘regulated’ roles. secondary school, Paul Verlaine, in a disadvantaged We also support individuals in their fund-raising efforts for international implementation The campaign aims to move disclosure to later Parisian suburb. Each year we welcome a class of pupils their own chosen causes through the international matched in the recruitment process so that businesses can of the client hours policy.’ into our offices for a ‘discovering business’ day. They funding policy, which was launched this year. And we offer assess the candidates’ suitability for the role first. are also accompanied by volunteers on a day trip to our people in some offices the chance to give tax efficiently the Paris Courts of Justice. After a selection process, to charity through payroll giving schemes. Removing the tick-box lets candidates show their progress several pupils return to the office for a two-week work since their conviction, so that employers no longer miss experience placement. out on committed and reformed individuals who want to Looking forward get into work and have the right skills for the role. Our New York office supports Legal Outreach, which works A real challenge has been involving all our offices in Sir Nicholas Young with exceptional high-school students from under-served community activities and the consistency of their approach. We plan to ban ours by May 2014. External CR Adviser communities to teach them professional skills through A small number are struggling to fully engage and this will law-related activities. be something we will work on in the next year. We plan to Students complete week-long internships during which they launch a flagship international programme, which will go Employee involvement in pro bono and community investment (CI) programmes 7 work on a mock deal, conduct due diligence interviews, some way to achieving this. Our aim is for at least half of develop negotiation skills, analyse their findings and our offices to be actively involved in this programme over the next two years. Employee Total hours Total hours Total value present their recommendation to a ‘board of directors’ made up of New York partners. involvement contributed to pro contributed to including management We introduced impact measurement tools for our community programmes this year. We plan to increase (per cent) bono programmes CI programmes costs (£m) the number of partnerships and offices that collect this data so we can give a more fair reflection of the people and organisations we’re reaching. 2012/13 17,666 2011/12 14,508 2010/11 11,824 7 These figures refer to average number of staff including contingency staff and contractors. Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 20 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Supporting our communities Supporting education Recognising our volunteers In London last year we hosted over 300 young people on work experience placements at the office, with many more A major development this year has been recognising our volunteers. We launched the Senior Partner’s Volunteering Ban the Box ‘ Freshfields staff make a huge contribution to the communities in which they live and work. attending careers days. Award, which celebrates the great work of some of our We support Business in the Community’s ‘Ban the Box’ campaign to encourage employers to remove the tick-box 60,000 hours of pro bono and community volunteering people around the network. Both these programmes actively develop skills, such as asking about criminal convictions from their application in the reporting year is an impressive benchmark. negotiation, communication and teamwork, to equip young We have also developed closer links with our learning and forms. The tick-box creates a barrier into empoyment for We agree that the focus for the coming years should people with the knowledge they need for a career in the development programmes. We encouraged participants to the 9.2 million people in the UK with a conviction. legal profession. recognise how volunteering has boosted their skills and talk be in increasing engagement across all offices and about this in their appraisals. This is not about banning disclosure altogether or – for pro bono – ensuring consistent In Paris we have been working for over five years with removing the legally needed checks for ‘regulated’ roles. secondary school, Paul Verlaine, in a disadvantaged We also support individuals in their fund-raising efforts for international implementation The campaign aims to move disclosure to later Parisian suburb. Each year we welcome a class of pupils their own chosen causes through the international matched in the recruitment process so that businesses can of the client hours policy.’ into our offices for a ‘discovering business’ day. They funding policy, which was launched this year. And we offer assess the candidates’ suitability for the role first. are also accompanied by volunteers on a day trip to our people in some offices the chance to give tax efficiently the Paris Courts of Justice. After a selection process, to charity through payroll giving schemes. Removing the tick-box lets candidates show their progress several pupils return to the office for a two-week work since their conviction, so that employers no longer miss experience placement. out on committed and reformed individuals who want to Looking forward get into work and have the right skills for the role. Our New York office supports Legal Outreach, which works A real challenge has been involving all our offices in Sir Nicholas Young with exceptional high-school students from under-served community activities and the consistency of their approach. We plan to ban ours by May 2014. External CR Adviser communities to teach them professional skills through A small number are struggling to fully engage and this will law-related activities. be something we will work on in the next year. We plan to Students complete week-long internships during which they launch a flagship international programme, which will go Employee involvement in pro bono and community investment (CI) programmes 7 work on a mock deal, conduct due diligence interviews, some way to achieving this. Our aim is for at least half of develop negotiation skills, analyse their findings and our offices to be actively involved in this programme over the next two years. Employee Total hours Total hours Total value present their recommendation to a ‘board of directors’ made up of New York partners. involvement contributed to pro contributed to including management We introduced impact measurement tools for our community programmes this year. We plan to increase (per cent) bono programmes CI programmes costs (£m) the number of partnerships and offices that collect this data so we can give a more fair reflection of the people and organisations we’re reaching. 2012/13 10.48 2011/12 8.96 2010/11 8.79 7 These figures refer to average number of staff including contingency staff and contractors. Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 20 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance In 2013 we launched a new partnership with the British Red Cross, voted for by our employees. The project helps to protect vulnerable communities in Bangladesh prepare for climate change disasters. Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 21 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Managing our environmental impact We strive to mitigate our contribution Through legal advice ‘ The international community has set itself challenging to climate change and to reduce our use One of the greatest impacts we have on the environment is through our legal advice. Our low carbon group brings goals to reduce carbon emissions from all sources over 2012/13 highlights the next 20 years. This will need new technologies and of resources. In addition, we offset our together lawyers from across the firm to help clients meet new legal infrastructures. Freshfields is committed to London office environmental their climate change goals. management system certified to carbon emissions and support climate maintaining a leadership position in this area Advice includes: change adaptation projects. of thinking and endeavour.’ • planning for renewable energy; • nuclear power; Paul Bowden Partner • new energy technologies and infrastructure; • energy conservation; London office re-accredited Our environmental management system with the Carbon Trust • built environment and carbon markets; In the past year our environmental management system • project finance; Standard and our refurbished (EMS) in London has been certified to the international building was awarded • construction; standard ISO 14001. Our system has six core components: • procurement; a BREEAM Very Good • capital markets; • energy use; rating for sustainability. • private equity; • business travel; • intellectual property; and • waste; • real estate. • water; Zero waste to landfill • paper and printing; and for the London office. We advise on large, innovative infrastructure projects • procurement. to deliver the low carbon economy and often deliver ‘first-of-a-kind’ deals and projects. We plan to replicate this system, where possible, in our other offices. We help clients decarbonise the electricity they produce ‘ There’s been some good progress in London, especially and consume, through emissions-trading schemes and Our carbon impact carbon pricing mechanisms, smart grids, smart metering since the environmental management system was Our biggest carbon impacts are from energy in our and new technology – including new transport technology. buildings and business travel. We aim to reduce our carbon certified to ISO14001. Freshfields must now focus We’ve advised sponsors, investors and promoters of low footprint and the impact we have on the environment. on rolling these practices out globally. carbon energy projects using flexible mechanisms under This year our gross carbon footprint increased by 2 per cent Energy reduction in international the Kyoto Protocol. These include: compared with our baseline of 2011/12. This is because of offices should become a priority.’ • clean development mechanism and joint a slight increase in business travel and electricity use, but a implementation projects; reduction in our Scope 1 energy use – energy from sources • the revisions to the EU Emissions Trading System owned or controlled by the company. and emissions trading; and We have increased headcount in the reporting year and Sir Ian Cheshire • advising the UK Government on its first carbon our gross emissions per capita have reduced by 2 per cent External CR Adviser competition. against our baseline. Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 22 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Our carbon impact Energy in our buildings We’ve been supporting climate change adaptation projects In the last few years we’ve invested in energy efficient for three years. This year we launched a new partnership Carbon emissions (tonnes CO2e) equipment in our London office. This year we’ve focused with the British Red Cross, voted for by our employees. on optimising the use of this equipment and adjusting The project helps to protect vulnerable communities in Bangladesh prepare for climate change disasters. Gross Global 8 Net Global 9 Gross Travel Emissions per FTE 10 our building management system to achieve maximum reductions in energy use. As a result we’ve reduced energy use by 3 per cent Using resources responsibly 2012/13 2,208 13,588 11,431 27,227 compared with our baseline year and by 12 per cent since Paper and printing 2009/10. We believe we’ll reach our target of a 10 per cent We use a lot of paper. Legal firm employees are thought to 2011/12 2,384 13,251 11,037 26,744 reduction against our baseline by the end of 2014/15. use two to three times as much paper as an average office worker. We’re trying to change this and have incorporated 2010/11 2,741 13,315 10,410 26,474 Despite our success in London, globally our energy use paper and printing into our EMS. Our target is to reduce increased by 1 per cent in the last year. Our focus now our paper use in London by 25 per cent by the end of Direct GHG emissions Indirect GHG emissions Business travel is to share best practice in London with our other offices. 2014/15. In the past year we’ve reduced printer numbers by 10 per cent in London. Our approach to reduce business travel Our Rome and Brussels offices have implemented 8 All historic figures have been restated due to a change in methodology. This has not affected the trend data. 9 Accounting for green tariff electricity and travel that has already been offset by suppliers. This does not include offsets purchased to remain carbon neutral. Business travel is one of our major impact areas. Over the follow-me printing and have cut printing by 20 per cent. 10 Full time Employee. Includes all staff, contingency, contractors and external suppliers. past three years we’ve increased our business travel mainly We are reviewing our printing globally to identify areas because of more international business development, for further printer and paper reductions. Our global paper particularly in Asia, Latin America and Africa. reduction target is 10 per cent by May 2015 compared Using resources responsibly Around 40 per cent of our business air travel is when we’re with our 2012/13 paper use baseline. acting for a client. The remainder is for internal meetings Waste and water Global paper purchased 11 Global waste disposal 12 Global water use 13 and to develop business. Our target was to collect more water and waste data across We’ve invested in high-quality videoconferencing (VC) our 28 offices by 2013/14. We have met this target and equipment and all our offices now have access to this. reported globally on this data for the first time. Since 2010/11 our VC use has more than doubled. We still have to improve this, especially for our offices for We plan to reduce our travel impact even more through which we’ve partially or fully estimated the data. In London VC and new ways of working. we don’t send any waste to landfill; we plan to replicate this globally, where possible by the end of 2014/15. Adapting to climate change The firm has been carbon neutral since 2007. We buy For more on this see UN Global Compact (UNGC) offsets from projects that provide social and economic 11 Data was estimated for four sites benefits as well as environmental ones. This year we have 12 40% of the data has been estimated collaborated with BP Target Neutral, to offset our emissions 13 30% of the data has been estimated from a portfolio of six projects. Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 23 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Our carbon impact Energy in our buildings We’ve been supporting climate change adaptation projects In the last few years we’ve invested in energy efficient for three years. This year we launched a new partnership Carbon emissions (tonnes CO2e) equipment in our London office. This year we’ve focused with the British Red Cross, voted for by our employees. on optimising the use of this equipment and adjusting The project helps to protect vulnerable communities in Bangladesh prepare for climate change disasters. Gross Global 8 Net Global 9 Gross Travel Emissions per FTE 10 our building management system to achieve maximum reductions in energy use. As a result we’ve reduced energy use by 3 per cent Using resources responsibly 2012/13 22,084 compared with our baseline year and by 12 per cent since Paper and printing 2009/10. We believe we’ll reach our target of a 10 per cent We use a lot of paper. Legal firm employees are thought to 2011/12 25,650 reduction against our baseline by the end of 2014/15. use two to three times as much paper as an average office worker. We’re trying to change this and have incorporated 2010/11 25,323 Despite our success in London, globally our energy use paper and printing into our EMS. Our target is to reduce increased by 1 per cent in the last year. Our focus now our paper use in London by 25 per cent by the end of is to share best practice in London with our other offices. 2014/15. In the past year we’ve reduced printer numbers by 10 per cent in London. Our approach to reduce business travel Our Rome and Brussels offices have implemented 8 All historic figures have been restated due to a change in methodology. This has not affected the trend data. 9 Accounting for green tariff electricity and travel that has already been offset by suppliers. This does not include offsets purchased to remain carbon neutral. Business travel is one of our major impact areas. Over the follow-me printing and have cut printing by 20 per cent. 10 Full time Employee. Includes all staff, contingency, contractors and external suppliers. past three years we’ve increased our business travel mainly We are reviewing our printing globally to identify areas because of more international business development, for further printer and paper reductions. Our global paper particularly in Asia, Latin America and Africa. reduction target is 10 per cent by May 2015 compared Using resources responsibly Around 40 per cent of our business air travel is when we’re with our 2012/13 paper use baseline. acting for a client. The remainder is for internal meetings Waste and water Global paper purchased 11 Global waste disposal 12 Global water use 13 and to develop business. Our target was to collect more water and waste data across We’ve invested in high-quality videoconferencing (VC) our 28 offices by 2013/14. We have met this target and equipment and all our offices now have access to this. reported globally on this data for the first time. Since 2010/11 our VC use has more than doubled. We still have to improve this, especially for our offices for We plan to reduce our travel impact even more through which we’ve partially or fully estimated the data. In London VC and new ways of working. we don’t send any waste to landfill; we plan to replicate this globally, where possible by the end of 2014/15. Adapting to climate change The firm has been carbon neutral since 2007. We buy For more on this see UN Global Compact (UNGC) offsets from projects that provide social and economic 11 Data was estimated for four sites benefits as well as environmental ones. This year we have 12 40% of the data has been estimated collaborated with BP Target Neutral, to offset our emissions 13 30% of the data has been estimated from a portfolio of six projects. Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 23 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Our carbon impact Energy in our buildings We’ve been supporting climate change adaptation projects In the last few years we’ve invested in energy efficient for three years. This year we launched a new partnership Carbon emissions (tonnes CO2e) equipment in our London office. This year we’ve focused with the British Red Cross, voted for by our employees. on optimising the use of this equipment and adjusting The project helps to protect vulnerable communities in Bangladesh prepare for climate change disasters. Gross Global 8 Net Global 9 Gross Travel Emissions per FTE 10 our building management system to achieve maximum reductions in energy use. As a result we’ve reduced energy use by 3 per cent Using resources responsibly 2012/13 10,079 903 503 compared with our baseline year and by 12 per cent since Paper and printing 2009/10. We believe we’ll reach our target of a 10 per cent We use a lot of paper. Legal firm employees are thought to 2011/12 9,889 840 349 reduction against our baseline by the end of 2014/15. use two to three times as much paper as an average office worker. We’re trying to change this and have incorporated 2010/11 9,275 836 326 Despite our success in London, globally our energy use paper and printing into our EMS. Our target is to reduce increased by 1 per cent in the last year. Our focus now our paper use in London by 25 per cent by the end of Air Road Rail is to share best practice in London with our other offices. 2014/15. In the past year we’ve reduced printer numbers by 10 per cent in London. Our approach to reduce business travel Our Rome and Brussels offices have implemented 8 All historic figures have been restated due to a change in methodology. This has not affected the trend data. 9 Accounting for green tariff electricity and travel that has already been offset by suppliers. This does not include offsets purchased to remain carbon neutral. Business travel is one of our major impact areas. Over the follow-me printing and have cut printing by 20 per cent. 10 Full time Employee. Includes all staff, contingency, contractors and external suppliers. past three years we’ve increased our business travel mainly We are reviewing our printing globally to identify areas because of more international business development, for further printer and paper reductions. Our global paper particularly in Asia, Latin America and Africa. reduction target is 10 per cent by May 2015 compared Using resources responsibly Around 40 per cent of our business air travel is when we’re with our 2012/13 paper use baseline. acting for a client. The remainder is for internal meetings Waste and water Global paper purchased 11 Global waste disposal 12 Global water use 13 and to develop business. Our target was to collect more water and waste data across We’ve invested in high-quality videoconferencing (VC) our 28 offices by 2013/14. We have met this target and equipment and all our offices now have access to this. reported globally on this data for the first time. Since 2010/11 our VC use has more than doubled. We still have to improve this, especially for our offices for We plan to reduce our travel impact even more through which we’ve partially or fully estimated the data. In London VC and new ways of working. we don’t send any waste to landfill; we plan to replicate this globally, where possible by the end of 2014/15. Adapting to climate change The firm has been carbon neutral since 2007. We buy For more on this see UN Global Compact (UNGC) offsets from projects that provide social and economic 11 Data was estimated for four sites benefits as well as environmental ones. This year we have 12 40% of the data has been estimated collaborated with BP Target Neutral, to offset our emissions 13 30% of the data has been estimated from a portfolio of six projects. Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 23 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Our carbon impact Energy in our buildings We’ve been supporting climate change adaptation projects In the last few years we’ve invested in energy efficient for three years. This year we launched a new partnership Carbon emissions (tonnes CO2e) equipment in our London office. This year we’ve focused with the British Red Cross, voted for by our employees. on optimising the use of this equipment and adjusting The project helps to protect vulnerable communities in Bangladesh prepare for climate change disasters. Gross Global 8 Net Global 9 Gross Travel Emissions per FTE 10 our building management system to achieve maximum reductions in energy use. As a result we’ve reduced energy use by 3 per cent Using resources responsibly 2012/13 4.70 compared with our baseline year and by 12 per cent since Paper and printing 2009/10. We believe we’ll reach our target of a 10 per cent We use a lot of paper. Legal firm employees are thought to 2011/12 4.79 reduction against our baseline by the end of 2014/15. use two to three times as much paper as an average office worker. We’re trying to change this and have incorporated 2010/11 4.96 Despite our success in London, globally our energy use paper and printing into our EMS. Our target is to reduce increased by 1 per cent in the last year. Our focus now our paper use in London by 25 per cent by the end of is to share best practice in London with our other offices. 2014/15. In the past year we’ve reduced printer numbers by 10 per cent in London. Our approach to reduce business travel Our Rome and Brussels offices have implemented 8 All historic figures have been restated due to a change in methodology. This has not affected the trend data. 9 Accounting for green tariff electricity and travel that has already been offset by suppliers. This does not include offsets purchased to remain carbon neutral. Business travel is one of our major impact areas. Over the follow-me printing and have cut printing by 20 per cent. 10 Full time Employee. Includes all staff, contingency, contractors and external suppliers. past three years we’ve increased our business travel mainly We are reviewing our printing globally to identify areas because of more international business development, for further printer and paper reductions. Our global paper particularly in Asia, Latin America and Africa. reduction target is 10 per cent by May 2015 compared Using resources responsibly Around 40 per cent of our business air travel is when we’re with our 2012/13 paper use baseline. acting for a client. The remainder is for internal meetings Waste and water Global paper purchased 11 Global waste disposal 12 Global water use 13 and to develop business. Our target was to collect more water and waste data across We’ve invested in high-quality videoconferencing (VC) our 28 offices by 2013/14. We have met this target and equipment and all our offices now have access to this. reported globally on this data for the first time. Since 2010/11 our VC use has more than doubled. We still have to improve this, especially for our offices for We plan to reduce our travel impact even more through which we’ve partially or fully estimated the data. In London VC and new ways of working. we don’t send any waste to landfill; we plan to replicate this globally, where possible by the end of 2014/15. Adapting to climate change The firm has been carbon neutral since 2007. We buy For more on this see UN Global Compact (UNGC) offsets from projects that provide social and economic 11 Data was estimated for four sites benefits as well as environmental ones. This year we have 12 40% of the data has been estimated collaborated with BP Target Neutral, to offset our emissions 13 30% of the data has been estimated from a portfolio of six projects. Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 23 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance UN Global Compact (UNGC) We have been a proud participant of the Issue UNGC principle Reference UNGC since March 2009. As a result, we Human rights Principle 1 – Businesses should support and respect Human rights and labour standards page 12 are required to report on how we have the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Pro bono page 18 advanced the 10 principles with respect to human rights, labour, environment Principle 2 – Businesses should make sure that they Human rights and labour standards page 12 are not complicit in human rights abuses. Pro bono page 18 and anti-corruption within our sphere of influence. This Responsible Business Labour Principle 3 – Businesses should uphold the freedom Human rights and labour standards page 12 Report 2013 also acts as our annual of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. communication on progress. In September 2013, we attended the UNGC triennial Principle 4 – Businesses should uphold the elimination Human rights and labour standards page 12 leaders summit in New York. The leaders summit of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. represented a unique opportunity for the firm to discuss responsible business strategy at the highest level, and Principle 5 – Businesses should uphold the effective Human rights and labour standards page 12 help to produce strategic recommendations for the future abolition of child labour. of the initiative. Principle 6 – Businesses should uphold the elimination of Equality page 11 We remain fully committed to the UNGC and will continue discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Diversity page 13 to align our operations and strategy with the 10 principles. Environment Principle 7 – Businesses should support a precautionary Managing our environmental impact page 22 approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 – Businesses should undertake initiatives Managing our environmental impact page 22 and 23 to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 – Businesses should encourage the Managing our environmental impact page 22 development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10 – Businesses should work against corruption Anti-bribery and corruption page 11 in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 24 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Performance and targets Key Achieved Ongoing Not achieved Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Targets for 2012/13 Status Performance in 2012/13 Future targets Launch Corporate Responsibility Advisory Board. We launched an Advisory Board in January 2013. N/A Participate in initiatives that encourage and promote corporate We participate in Council of Bars and Law Societies of Europe (CCBE) Help write the CCBE guidelines for corporate responsibility in the legal responsibility. and guide them on corporate responsibility for the legal sector. sector by December 2014. Deliver presentations and information sessions around the network. We gave departmental presentations throughout the year. Give sustainability training for our lead partners by December 2014. Hold another training conference for our corporate responsibility co-ordinators by December 2014. Include corporate responsibility training in programmes for business Target remains. services staff. Clarify the role of our office managing partners to strengthen our Target remains. corporate responsibility programme internationally. Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 25 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Performance and targets Key Achieved Ongoing Not achieved Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Targets for 2012/13 Status Performance in 2012/13 Future targets Promote flexible working, maternity coaching, back-up care and our We offered events to support our working parents including targeting Align our families’ network, maternity network groups under the banner families’ network. working fathers for the first time. ‘Freshfields and family’. Continue our programme of diversity events including Demystifying We have held events for Diwali, Black History Month, Jewish holidays Target remains. Diwali and Black History Month. and Chinese New Year. Develop women’s networks across the London office. We launched associate, senior women, and business services networks. Encourage more applications from people from under-represented We launched the Stephen Lawrence Scholarship. Support Freshfields Stephen Lawrence Scholarship students as they backgrounds to broaden access to the profession. prepare for training contract interviews and with at least one being successfully offered a training contract. Hold first global conference for our LGBT employees. We held a conference in London in December 2012. Hold a second global conference by May 2014. Have a consistent approach to all work experience placements. We hosted work experience placements for over 300 young people. Increase the number of work placements offered to students from less advantaged backgrounds. People Continued Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 26 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Performance and targets Key Achieved Ongoing Not achieved Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Targets for 2012/13 Status Performance in 2012/13 Future targets Achieve zero reportable incidents. Target not met this year. Target remains. Reduce the accident rate. New targets To be named as a top 100 employer in the Stonewall Workplace Equality Index in 2013/14. Support our work as a founding partner for Stonewall’s Global Diversity Champion Programme. People Back to top Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 26 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Performance and targets Key Achieved Ongoing Not achieved Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Targets for 2012/13 Status Performance in 2012/13 Future targets Develop more projects to combat sexual violence in the Democratic We funded a DRC lawyer to work on projects involving sexual violence Develop a work stream with Redress and consider wider collaboration Republic of Congo and create innovative ways to support legal clinics. against women. with key stakeholders. Implement consistent treatment of pro bono time in internal reporting. This has not been consistently implemented across our global Work with the central reporting team to ensure reporting systems. consistent implementation. Develop the London human trafficking project. Our work has expanded from domestic enforcement proceedings Explore expanding enforcement work to include underlying to working on strategic issues, such as our work for the Children’s employment tribunal claims and advocacy in county court Commissioner (see page 18). enforcement proceedings. New targets Establish regional pro bono committee to develop our pro bono practice in Asia. Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 27 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Performance and targets Key Achieved Ongoing Not achieved Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Targets for 2012/13 Status Performance in 2012/13 Future targets Increase global community investment hours by 5 per cent to 15,225 We met our target early. Maintain community investment hours at current levels, but increase by 2013/14. hours in the three least-engaged offices. Hours for 2012/13 increased by 21.8 per cent to 17,666. Report internal data every two years. Improve accuracy Target achieved. Increase the number of offices collecting impact data. of volunteer data. Review international communications plan for corporate We introduced an international CR co-ordinators newsletter. Improve the content and usability of intranet pages. responsibility activities. We regularly include CI stories in the firmwide weekly update This Week. Introduce a matched time volunteering policy in 2011/12. Not achieved. We’re reviewing our approach. No new target. Achieve a payroll giving participation of 10 per cent by year end In progress. Target remains. 2014/15. Introduce a firmwide matched funding policy in 2011/12. We now have an international matched funding policy in place. No new target. Communities Continued Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 28 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Performance and targets Key Achieved Ongoing Not achieved Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Targets for 2012/13 Status Performance in 2012/13 Future targets Use volunteering opportunities to develop skills. We made some progress but need more work in this area. Target remains. Make sure volunteering opportunities are recognised in appraisals. We made some progress but need more work in this area. Target remains. New targets Introduce a flagship international programme with half our offices participating by the end of 2014/15. Launch the Freshfields Foundation by May 2015. Communities Back to top Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 28 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Performance and targets Key Achieved Ongoing Not achieved Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Targets for 2012/13 Status Performance in 2012/13 Future targets 14 Reduce our global carbon footprint by 10 per cent by the Our gross emissions increased by 1.8 per cent, but we reduced our net Target remains. end of 2014/15. emissions by 14 per cent. Get ISO 14001 certification for our London office by December 2012. Achieved December 2012. Remain ISO 14001 accredited in London. Identify other offices for accreditation. Reduce energy consumption in the London office by 10 per cent We reduced energy use by 3 per cent in London against our Reduce our firmwide energy use by 10 per cent by year end 2014/15. by year end 2014/15 against the 2011/12 baseline. 2011/12 baseline. Identify offices to switch to green tariff energy. Our London office switched to green tariff energy in October 2012. Target remains. Rome, Brussels, Frankfurt, Hamburg also use green tariff. Launch global travel policy by May 2013. We’ve reviewed our travel and drafted a global policy. We intend Reduce our firmwide business travel by 10 per cent by year to launch this by May 2014. end 2014/15. Review our paper and printing and set reduction targets. We collected data on our paper use and printing habits across all our Reduce global paper use by 10 per cent by May 2015 compared offices. This has informed our printing and paper targets. with 2012/13 figures. Environment Continued Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 29 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Performance and targets Key Achieved Ongoing Not achieved Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Targets for 2012/13 Status Performance in 2012/13 Future targets 14 Collect more water and waste data across the network. We collected waste and water data for 10 of our offices. Achieve zero waste to landfill for all offices, where possible, by May 2015. We estimated for all other offices. Report on firmwide paper use, recycling, water use and waste We collected paper data for all offices. Increase number of offices with waste and water data by year generation by 2013/14. end 2013/14. We collected waste and water data for 10 of our offices. We estimated for all other offices. Relaunch our green teams and introduce training initiatives. We have green teams in our Rome and New York offices. Target remains. Promote environmental awareness in our partner schools. N/A Talks with partner schools suggest this isn’t a priority. We will review N/A this in the future. Make sure all offices participate in Earth Hour and the UN World All offices took part in Earth Hour for the fourth consecutive year. Encourage fund-raising and raise awareness of our new climate Environment Day (WED). change adaptation project. In line with this year’s WED theme, our Rome office hosted an event on waste and recycling in Italy. Hold environment-focused events in at least three of our offices around the network. Environment Back to top 14 Targets for energy and travel are against 2011/12 baseline. Targets for paper are against 2012/13 baseline. Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 29 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Key performance indicators We aim to be open and transparent Indicator 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 May 2015 in reporting on our responsible Target business activities. Total number of employees 5,159 5,266 4,85915 N/A Female partners (per cent) 12 12 12 N/A Gross carbon footprint per capita (tonnes CO2e)16 4.96 4.79 4.70 4.50 Gross direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions – 16,056 15,635 15,796 14,216 scope 1 and 2; fossil fuels and refrigerants; electricity (tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent – CO2e) Total gross indirect greenhouse gas emissions – scope 3; business travel (tonnes CO2e) 10,410 11,037 11,431 10,288 Gross carbon footprint (tonnes CO2e) 26,474 26,744 27,227 24,504 ‘ It would be good to see Freshfields make some bolder long-term commitments. Currently there are a lot of Employees involved in pro bono and community investment programmes (per cent) 39 39 37 50 short-term commitments which don’t demonstrate what the firm stands for. By focusing on two or Hours contributed to pro bono and community programmes 49,743 51,498 60,878 55,00017 three targets in each area of the business, the firm will be able to streamline their programmes and address Total community contributions (£m) including management costs 8.79 8.96 10.48 N/A their key material issues.’ Participation in UK payroll giving (per cent) 4.2 5 5 10 Sir Ian Cheshire External CR Adviser Turnover (£m) 1,115.7 1,177 1,229.4 N/A 15 2012/13 data is average employee numbers excluding contingency and contractors. In previous years we have used end of year data taken on the 30 April. 16 Per capita figures include contractors. 17 Already met target. Our target now is to keep our contribution of 55,000 hours each year. Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 30 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Reporting We report on our performance annually We published our last report (May 2011 – April 2012) in (1) Inclusivity – identifying and engaging with We have identified the issues material to our business by December 2012. All our previous CR reports are available stakeholders to get a full understanding of issues consideration of what has an impact and influence on our for our key stakeholder groups. To find on our website. business success and how our activity might affect our out more about these see Our Material As a legal service provider and partnership, we consider communities and the environment. Many of these have had For more information go online our key stakeholders to be our people (past, present and historical importance or have been identified by the senior issues and Stakeholder engagement. This report covers our 28 offices, unless specified future), clients, suppliers, local communities, charities, leadership team. This year the results of our materiality otherwise. Freshfields has an exclusive association in non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and community review helped us to refine and prioritise what is most Riyadh with Salah Al-Hejailan. This association is not organisations, governments and regulatory bodies. relevant to our stakeholders. We also take into account included within our reporting boundary. We have identified these groups through our interaction in where we can have the most beneficial impact, for example the past. They either have a direct interest in (or influence using our professional skills to help others. Understanding This report includes data covering the period 1 May 2012 on) our business or are potentially impacted by it. this helps us to direct our resources and manage our to 30 April 2013. For more information please see our Basis For all of these stakeholder dedicated groups, departments, programmes effectively. of Reporting, which outlines the scope of each of our KPIs. teams or individuals are managing day-to-day relationships Download the Basis of Reporting PDF down to single organisations or individuals. This helps (3) Responsiveness – responding to material issues There have been no significant changes during the reporting us to feed stakeholders’ views into business decisions and being transparent about our performance period regarding the structure of the firm. We opened an where possible. We are committed to responding to issues identified by office in Singapore during the reporting period. We employ various forms of engagement that aim to both stakeholders. In doing so we can enhance our relationships inform our stakeholders and seek their input into our work. with them, improve our responsible business practices We have sought external assurance for our CR reports These include the annual global employee engagement in line with what is most relevant to them and encourage since 2007/8. See this year’s assurance statement by survey, client and partner organisations’ feedback future feedback. We share the results of engagement Deloitte LLP. questionnaires and review meetings. processes to demonstrate that we have understood the This year we have also received external commentary issues and to explain how we intend to respond. For from our CR Advisory Board. Their comments can be example, high level results of the global engagement survey found throughout the report. (2) Materiality – determining what issues are are communicated to the firm, followed by more detailed important to our firm and our stakeholders discussions on action to be taken at department or office We use standard methodologies for measuring and Our stakeholder engagement has helped to determine our level. We also communicate through our annual CR report presenting our performance, such a the AA1000 material issues. In the past year we consulted with our and through a variety of internal channels such as email AccountAbility Principles Standard (AA1000 AS 2008). stakeholders to identify priority issues. We also launched updates and newsletters. This is a recognised framework for sustainability our external CR Advisory Board to advise on our approach management and reporting. The AA1000 AS 2008 to responsible business and how we report in our business Our response to concerns raised might not always be as defines three principles for sustainability management year 2012/13. swift as we would like it to be, however, we are committed and reporting: to understanding the issues raised and taking action where possible. Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 31 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Independent assurance Independent assurance report by Environment Observations and recommendations Materiality: • Gross carbon footprint (tonnes CO2e) (global), see page 30 To improve future management and reporting of CR in • Freshfields has usefully developed their identification of Deloitte LLP to Freshfields Bruckhaus • Gross carbon footprint per capita (tonnes CO2e) (global), accordance with AA1000APS we make the following material issues through a formalised materiality review Deringer LLP on the 2013 Responsible see page 30 observations and recommendations to Freshfields: process. This has helped to ensure that all material • Total gross indirect greenhouse gas emissions – scope 3; issues have been identified and can now be integrated Business Report business travel (tonnes CO2e) (global), see page 30 Inclusivity: in CR governance, management and performance • the creation and establishment of the CR Advisory processes accordingly. What we looked at: scope of our work Board comprising of responsible business experts from Community and Pro bono Kingfisher, the British Red Cross and the University of • as Freshfields continue to identify and manage material Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP (‘Freshfields’) • Total community contributions, including management issues we strongly encourage a report weighting that has engaged us to give assurance on: Cambridge’s Programme for Sustainability Leadership costs (£m) (global), see page 30 is reflective of the relative importance of issues to (CPSL) is a significant and welcome development during Limited assurance: • Hours contributed to pro bono and community stakeholders. For example, the areas of “Excellent Client the reporting cycle. The role of the external CR Advisory programmes (global), see page 30 Service” and “Business Ethics” would benefit from further 1. A A1000 APS assurance: Freshfields’ description on Board to add external perspective and challenge to • Employees involved in pro bono and community discussion articulating how Freshfields’ practices are page 31 of its alignment to the AA1000AS principles of Freshfields’ approach to CR will work to ensure that investment programmes (per cent) (global), see page 30 responsive to the continuing need for excellent practice inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness in reporting material issues are addressed in a balanced and in these areas, together with a balanced discussion of its performance for the year ended 30th April 2013 is transparent way and that Freshfields continue to evolve What we found: our assurance opinion challenges within each area. In addition, the inclusion of materially misstated: and improve performance in relation to CR. detail and outcomes from key stakeholder engagements Limited assurance conclusion: • Freshfields has worked to ensure that CR governance, • Inclusivity – how they identified and engaged with throughout the reporting cycle such as the Employee management and reporting is global in scope and that stakeholders to gain a full understanding of issues; Based on the scope of our work and the assurance Engagement Survey will provide Freshfields with an local offices are increasingly engaged and bought into • Materiality – how they assessed the relative importance procedures we performed, nothing has come to our opportunity to candidly discuss important stakeholder CR initiatives. The Global CR team should continue to of each issue; and attention that causes us to believe that: views and concerns. engage with local offices to improve their buy-in and • Responsiveness – how they responded to stakeholder • the development (and public disclosure) of long term, 1. Freshfields description on page 31 of its alignment to engagement with the Freshfields CR agenda. This could issues and how this is reflected in the ‘Freshfields material commitments and targets across its business the AA1000AS principles of inclusivity, materiality and be facilitated by enabling local offices to contribute to Responsible Business Report 2013’ (the ‘RB Report’) as will demonstrate to stakeholders Freshfields’ long term responsiveness in reporting its performance for year future strategy discussions, and by undertaking local level set out in the AccountAbility 1000 Assurance Standard support to CR. It is important as CR management, ended 30th April 2013 is materially misstated. materiality assessments to understand material issues at (AA1000 AS 2008) performance and reporting continues to evolve that an office level. 2. The CR performance indicators listed above are organisations set targets that challenge current 2. ISAE 3000 assurance: Selected Corporate materiality misstated. performance and help create a culture of continual Responsibility (‘CR’) performance data – for year improvement. ended 30th April 2013. The assured data appears in the RB Report. Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 32 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Independent assurance Responsiveness: Scope of our work and the assurance standards • reviewed the development process for the RB Report, We have confirmed to Freshfields that we have maintained • Freshfields demonstrate solid stakeholder engagement we used and what standards we used: Basis of including the selection of material issues; our independence and objectivity throughout the year through the engagement activities described the RB • reviewed information and reasoning about the RB Report and in particular that there were no events or prohibited our work and level of assurance assertions regarding CR performance for year ended services provided which could impair our independence Report, the integration of stakeholder quotes throughout We carried out limited assurance on the selected key 30th April 2013; and and objectivity. the RB Report and transparent commentary from performance indicators in accordance with the International • reviewed the content of the RB Report against the members of the CR Advisory Board. In future reports, we Our team consisted of a combination of Chartered Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000). findings of our work and made recommendations for recommend that the RB Report should include additional Accountants with professional assurance qualifications and To achieve limited assurance the ISAE 3000 requires that improvement where necessary. information summarising what Freshfields are actively professionals with a combination of environmental, CR and we review the processes, systems and competencies doing to address stakeholder issues. stakeholder engagement experience, including many years’ used to compile the areas on which we provide assurance. • as Freshfields continue to improve stakeholder This is designed to give a similar level of assurance to Responsibilities of Directors and independent experience in providing corporate responsibility report engagement processes and consultations across assurance provider assurance. that obtained in the review of interim financial information. the firm we suggest management perform a formal It does not include detailed testing of source data or the Freshfields’ responsibilities Our responsbility is to independently express conclusions mapping of stakeholders and the outcome of stakeholder operating effectiveness of processes and internal controls. on the subject matters as defined within the scope of engagement activities. This will enable Freshfields to For the preparation of the RB Report 2013, for the better demonstrate their understanding and prioritisation To form our conclusions we undertook the following information and statements contained within it and the work above to Freshfields in accordance with our letter of of engagement with their most important stakeholders. In procedures: intended audience as outlined in the ‘Reporting’ section on engagement. Our work has been undertaken so that we turn, this will help to focus strategy and internal resources page 31, and in the Basis of Reporting. might state to the Firm those matters we are required to • interviewed managers at Freshfields’ London office, state to them in this report and for no other purpose. To the on the actions that have the highest impact on business including the Group CR team and those with operational Download the Basis of Reporting PDF fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume strategy, processes and performance. responsibility for the issues covered in the RB Report; responsibility to anyone other than Freshfields for our work, For determining the CR targets and for establishing and The above observations will be raised in a separate • read and analysed public information relating to for this report, or for the conclusions we have formed. maintaining appropriate performance management and report to Freshfields management. The observations Freshfields and sector CR practices and performance internal control systems from which the reported information Deloitte LLP and recommendations have been taken into account in during the year; is derived. London, United Kingdom forming our conclusions on the RB Report as set out in this • understood, analysed and tested on a non-statistical statement. sample basis the Firm’s processes relating to: 22 January 2014 Deloitte’s responsibilities, independence and team -stakeholder identification, engagement and competencies responsiveness; We complied with Deloitte’s independence policies, which -management commitment and the governance address and, in certain cases, exceed the requirements structures used for managing CR; of the International Federation of Accountants’ Code -implementation of CR-related policies, codes of of Ethics for Professional Accountants in their role as conduct, internal audit and other monitoring activities; independent auditors, and in particular preclude us from and taking financial, commercial, governance and ownership -collation, aggregation, validation and reporting of CR positions which might affect, or be perceived to affect, our performance data at Group level in accordance with independence and impartiality, and from any involvement in Freshfields’ Basis of Reporting the preparation of the RB Report. Download the Basis of Reporting PDF Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013 33 Introduction Business People Pro bono Communities Environment Performance Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number OC334789. It is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority. For regulatory information please refer to www.freshfields.com/support/ legalnotice. Any reference to a partner means a member, or a consultant or employee with equivalent standing and qualifications, of Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP or any of its affiliated firms or entities. This material is for general information only and is not intended to provide legal advice. © Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, January 2014 Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP | Responsible Business Report 2013
