Director General’s Address 4 CALENDAR OF EVENTS 6 About the company 10 Vodokanal history 12 Mission and values 16 Corporate management system 18 Vodokanal today 28 Risk management 40 Participation in external initiatives 48 Interaction with stakeholders 64 Results of Activities in 2013 92 Adoption of St. Petersburg Water and Wastewater Master Plan 94 Water supply 96 Wastewater disposal 110 Specialized vehicles and equipment 124 Customer service 130 City fountains 142 Public toilets 146 Permanent snow-melting stations 150 innovations 154 Development of hydraulic simulation 156 Implementation of new water and wastewater technologies 162 Development of the geoinformation system 164 Energy-saving and energy efficiency projects 168 Patents 170 Development of information infrastructure 172 Social responsibility 174 Awareness-building 176 Environment protection 190 Labour safety 196 Personnel policy 200 Social policy 206 Tariff policy 218 Financial Statements 226 Main financial indicators 228 Balance sheet and income statement 230 Income statement 236 Contact Information 238 3 98.4% is a good result. However, we are not going to stop at that. Vodokanal continues to close the remaining direct discharges. There are was co-financed by international financial not many of them left, and in most cases, Dear All, organizations. the volumes of untreated wastewater Of course, all citizens of St. Petersburg can discharged into water bodies are very be rightfully called co-investors of this project: small, but nevertheless our goal is to fully payments for water services collected from stop the discharge of untreated wastewater The past year 2013 was a special year households and companies were the main in Petersburg. for Vodokanal St. Petersburg. source of Vodokanal investment in the The permanent snow-melting stations It was the 155th anniversary of Northern Tunnel Collector construction. built and operated by Vodokanal also our company and, moreover, it was As a result, the Neva and the Gulf of contribute to the clean condition of the announced the Environmental Finland are relieved from discharge of city’s water reservoirs. Indeed, it is a very Protection Year. 334,000 m3/day of wastewater, i.e. about environment-friendly and energy-efficient It will not be an exaggeration to say that 122 million cubic meters of dirt per year. method of snow disposal. In 2013, the total the main event in 2013 was the completion As much as 98.4% of wastewater has been number of stations increased to ten: by of the Northern Tunnel Collector. This discharged treated in Petersburg since the end of the year, three new permanent notable historical event marked the 10 October 2013. It is of great importance snow-melting stations, including one in the birthday of Vodokanal, 10 October 2013. that the treatment process performance northern part of Petersburg, have been put We have travelled a long way and, honestly, meets the recommendations of the Baltic into operation. it was sometimes hard to believe that we Marine Environment Protection We are doing our best to mitigate the would be able to succeed. Thousands Commission (HELCOM). Petersburg burden on the water environment of the of people – designers, builders, equipment fully complies with the HELCOM Neva, Gulf of Finland and Baltic Sea. suppliers, etc. – were involved in this major recommendations regarding concentrations Actually, there is no separate Neva and environmental project. We could implement of phosphorus and nitrogen in the treated separate Baltic Sea. We should focus on the it thanks to extensive support from the effluent, and the results of space survey integrated water system of the north-west reGovernment of the Russian Federation and show that today the Gulf of Finland is gion which comprises Lake Onega, Lake Ilmen St. Petersburg administration. The project actually clear of blue-green algae. and Lake Ladoga including their water basins. 4 Director General’s Address In April 2013, the Baltic Sea Summit in supply to the citizens. At the same time, rehabilitation station was opened at Repino St. Petersburg announced the St. Peterswe gave special attention to reconstruction treatment plant; its patients were three burg initiative which envisages active of networks: priority measures to improve Ladoga ringed seal pups and two little Baltic participation of Petersburg and Vodokanal drinking water quality were taken in the grey seals. They recovered, improved in the preservation of water system in the houses where near-limit concentrations in strength and were released to their natuNorth-West Region. of iron had been recorded. ral habitat. Under this initiative, Vodokanal unOur plan is to accelerate the process In 2014 as announced The Gulf of Findertakes to investigate the areas where of network renovation and, in parallel, land Year by the decision of Russia, Finland the sources of negative impact on water to start modernization of the city’s bigger and Estonia, the Rehabilitation Station activbodies are located, and to draw up recwater treatment plants. ities, as well as Vodokanal’s other environommendations on selection of effective All such activities are listed in the mental awareness-raising projects, solutions for the improvement of environSt. Petersburg Water and Wastewater will be further developed. mental situation. Master Plan for the period up to 2025 with This work has already begun. Since the outlook to 2030, adopted by the city 2012, an agreement between the Republic government in 2013. of Karelia and Vodokanal regarding cooperThe actions envisaged in the Master ation in the sphere of water systems modPlan aim to improve the quality of life and ernization in Karelia has come into effect. environmental situation. In parallel to the We also collaborate with Leningrad Oblast solving of technical and process-related and other regions. tasks Vodokanal proceeds with its environThis work is of paramount importance mental awareness-raising projects. for us, firstly, because Lake Ladoga is the In 2013, the Universe of Water museum only potable water source for Petersburg. was modernized, and the work of the Youth Moreover, the condition of Lake Ladoga Environmental Centre was in full swing. and the Neva has a direct impact on the Moreover, Vodokanal began a new activity Felix V. Karmazinov water treatment process in Petersburg. in 2013: rehabilitation of marine mammals’ SUE Vodokanal In 2013, Vodokanal kept improving its pups in cooperation with the Not-For-Profit of St. Petersburg drinking water production technologies Partnership “Marine Mammal Rehabilitation Director General to ensure reliable and safe cold water Centre of Leningrad Region”. A pinnipedian 5 Calendar of events 2013 January’13 • SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg“ launched its updated website. The website design has changed, it became more dynamic and state-of-the-art. More capabilities of posting information on the site are provided with the fundamental navigation approaches preserved. The updated resource now has new online services for Vodokanal’s customers. • Vodokanal is given the certificate of membership in the All-Russian Quality Organization’s Hall of Fame. The virtual Hall of Fame is created on the website www.cepvok.ru as part of the portal of the All-Russian Quality Organization (www.mirq.ru). The site offers information on methods and approaches to the improvement of Vodokanal activities and describes the phases of the company’s management system improvement. February’13 • February 2, 2013 marked 35th anniversary of inauguration of Central Wastewater Treatment Plant, Stage I, the first and biggest WWTP in St. Petersburg, one of the Europe’s biggest WWTPs and the biggest one in the Baltic Sea Region. In 1978, with Central WWTP in place, 27% of wastewater in the former Leningrad was sent to treatment. Before that, municipal sewage was discharged, practically, untreated. • The Governor G.S. Poltavchenko signed the city administration’s ordinance on approving the Programme of Public Toilets Development in St. Petersburg for 2013–2015. The Programme sets out the extension of the public toilet network owned by the City of St. Petersburg and operated by Vodokanal on the basis of the right of economic management. • On 25 February, Vodokanal’s Youth Environmental Centre launched the Water Olympiad, a new environmental awareness-raising project dedicated to the Environmental Protection Year. In 2013, nearly 1,500 children and teenagers (pre-schoolers and 1–7-year school students) from St. Petersburg and the Leningrad Region participated in the project. 6 March’13 • The Internet portal “Da-Voda“ (www.da-voda.com) created and supported by Vodokanal St. Petersburg got a special section devoted to the Environmental Protection Year and to preparations for the Gulf of Finland Year 2014. • Vodokanal’s specialists participated in 14th International Environmental Forum “The Baltic Sea Day” in Petersburg, on 20–22 March. The Forum agenda featured burning environmental topics of paramount interest for the Baltic countries. • Vodokanal hosted the first meeting of the Public Council responsible for organizing the Gulf of Finland Year events. The meeting was attended by the Governor of St. Petersburg G.S. Poltavchenko and the Governor of Leningrad Region A.Yu. Drozdenko. • A temporary pinnipedian rehabilitation station has been set up at Vodokanal’s treatment plant in Repino. Vodokanal began to rescue rare animals of the Baltic Sea Region, ringed seals and grey seals, in association with the Not-For-Profit Partnership “Marine Mammal Rehabilitation Centre of Leningrad Region” with the support of 2PR communication agency. April’13 • The Youth Environmental Centre launched the Russian-German ECOvision project. Under the project, young people from St. Petersburg and Hamburg discussed challenging environmental issues and produced videos to be presented at the ECOvision festival in November. • Vodokanal Director General Felix V. Karmazinov was among the participants of the Baltic Sea Forum. The Forum was held in the framework of the Environmental Protection Year in Russia and in the context of Russian presidency in the Council of Baltic Sea States (CBSS) in 2013. • Vodokanal summarized the results of the second Crystal Drop Competition for “the company’s best customer” title. • Vodokanal opened the fountain season 2013. For the fourth consecutive year, the fountain “Globe” in 56, Nevsky, and the fountain in Manezhnaya Square (in NovoManezhny Garden) were the first to start working. • The permanent snow-melting stations were closed for “summer vacation”. May’13 • The Festival of Videos concluded the environmental project “Raising the awareness of young people through the International Advanced Water Technologies Centre”. • Vodokanal’s Water Museum in 56, Shpalernaya str. celebrated its 10th anniversary. The festive programme dedicated to this date was held in the framework of The Museums at Night event, overnight into 19 May. At that time, nearly 8,000 people visited the museum. • Vodokanal St. Petersburg made a valuable contribution to the work of the Neva International Environmental Congress held in Tavrichesky Palace in St. Petersburg. The EcoCinema was open in Tavrichesky Garden during the Congress. On the Children Day, the kids from Vodokanal’s Youth Environmental Centre played an active role. • The first release into the wild took place at the pinnipedian rehabilitation station. A Ladoga ringed seal pup was released into Lake Ladoga near the Valaam Archipelago. June’13 • Vodokanal St. Petersburg was awarded the Certificate “For notable achievements in the field of implementation and maintenance of an outstanding management system” at the IQNet international forum held in St. Petersburg in early June. • On 13 June, Vodokanal opened the historical drinking fountain in Sennaya Square. For this purpose, Vodokanal connected the fountain to the municipal water supply network, installed new pumps and renovated the hydro-insulation of the fountain bowl. 7 July’13 • The last “leaving event” took place at the pinnipedian rehabilitation centre. All in all, five pups were rehabilitated in Repino: three Ladoga ringed seals and two Baltic grey seals. August’13 • The fountain in Yuzhno-Primorsky Park came into operation after general overhaul. The fountain is one of the biggest in Petersburg: its bowl is 100 m long and 20m wide. The water pattern of the fountain is formed by 225 jets, 8–16 m high. • Another historical fountain opened by Vodokanal after reconstruction is that in the garden near the palace of grand prince Alexey Alexandrovich (in Pisareva str.) September’13 • SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg“ and the Danish company Vand Center Syd signed the Memorandum of Intent in the presence of the Danish Minister of Environment Ida Auken. • Vodokanal approved a new version of its Environmental Policy with the extended list of the company’s environment protection commitments. • Vodokanal’s branch “Information and Training Centre” celebrated its 10th anniversary. October’13 • On 10 October 2013, Vodokanal St. Petersburg celebrated its 155th anniversary. This day was marked by the completion of a large-scale environmental project: construction of Northern Tunnel Collector in Petersburg. Since then, as much as 98.4% of wastewater has been treated in Petersburg. • Vodokanal finished flush water diversion at Main Water Treatment Plant. As a result, 50,000 m3/day of flush water could be diverted to Northern Tunnel Collector. • The multimedia exhibition The Universe of Water, one of the three permanent exhibitions of the museum complex in 56, Shpalernaya str., opened after reconstruction. • The season of fountains was closed. • Vodokanal’s Medical Centre celebrated its 10th anniversary. November’13 • The Governor of St. Petersburg G.S. Poltavchenko started up a new snow-melting station in 2, Rybinskaya str. The station can melt 5,000 m3/day of snow. • Vodokanal was visited by Artemiy Lebedev’s ethnographic expedition: on 5 November, the distinguished bloggers visited Southern WTP, South-West WWTP, the NTC Pumping Station, the Youth Environmental Centre and the Universe of Water museum. • Vodokanal’s team of the Club of the Cheerful and Sharp-Witted won the Weekend League championship 2013 among the teams from St. Petersburg companies and organizations. • On the World Toilet Day, 19 November, Vodokanal made a present to the citizens and guests of Petersburg. On that day, the toilets operated by Vodokanal could be used free of charge. 8 CALENDAR OF EVENTS December’13 • The Government of St. Petersburg approved the Water and Wastewater Master Plan for St. Petersburg until 2025 with the outlook to 2030. The Master Plan was developed under the federal law dated 07.12.2011 no.416-FZ “On Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal” in consideration of the requirements to such master plans as approved by the RF Government Decree dated 05.09.2013 no.782 “On Water and Wastewater Master Plans”. • Potential creation of a water cluster in the city was discussed at the meeting of the St. Petersburg Government’s Environmental Council. Proposals on creating a territorial innovative cluster of water supply and wastewater disposal were presented by the Director General of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg“ Felix V. Karmazinov. • Scientists from the Atmospheric Air Protection Research Institute examined the performance of the automatic deodorant sprinkling system constructed at Severniy Landfill and confirmed that the technology was effective. • Vodokanal St. Petersburg hosted the second meeting of the Gulf of Finland Year 2014 Public Council. The participants discussed proposals on the Gulf of Finland Year events to be organized in St. Petersburg and Leningrad Region and summarized the results of the Environmental Protection Year. • The official ceremony of signing Vodokanal’s Collective Agreement for 2014–2016 was held. The Collective Agreement ensures social security of the company staff and sets out incentives and social guarantees for both the existing staff and ex-employees. • Vodokanal held its seventh regular festival “Welcome to Vodokanal!” The newly employed were greeted at the Information and Training Centre. • Vodokanal’s Medical Centre received its 100,000th visitor. • Vodokanal won the 10th V.I. Vernadskiy National Environmental Award. Vodokanal’s Northern Tunnel Collector Completion Project was a winner in the nomination “Global Ecology”. • The jury of PROBA-IPRA GWA International Award determined the winner in the nomination “The Best Social PR Project”: it was the joint project of Vodokanal and 2PR Agency “Help the pinnipeds”. Another Vodokanal’s project, “Vodokanal in the Environmental Protection Year”, was short-listed in the nomination “Best Corporate PR Campaign” and awarded a diploma. 9 About the company Vodokanal About the company History The history of the city’s centralized water supply goes back to 10 October, 1858, when the Charter of “St. Petersburg Water Pipelines Joint-Stock Company” was approved by the Russian Emperor Alexander II. Among the founders of the Joint-Stock Company were engineers, such as A.N. Erakov, P.I. Palibin, A.A. Peretz, E.I. Okel, and prominent had been built by the St. Petersburg Water businessmen – I.I. Glazunov, M.I. Yakunchikov, Pipelines Joint-Stock Company as strongly I.N. Kushinnikov demanded by the city authorities. In 1911 the filtration station with water ozonation was built in Peterburgskaya (Petrogradskaya) area. Chlorine disinfection of drinking water was implemented at the Main to be unsuitable for this purpose, and the Waterworks (the first chlorination experiJSC had to arrange water intake from the ments were made in Kronstadt in 1909). Neva. The Executive Commission for sewer1858–1917 Before mid-1870s, the water network age construction and water supply rehabilThe JSC faced huge financial and technical was only used by the citizens on the leftitation in St. Petersburg established by the problems at the initial stage. In early 1863, bank side. The new joint-stock company City Duma had worked since 1911 and took the construction of water networks was, (Partnership) was established in 1873 over most of the functions in relation practically, suspended. By then, the water (to be managed by English contractors) to water supply development. tower in Shpalernaya str. (architects to supply water to Peterburgskaya I.A. Merz and E. Shubersky) has been built (Petrogradskaya) and Vyborgskaya areas. The Soviet period and several kilometers of water distribution In 1890 the State Duma took a deciWorld War I and the Civil War had a negnetworks have been laid. The JSC’s regission to buy out the assets owned by the ative impact on the technical condition of tered capital was spent, the shares sold St. Petersburg Water Pipelines Joint-Stock the city’s water supply system, including its badly, and even the government subsidy Company, and in 1892 – to buy out also the plants, equipment and networks. In 1920s – could not alter the situation. In March 1863, assets of the New Water Networks Partearly 1930s wood pipes were sometimes the 1 Guild merchant A.I. Kron from St. nership. The City Executive Commission for used for construction of water networks Petersburg joined the JSC, contributed water supply of St. Petersburg was estabdue to the lack of more suitable materials. the lacking sum (approximately, lished to manage the water networks and It was only by 1935 that the pre-revolution 900,000 Roubles) and took up completion was subordinated to the city administralevel of water supply to the city network of the long-drawn works. tion. The manager of city water networks had been reached. Water supply to the first customers was appointed on a submission from the However, there were also some started by the end of 1863. chairman of the Executive Commission. achievements at that time. First of all, Some modifications were made to During the first decades of the centralconstruction of the Southern Waterworks the initial design during the construction ized water supply operation in St. Peters(stage I was put into operation in 1933, period. At first, it was decided to take water burg all customers received water which a part of stage II – in 1940) and modernifrom a sort of a “ladle” – the artificial water passed only coarse mechanical treatment. zation of the Main Waterworks treatment body near Tavrichesky Palace connected In 1889 sand filters were put into operafacilities should be mentioned. with the Neva. However, the “ladle” proved tion at the Main Waterworks (the filters In 1923–1924 construction of sewer 12 networks was resumed. In 1925 the city exploded within the area of the Southern Council of Ministers of the USSR approved authorities approved the major sewerage WTP alone. The personnel of the most the project of sewerage construction in the plans for Leningrad (separate system with important facilities were put on a war central part of Leningrad where a comfour independent sewer basins). Vasilyfooting. Destruction of networks caused bined sewerage system was proposed inevsky Island was selected as experimenthe flooding of basements, streets and stead of separate sewerage. The first stage tal district for the construction of a new squares and sometimes even the whole of sewerage in the city centre including the sewerage system. Construction of sewers city districts. Nevertheless, both the city Main Pumping Station was put into operain Vasilyevsky Island (total length of street water networks and the sewerage system tion in 1958. networks – 153.3 km) had lasted for were working without interruption except In 1966 the General Scheme of Len10 years. Vasileostrovskaya sewage 25–26 January 1942 when the electricity ingrad Sewerage was approved which pumping station was completed by 1930. supply was cut off. included, among other things, three big Wastewater was discharged to the Neva Over the period between 1950 and complexes of wastewater treatment facilBay without any treatment. 1970 the annual average water supply to ities. The first one – Central WWTP – was In the 1930s more and more sewers the city has grown more than twice – from put into operation in 1978 (stage I). Before were built in other city districts. The length 912,800 m3 to 2,057,600 m3. The Souththat, all city wastewater was discharged to of sewer networks in Leningrad reached ern WTP stage II was put into operation in the water bodies almost without any treat1,130 km which exceeded twice the 1948, Volkovskaya WTP – in 1964, and the ment. The Central WWTP, stage II, was put pre-revolutionary level. In 1940 a new sewNorthern WTP stage I – in 1971. Wide-scale into operation in 1984, and the Northern erage scheme of Leningrad was adopted. construction of water pumping staIt was also based on a separate sewerage tions was underway too. system. The scheme envisaged mechaniIn 1952 the State cal treatment and precipitation followed Committee by discharge to four channels of the Neva of the Bay. Storm water ought to be discharged to all watercourses in the city. It was planned to use the tunneling method to build the main sewers. A special page in Vodokanal’s history is related to World War II and the blockade of Leningrad. The waterworks and facilities, clean water tanks, treatment plants, water networks and sewers were subject to intensive bombings and shelling. As many as 955 shells WWTP, stage I, – in 1987. The construction of the SouthWest WWTP started in 1986. Contemporary history In the 1990s, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg“ developed and implemented a novel-for-Russia concept of strategic planning of the public utilities’ financial operations and business. Creation of a management system based on the corporate development planning was a crucial step to implementation of this concept in the company. ConIt is the implementation of the strategic ference planning concept that ensured sustainawas dedible development of SUE “Vodokanal cated to this of St. Petersburg“. In 1992 the company was date. able to become self-sufficient and raise the In June 2009, necessary investments for reconstruction the official ceremoand development. In 2004, the St. Petersny of the last chlorine burg Water and Wastewater Systems Recontainer removal from construction and Development Programme Northern Water Treatment for 2004-2011 was worked out. The SouthPlant symbolized that Vodokanal West WWTP was inaugurated on 22 Sepstopped using liquid chlorine for tember 2005 in the presence of the Presiwater disinfection replacing it with hazdent of the Russian Federation V.V. Putin, ard-free sodium hypochlorite. the President of Finland Tarja Halonen and In December 2009, the second stage of WWTPs the Swedish Prime-Minister Göran Persson. Northern Tunnel Collector Extension was (the wasteAlongside with the construction of completed which enabled to reach 91% of water formerly new facilities using the best advanced wastewater treatment. collected by them was technologies, wide-scale reconstruction In June 2010, one of the biggest plants – re-channeled to Northern WWTP). of the existing WWTPs was implemented. Southern WTP started pre-commissioning The ceremony dedicated to this event was By 2006, three “hot spots” in the Baltic Sea of its new water treatment block designed attended by the Governor of St. Petersburg catchment basin have been eliminated. for 350,000 m3/day of potable water proG.S. Poltavchenko. The reconstruction of the Central WWTP duction (water supply to the city from this In 2011, St. Petersburg was finally in 2007 made it possible to meet, and block began in January 2011). crossed out from the list of Baltic Sea poleven surpass the HELCOM standards of In 2010, Vodokanal summarized the luters. Since then the city has fully met the nutrient concentrations. By commissionresults of the pilot project aimed to create HELCOM recommendations on wastewater ing two sludge incineration plants – at the a water supply management system and treatment quality: phosphorus concenNorthern WWTP and South-West WWTP started to implement the system in the trations in the total wastewater volume – in 2007, St. Petersburg became the first southern districts of the city. discharged in St. Petersburg do not exceed megalopolis to fully solve the problem of By the end of 2010, the next stage of 0.5 mg/l. The official ceremony marking the sewage sludge utilization. Northern Tunnel Collector Extension has completion of the Clean Baltic Sea Project In 2008, Vodokanal St. Petersburg been completed, and the official ceremony was held at Northern WWTP in June in the celebrated its 150th anniversary. One of of connecting 12 more direct discharges to presence of the President of Finland Tarja the biggest events of the jubilee year was the Collector was held in January 2011. As Halonen. the commissioning of the first section of a result, the wastewater treatment level in In 2011, Vodokanal expanded its Northern Tunnel Collector extension. the city reached 93%. biomonitoring system by implementing it The year 2009 was marked by the 20th In 2011, Vodokanal could already treat at wastewater treatment plants: since the anniversary of cooperation with the Min94% of all wastewater having re-channeled beginning of the year the composition of istry of the Environment of Finland. “The five direct discharges to Northern Tunnel flue gases at the South-West incineration Baltic. Common Sea, Common Concern” Collector and closed down seven small plant has been monitored by African snails, 14 tion and operation of snow-melting stations. In 2012, the next-to-last stage of the Northern Tunnel Collector was completed (the wastewater streams was diverted to the collector and then to Northern WWTP for treatment) which resulted in the closure of five direct discharges and the treatment of as much as 97% of all wastewater. In autumn 2012, the cooperation between St. Petersburg and the Leningrad Region got a new impetus: the joint meetbecame ing of the city and region took a decision one of the to establish the Steering Committee of St. finalists for the Petersburg and the Leningrad Region in prestigious award of the sphere of social and economic developthe European Foundament. In particular, the Committee would tion for Quality Management deals with the provision of water supply (EFQM) – Excellence Award-2011. and sewerage services to the fast-growing Since 2011, the International Addevelopments at the border line between vanced Water Technologies Centre, a joint the city and the Leningrad Region. project of Vodokanal and Lahti Science and The first result of the joint environmenand since July the Business Park (Finland), has been working tal actions was diversion of wastewater in effluent quality at Southat the premises of SUE “Vodokanal the town of Sertolovo (in the Leningrad ReWest treatment plant has been checked by of St. Petersburg“. gion) to Northern WWTP (in St. Petersburg). Australian red-claw crayfish. Since 2012, Vodokanal St. Petersburg Due to that, the discharge of pollutants into In 2011, Vodokanal St. Petersburg has started a new type of activity: constructhe Lake Razliv could be reduced by 58.8%. In 2013, Vodokanal celebrated its 155th anniversary. Besides, this year was announced the Environmental Protection Year in Russia. The main event of the year took place on Vodokanal’s birthday, 10 October 2013: the large-scale environmental project, construction of Northern Tunnel Collector, was completed in Petersburg. Ten untreated wastewater discharges were closed. Since then, 98.4% of wastewater has been treated. In 2013, Vodokanal put three more snow-melting stations in operation. The total number of such stations increased to ten. Snow is melted by the heat of wastewater fed into the melting chambers. In 2013, Vodokanal launched a new social project: in cooperation with the not-for-profit partnership “Marine Mammal Rehabilitation Centre of Leningrad Region” and 2PR public relations agency, it was saving rare animals of the Baltic Sea Region, ringed seals and grey seals. 15 Mission – Provision of high-quality water and sewerage services ensuring good quality of life for customers, sustainable development of the city, creation of water consumption culture and conservation of the Baltic Sea water environment. Vision – We see Vodokanal among the world’s best providers of water and sewerage services due to the quality of its services and environmental awareness. 16 Mission and values Values: • Responsibility before the staff – continway to reach success and to be a leading • Responsibility before future generations – uous improvement of labour safety, good company. careful and efficient use of natural resources salaries and wages, social security for the • Openness to the public and responsibiliincluding water, energy, forests, etc. company staff and their families and for ty before the society – transparency of the • Responsibility before the customers – the retired employees. company activities, access to reliable informacontinuous studies of the customers’ • Innovative approach – incorporation of tion on the company work and history, close expectations and requirements, improveinternational best practice in the company contacts with the mass media, educational ment of customer interaction procedures management, the use of advanced techinstitutions and public and environmental to raise the level of satisfaction with the nologies and creation of know-how in diforganizations – all that constitutes the basis water and sewerage services. ferent fields of activities – that is the only of our information policy. 17 Corporate Management System Corporate management system building philosophy The corporate management of SUE won the International Quality Contest Vodokanal’s strategic goals are defined for “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg“ is based of Central and Eastern Europe. 5 basic aspects of its activities, including the on the following principles: According to the results of 2011, following goals: Accountability. The company’s execVodokanal joined the ranks of finalists 1) customer satisfaction; utive body shall be accountable to the ownof the prestigious award by the Europe2) water supply and wastewater disposal er (City of St. Petersburg), the state authoran Foundation for Quality Management processes; ities and control bodies in compliance with (EFQM) – Excellence Award 2011. 3) healthy environment and satisfaction the applicable law. In 2012, Vodokanal made a transition of society; Transparency. The company shall from six management levels (company 4) personnel and corporate development, ensure timely disclosure of reliable inforadministration – branch – production office 5) financial and investment support mation on any material facts in relation to – district – section – team) to three levels of activities. its activities, including its financial standing, (company administration – branch – disThe goals are inter-related and arranged social and environmental performance and trict) having extended the districts’ scope in a strategic goal map; performance indicaoperating results, as well as provide free of functions. tors for continuous monitoring of progress access to such information for all stakeIn 2013, the following production deand target values for each of the 5 aspects holders in compliance with the law of the partments were included in the corporate are specified. The company’s strategic planRussian Federation. structure: area water supply management ning horizons are harmonized with perspecResponsibility. The company shall offices and area wastewater disposal tive plans of city development (medium-term acknowledge the rights of all stakeholders systems, each of them serving several city perspective – till 2015, and long-term peras provided by the applicable law and shall districts. spective – till 2025, for most of the indicators). seek collaboration with the stakeholders to The corporate governance system reThe performance of processes is monireach the company goals and to maintain lies on the principles and approaches tored on different management levels (disfinancial sustainability and social stability. set by the international standards: trict, branch or company) using the approved Efficiency. The company will only reach ISO 9001 Quality Management System, (strategic, tactical and operational) perforits goal if each employee – from director ISO 14001 Environmental Management mance indicators. Vodokanal has implementgeneral to ordinary officer – works effiSystem, OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health ed several information systems enabling daily ciently. and Safety System, ISO 27001 Information monitoring of operational indicators. Vodokanal’s corporate governance Security System and ISO 50001 Energy Systematic satisfaction surveys of all system is continuously developing and Management System. stakeholders including the assessment of satimproving due to the strategic initiatives At present, the corporate manageisfaction among the main customer categoof the company management and its sole ment system is built on the process-based ries, satisfaction and awareness of the public, owner – City of St. Petersburg. In 2011, the approach aimed to implement a functionand staff satisfaction (including assessments ideology of EFQM (European Foundation al-zonal management principle for water of commitment and loyalty), are an integral for Quality Management) Model made supply and wastewater disposal. part of continuous improvement. Together, a significant impact on the company manContinuous improvement of the manthe studies give an unbiased assessment of agement development and improvement. agement system is based on benchmarking the company performance regarding the key In 2010, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg“ studies of the best European companies. stakeholders. 20 About the company Overview of management approaches, implementation of new management systems organization and participate in international quality-related events. We see Vodokanal ranging with the world’s best companies. The following management approaches are used Using its own experience and the by Vodokanal to improve its operations: experience of its foreign and domestic • strategic planning; peers, Vodokanal is developing the “Ideal • process-based approach to the Company Management; Water Company” concept. It is now • self-assessment according to the EFQM (European Foundation for Quality Management) formulated in the company’s Strategic Excellence Model; Plan and addresses all spheres of activity: • satisfaction surveys of all stakeholders including the internal process consumers; interaction with customers, development • management systems are based on the standards MC ISO 9001, 14001, 50001, 27001 and management of water services and and OHSAS 18001; innovative management improvement tools are implemented; infrastructure, environment and society, • benchmarking and comparison with the best European peers; financial sustainability and investments, staff • sociological studies of public awareness and expectations; development and social support. • annual public reports. The Ideal Water Company Concept is Since 2006, Vodokanal has self-assessed its activities according to the Excellence Model revised in form and substance against the and participated in regional and European competitions. Regular self-assessment and results of self-assessment for the previous participation in competitions means, above all, that a great number of employees year and in consideration of external factors, are involved in a continuous improvement process and in the search for new ways such as new regulatory acts, the outlook for of development and performance improvement. More and more employees get inspired city development and customer expectations. with the Excellence ideas and study relevant materials. Primarily, the results of that By applying the management are obvious in everyday work: management methods and organization of activities are approaches, we can: improving, performance indicators become better, etc. • ensure continuous improvement of service At the present phase of improvement, our task is to reach the management level that quality and customer satisfaction; would support high productivity and meet the expectations of all stakeholders. • meet the challenges and solve We promote wider application of mechanisms, such as lean production, “5S”, “20 keys”, the problems faced by Vodokanal; etc. in perspective plans of the company improvement. • augment the company’s contribution In future, Vodokanal intends to develop its strengths, come closer to the model of ideal in the sustainable future. 21 Key performance management processes In parallel with the process improvements, Vodokanal is upgrading its system of indicators for strategic and day-to-day monitoring of processes. The assessment tools are: internal and external audits of management systems, self-assessment based on the EFQM Excellence Model, and corporate management rating criteria. Targets for the next three years and the form “Quality Targets for the Current Year Split by Months” have been developed to support regular monitoring of Vodokanal’s progress to the (water • number of breakdowns on water distrirus in the treated effluent; supply and wastewater disposal) quality bution networks per 10km of pipelines per • percentage of dewatered sludge to goals. Process performance is monitored year; be incinerated. at different management levels using • water losses in the distribution network. The process performance relevant indicators. The improvement of maintenance funcmanagement is based on The key performance indication alongside with reconstruction works lead to higher reliability of network operaDeming-Shewhart-Tailor tors of the water supply sertion and lower breakdown rates. cycle (PDCA): vice process are: The key performance indica1. Plan (P) – key process performance targets • compliance of potable water quality at the are planned for the next year before plant outlet or in the distribution networks tors of the sewerage service it begins, on the basis of the strategic indiwith the applicable regulatory values process are: cators, required resources and result analysis of physical and chemical parameters • percentage of wastewater treated by of the previous year. The cause-and-effect (expressed as a percentage); wastewater treatment plants; relationships between the approaches ap• number of cases where the microbiologi• number of blockages per 10 km of sewers plied and the results we want to achieve are cal limit values were exceeded at the plant per year; determined at this phase. outlet or in the distribution networks; • admissible concentration of total nitrogen 2. Do (D) – the service is provided and mon• number of recorded reasoned complaints in the treated effluent; itored at all process levels (management about low water head; • admissible concentration of total phosphoprocesses, life cycle processes and supporting 22 About the company Main provisions processes); daily operational indicators are checked. At this phase, management is limited to ensuring the achievement on corporate culture of tactical (monthly) targets. 3. Check (C) – the progress in achieving the key performance indicators is checked using the daily and weekly data. 4. Act (A) – the progress in achieving tactical targets and the reasons for deviation from targets are analyzed, and the necThe development of corporate culture at the company is focused on the unity of personnel essary corrective actions are worked out in achieving the strategic targets, identification and support of social standards and values. at weekly working meetings. Such actions For this purpose, regular companywide professional and cultural events are organized. help adjust the existing approaches to Vodokanal management realizes the priority of social responsibility to the personnel. achieve the targets. This realization is based on the company’s internal standards and supported through the Potential areas of process manageimplementation of different social support programmes including the improvement ment improvement are identified in the of remuneration mechanisms, medical care and voluntary medical insurance, subsidized course of self-assessment based on the catering, recreation opportunities for the employees and members of their families, company management systems, internal organization of corporate events, and support of the company veterans and pensioners. audit results and performance evaluation The company has defined and is following its policy in the field of information and reports for EMS (Environmental Manageknowledge. This policy is based on the principles of openness, completeness, regularity, ment System), QMS (Quality Management timeliness, objectiveness, reliability, the raising of staff competence and improvement of System), OHSAS (Occupational Health corporate culture. and Safety System), EnMS (Energy ManValues and ethical standards have been defined and are followed to develop the agement System) and ISMS (Information corporate culture. The leaders use their own examples to disseminate among the personnel Security Management System). Moreover, the standards of ethical behaviour towards every stakeholder, support the learning of values the analysis of process performance is on during the adaptation period and promote corporate unity at different levels by initiating, the agenda of monthly Board meetings and participating in, joint events. where they discuss headway in achieving The key approaches to the development of corporate culture and the principles the targets. of corporate social responsibility are used in the day-to-day activities at all company The results of analysis are used management levels for the purpose of taking managerial decisions, organizing recreation and to identify areas for improvements and providing social support for Vodokanal employees. work out the necessary corrective measThe internal communications are effected in the company’s integrated information space ures and actions to improve the existing including, on the one hand, a set of IT resources and the corporate newspaper and, approaches in order to achieve the on the other hand, individual meetings between the company managers at any level strategic targets. with the company employees. 23 The main provisions of corporate culture adopted by SUE ”Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” are set out in the company standard STO Vodokanal SPB 1.4-2010 Management system. Code of Corporate Ethics The company employees adhere to the The principles are (but not limited to): Those who are capable of improving the corporate values (see the section “Mission • Focus on creation of value. Vodokanal company performance are offered career and Values” above), and maintain and employees carry out their activities in line promotion, and, moreover, implementation develop the corporate culture as required with the company strategy and strive of important projects is entrusted to them. to achieve the highest level of performance. to fulfil the most important strategic tasks. • Strategic flexibility. Vodokanal operates The corporate values are obligatory for Implementing various actions, Vodokanal in the environment where governmental all Vodokanal staff and are proposed to all employees realize what value they create for regulation of tariffs and fluctuating prices those who cooperate with Vodokanal. customers, their company and the society for the suppliers’ products are a reality The company’s ethical principles are in general. and have a significant impact on the based on the corporate values, compliance • Professional skills and teamwork. implementation of the company strategy. with law, and respect of the rights of Vodokanal employees are good • Social responsibility. The company bears Vodokanal employees and partners. They professionals. They build relations with responsibility for the social well-being govern both in-company relations and their colleagues on the basis of confidence, of its employees. The value created by the relations between Vodokanal and collaboration, corporate solidarity and Vodokanal staff is a huge contribution its partners and customers including mutual assistance. The employees take to the improvement of the living standards behaviour in the situations where conflicts a proactive approach in their teamwork in St. Petersburg, the Baltic Sea Region and of interests arise. focusing on the result of joint activities. society in general. 24 About the company Re-engineering of business processes in 2013 and the results achieved Vodokanal corporate structure different company units and job descripand Water Disposal Economy Department as of 31 December 2013 consists of eight tions of employees, defined the information were established within the company territorial directorates for water supply and flows and revised the targets and key tasks. administration to provide methodological five territorial complexes for wastewater The re-engineering of business processassistance to water supply (sewerage) disdisposal which provide water supply and es was followed up by the transition from tricts in preparing the district’s budget and sewerage services, the branches responsithe territorial principle of water systems reports on their production and economic ble for the core operation processes, and management to the process-based prinresults. the company administration dealing with ciple: water supply and sewerage services In 2013, the production branches’ strategic planning and the monitoring within the same area are provided by sepafunctions were actually transferred to the of key performance indicators. rate specialized branches. territorial directorates for water supply and In 2007, for the purpose of building an By the end of 2010, several supporting territorial complexes for wastewater diseffective management system, a detailed processes had been re-engineered too. posal, each of them serving several districts analysis of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” As a result, an independent Transport and of St. Petersburg. Moreover, the Emergency business processes was made, followed by Logistics Branch was segregated and an Response Department was created within optimization of the business processes using utterly new customer service function comthe corporate structure, which combines a process-based approach to management prising the units within the company adminthe functions of the integrated operationand on the basis of the QMS (Quality Manistration and the branches was established. al dispatching service and the “Hot-line”. agement System) principles. In 2011–2012, Vodokanal continued These organizational changes have much As a result of re-engineering, two to build the water supply and sewerage reduced the time of responding to the citi1st level business processes were defined: management system in St. Petersburg. zens’ complaints and improved the efficienWater Supply in St. Petersburg and WasteFor the purpose of optimizing the key cy of emergency procedures. water Disposal in St. Petersburg, their key production processes, the water supply Today, the corporate structure management elements being: process own(sewerage) districts became independent of SUE ”Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” ers, process flow, monitoring points and structural divisions. Now, each district is focused on implementation of the cost structure. The results obtained allowed deals with the calculation and control functional-zonal principle of water systems to look at the company and its strengths of the district’s water balance; and the management. Three management levels and weaknesses from a new perspective. levels of responsibility, from the company are formed in the company. In the years 2008-2010 that followed, administration to the districts, are clearVodokanal management system is now the activities in relation to business process ly defined, demonstrating that we have based on the following key principles: re-engineering were implemented in an reached the next level of the corporate • process-based approach; integrated and systematic way: managers management system development. • personification of responsibilities and at all levels scrutinized the functions of Water Supply Economy Department authority. 25 Disclosure About the company of information about Vodokanal operations in the field Deputy Director of water supply and Legal General Department wastewater disposal Information and Public Director for Director for Economy Development Relations and Finance Projects Until 30 January 2013, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”, as a public Department utility, had disclosed information on its regulated activities in the manner prescribed by the “Standards for Disclosure by Public Utilities”, approved by the Decree no.1140 of the Government of the Russian Federation Director Development Economy Projects Department dated 30 December 2009. The forms and frequency of disclosure were General’s Office Department approved by the Order no.26-r of the St. Petersburg Tariff Committee dated 22 March 2010. Due to changes in the Federal Law no.416-FZ “On Water Supply Economic and Wastewater Disposal” dated 7 December 2011, since January 30, Commercial Order Modelling Regulation Department 2013, any disclosure shall be performed in the manner prescribed Director Bureau by the “Disclosure Standards for the Water Sector”, approved by the Decree no.6 of the Government of the Russian Federation dated 17 January 2013. The forms and frequency were approved by the Order Treasury R&D no.129 of the Federal Tariff Authority dated 15 May 2013. Promotion Insurance Bureau Coverage In addition, pursuant to Article 4, part 1, clause 5 of the Federal Department Department Law no.190-FZ “On Heat Supply” dated 27 February 2010, since 15 July 2013, any disclosure of information in the field of heat supply shall be Contact performed in accordance with the “Standards of Disclosure by Heat and Analytical Customer Supply Organizations, Heat Networks Organizations and Regulatory Service Bureau Methodology Authorities”, approved by the Decree no.570 of the Government Department of the Russian Federation dated 5 July 2013. The forms and frequency Division for of disclosure were approved by the Order no.282-r of the Financing out of the Budgets St. Petersburg Tariff Committee dated 9 October 2013. of St. Petersburg Annually, the St. Petersburg Tariff Committee approves a reporting and the Russian Federation procedure for the organizations subject to governmental tariff regulation in St. Petersburg, in addition to the reports submitted Customer Service under the above disclosure standards. Centre Branch 26 Vodokanal structure (as of 1 January 2014) DIRECTOR GENERAL Director Director for Personnel, Internal for Capital Safety Director Chief Control Construction and Security for Production Accountant Director and Investments Deputy Deputy Director Director for Personnel, for Personnel, Safety Environmental Emergency Internal Investment Construction Safety Accounting and Security Management Response Control Planning Supervision and Security Department Department Centre Department Department Department OHSAS Personnel and Production Department Inspection Management Senior Property Quality Project Department Bureau Manager Civil Defence, City Water Energy Administrative Infrastructure Extra-Ordinary and Mechanics Situations Department Administration Department and Company Tariff Mobilization and Pricing Inspection Department Security Sanitary Department Epidemiological Supervision Inspection Economic Security Water Supply Wastewater Bureau Intellectual Directorate Disposal Property Directorate Bureau St. Petersburg St. Petersburg Investment Socio-Economic Wastewater Programs Information Water Supply Programs Disposal Implementation and Training Branch Implementation Branch Centre Branch Centre Branch Centre Branch Medical Engineering Transport Centre Branch Innovation and Logistics Centre Branch 27 Vodokanal today Company profile The State Unitary Enterprise (SUE) “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” provides water supply and sewerage services to the city of St. Petersburg. It is the country’s biggest public utility and one of the key municipal companies in St. Petersburg Vodokanal’s assets are owned by the City of The water supply system comprises: The sewerage system comprises: St. Petersburg represented by relevant public • 6,865.7km of water supply networks; • 8,240.6km of sewer networks; authorities. Vodokanal provides its services • 198 boosting pumping stations; • 241.1km of tunnel collectors; to the city inhabitants (5 million people) • 9 water treatment plants • 141 sewage pumping stations; and to many thousands of companies and (the biggest are Southern WTP, • 15 wastewater treatment plants including organizations in St. Petersburg. Northern WTP and Main WTP); 13 – for municipal sewage and 2 – for As of 31 December 2013, the staff of SUE • 2 sodium hypochlorite runoff. The biggest are: Central WWTP, “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” numbered production plants. Northern WWTP and South-West WWTP; 8,792 people. • 3 sludge incineration plants. 30 About the company Main achievements of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” in the field of water treatment: • All potable water supplied to the city is UV-treated to ensure epidemiologic safety. • Liquid chlorine is not used for water disinfection, it is replaced by hazard-free, non-toxic sodium hypochlorite. • Hazard-free, non-toxic ammonia sulfate is used for water ammonation instead of ammonia solutions. • Water condition in the Neva is checked by means of a biomonitoring system where crayfish act as chief “inspectors”. • PAC (powdered activated carbon) dosing is implemented to remove odors and oil. • St. Petersburg is Russia’s first city to implement a water supply management system: a pilot project has been implemented in Uritskaya Pumping Station zone, and the system implementation is near completion in Southern water supply zone. Main achievements of SUE “Vodokanal SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” has built an effective customer feedback sysof St. Petersburg“ in the field of tem. Since 2004, a 24-hour Hot Line has been in operation providing any information about Vodokanal work. The Hot Line wastewater treatment: phone number is +7 812 305 09 09. Moreover, Vodokanal is in charge • 98.4% of wastewater is treated in Petersburg now. This achievement is due to the of the city fountains and public toilets. completion of the Northern Tunnel Collector Project in St. Petersburg (October 2013). Vodokanal pays great attention • Petersburg meets the HELCOM recommendations: phosphorus concentrations in to awareness-raising activities. It has its the total volume of the city wastewater discharge do not exceed 0.5 mg/l, nitrogen Information and Training Centre including concentrations – 10 mg/l. the Universe of Water museum complex • Petersburg has solved the sludge disposal problem: three sludge incineration plants and the Youth Environmental Centre. are in operation in the city. The International Advanced Water • The geotube technology is used to recycle the sewage sludge accumulated in the Technologies Centre established by landfills before the incineration plants were put into operation. Vodokanal in cooperation with Lahti • Biomonitoring technologies are implemented to check the quality of treated effluent Science and Business Park, Finland, (by means of crayfish) and concentrations of flue gases at the sludge incineration plant is working on the company premises. (by means of snails). Another social awareness-raising project • An environment-friendly and energy-efficient snow disposal technology implemented by Vodokanal is the webis implemented in Petersburg – permanent snow-melting stations utilizing portal “Da-Voda” (www.da-voda.com) which wastewater heat. promotes the ideas of careful water use. 31 About the company The most important events in 2013 The St. Petersburg Water and Wastewater Master Plan up to 2025 2 with an outlook for 2030 was adopted by the St. Petersburg Government in The large-scale environmental project, of the main tunnel, December. 1 construction of the Northern Tunnel Collector in St. Petersburg, was • commissioning of the unique Flow The Master Plan was developed under Regulating Facility (a powerful pumping the Federal Law no.416-FZ dated 07.12.2011 completed on October 10, 2013. station required to ensure fault-free “On Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal” Since that day, 98.4% of wastewater has operation of the Collector). in compliance with the requirements to the been treated in St. Petersburg. Moreover, ten remaining untreated contents of such master plans as approved It is noteworthy that this event took place wastewater discharges (one on Vyborgskaya by the Decree of the Russian Federation in the Environment Year and on Vodokanal’s Embankment, six discharges along Government no.782 dated 5.09.2013 155th anniversary. Robespierre Embankment and three “On Water and Wastewater Master Plans”. The Collector completion ceremony took discharges of backwash water from Main The objective of the Master Plan is to implace at the new Flow Regulating Facility. WTP) totaling 87,000 m3/day of wastewater plement the national water and wastewater Governor of St. Petersburg Georgy were closed on that day. Previously, this policy aimed to maintain the public health Poltavchenko, Chairman of the Russian wastewater was discharged directly into and to improve the quality of life. Federation Council Valentina Matviyenko, the Neva, and now it is diverted via the Under the federal law, and Deputy Minister of Environment of Collector to the Northern Wastewater the Water and Wastewater Finland Hannele Pokka made speeches Treatment Plant for a full treatment cycle. at the ceremony. Master Plan shall be the basis As a result, 98.4% of for development and approval The Collector Project completion was marked by several events that took place wastewater has been treated of any investment programmes on October 10th: in St. Petersburg since proposed by regulated • commissioning of the second line October 10, 2013. entities in St. Petersburg. 32 Vodokanal participated in the 3 rescuing of rare animals in the Baltic Sea Region, ringed seals and grey seals. Vodokanal together with the experts of the not-for-profit partnership “Marine Mammal Rehabilitation Centre of the Leningrad Region” and the Public Relations Agency “2PR” participated in the rescuing habitat. A Ladoga ringed seal pup was the Pinnipeds” project became the winner of endangered Baltic seals under the “Help released into Lake Ladoga near the Valaam of the international competition in the the Pinnipeds” project. A temporary facility Archipelago. Other wards of Vodokanal’s field of public relations PROBA-IPRA for rehabilitation of pinnipeds was set up rehabilitation center, namely, two grey Golden World Awards 2013 in “the Best at the premises of Vodokanal’s wastewater seals and two Ladoga ringed seals, were Social PR-project” nomination. Another treatment plant in Repino. released into the wild in June and July. Vodokanal project, “Vodokanal in the The project was launched in March, In total, five pups have been Environment Year”, was short-listed for and already in May the first rehabilitated rehabilitated in the center. GWA in the nomination “Best Corporate pinnipeds were released to their natural In December, the Vodokanal’s “Help PR-Campaign” and given a diploma. 33 Odour removal project at Severny 5 Landfill proved to be effective. The automatic deodorant spraying system for odour removal was put into operation as a pilot project for Severny Landfill in 2012. The project was continued 4 Three new permanent snow-melting stations have been built and Street (5,000 cubic meters of snow per day), in Mebelnaya Street (7,000 cubic meters of through 2013: the automatic deodorant spraying system encompassed the major put into operation. snow per day), and in Kushelevskaya Road part of the Landfill along the perimeter. The permanent snow-melting stations (5,000 cubic meters of snow per day). Scientists from the Atmospheric (PSMS) melt snow in the chambers using In total, 10 permanent snowAir Protection Research the heat of wastewater. The resulting mix melting stations with the Institute examined the automatic of meltwater and wastewater is pumped via collectors to WWTPs where it is fully total capacity of 59,000 deodorant spraying system treated. Therefore, snow processing at cubic meters per day were performance at the Severny PSMSs helps mitigate the negative impact operated in St. Petersburg by Landfill and confirmed that on the environment significantly. the end of 2013. the technology was effective. In the end of 2013, Vodokanal commissioned the PSMSs in Rybinskaya 34 About the company The Water Museum Vodokanal launched three fountains. One more exhibition, 6 at 56 Shpalernaya Street celebrated its 10th anniversary. “the Universe of Water”, 7 The historical drinking fountain in the Sennaya Square was put into The festive programme devoted to was opened in the former operation by Vodokanal in the early this date was implemented during clean water reservoir in summer of 2013. Soon after the the “Museums at Night” event overnight 56 Shpalernaya Street by capital repairs, the fountain in Yuzhnointo 19 May. This time The Universe the 150th anniversary of Primorsky Park, one of the largest parks of Water museum complex was visited Vodokanal in 2008. In 2013, in St. Petersburg, began its operation. by approximately 8,000 people. Also, in summer 2013, one of the The museum in the former water tower by the 155th anniversary city’s historical fountains in the garden was opened by Vodokanal on May 19, of Vodokanal, it was around the palace of Grand Duke Alexei 2003 to mark the 300th anniversary renovated. Alexandrovich (in Pisareva str.) was of St. Petersburg. started after refurbishment. The historical exhibition The Water World of St. Petersburg and the multimedia exhibition The Underground World of St. Petersburg have been open in the water tower since 2003. 35 Investments in 2013 Vodokanal’s investment activities are carried out in accordance with the investment programme developed and adopted Vodokanal invested 4,662.4 Mio. RUB in the for 2012–2014 water supply system under the investment programme, including: • supply of safe potable water to the customers – 31.6 Mio. RUB; • provision of reliable water services – 1,706.9 Mio. RUB; In 2013, 21,761.6 Mio. RUB were • improvement of energy efficiency and invested in the development energy saving measures at water supply facilities – 233.2 Mio. RUB; and reconstruction of water • access to water supply services – The investment programme objectives are and wastewater systems 2,069.4 Mio. RUB; grouped in line with the core production in St. Petersburg. • other items (production bases, activities of Vodokanal. This amount is the sum of SUE procurement of equipment, security The water supply objectives are: “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” investment systems, development of fountain • supply of safe potable water to the programme and the budget investments complexes) – 621.3 Mio. RUB. customers; in the projects ordered by the Employer’s The amount of 8,838.4 Mio. RUB • provision of reliable water services; Office for Construction and Capital Repairs was invested in the wastewater system, • improvement of energy efficiency and of Engineering and Energy Complex including: energy saving measures at water supply (hereinafter – “the Employer’s Office”). • mitigation of wastewater system’s facilities; In 2013, SUE “Vodokanal negative impact on the environment – • access to the centralized water supply of St. Petersburg” investment programme 6,301.1 Mio. RUB; services. amounted to 13,500.8 Mio. RUB. • provision of reliable wastewater services – The wastewater disposal objectives are: It was funded from different sources, 532.3 Mio. RUB; • mitigation of wastewater system’s negative such as: • improvement of energy efficiency and impact on the environment; • Federal budget – 992.3 Mio. RUB; energy saving measures at wastewater • provision of reliable wastewater disposal • St. Petersburg budget – 1,173.0 Mio. RUB; collection and treatment facilities – services; • Vodokanal’s own funds – 3,877.2 Mio. RUB; 99.3 Mio. RUB; • improvement of energy efficiency and • own funds (budget investments in the • access to the sewerage – 1,468.1 Mio. RUB; energy saving measures at wastewater authorized capital) – 1,164.4 Mio. RUB; • other items (production bases, procurecollection and treatment facilities; • borrowed funds – 3,063.6 Mio. RUB; ment of equipment, security systems, develop• access to the centralized sewerage. • connection fee – 3,230.3 Mio. RUB. ment of public toilets) – 437.6 Mio. RUB. 36 водоканал сегодня In 2013, the total cost implementation of its investment activities development on the basis if the approved of works ordered by the under the Federal Law no.416–FZ Master Plan. The investment requirement “On Water Supply and Wastewater for the period till 2020 under the Master Employer’s Office to develop Disposal” approved in 2011. Plan is 171 billion Roubles. water supply and sanitation The Water and Wastewater Master The new investment programme will systems in St. Petersburg was Plan of St. Petersburg till 2025 was improve the company services and make developed and approved by the City them more reliable. Vodokanal will be able 8,260.8 Mio. RUB The works Government with participation of to perform a comprehensive modernization were financed from the Vodokanal specialists. The Scheme is the of water and wastewater treatment plants, budget of St. Petersburg. basis for the company new investment significantly increase the scope of networks In 2013, significant events took place period for years 2015-2020 with possible rehabilitation. The programme results that will impact all future investment extension to 2025. will contribute to the improvement of the activities of Vodokanal. The company drew up the draft terms quality of life in the city and ameliorate the Thus, Vodokanal started practical of reference for investment programme environmental situation. 37 Awards Among other Vodokanal awards are: in 2013 • certificate and medal “Leader of Russia 2013”; • certificate “Recognition of Special Achievements in Implementation and Maintenance of an Outstanding Management System”; • honorary diploma of the Union of Construction Associations and Organizations; In 2013, Vodokanal won • diploma for years-long active involvement in the development of methodological several national and support for works and services of the utilities sector and the development of standards international awards: for the maintenance and repair of water supply and sanitation equipment and facilities; • honorary diploma of the Federal Environmental, Industrial and Nuclear Supervision Vodokanal won 10th V.I. Vernadsky Service of Russia; National Environmental Award in the • diploma for outstanding achievements in business development and significant nomination “Global Ecology” contribution to the strengthening of economy of St. Petersburg and Leningrad Region (to mark the Northern Tunnel Collector in connection with 155th anniversary of Vodokanal; Completion Project). • winner diploma of the international award PROBA-IPRA GWA 2013 in “The Best Social Vodokanal also became laureate of the PR-project” nomination (“Help the Pinnipeds” project) and diploma of finalist in “Best international award “For compliance Corporate PR-Campaign” nomination for the “Vodokanal in the Environment Year” with international standards and project. requirements imposed on business processes, management quality, and final product”. In 2013, Director General of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg“ Felix V. Karmazinov was awarded an Honorary Diploma Vodokanal was awarded a diploma for and lapel pin of the State Duma of the Federal Assembly implementation of XXI century high-tech innovative solutions in the water supply of the Russian Federation for significant contribution to and sanitation filed. the development of legislation and parliamentary system, securing of citizens’ rights and freedoms, strengthening of democracy and constitutional order, for social and political activity in the Russian Federation. 38 At the international conference for special merits and scientific achieve“Vodokanal: Innovative Path of Developments in the field of ecology, sustainable Among the recognitions ment” dedicated to the company’s 155th use of natural resources and environmenbestowed on Felix Karmazianniversary and the completion of the tal protection. nov in 2013 is the Honorable major environmental project of 2013, Within the framework of the internaDiploma of the Federation namely, the Northern Tunnel Collector tional conference “Vodokanal: Innovative Council for his vigorous Project in St. Petersburg, Felix Karmazinov Path of Development”, the Mayor of Turku environmental activity, parwas awarded the lapel pin “V.I. Vernadsky Aleksi Randell awarded the Director GenOrder” (established by the V.I. Vernadsky eral of Vodokanal with a commemorative ticipation in environmental non-governmental environmental foundamedal “In Honour of 60th Anniversary forums and the Clean Water tion). This pin is awarded to outstanding of Twin-City Relationship between Project, and generation scientists, statesmen and public persons St. Petersburg and Turku”. of new ideas. 39 Risk Management Financial risk management SUE “Vodokanal uses its financial model calculated for the necessary amendments to the company’s of St. Petersburg” period up to 2035. production and investment programs. The model evaluates Vodokanal’s financial Risk management is integrated into follows a balanced capabilities taking into account the big the management system via strategic financial policy based investment projects implemented with the management and budgeting processes. on the Strategic company’s own or borrowed funds. Internal control procedures are Plan and long-term It takes account of macroeconomic factors implemented by the company to mitigate perspective and company development factors to all risk types. Internal audits are made identify potential sources of investments by a separate department within the The forecasting principle is unconditional and to project development options under Vodokanal administration. Scenario-based compliance with the key financial ratios different scenarios. approach, industry analysis and SWOT calculated according to both Russian The model provides instruments analysis are used by Vodokanal as risk and International Financial Reporting for comparative dynamic analysis and identification and assessment methods. Standards and maintained as monitoring of Vodokanal’s results. The Furthermore, property insurance and recommended by the International monitoring and analysis results provided third-party insurance of Vodokanal as the Financial Institutions. by the financial model are promptly used owner of hazardous production facilities To make a long-term forecast, the company by Vodokanal management to make the are used as a risk reduction tool. 42 About the company Financial risk management in 2013 In 2013, Vodokanal carried on long-term forecasting and financial modeling to minimize financial risks Continuous monitoring of financial to-euro exchange rate (Vodokanal’s electronic trading system of the closed situation and assessing its potential debt service obligations to international joint-stock company “St. Petersburg Stock impacts on the key financial indicators financial institutions totaling MEUR 125 Exchange” among the first-class credit enabled prompt updating of financial as of the end of 2013) it was decided institutions and amounted to 7.99% per policy and helped maintain the key to hedge the company’s interest rate annum, which is below the Bank of Russia financial ratios defining the company’s and exchange risks. Prequalification refinancing rate. financial standing and solvency at the for a master agreement on forward Vodokanal policy in the field of proper level. transactions in financial markets was financial management and minimization In 2013, Vodokanal continued conducted. According to the qualification of potential risks was appraised by the improving its financial model. The results the master agreement was signed leading international rating agencies improved model corresponds to the with Goldman Sachs Bank. The plan is to Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s, which European level and allows to predict complete the hedging of the company’s gave Vodokanal the following investmentand analyze Vodokanal’s key financial interest rate and exchange risks in 2014, grade credit ratings in 2013: indicators in accordance with IFRS. thus enabling fixation of loans repayment • S&P – BB+. Positive outlook Moreover, the model allows to forecast and debt servicing amounts irrespective of the impact of big investment projects any currency fluctuations. • Moody’s – Ваа2. Stable implementation scenarios on the key Moreover, for the purpose of outlook. indicators of the company’s financial increasing the company’s current assets, However, given the company’s sound and economic activity in the long-term in 2013 a 1,667 Mio. RUB loan was policy of financial risk management, the perspective. As a result, the company can taken in Sberbank with the repayment rating outlook of SUE “Vodokanal choose the most effective implementation deadline December 31, 2014. The interest of St. Petersburg” was changed from scenario minimizing any financial risks. rate was determined on the basis of an “stable” to “positive” by the rating agency In 2013, in view of unstable roubleopen auction held on 04.07.2013 in the Standard & Poor’s in November 2013. 43 Non-financial risk management Segmentation of nonfinancial risks was made by Vodokanal as a part of selfVodokanal’s internal control function assessment in accordance has a special department that deals with the EFQM Excellence with preventive identification of the Model. The key aspects of the company risks and implementation company activities which may of risk minimization activities lead to risks were identified. The non-financial risks are systematically managed by the company using a processbased approach in order to restrain possible losses of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”. To minimize the risks associated with the customer dissatisfaction with The internal control department works to achieve the following objectives: 1 water and wastewater services, the • ensuring the reliability of financial and managerial information; quality management system based • protection of the company assets and supporting the effective use of the company on the International Standard resources; ISO 9001 is continuously improved. Regular • assistance in optimization of the company organizational structure; interaction with customers through the • compliance with the applicable laws of the Russian Federation and St. Petersburg and Hot Line Service in combination with the the company internal regulations; company’s transparency policy (including • implementation of financial and economic activity plans. active communication with the mass The internal control department provides the management of Vodokanal with the media), as well as questionnaires and information obtained: customer satisfaction surveys, help mitigate • during inspections of the company departments; this risk, too. Internal and external audits • by analyzing the range and prices of goods and services procured by the company under the Quality Management System in the course of operations; (EMS) promptly identify the management • during the examination of company basic and supporting processes. areas to be improved and help improve General procedures for internal control of departments and internal auditing are the processes at all stages of the service formulated and approved. Inspection reporting rules and requirements to the form life cycle. In this way, the company and contents of reports are issued. Development of inspection and audit methods performance can be enhanced and for different types of corporate activities is ongoing. customer satisfaction raised. 44 About the company Sustainable use of natural resources, system approach to the corporate management, strong contribution to the development of regulatory acts, environmental awareness-raising, innovative technologies, and internal and external benchmarking – all that is integrated into the corporate management culture and leads to minimization of risks The risks associated with negative is implemented on the basis of OHSAS prevent emergency situations at hazardous 2 impacts on the environment are managed on the basis of the 18001 international standard and national regulatory acts. production sites. To mitigate the risks associated with environmental management system To alleviate the risks associated with information security, the company ISO 14001 used by the company. undesirable changes 9 implements measures to identify Vodokanal enhances the reliability of 5 in legislation, Vodokanal makes risks, determine risk factors and water supply and sewerage, improves a strong contribution to the risk probability; makes analyses wastewater treatment and sludge development of regulations, makes and assessments of the risks that may management technologies, stops the suggestions and argues its position. affect the company’s information security. discharge of backwash water from water To prevent the risks associated with The company’s informational security treatment plants using it for process needs low culture of water use, Vodokanal management system in accordance with after a proper treatment, and addresses 6 widely implements environmental ISO 27001 was established and certified the environmental impacts of its vehicles. awareness-building programmes. in 2012 to ensure a systematic approach The ISO 50001 energy management The risks associated with pollution to the information security. system was implemented and certified of potable water source (the Neva) At present, Vodokanal continues 3 in 2012 to raise energy efficiency at 7 are mitigated by early detection improving its non-financial risk the plants in a systematic way. of pollution events. In particular, management. Particular attention is paid Improved occupational health and Vodokanal has implemented the to the following areas: safety management on the basis river water biomonitoring by crayfish at • development of risk management; 4 of OHSAS 18001 mitigates the all its water intakes. Oil spills in the river • maintenance and development of energy risks associated with emergency are detected by the monitoring system management system according to situations and consequently, leads installed on one of the bridges across the ISO 50001 ideology; to the improvement of service quality the Neva, upstream of the first city water • maintenance and development and mitigation of the environment intake. of information security management pollution risks. Currently, professional To minimize the risks associated with system according to the ISO 27001 ideology; risks assessment is not only an important accidents and hazardous working • extension of both internal and external part of occupational health and safety 8 conditions Vodokanal is doing its best benchmarking; management but also a part of the to improve working conditions, to • more extensive use of such tools corporate management. This activity reduce accident frequency rates and to as 20 Keys, Six sigma, Lean production, etc. 45 Non-financial risk management in 2013 In 2013, the non-financial risk management process was under constant control based on ISO European Standards and EFQM Excellence Model, thus ensuring an efficient combination of measures to alleviate the risks taken by the company and measures to minimize, avoid or redistribute the unacceptably high risks The risk management process is designed Non-financial risk control comprises: • immediate response to identified risks or to to reduce the probability of unfavorable • identification of all significant non-financial the situations where the identified risks are outcome and to limit potential losses of SUE risks (risk map); near threshold levels; “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” when any risk • monitoring of the progress of designed • effectiveness analysis of risk management event occurs. actions for mitigation of all significant risks; actions by the top management. 46 General non-financial risk map of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” Risk Risk factors Degree of impact Risk management measures Political and regulatory risks Risk of economically unjustified Close interaction with the regulating restrictions in the state regulation of State authorities decide to freeze or High authority (St. Petersburg Tariff tariffs for water supply and wastewater limit the growth of tariffs Committee) disposal Operational risks Losses due to irrecoverable damage of High production facilities Company investment programme Production-related and technical risks Losses due to higher cost of providing implementation; (risks of breakdowns or incidents) water and wastewater services Control over the scope and time High schedule of repairs compared to planned operation of equipment Implementation of antiterrorist measures in compliance with the law of Shutdown of process equipment as the Russian Federation; a result of any terrorist act or natural Terrorist or naturally-occurring threats Above average Protection against potential disaster in the region consequences of accidents, catastrophes and natural disasters; Insurance of property and personnel Customers dissatisfaction with the Management system improvement quality of water and wastewater Lower quality of the services provided Above average on the basis of ISO 9001 and EFQM services Excellence Model Enhancement of internal control to Losses due to economically unjustified Corruption risks (potential conflicts of prevent conflicts of interest; terms of transactions with counterparts Above average interest) Compliance with anti-corruption policy and payments for nonexistent works and the corporate ethics code Compliance with the Russian laws Negative impact on the life and health pertinent to occupational health Risks of accidents at production sites of the company personnel resulting Average and safety; improvement of the from their operational activity management system on the basis of OHSAS 18001 Nonfulfillment of contractual More detailed preliminary analysis Risks of non-performance of obligations obligations regarding the time schedule of counterparty risks and control Below average by contractors and quality of performed works, supply over performance of obligations by of equipment and components counterparties Strategic risk Incorrect long-term planning of the Regular updating of the strategic Strategic risk Above average company development development plan Environmental risks Maintenance and improvement of the Water quality deterioration and Negative impact of ship traffic and High Neva water monitoring system, incl. pollution of the Neva agriculture on the Neva water biomonitoring Negative impact on environment Management system improvement on Risk of negative impact on environment Above average resulting from the company activity the basis of ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 Annual self-assessment of the company activities in accordance with the EFQM Excellence Model enabled successful integration of the approaches applied for non-financial risk management into a holistic system. 47 Participation in external initiatives Participation in the Environment Year “The plan of main events in the Environment Year 2013 to be implemented by Vodokanal” was developed by Vodokanal in accordance with the Order of the President of the Russian Federation no.1157 dated 10 August 2012 “On Holding the Environment Year in the Russian Federation” in St. Petersburg in April 2013. Main fields of joint activities aimed at the reduction of negative impact on the environment were identified. The Plan sets out measures aimed at ensurto the Northern WWTP via the Northern In 2013, for the purpose of building the ing the environmental safety and improveTunnel Collector. culture of water use and careful attitude ment of social standards of living for the Construction of permanent snow-meltto the environment, Vodokanal organized population of St. Petersburg, and environing stations (PSMS) to reduce the burden various environmental awareness-raising mental awareness-raising activities. on the Gulf of Finland continued. In 2013, events, e.g. the project “Water Olympiad”, The biggest environmental project, three new snow-melting stations with the conferences “Water – the Source of Life on completion of the Northern Tunnel total capacity of 17,000 m3/day were put Earth”, the Russian-British project “Green Collector, was the major event in the into operation. is great: freshening up ideas for water use”, Environment Year in St. Petersburg. With In 2013, sources of pollution of Lake panel discussion “Environmental Education the Northern Tunnel Collector in place, the Ladoga and the Neva were identified with and Public Awareness-Raising” (the latter discharge of 122 Mio. m3/year of untreated the aim to eliminate them in future. was held at the XIII International Environwastewater could be stopped, and wasteA “road map” for reduction of negative mental Forum “The Baltiс Sea Day”), etc. water treatment level in the city reached impacts on water environment of the Baltic Establishment of a pinnipedian rehabili98.4%. Furthermore, direct discharge Sea, Lake Ladoga and Lake Onega was detation center in Repino was a follow-up of backwash water from Main WTP could be veloped in the framework of preparations of Vodokanal activities in the field of the stopped too. Now all wastewater is diverted to the Baltic Sea Action Summit held Baltic Sea protection. 50 About the company Compliance with HELCOM recommendations Being the largest city in the Baltic Sea Region, St. Petersburg bears a special responsibility for the condition of the sea The Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea (Helsinki Convention) was signed The main tasks of Vodokanal with regard wastewater from the area of 330 square by all Baltic countries in 1974. For the first to the commitments taken by the Russian kilometers with a population of 2 million time ever, the Convention addressed all Federation under the Helsinki Convention (Krasnogvardeysky, Kalininsky, Vyborgsky, polluters located in the catchment area are as follows: Petrogradsky, and Primorsky districts, of the Baltic Sea. • closure of untreated wastewater right-bank part of Nevsky district and part After the collapse of the USSR and other discharges; of Tsentralny district) and transports it to geopolitical changes in 1990s, the new • reduction of nutrient load on the Baltic the Northern Wastewater Treatment Plant Helsinki Convention was signed in 1992 Sea basin. for treatment. The sub-spot “Construction by the states located along the coast of the Since then, Vodokanal has made a huge of the Northern Tunnel Collector” will be Baltic Sea and the European Community, work to phase out untreated wastewater officially closed at the forthcoming meeting and came into effect after ratification on discharge into the water bodies and to of HELCOM LAND in May 2014. January 17, 2000. The Russian Federation implement and modernize wastewater The closure of hot sub-spots approved the 1992 Helsinki Convention treatment technologies. As a result, the “Kolpino WWTP” and “Metallostroy in October 1998. major part of Vodokanal’s “hot spots” was WWTP” is planned for 2018. By that time, In 1992, the Comprehensive eliminated. reconstruction of Kolpino WWTP will be Programme of environmental protection In the beginning of 2014, only 3 hot completed and the plant capacity increased measures in the Baltic Sea Region adopted sub-spots (construction of the Northern to 140,000 m3/day, while Metallostroy as a part of Helsinki Convention listed the Tunnel Collector, wastewater treatment WWTP will be closed with the wastewater biggest pollution sources of the region plants in Kolpino and Metallostroy) diverted to the Central Wastewater and named them “hot spots”. Initially, remained. Actually, the Northern Tunnel Treatment Plant). the Programme specified 132 “hot spots” Collector sub-spot was eliminated in Overall, 199 discharges of untreated located in all countries of the Baltic Sea October 2013 upon the project completion. municipal sewage, industrial wastewater Region. Out of the 18 “hot spots” located Construction of the Northern Tunnel and storm runoff, 475,000 m3/day in total, in Russia, 6 were in St. Petersburg Collector is one of the key projects under were diverted to the municipal sewerage including 4 “hot spots” with 19 “hot subthe Neva Untreated Wastewater Discharge system under the Neva Untreated spots” being the responsibility Closure Programme implemented Wastewater Discharge Closure Programme of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”. by Vodokanal. The NTC collects in 2003–2013. 51 percentage of Wastewater treatment 97.1% 98.1% 100% 92% 94% 88% 85% 80% 67% 60% 40% 27% 20% 0% 1978 1987 2005 2008 2009 2011 2012 2013 In parallel, Vodokanal is improving its wasteimplemented at all municipal WWTPs, the secondary clarifiers and installation of raw water treatment processes in compliance total phosphorus removal efficiency has sludge pumps; with the HELCOM recommendations. grown to 89-90%, and phosphorus dis– Pontonny WWTP – installation of rotatIn the 1990s, HELCOM adopted unified charge into the Gulf of Finland decreased ing bar screens, rehabilitation of secondary limit values for concentrations of nutrients, 3.7 times. clarifier no.3, repairs of two grit channels nitrogen and phosphorus, for all Baltic counThe following projects are being impleincluding replacement of jet pumps, repair tries. These requirements are getting more mented to improve nutrients removal from of sludge thickener; stringent. wastewater: – Pushkin WWTP – rehabilitation of meWith the adoption of new recommen– Reconstruction of Northern WWTP chanical screens, installation of raw sludge dation for municipal wastewater treatment including implementation of UCT process pumps, four new air blowers, and a new on November 15, 2007, the requirements to by SWECO (Sweden) for enhanced removdrum screen for raw sludge. wastewater treatment quality became more al of nutrients; Currently, St. Petersburg fully complies stringent. Concentrations of total nitrogen – Small Wastewater Treatment Plants with the HELCOM recommendation on “Muand total phosphorus in the treated effluent Reconstruction Programme (in Pushnicipal Wastewater Treatment” regarding the discharged into water bodies shall not exceed kin, Kolpino, Kronstadt and Pontonny). discharge of nutrients, adopted for cities with 10 mg/l and 0.5 mg/l, respectively. The following works are performed a population of over 200,000. By the end of Since 2005, enhanced biological treatunder the Small WWTPs project: 2013, concentrations of total nitrogen and toment and chemical phosphorus precipitation – Kronstadt WWTP – reconstruction of tal phosphorus in the effluent were 9.8 mg/l methods have been used at St. Petersburg aeration tank for implementation of UCT and 0.35 mg/l, respectively. Now, the volume wastewater treatment plants to meet new process, rehabilitation of primary / secof nitrogen and phosphorus discharged into requirements and achieve stable nutrients ondary clarifiers and the grit channel; the water bodies of St. Petersburg continues removal performance. Since 2008, with the – Kolpino WWTP – rehabilitation of grit to decrease. chemical phosphorus precipitation process channels, two primary clarifiers, two 52 About the company Discharge of pollutants Since the recovery of the Baltic Sea water between HELCOM and SUE “Vodokanal of Environment and high-level officials from environment is only possible through St. Petersburg” to identify the sources and nine Baltic countries and the European joint efforts in the field of innovation and types of pharmaceuticals discharged from Union adopted the HELCOM Copenhagen awareness-raising, the Memorandum St. Petersburg into the Baltic Sea (with the Declaration. In the Declaration all parties of Understanding was signed between involvement of scientists from the Russian agreed that the “regional actions plan on HELCOM and SUE “Vodokanal of Academy of Sciences Environmental Safety marine litter shall enable … development St. Petersburg” on April 19, 2013, Research Centre). The focus of the study and testing of technology for removal regarding cooperation under the project was diclofenac and ethinylestradiol, as of micro-plastics and nanoparticles in “Implementation of the HELCOM Baltic Sea their negative impact on the hemathermal municipal wastewater treatment plants by Action Plan (BASE Project)”. The subject of species in the Baltic Sea had been 2020 and inter alia work with industry to the Memorandum is the support to joint reported. In 2013, methods of diclofenac ban the use of micro-plastics and on the activities for the Baltic Sea recovery. and ethinylestradiol detection in water assessment of the use of nanoparticles The Memorandum provides for information were developed, and the first set of within the production process (e.g. in exchange and pooling of resources with samples taken from raw sewage and cosmetics)”. Therefore, it is important the aim to implement model wastewater treated effluent was tested. to get reliable information on microtreatment technologies in the Leningrad At the same time, preparations began plastics concentrations in wastewater. Region settlements pursuant to the for implementation of another pilot A programme is developed to assess HELCOM recommendations. project, detection of micro-plastics in concentrations of micro-plastics in influent Moreover, a pilot project was launched wastewater. wastewater and treated effluent (currently, under the Memorandum of Understanding On October 3, 2013, the Ministers of it is in the pre-implementation phase). 53 Establishment of Public Council for the Gulf of Finland Year Preparations for the Gulf of Finland Year to be conducted in 2014 in three countries, Russia, Finland and Estonia, started in 2013. The Gulf of Finland Year Public Council was established in St. Petersburg. The first meeting of the Council was hosted by Vodokanal on 22 March, the Baltic Sea Day The governments of the three countries The initiative to organize one more Gulf L.D. Fomicheva, Director General agreed to co-organize the Gulf of Finland of Finland Year was proposed by both of SUE ”Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” Year in 2012. The main objective of the the officials and the scientific community. F.V. Karmazinov, and representatives initiative is to improve environmental The Russian President Vladimir Putin, of industrial companies, public conditions in the Baltic Sea Region. the Finnish President Sauli Niinistö, and organizations, executive and legislative During the Year, pollution level of the the Estonian President Toomas Hendrik authorities, etc. (18 members in total). Baltic Sea coast will be studied, and Ilves became patrons of the Gulf There were two meetings of the Public recommendations on the sea water of Finland Year. Council in 2013 (they were hosted by protection will be issued. The impact National public councils have been Vodokanal). The Council members believe of ship traffic on the marine environment established to prepare the Year agenda. that the Gulf of Finland Year should and preservation of biodiversity and fish In our region, such council is headed be a big event not only for professional resources will be a special focus area. by the Governors of St. Petersburg and environmentalists and the scientific The trilateral cooperation between Leningrad Region: Georgy Poltavchenko community. It is a good opportunity Russia, Estonia and Finland aimed at the and Alexander Drozdenko. to draw the public attention to different protection of marine environment in the The members of the Public Council issues in relation to careful and respectful Gulf of Finland began in 1992. However, are: Art Director of Mariyinskiy Theatre attitude to water in general and the Baltic the first “Gulf of Finland Year” was actually V.A. Gergiyev, Director of the State Russian Sea in particular. organized as early as in 1960s; for the Museum V.A. Gusev, Director of the State Vodokanal Director for Personnel second time such year was implemented Hermitage Museum M.B. Piotrovskiy, and Security A.K. Kinebas is appointed in 1996 – in all three countries Chairman of the Union of Journalists executive secretary of the Public Council at the ministerial level. of St. Petersburg and Leningrad Region “Gulf of Finland Year 2014”. 54 About the company Participation in the UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact (UN GC) is the of Industrialist and Entrepreneurs, one In 2012 and 2013, Vodokanal coordinated world’s largest voluntary initiative bringing representative from the UN and one repthe environmental activities within the imtogether companies and organizations that resentative from the government authoplementation of the UN GC ten principles. share ten principals for business in the area rities. Five representatives from the memIn 2014, it was decided that Vodokanal of human rights, labour, the environment ber-companies of the UN Global Compact would continue to coordinate works and anti-corruption. Network in Russia and one representative in this field. SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” joined from non-commercial organizations of the To ensure successful introduction of the UN GC in April 2007 and became one of Russian Network are elected by the general UN GC principles Vodokanal participates in the first Russian companies that signed the assembly. working meetings, relevant conferences and relevant agreement. Vodokanal’s support of For two years Director for Personnel, workshops organized by the UN GC Network UN GC initiative demonstrates the CompaSafety and Security Mr. Anatoly K. Kinebas in Russia. During such events the stakeholdny’s eagerness to comply with international was elected to the Steering Committee ers exchange experience and demonstrate standards in all operation areas and conof the UN GC Network best available practices. firms the Company’s intention to develop in the RF. rapidly social projects. On 17 December 2008, the UN Global Compact Network in Russia was launched at the general meeting of UN GC members, which took place in the RF. The Steering Committee is the executive body of the UN GC Network in Russia. It is comprised of ten members elected for one year. There are permanent members of the Steering Committee: one representative from the Russian Union 55 In April 2013, Vodokanal took part in a traditional festive event of socially responsible companies – the Patron of Arts Day. This event was organized by the UN GC Network in Russia on 13 April 2013 in the Hermitage Theater of St. Petersburg. Development”. At the briefing St. Petersburg public needs. For Vodokanal it confirmed the In September 2013, St. Petersburg Vodokanal reported about its achievements importance of educational initiatives oriented Vodokanal participated in the UN Global in the environment protection, including the to schoolchildren and students. Compact Leaders’ Summit (on the completion of the Northern Tunnel Collector On 20–22 December 2013, Vodokanal delegation of the UN GC Network Project and various environmental and participated in the H2O Film Festival. in Russia). The Summit took place on awareness-raising programmes. This is not by accident that water became 19–20 September 2013 in New York under The discussion panel (organized during the topic of the festival, since the year the chairmanship of the UN Secretarythe Leaders’ Summit) – Rational Use of Water 2013 was announced by the UN General General Ban Gi Moon. Recourses and Development Tasks after Assembly the Year of International Water The Leaders’ Summit is a central 2015 – acknowledged that rational water use Cooperation. international platform of the UN Global issues remained urgent at the present day. In 2013, Vodokanal was involved in the Compact enabling the participants to Three new platforms for sustainable development of the Best Practices Guide present to the world community their development – business for the world, “Sustainable Development: the Role achievements in sustainable development, sustainable agriculture and education – were of the Russian Business”. The Environmental establish new business contacts and discuss launched at the Leaders’ Summit. Summit Section of the Best Practices Guide contains issues related to the promotion of the participants turned their attention to the the article devoted to fostering careful UN GC ten principles. fact that investments in education met attitude to water. The Leaders’ Summit confirmed the principles of corporate social responsibility and that the principles of sustainable By joining the UN GC Vodokanal shares the view that business development had been increasingly in operations based on ten fundamental principles facilitate demand with the lapse of time. This fact better sustainability, fairness and visibility of global market, is equally related to the state-owned encourage the development of responsible civil society companies and to the private sector. and stable framework for national and global economy. During the Leaders’ Summit the Attention to personnel needs, responsibility towards representatives of Vodokanal participated population, compliance with customers’ requirements urge in the briefing – “Russian Hour. Investments our Company to pay closer attention to the environment of the Russian Business into Sustainable protection and industrial safety. 56 About the company Involvement in the development of subordinate acts to the Law “On Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal” and other regulations In 2013, Vodokanal’s experts participated in the development of the most important subordinate acts provided in the Federal Law “On Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal” no.416-FZ dated 7 December 2011 as well as other regulations being of direct relevance to water and wastewater services Such documents include, but not limited to: • Rules for decreasing the negative • Cold water supply and wastewater disposal rules (approved by the decree of the Russian environmental impact fee for companies Federation Government no.644 dated 29 July 2013); and their customers, which implement • Standard contract forms for cold water supply and wastewater disposal (approved by the nature protection measures (approved decree of the Russian Federation Government no.645 dated 29 July 2013); by the decree of the Russian Federation • Basic pricing principles in water supply and wastewater disposal, Rules for the regulation Government no.347 dated 17 April 2013); of water and wastewater tariffs, Rules for the determination of investment capital in water • Rules for the determination of discharge and wastewater sector, Rules for investment capital records, Rules for the calculation of limits of pollutants, other substances and the investment capital rate of return (approved by the decree of the Russian Federation microorganisms for customers, which Government no.406 dated 13 May 2013 “On state regulation of tariffs for water and discharge wastewater into water bodies wastewater services”); via the centralized wastewater system • Rules for commercial metering of water and wastewater (approved by the decree of the (approved by the decree of the Russian Russian Federation Government no.776 dated 4 September 2013); Federation Government no.393 dated • Rules for the development and approval of water and wastewater master plans; master 17 April 2013); plan requirements (approved by the decree of the Russian Federation Government no.782 • Regulation on decreasing the discharges dated 5 September 2013); of pollutants, other substances and • Wastewater composition and properties control regulations (approved by the decree of the microorganisms into surface and Russian Federation Government no.525 dated 21 June 2013); underground waters as well as catchment • Customer categories subject to special discharge limits of pollutants, other substances and basins (approved by the decree of the microorganisms (approved by the decree of the Russian Federation Government no.230 Russian Federation Government no.317 dated 18 March 2013); dated 10 April 2013). 57 Vodokanal’s experts also drafted the below-listed regulations and facilitated their approval, as a prerequisite for the implementation of the Federal Law “On Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal” no.416-FZ dated 7 December 2011 in the territory of St. Petersburg. Such regulations include: • St. Petersburg Law no.113–23 dated Activities of the 13 March 2013 “On delineation of powers among St. Petersburg public authorities in water and wastewater sector”; International Advanced • Resolution of St. Petersburg Government no.940 dated 29 November 2013 “On measures to implement St. Petersburg Water Technologies Law “On delineation of powers among St. Petersburg public authorities in water and wastewater sector”; Centre • Resolution of St. Petersburg Government no.989 dated 11 December 2013 In 2013, activities of the International Advanced Water “On the approval of St. Petersburg water Technologies Centre, co-founded by St. Petersburg and wastewater master plan up to 2025 Vodokanal and Lahti Region Development LADEC Ltd. with an outlook to 2030”. (Finland), continued Vodokanal’s experts were involved in an intensive work at different meetings with More than twenty years ago, the partnership between St. Petersburg Vodokanal and Finland executive bodies of the Russian Federation started with training activities. In the course of time, such approach proved to be absolutely and professional community to develop right. Although Vodokanal’s specialists now train their colleagues from other Russian regions, and adopt regulations on the provision they continue to learn, because the company development is not possible without continuous of public services as well as other waterimprovement of the staff proficiency level. For this very purpose and under the aegis of the related spheres. working group for environment and nature conservation of the Northern Dimension Business Moreover in 2013, experts of the Council, the non-commercial partnership – International Advanced Water Technologies Company made valuable contribution to Centre – was established. the development of changes to the Federal In 2013, the Centre was registered as a non-commercial partnership. Law “On Water Supply and Wastewater In 2013, over 30 training activities were held for managers and experts in water sector Disposal” no.416-FZ dated 7 December as well as for students and schoolchildren. 2011 targeted to the improvement of the Totally, about 3,500 Russian and foreign water experts took part in the training activities incorporated legal mechanics. The draft of the Centre in 2013, including over 500 water and wastewater experts. of such changes was submitted to the The geographic boarders of cooperation were significantly extended, since participants State Duma of the Russian Federation and from new regions were involved in the Centre activities. Over 30 water companies from brought for the approval of the authorized Russia and CIS, tens of Russian and foreign water sector-related organizations participated governmental bodies. in the activities in 2013. 58 Participants of the Centre activities in 2012 and 2013 Satisfaction Level – 2013 vs. 2012 3,500 100% 95% 97% 99% 99% 97% 98% 3,480 91% 92% 90% 3,400 80% 3,300 70% 60% 3,200 50% 3,100 3,100 40% 3,000 30% 20% 2,900 2012 2013 10% 0% Quality of teaching curriculum content organization equipment and facilities and teaching aids of teaching process available for teaching 2012 2013 The Centre arranges the following types On 18–22 November 2013, the Centre used to update programmes. of events: workshops, laboratory lessons, together with the Irkutsk State Technical The Centre puts special emphasis on lectures, interactive lessons, on-the-job University organized on-the-job training work with the younger generation. First of all, training in Russia and abroad. Lectures for water experts from the towns of this is environmental education. and lessons were conducted by Vodokanal Eastern Siberia within the framework of the For this purpose an extensive experience experts and leading specialists from Presidential Programme for upgrading the and premises of the Youth Environmental European institutions and companies. skills of engineers for 2012–2014. Centre of SUE ”Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” The target-groups of the Centre are Of vital importance for the development are used. managers and personnel of water of the Centre is its participation in Schoolchildren participate in interactive companies, experts of research institutions, international water events. On 20–21 March lessons learning how to reduce the load on water quality control and research 2013, the Centre presented its activities the environment of the region in general and, laboratories. in the exhibition booth of Ladec in the course of course, on the Baltic Sea. The Centre also dealt with students from of ChemBio 2013 in Helsinki. In the end of 2012, the Centre received water or other higher education institutions To ensure continuous improvements the the award as the best international initiative as well as 8–11 grade schoolchildren. Centre pays special attention to the opinion from the Finnish Science Park Association In 2013, one of the promising directions of the people who participate in various (TEKEL). of activities became the organization of activities. The feedback from the trainees The Centre continuously improves its workshops for foreign students. For example, is based on the questionnaires. operation not only in terms of quantity but on 15 May 2013, the Centre organized at The questionnaires cover three main also in quality. It develops new directions and the Central Wastewater Treatment Plant items: satisfaction with the organization forms of activities, extends the geographical the seminar for PhD students from Finnish of the event, proposals to improve boarders of cooperation. universities. organization of the training process and The Centre creates a unique platform for In 2013, the Centre for the first time topics the participants would like to include upgrading professional skills of Vodokanal started to organize on-the-job training into future training programmes. The most employees and other experts from water for experts from external companies. advantageous and interesting opinions are companies in Russian and abroad. 59 Membership in the European Foundation for Quality Management Since 1 December 2011, St. Petersburg Vodokanal has been a full member of the European Foundation for Quality Management (EFQM) The European Foundation for Quality relevant recommendations. • the increase of the reliability and Management (EFQM) is a not-for-profit There is a set of key principles upon efficiency of water supply and wastewater membership organization. which the EFQM’s fundamental concept disposal systems through the introduction It was established in 1987 by 14 leading of Excellence is based: of up-to-date management and metering European companies with the support • adding value for customers; systems; of the European Commission to increase • sustainable achievement of the • improvement of water and wastewater the competitiveness of the European distinguished results; treatment processes; economy by promoting new management • leading with vision, inspiration and • sustainable use of water resources approaches, stimulating the learning honesty; in the course of treating, distributing and of management basics and creating • developing organization capacities; provision of drinking water to consumers; opportunities for recognition of success • succeeding through people; • protection of the environment at water in this field. • using creativity and innovation; intakes, during transportation, treatment, EFQM members number over 800 • managing with flexibility; handling and incineration of wastewater European organizations totaling several • creating a sustainable future. sludge; millions of employees. More than 30,000 One of the top-priority tasks • guaranteeing to consumers the quality companies all over the world use principles of St. Petersburg Vodokanal is the improveof water supply and wastewater disposal and instruments developed by EFQM. EFQM ment of the company management services that meet and exceed the was established to assist organizations in system aimed to raise responsibility for requirements of Russian and European achieving sustainable success by giving them sustainable future of the region, including: standards; 60 About the company • keeping the investment attractiveness namely, by EFQM acting assessors. • in 2011, Vodokanal became a finalist of to implement reconstruction and building Since 2005, Vodokanal has started the EFQM Excellence Award. The company programs; selfassessment of its activities on the basis was the first to achieve such a result • effective resource management of the Excellence Model to improve its among European water companies; to optimize costs. management framework. At first the • in 2012, St. Petersburg Vodokanal All of the above will guarantee company used the Russian Federation won the best practice competition in the quality of services, customer Government Regional Quality Model that creative use of social media organized confidence in the safety of drinking harmonized with the EFQM Model. Since by the European Foundation for Quality water and customers’ right to the healthy 2009, Vodokanal has conducted the Management (EFQM). Vodokanal presented environment not only today but in the selfassessment on the basis of the EFQM at the competition its video-film “The Neva following years. Model. Crayfish and His Friends” telling about the The Foundation organized the EFQM Main stages of interaction with EFQM: da-voda website (www.da-voda.com) – Excellence Model Competition to motivate • in 2009, Vodokanal received the certificate the project aimed to disseminate the ideas organizations, which introduce confirming compliance of the company of careful attitude to natural resources; selfassessment according to EFQM management with the “Recognized for • in 2013, Vodokanal’s experts acting Excellence Model, share experience and Excellence” 5 stars level of the EFQM Model; as EFQM assessors were engaged assess the company management by • in 2010, Vodokanal won the International in examining Russian companies for experts from companies that are the most Quality Tournament of Central and Eastern nomination to “Committed to Excellence” successful in management improvement, Europe; and “Recognized for Excellence” Levels. 61 Membership in associations, unions and other organizations Vodokanal St. Petersburg gives Property Committee pursuant to the Federal Law no.161-FZ dated 14 November 20002 much attention to participation in “On state and municipal enterprises”. professional associations The fact that Vodokanal has relevant and unions competency certificates enables the Company to perform its daily operation on a full scale and in line with applicable law In 2013, Vodokanal continued to work Baltvod Association of North-Western of the Russian Federation. within the framework of the non-commerWater Companies initiated by Vodokanal It should be reminded that due to the cial partnership National Union of Vodoka(more than twenty years ago) actively adoption of the Federal Law no.148-FZ nals (NUV) uniting companies of different participates in promotion of the advanced dated 22 July 2008 “On introducing amendownership which account for almost twowater and wastewater technologies in ments to the Town-Planning Code and thirds of the total water supply in Russia. water sector of the North-West Federal certain legislative acts of the Russian The main activity of NUV is the improveDistrict. President of the Association is also Federation”, from 1 January 2009 the licensment of interaction between water compaFelix V. Karmazinov, Director General of ing of particular types of works was abolnies and governmental authorities for the the Company. ished in the Russian Federation (including purpose of introducing new operational Vodokanal St. Petersburg is a member the licensing of construction works), standards and technical regulations of two self-regulatory organizations: the and self-regulatory organizations (which as well as improving investment prospects Non-Commercial Partnership “Association activities are regulated by the Federal of the sector. The NUV was established of Builders of St. Petersburg” Law no.315-FZ dated 1 December 2007 in 2009 and Felix V. Karmazinov, Director (the competency certificate for a particu“On self-regulatory organizations”) were General of Vodokanal St. Petersburg, was lar type of works influencing the safety authorized to issue permits for particular elected its President. of permanent facilities no.0064.02-2009type of works to building companies. Vodokanal St. Petersburg maintains 7830000426-С-003 dated 2 April 2012) and At present organizations may carry out partner relations with Russian water comthe Not-For-Profit Partnership “Interredesign and construction works (as well panies in the framework of other profesgional Union of Design Engineers” as perform construction supervision/ funcsional associations. The company (the competency certificate for a particutions of the project manager/developer) is a member of the Russian Association lar type of works influencing the safety only on the basis of a competency certifiof Water Supply and Wastewater of permanent facilities no.0176-2011cate issued by a self-regulatory organizaDisposal (RAVV); Felix V. Karmazinov, 7830000426-P-30 dated 28 December 2011). tion. To obtain such a certificate, a compaDirector General of Vodokanal, is a memMembership of Vodokanal in the listed ny is required to become a member of the ber of the RAVV Board. organizations was approved by the City relevant self-regulatory organization. 62 About the company Support of Regional Initiatives St. Petersburg Vodokanal is engaged in ness-building activities and implementance to the organizers of different city various regional initiatives, including envitation of interactive programme in events to ensure comfortable environment ronmental awareness. ECOcinema in the framework of VI Neva for participants of such events. In 2013, experts of the Universe of Environmental Congress; Vodokanal has at its disposal various Water Museum Complex and the Youth •co-organizing of VI All-Russian Scientiftypes of mobile toilets used for public Environmental Centre participated in ic Environmental Conference “Water – events. Subject to the venue of the public regional events devoted to the EnvironSource of Life on Earth”; event, number of participants and guests mental Protection Year and targeted to •preparation and implementation of the as well as time of year Vodokanal is able environmental awareness among children, programme for International Event to provide both mobile toilet cabins and the youth, population and city guests. “Museums at Night”; toilet units on vehicle chassis. These events included: • co-organizing of children programme at All in all, in 2013 Vodokanal provided •organization of the city contest “Fundathe International Environmental Film Festimobile toilets for 800 public events, includmentals of Safe Water Use” in the frameval “Green Vision”; ing the New Year, Christmas, Victory Day, work of the All-Russian School Olympiad • participation in the environmental fesDay of the City, Scarlet Sails Schoolin Life Safety, the city round; tival and research-to-practice conference Leaving Festival, Breach of the Siege Day, • organization of the Interactive Pro“Krasnoselskaya Rainbow”; Children’s Day and etc. In addition, in 2013 gramme “Water, Environment and Myself” • participation in city festival EcoOkhta; two religious processions were organized for participants of the festival “Europe • participation in Museum Programme Fesin St. Petersburg for the first time, and Days” in St. Petersburg; tival “Children Days in St. Petersburg”. Vodokanal provided mobile toilets for the • presentation of Vodokanal’s awareIn 2013, Vodokanal provided its assiscomfort of city inhabitants. 63 Interaction with stakeholders Partnership concept Vodokanal St. Petersburg maintains lasting relations with its partners on the basis of mutual trust, respect and openness in line with the EFQM Model concepts, knowing that in the dynamic environment of the modern world the company success and satisfaction of all stakeholders strongly depend on the development of effective partnership Vodokanal St. Petersburg divides its standing business partners of Vodokanal from housing and public utilities of the partners into segments – by types there are over 20 Finnish companies and Russian Federation and CIS and arranges of activities or services and by organizations. Vodokanal maintains close visits to Vodokanal reference plants, where significance and importance of the partnership with water companies of the such innovative projects and the best partnership in terms of creating value Baltic Region cooperating with regard practices have been implemented. for the stakeholders. to HELCOM Convention and Clean Baltic Among Russian partners in the field Vodokanal adheres to the Sea Project. The Company has partner of innovative technologies there are such multilateral partnership concept relationships with water companies of companies as Kreal, Arsenal and AViV. including the interaction with its Helsinki, Stockholm, Tallinn, Hamburg Together with these companies Vodokanal partners and suppliers on technical, and Berlin. International cooperation obtained 10 protection documents for new process-related, financial, organizational assists the Company to solve issues technologies. and tutorial aspects of activities. related to efficient benchmarking, The partnership with the Russian and As for its international partners, in investments, environmental protection, European banking community, as well 2013 Vodokanal continued to cooperate technical upgrade and environmental as with different investors is successfully successfully with such organizations as: awareness-building. implemented in Vodokanal. • the Ministry of the Environment Since 2009, Vodokanal has been The basic principle of the of Finland; the member of the National Union of partnership concept embraced by • the John Nurminen Foundation; Vodokanals and interacted with water Vodokanal: each partner fulfils its • Nordic Environment Finance companies and governmental authorities obligations in due time and at a good Corporation (NEFCO); for the purpose of introducing new quality level understanding that • Swedish International Development operational standards and technical partnership implies joint work aimed Cooperation Agency (Sida); regulations as well as increasing at long-term, sustainable creation • Northern Dimension Environmental investment opportunities of the sector. of value for both parties. Partnership (NDEP); The Company is engaged in reviewing Over decades of cooperation • foreign partners-suppliers of and developing new drafts of water with foreign and domestic partners, equipment and technologies. legislation for public utilities, conducts Vodokanal has never failed to fulfil The international cooperation consultations with legislative and its obligations, and this fact is highly enables Vodokanal to study and executive bodies, exchanges experience appreciated by its partners. implement into its own operations with leading housing and public utilities Well-defined partnership concept and experience of the best foreign as well as water unions. At present mutually beneficial cooperation with the companies. One of the most long term Vodokanal is involved in promoting partners help us implement innovative partners of the Company is the Ministry innovative approaches in housing and technologies, modernize plants, of the Environment of Finland which public utilities of the Russian Federation improve the company management participated in over 50 innovative and CIS. Vodokanal production branches and, eventually, raise the stakeholders’ projects of Vodokanal. Among long conducts working meeting with experts satisfaction with our services. 66 Interaction with customers One of the most important aspects of Vodokanal activities is maintaining everyday contacts with customers The Company communicates with customers in several ways: in the course of services All incoming requests are recorded in the provision, in the course of interaction initiated by Vodokanal (interviews, focus groups), information system of the Hot Line and by discussing various problems in the mass media and by organizing different meetings with forwarded to the relevant production citizens. division responsible for examination of the Quick response to the customers’ complaints of deficiencies in water and sewage network, remediation of relevant section networks operation is an important aspect for Vodokanal. of network and informing the customers Since 2003, Vodokanal of St. Petersburg has been operating the Hot Line which of the works performed. All the call receives customer calls round the clock (tel.: +7 (812) 305-09-09). processing stages – from the call to Besides, Vodokanal receives requests via the Internet (there is a separate section remediation – are under the control “Feedback” on the corporate website www.vodokanal.spb.ru). of a body independent from the production division which performs works. The monitoring of the request processing may only be stopped after the customer Vodokanal-Customers interaction through calls confirms that the works are completed. Thus, it is a customer that evaluates the final results of works in relation to every call. Moreover, the above system enabled customer a customer calls informing the customer citizens, customers and clients to receive the hot line of the process and surveying information and consulting services from customer opinion on the quality the Hot Line operators. of executed works (customer satisfaction) To develop the call reception system, every request the time distribution of calls during is registered 24 hours was analysed. The results of the analyses ensured efficient arrangement hot line of work process with a sufficient number Follow-up control the request is forwarded of skilled operators available at any time to a relevant Vodokanal’s of day or night. division for processing The customer call management includes computer registration of information about the works all incoming calls. Codification of calls Works are carried out carried out in relation to solve the problem production to the request supports efficient evaluation of service until the request is satisfied divisions quality and helps determine the areas of Vodokanal for improvement in order to eliminate the causes of complains preventively. 67 Processing of customer calls is based on and installation of wastewater meters). consumption by an apartment house the information obtained by means On a regular basis Vodokanal conducted if there are no limits for wastewater of up-to-date technologies, in particular, working meetings with St. Petersburg services consumed for the apartment the Call-Centre – automated call recording International Business Association (SPIBA) house management needs and boundaries and distribution system. The information with regard to wastewater disposal norms, of operating responsibilities of the public obtained through this system enables us wastewater treatment quality, standard service providers toward wastewater to ensure reception of all incoming calls form contracts for water and network within apartment houses. and to optimize both the call processing wastewater services and installation In 2013, for the second time St. Petersburg time and the waiting time required for the of local wastewater treatment plants. Vodokanal organized the Annual Contest caller to get the operator’s answer. Meetings of the working group for the best customer title – “Cristal Drop”. All these factors contribute to the organized by the Concierge Newspaper Major criteria of the contest are timely improvement of the customer service with the participation of the public services payment by the customer of water and quality. providers were held quarterly to discuss wastewater services, implementation issues of water supply for apartment of nature conservation and water In 2013, Vodokanal houses, including drinking water quality, protection measures for the fulfilment of continued work related to installation of house meters, estimation qualitative and quantitative parameters of public service consumption by an of wastewater discharge limits. One of consultations and exchange apartment house if there are no metering the key tasks of “Cristal Drop” Contest of opinions with different instruments and interaction with owners is to build up close interaction between categories of customers. (right holders) of non-residential premises customers and Vodokanal as well as to Within the working group with the of apartment houses. enhance further fruitful cooperation. participation of St. Petersburg authorities, Vodokanal conducted consultations On 19 April 2013, winners of “Cristal Vodokanal actively cooperated with the with the Association of Housing Drop” Contest were announced in the Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs Construction Cooperatives, Housing following nominations: of St. Petersburg (with regard to Companies and Condominiums, discussed • the title “The best customer among heat wastewater disposal norms, construction issues related to installation of house supply companies” was awarded of local wastewater treatment plants meters, estimation of wastewater service to OAO “TGK-1”; 68 About the company • the title “The best customer among (water and wastewater consumption organizations which are financed over 30,000 m3/day); through St. Petersburg budget and not • the title “The best customer among served by the Centralized Accounts housing companies” was awarded Department of the administrative to the housing agency no.2 districts of St. Petersburg” was awarded of Kalininsky District and to the to the Orphanage no.1 (for children with housing cooperative Filippov’s disabilities) of Kirovsky District; House; • the title “The best customer among • the title “The best customer organizations which are financed through among owners (right holders) St. Petersburg budget and served by the of non-residential premises Centralized Accounts Department of the located in apartment houses” administrative districts of St. Petersburg” was awarded to OOO “Chayka”. was awarded to the state funded educational institution “St. Petersburg City Palace of Youth Creativity”; • the title “The best customer among organizations financed through the federal budget” was awarded to St. Petersburg State University; • the title “The best customer among industrial companies” was awarded to OAO “Zavod Navigator” (water and wastewater consumption up to 10,000 m3/day), OAO “Karl Liebknecht Mechanical Plant of Leningrad” (water and wastewater consumption 10,000–30,000 m3/day), FGUP “Goznak” 69 Interaction with suppliers, Procurement Vodokanal St. Petersburg is striving to build where the winner is a person bidding Placement Commission, on the grounds of long-term, mutually beneficial relations the lowest price or, if the contract price is evaluation criteria and procedure set forth with suppliers. reduced to zero in the course of the auction in the Competitive Dialogue Documents, Pursuant to the Federal Law “On proand the auction participants compete for selects the participant of the competitive curement of goods, works, services by the right to make the contract, – a person dialogue offering the best contract terms. certain types of legal entities” no.223-FZ bidding the highest price for the contract; Prior to the above-mentioned dated 18 July 2011, when procuring • request for quotation – a method of procedures the prequalification may take goods, works and services St. Petersburg order placement where the information place in case of procurement of goods, Vodokanal shall comply with the principle about the purchase of goods, works or works and services for production needs of transparency. According to this principle services is made available to unlimited and if untimely and poor quality of goods, the contracting authority is obliged to range of persons by posting the call for works and services may impair customers. post the information about pursued quotations on the company website; the Prequalification means selection participant which offers the lowest contract of contenders for participation in the procurements on the official web-site – price becomes the winner. The maximum procurement procedure in compliance with www.zakupki.gov.ru. contract price in this procedure is 1,000,000 the requirements and criteria set by the In compliance with the Law no.223-FZ, Roubles, and the procedure may only be contracting authority. the following information is to be posted on launched by the company (including its The following selection criteria are the official web-site: commonly used for prequalification: branches) once in three months for the 1. Procurement plan. same product; • bidder’s experience in the area relevant 2. Procurement regulation. • single source (supplier, contractor) to the subject of the tender; 3. Procurement information. procurement – a procedure other than • plants and equipment; 4. Amendments made to a contract tender where the purchaser sends an offer • qualifications of managers and specialists; during its conclusion and performance. of contract to one supplier (contractor) • company ratings; 5. Data on the number and total value only. The use of this procedure is limited • certificates, diplomas, self-regulating of contracts concluded. to strictly defined cases where other organization documents; To use the company’s own funds procurement procedures are not feasible • other criteria enabling to assess the in an effective way, Vodokanal carries or reasonable; bidder. out procurements applying regulated • competitive dialogue – a method of order With such approach, goods and services procedures, including: placement where the Order Placement can be procured on optimal terms and • tender – a bid process where the winner Commission conducts negotiations with the conditions. The published information is a person bidding the best contract terms participants of competitive dialogue and on bidding and requests for quotations evaluated in line with tender criteria, upon the completion of such negotiations includes contracting authority’s contact evaluation procedure and bids comparison; the Commission makes its final proposal. persons for inquiries regarding the • auction (open or closed) – a bid process Prior to the competitive dialogue the Order tendering / technical issues. Those who 70 About the company wish to submit their bids (requests for form”, to procure goods (works, services) quotations) can receive clarifications on in electronic form, as well as to computerize various issues in the course of preparing the process of procurements made at their tender proposals either by addressing the Company’s own funds, Vodokanal the contact person specified in the entered into the contract with the company documentation over the phone or in operator of electronic tendering platform a written form by sending an inquiry. B2B (www.b2b-vodokanalspb.ru). organized the contests for the title The Order Regulations Bureau In 2013, Vodokanal tested almost all “The best supplier of the year for the is responsible for clarification of issues procedures to be organized in electronic needs of Vodokanal”. In June 2013, winners concerning preparation of bids while the form and integrated the operation of the of the contest were announced. initiator-department is responsible for electronic tendering platform with the The contest for the title “The best clarification of issues related to the terms official procurement website supplier of the year for the needs of of reference and draft contract provisions. (www.zakupki.gov.ru) and the Company’s Vodokanal” was held for the second time. In 2013, within the framework of the website (www.vodokanal.spb.ru). 16 companies submitted their applications Provision “On the procurement of goods, E-procurement reduces labour costs of for the contest in 2013. The main criteria works and services through Vodokanal own the bidders and the contracting authority, of the contest included fulfilment of the funds” the Company conducted about facilitates the development of competitive contract terms and conditions, prompt 2,000 procurement procedures environment, speeds up and simplifies attention of the supplier’s experts to and concluded over 1,800 contracts. procurement process. Vodokanal’s requests, compliance of the Pursuant to the Regulation of the One of the key factors applied by supplier’s operations with the quality Government of the Russian Federation Vodokanal to the selection of suppliers management system, safety management no.616 dated 21 June 2012 “On approval (contractors) is the quality of the supplied system, hygiene and living conditions, of the list of goods, works and services, the goods (performed works) and qualifications availability of individual protective procurement of which is made in electronic of the supplier (contractor). The Company devices and etc. 71 Interaction with financial institutions Financing of one of the most important projects of Vodokanal – the Neva Untreated Wastewater Discharge Closure Program – was organized partially through international financial institutions The Program is co-financed with the Vodokanal conducted competitive In 2013, Vodokanal continued the loans provided by the European Bank biddings and concluded two last Project for Upgrading Small Wastewater for Reconstruction and Development contracts for the supply of equipment Treatment Plants in St. Petersburg. This (EBRD), Nordic Investment Bank (NIB) and for reconstruction of the Northern project has been financed, inter alia, through European Investment Bank (EIB), Wastewater Treatment Plant (Northern NEFCO loan in the amount of EUR 5 mio. as well as the non-refundable assistance WWTP): In 2013, Vodokanal went on of the Northern Dimension Environmental • the supply contract with Purac AB in the performing its obligations of debt Partnership (NDEP), Swedish International amount of SEK 37,092,675 (to be financed repayment and servicing under the loan Development and Cooperation Agency through non-refundable assistance agreements. (SIDA), the Ministry of the Environment provided by Swedish International LLC Vodokanal-Finance (subsidiary of of Finland (FMoE), EBRD Special Support Development and Cooperation Agency); Vodokanal St. Petersburg) was paying, in Fund and the John Nurminen Foundation. • the supply contract with Malmberg a timely manner and in full, the accumulated In addition to the provision of funds, Water AB in the amount of EUR 9,021,558 coupon yield to the holders of Series 01 nonVodokanal’s lenders and donors monitor (to be financed through non-refundable convertible interest-bearing documentary the performance of financial obligations assistance provided by Northern bearer bonds of LLC Vodokanal-Finance, by Vodokanal, compliance with Dimension Environmental Partnership). with obligatory centralized care (state environmental requirements, conformity In 2013, Vodokanal fully completed registration number 4-01-36398-R dated of tender procedures for procurement the Northern Tunnel Collector 16 November 2010). of goods, works and services with the Extension Project. The remaining In 2012, the amount of the paid coupon international standards. project funds will be used in 2014 yield was RUR 175,520,000.00. The series In 2013, within the Neva Untreated for the reconstruction of the 01 bond’s coupons rate remained at 8.8% Wastewater Discharge Closure Program Northern WWTP. per annum. 72 About the company Interaction with other regions in the field of water and wastewater system development One of the major principles of Vodokanal operation is environmental responsibility for clean water basin of the Northwestern Federal District “Onega Lake, Ilmen Lake – Ladoga Lake – River Neva – Gulf of Finland – Baltic Sea” In 2013, Vodokanal continued its works for Housing, Utilities and Transport of the water treatment plants of single-industry targeted to the reduction of adverse enviLeningrad Region and administrations of towns (Kondopoga, Segezha and Pitkäranta). ronmental impact on water bodies located municipal districts, the Company primarily On the grounds of the survey Vodokanal in the North-West Region. conducted technical survey of water and developed the list of recommendations to Increased pollution load on water bodies wastewater facilities and water bodies which be elaborated further in the course of joint worsens the quality of raw water in the Neva produce a direct impact on the Neva River projects on construction, reconstruction River, which is the major water source and the Gulf of Finland. and operation of the integrated water and for St. Petersburg. The results of the conducted technical wastewater system in municipal districts of In November 2012, the Steersurvey and the action plan for upgrading the Republic of Karelia. Such projects shall water and wastewater system were presentaccord with interests of the Republic ing Committee for social and ed to the Governor of the Leningrad Region of Karelia and reduce adverse impact on the economic development of in October 2013. Neva – Ladoga catchment area. St. Petersburg and the LeninIn 2013, Vodokanal continIn 2013, Vodokanal also was grad Region was established. ued its cooperation with the involved in designing wasteAt the meetings of the Steering Committee Government of the Republic water treatment plant the authorities of two neighboring subjects of Karelia and OAO “Corporaon the Isle of Valaam. coordinate their work with regard to the tion for the Development of Existing Valaam wastewater treatment development of transport and engineering plant does not comply with wastewater infrastructure, fuel and energy complex, the Republic of Karelia” in the treatment requirements related to the housing and public utilities, social safety for field of water supply and sewremoval of nitrogen, phosphorus and BOD. the population, labour migration and other erage systems modernization There is a need to increase the capacity of issues. in the Republic of Karelia. wastewater treatment plant and to replace On 7 December 2012, the Steering In June 2013, Vodokanal completed the the technological process with more efficient Committee gave the task to St. Petersburg survey of water and wastewater facilities and reliable one. Vodokanal to conduct the survey of water located in the Republic of Karelia. The survey In 2013, design works for Valaam wasteand wastewater facilities, which are locatwas carried out in 128 population centers water treatment plant were completed and ed in the Leningrad Region and discharge of 17 municipal districts in cooperation with the construction started. wastewater into the Neva – Ladoga catchadministrations of municipal districts and loWater supply and sewerage systems on ment area. cal public utilities. In addition, the Company the Isle of Valaam were transfer for operaIn cooperation with the Committee conducted survey at non-municipal wastetion to St. Petersburg Vodokanal. 73 Interaction with personnel Interaction with the employees, the most important asset of the Company, is based on social partnership, common goals, respect of mutual interests, feasibility of the obligations taken by the parties and fulfillment of such obligations in good faith Welfare of the company is impossible the interaction with personnel. professional growth and without welfare of its employees. In 2013, the top-priority for the involvement in the Therefore, Vodokanal goes on with Company was interaction with younger implementation of social programs experts. Company’s operations. related to staff retention, recruiting of In 2013, the following projects were St. Petersburg Vodokanal implemented: younger specialists and qualified workers, raising the motivation of employees and consistently implements • Vodokanal organized III Youth Games improvement of their labor and rest projects targeted to the Festival which purpose was to build up conditions. establishment of the corporate unity among younger A systematic approach to training of employees, establish conditions for younger experts’ pool, employees, upgrading the personnel skills, creative initiatives and development of motivation of employees to self-education recruitment of talented professional capacities of the youth; and maintaining operational excellence youth, creation of • in connection with the Youth Day are the most significant components of conditions for the youth Vodokanal organized the training course 74 “Principles of Efficient Business operational excellence that facilitates the of Remembrance and Greif. Bike riders Communication”. Younger employees development of the Company, as well as visited four monuments of the Road of Life of Vodokanal, members of the Group for close involvement into the Company’s belonging to the Greenbelt of Victory and of Talents and Youth Council of the trade social activities; met with war veterans. union organization participated in that • Vodokanal organized Welcome to Vodokanal’s team got the first place training course; Vodokanal Event for newly-employed in St. Petersburg Wits & Humour • Vodokanal launched the award (lapel pin) experts. The purpose of this event is to Competition organized by the Regional “Best younger employee of the Company”. tell about the Company, its operations, Non-Governmental Organization for This award is given to Vodokanal employees introduce the Company’s management and Support and Development of Youth up to the age of 35, who have been working traditions. Activities “Students Club of St. Petersburg” in the Company for 5 consecutive years, for On the night of 21 and 22 June 2013, with the assistance of St. Petersburg their personal contribution to management younger employees of the Company Committee for Youth Policy and Interaction and operation; introduction of up-to-date participated in the city bike ride along with NGOs, and won the championship of water and wastewater technologies; the Road of Life dedicated to the Day “Weekend League”. 75 Interaction with industrial enterprises Finding a solution to the problem of industrial wastewater treatment is of great importance for the improvement of the Gulf of Finland and the Baltic Sea and Entrepreneurs of St. Petersburg, St. Petersburg Bakers Association and other water environment, so Vodokanal paid associations) to address the issues related special attention to its interaction with to the adoption of the Federal Law industrial enterprises in 2013 “On Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal” and relevant bylaws. Enterprises get advice on: • assessment of wastewater test results; • implementation of organizational and technical measures to improve wastewater quality; • assessment of the customers’ action plans In compliance with the current legislation, New standards of emerging industrial intended to prevent excessive discharge centralized household sewerage systems are legislation on water supply and wastewater of pollutants into sewerage systems. designed to treat sewage from inhabitants disposal prescribe implementation of water Depending on the company’s profile and surface runoff from residential areas protection measures by industrial customers and the condition of onsite sewerage (in case of combined sewerage systems). including construction and modernization of network, water protection plans may include Therefore, Vodokanal’s large-scale projects local wastewater treatment plants. both short-term measures that do not for construction of new wastewater Vodokanal interacts with industrial require any capital investments (wastewater treatment plants or reconstruction of the enterprises in the following main areas: composition tests in check points, ensuring existing ones are aimed at proper treatment • providing assistance for enterprises normal operation of onsite sewerage, video of municipal sewage from inhabitants and to meet regulatory values for pollutants diagnostics of networks to determine the surface runoff. Specific industrial pollutions concentrations in wastewater discharged scope of repairs needed, etc.), and capitalcannot be completely removed at WWTPs. into the centralized sewerage systems intensive technical measures (construction of Thus, collection of industrial wastewater of St. Petersburg; local wastewater treatment plants, transition is regulated by limit values for wastewater • interaction with industrial enterprises from outdated production processes to composition and properties to prevent any and associations of industrial enterprises water-saving and environment-friendly negative impact on both water bodies and (Association of Industrial Enterprises technologies, implementation of water centralized sewerage systems. in St. Petersburg, the Union of Industrialists recycling, etc.). 76 About the company In 2013, 218 Vodokanal’s customers had Besides, taking into consideration the for Energy and Engineering Support) local wastewater treatment plants, positive results of joint work on sharing on issues related to compliance with legal 59 customers planned to construct experience in water supply and wastewater requirements of the law “On Water Supply (modernize) local wastewater treatment disposal at the International Advanced and Wastewater Disposal”, “Rules of Cold plants by 2014–2017 (in compliance with the Technologies Center, in 2014 special Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal” submitted water protection action plans). workshops will be organized for industrial and other rules adopted pursuant to the In 2013, 34 enterprises planned the enterprises on the topics: Federal Law. construction of local wastewater treatment • Russian and European legislation Vodokanal’s specialists provided plants with different capacity, of which: governing the issues of reception and clarification with regard to of the Federal • 28 enterprises fully completed their works; treatment of industrial wastewater in the Law “On Water Supply and Wastewater • 6 enterprises performed 50%–90% centralized sewage systems; Disposal” in the Chamber of Commerce of construction works. • experience of applying the best available of St. Petersburg, at workshops organized Among the enterprises that have technologies to treat wastewater from by the Department of Natural Resources implemented (or are implementing) complex food, chemical industries, metalwork; Management, Ecological Safety and up-to-date schemes of industrial wastewater • standard schemes of the runoff Environment Protection of St. Petersburg, treatment there are LLC ”Unilever Rus”; treatment, experience of applying sorbent in American Chamber of Commerce St. Petersburg Dairy ”Piskarevsky”; Unimilk agents and cartridge filters to treat runoffs in St. Petersburg, at meetings with the Company. It resulted in removal of specific in the EU countries. Association of Industrial Enterprises pollutants from industrial wastewater, Vodokanal of St. Petersburg maintains and St. Petersburg Union of Industrialists reduction of negative impact on the close contacts with St. Petersburg and Entrepreneurs. environment and sewage systems Committee for Energy and Engineering The working group, which task was of St. Petersburg. Support, St. Petersburg Union of to address issues related to enforcement In 2013, Vodokanal continued its work Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, of the Federal Law “On Water Supply and (that started in 2012) to help industrial St. Petersburg Association of Industrial Wastewater Disposal”, was established enterprises choose the best available Enterprises, St. Petersburg Bakers in order to develop a common position technologies to construct local wastewater Association, etc. on issues related on the proposed amendments to new treatment plants (LWWTPs). In 2013, to new provisions of the entered into force regulations. Bother representatives 8 different enterprises addressed Vodokanal Federal Law “On Water Supply and Wasteof Vodokanal and industrial enterprises for advice on LWWTP construction or other water Disposal” as well as relevant bylaws. became members of the working group. water protection measures including In 2013, 9 meetings/seminars and The working group will continue its work ZAO “ATEK”, LLC “Sampsonievsky Business round tables (not including working in 2014. Centre”, LLC “GM Auto”, ZAO “Petersburg meetings) were held with representatives In 2013, Vodokanal hold regular Products International ZAO”, OAO Lamiof St. Petersburg Union of Industrialists meetings with St. Petersburg International nated Plastics Plant, ZAO “Malthouse and Entrepreneurs, St. Petersburg Business Association and discussed Soufflet Saint Petersburg”, OAO “Zvezda”, Association of Industrial Enterprises relevant issues related to water supply LLC “Kesko Real Estate”. (including the St. Petersburg Committee and wastewater disposal. 77 Establishment of the territorial innovative water and wastewater cluster In 2013, Vodokanal was involved in activities • sustainable development of St. Petersburg • provision of affordable water and organized by the Government of and subjects of the Russian Federation; wastewater services of high quality; St. Petersburg to create the so-called • reduction of the human impact on the • development of legislative initiatives territorial innovative water and wastewater Baltic Sea water basin. related to the environment protection cluster (hereinafter referred to as The cluster will address the of the Baltic Sea. “the cluster”) in St. Petersburg as an integrated following challenges: Finally, the integrated, researchcenter for water sector development. • reduction of dependence on foreign andtechnology, innovative and production The goal of the cluster is to ensure: manufacturers; infrastructure will be created aimed to • stable and safe functioning of water and • creation of the research segment; increase the level of social and economic wastewater systems and provide affordable • creation of comprehensive production development of the region as well water and wastewater services to and service infrastructure; as to enhance the environmental condition customers in compliance with target values • development and implementation of of the Baltic Sea. oriented to the improvement of life quality; efficient investment policy; In 2013, under the leadership of a Vice• development of innovative methods • search for, and implementation Governor of St. Petersburg a working group and materials for provision of water of, innovations; was established to address issues related to the and wastewater services; • training of qualified personnel; creation and operation of the territorial water 78 About the company innovation cluster in St. Petersburg, the cluster Creation and implementation regions of the Russian Federation; concept was prepared, meetings with potential of the cluster will allow to: • rotate high qualified staff, organize staff participants were held and a number of other • attract private investments for project; training, retraining and recruiting; relevant measures were taken. • improve environmental situation in the • increase tax revenues into the city The initiative to create the cluster was region; budget; supported by the authorized government • shorten timeframes of investment • create more than 1 thousand new authorities. The issue was also considered projects, reduce the final cost of projects working positions that will also lead to the at the meeting of the Environmental Council due to creation of common use centers increase of social deductions to the state under the Governor of St. Petersburg, where and a technological park; social funds; its participants approved the proposal to • disseminate project implementation • provide affordable water and wastewater create the cluster. methods and project results in other services of high quality. About the company Work on the project “Estimation of costs of operation and development of water and wastewater systems in St. Petersburg” Application of this approach for the inventory of production assets allowed to get detailed view on the composition and condition of assets, although it was In 2013, the work on the project “Estimation resource consuming. Up to one thousand of costs of operation and development of employees participated in the inventory water and wastewater systems of production assets in different periods, in St. Petersburg” was completed and over 1.5 million items were recorded. Experts made random inventory of different facilities of Vodokanal and site This project was implemented under the implementation, approaches and surveys in order to match the collected leadership of the working group that principles of cost calculations based on information about the facilities with the included managers of Vodokanal and technical and technological parameters data from the Company’s information heads of the St. Petersburg government of the centralized water and wastewater system. committees (the Tariff Committee, the system operation as well as on the In 2013, maintenance rules developed Committee for Energy and Engineering current and future requirements to the by Vodokanal were standardized, Support). Representatives of the legislative quality and reliability of the provided completeness and correctness being authority, independent experts and services were developed. checked. Vodokanal’s maintenance rules representatives of the public (including Within the frame of the project: were prepared based on the current representatives from the Union of • inventory of Vodokanal’s production industry regulations, own operation Consumers, the Union of Industrialists and assets was carried out; experience, requirements of equipment Entrepreneurs, the Association of Housing • regulation and reference data on manufactures and contain standard Cooperatives and Homeowners, etc.). consumption of resources were resource consumption values for the When developing approaches to the developed and standardized; maintenance and repair of all types of estimation of costs of operation and • calculation of costs of all service water and wastewater assets. To check development of water and wastewater elements wad made. the completeness and correctness of systems, the working group took into An important step was the activates specified in the maintenance account not only internal but also development of the hierarchical structure rules, time actually spent for the external factors that significantly of water and wastewater facilities: implementation of such activities was influence the financial status and from large facilities, such as a water measured during the performance performance of the enterprise. treatment plant to the smallest ones of works at water and wastewater In the course of the project – pumps, electric motors, valves, etc. facilities. In total, the rules included 80 Interaction with trade unions Vodokanal St. Petersburg recognizes the trade union as a major element of the effective system in terms of company management; occupational health and safety; raising personnel satisfaction level; organization of employees’ leisure and rest, and other activities over 3,000 types of work with different The main document defining the relationships between the employer and the trade union groups of equipment. The Not-Foras the parties of social partnership is the Collective Employment Agreement – a legal act Profit Partnership “Tsentr Expert ZKH” that regulates social and labour relations between employers and employees based on the (partnership of service providers, congruence of interests of the parties in compliance with the laws of the Russian Federation. consultants and auditors working in the In 2013, the previous Collective Employment Agreement was completed. After the trade field of housing utilities) adopted these union had initiated collective negotiations, a commission consisting of representatives of the rules and put them into effect as employer and the trade union on a parity basis was established in Vodokanal to develop a maintenance and repair standard a new collective agreement. (STO MTS ZKH 009-2013 standard). As a result of the commission’s work the new Collective Employment Agreement was In 2013, the classifier of Company’s developed and signed; it was entered into force on 1 January 2014 and will be valid for the costs was also developed on the basis next three years. of the Water and Wastewater Pricing The Collective Employment Agreement for 2014–2016 provides a well-developed Principles as well as principles that are corporate social responsibility base that comprises social support of the personnel’s potential currently being used in tariff regulation and motivation, healthcare and labor occupational safety systems, care for veterans, sports of the sector. development, youth policies, interaction with trade unions, regular staff training. Moreover, cost estimates were made The Collective Employment Agreement sets out the responsibilities of the employer and to determine operation and development the trade union as the parties of social partnership and provides for social guarantees and costs of the centralized water and benefits for the Company employees and labor veterans. wastewater systems. Performance of the Agreement, where relations between the personnel and the company Under the project a number of are specified, is annually verified by representatives of the parties. After considering the internal regulations (methods) were results of such verification a certificate is issued and made available to all employees. tested including calculation of company The Collective Employment Agreement is revised and amended on regular basis in compliance demand for energy, chemicals, technical with performance analysis results. All amendments to the Collective Employment Agreement and administrative staff. are aimed at optimizing social and labor relations between employees and the employer. 81 Interaction with educational institutions Vodokanal pays special attention to the training of workers and engineers for the Company Cooperation of Vodokanal and the Water on-the-job training for water and various forms of work, active training College (former Professional School no.89) wastewater department students methods applied in YEC allowed to attract is a good example of successful social at the Company’s facilities is organized. over 650 educational institutions to the partnership. College representatives also participate implementation of YEC projects and Advanced training facilities have in professional contests organized programmes. been created in the College together with by Vodokanal. YEC partners are kindergartens, Vodokanal, among them: In 2013, Vodokanal continued its schools, colleges, vocational schools, higher • training set to simulate emergency repairs partnership with the following specialized education institutions in St. Petersburg and (at water and sewer networks) and a training institutions of higher education: the Leningrad Region. ground; St. Petersburg Technological Institute, Interaction with educational institutions is • training simulators for welding, sanitary, St. Petersburg State University of Water built on the basis of social partnership and in ventilation and electrical works, small-size Communications, State University compliance with the main objectives of YEC: mechanical equipment, laboratory and of Architecture and Civil Engineering, • fostering the culture of water use in the city; workbench equipment; St. Petersburg State Transport University • fostering the responsible attitude of • all equipment for the College classrooms and others. citizens to natural resources; to provide training and educational process. An important field of Vodokanal • development of social activity of the youth; The material and technical facilities are activities is close interaction with schools • promotion of ideas of efficient used not only for training of newcomers of St. Petersburg, Leningrad Region environmental education as well as but for advanced training and retraining and other Russian cities under different education for sustainable development. of regular employees. programs and projects of the Youth Besides, a lot of work with teachers College students study up-to-date Environmental Centre (YEC) and The is done on the premises of YEC including production processes with the help Universe of Water Museum Complex. seminars, methodological support and of Vodokanal. For this purpose, annual Relevant environmental information, dissemination of teaching aids. 82 About the company Interaction with Environmental and other Non-Governmental Organizations provided premises and necessary Responsibility to the society and future generations equipment so that the experts could nurse is among the basic values of Vodokanal animals got into trouble. From March St. Petersburg. Vodokanal actively interacts with to July they provided help to two Baltic ringed different environmental organizations seals and three Ladoga ringed seals. After in the course of its production operations and finishing the treatment and rehabilitation three “leaving events” took place. environmental awareness-raising The Rehabilitation Project for Pinnipeds was widely covered by mass media. It was In particular, a representative of Vodokanal is a member of the Environmental Council decided to be continued in 2014. for Environmental Protection under the Government of St. Petersburg (it is a permanent In 2013, the social project of Vodokanal – collegial advisory and consultative body). At the meeting on 6 December 2013, Director the Da-Voda internet portal – cooperated General of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” F.V. Karmazinov submitted proposals for the with the city non-governmental initiative creation of the territorial innovative water and wastewater cluster. The Chairperson of the “No.More.Waste” as well as the all-Russian Environmental Council Boris S. Krylov, the Co-chair Valery N. Matveyev (the Chairperson non-governmental organization of the Committee of Natural Resources, Environment Protection and Environmental “Waste Separation”. Safety) as well as the members of the Environmental Council supported the idea of the In 2013, the web-site acted as an water cluster. information partner of the international In 2013, the cooperation of Vodokanal with specialists of the not-for-profit partnership environmental project “Let’s Do It, World!” Marine Mammal Rehabilitation Centre of the Leningrad Region began. The main goal of the Video “Let’s Do It! Sestroretsky Razliv” was Marine Mammal Rehabilitation Centre is providing help to seal pups. The Director of the filmed. Center, veterinarian Vyacheslav Alekseyev and zoologist Elena Andrievskaya are the qualified Vodokanal participates in the activities experts that have gained a wide experience in successful rehabilitation of marine mammals. organized by HELCOM representative office In addition to the rehabilitation work they monitor populations of the Ladoga ringed seal, in Russia, the John Nurminen Foundation the Baltic ringed seal and the grey seal in St. Petersburg and the Leningrad Region. (Finland), International Ecological Public With the assistance of the Public Relations Agency “2PR”, the temporary Pinnipedian Organization GREENLIGHT, etc. Rehabilitation Station at Vodokanal’s treatment plant in Repino was opened. Vodokanal In particular, on 20 March 2013, the panel 83 Interaction with discussion “Environmental Education and Public Awareness Raising” was held as part of the XIV International Environmental Forum “The Baltic Sea Day” in Vodokanal. This forum is some kind of informal annual report on activities of environmental federal and organizations in the Baltic Sea region to the peoples that live there. In 2013, joint efforts of Vodokanal regional authorities and the Baltic Sea Action Plan Foundation Vodokanal works in close (BSAG) continued. They were dedicated interaction with the federal to the development of so-called road map and regional authorities aimed at reducing the adverse impact on the integrated water system “Lake Ladoga Vodokanal St. Petersburg was directly involved in the development of the St. Petersburg – Lake Onega –Neva River –Gulf of Finland”. Water and Wastewater Master Plan for the period up to 2025 with the outlook This topic is very important today because to 2030 that was approved by the Government of St. Petersburg in 2013. 2014 is The Year of the Gulf of Finland. Vodokanal continued fruitful cooperation with the Government of St. Petersburg, In 2013, Vodokanal continued the City Administration Committee, the Legislative Assembly, the Authorized cooperation with St. Petersburg Representative Office of the President of the Russian Federation in the North-West Federal department of the Interregional NonDistrict, heads of the subjects of Federation. Vodokanal strengthened its links at the Governmental Environmental Organization regional level; in particular, a delegation of the administrative office from the Novgorod “Green Cross”. Region headed by the Governor Sergey G. Mitin visited Vodokanal in May 2013. Vodokanal involves environmental On 7 April 2013, the Minister of Natural Resources and the Environment of the organizations in the implementation Russian Federation Sergey E. Donskoy visited Vodokanal St. Petersburg. According of the Youth Environmental Centre’s to Sergey E. Donskoy, the experience gained, and the approaches developed, projects and programs. Among the partner by Vodokanal to address issues related both to wastewater treatment and environmental organizations, Vodokanal cooperates awareness-raising can be used in other cities of Russia. with “Finland-Russia” society, Association During 2013, Vodokanal St. Petersburg closely interacted with the Government of International Cooperation, children’s of the City and the Leningrad Region to prepare “The Gulf of Finland Year 2014” Project, interregional social movement “Neposedy the co-chairpersons of which are the Governor of St. Petersburg G.S. Poltavchenko and Club”, not-for-profit organization “Friends the Governor of the Leningrad Region A.Y. Drozdenko. In this respect several meetings of the Baltic”, non-governmental were held in Vodokanal. organization “No More Waste”, Vodokanal employees were involved in the organization of different conferences, Union of Amateur Filmmakers, film studio meetings, panel discussions, workshops, forums and other activities held by state “Giraffe”, etc. authorities of the Russian Federation and St. Petersburg (the State Duma, federal 84 executive authorities, St. Petersburg letters, reports, answers to inquiries and participated in the court proceedings Environmental Prosecutor’s Office, other materials for state authorities of the involving claims by St. Petersburg committees of the St. Petersburg and Russian Federation and St. Petersburg, Environmental Prosecutor’s Office and other organizations). regarding the situation in the water district prosecutors’ offices against the In particular, Vodokanal was involved sector, the need to improve the existing Company’s customers to oblige them to in the All-Russia meeting “Effective legislation, ways to achieve more efficient install local wastewater treatment plants management of the Housing and Utility interaction between the Company and its before discharge to the municipal sewerage Sector for the purpose of creating customers and other issues in relation system (or to check the performance of favorable living conditions for citizens” to Vodokanal activities. In October 2013, the existing plants). Successful disposal (22–24 April 2013, Saratov), which was with the active participation of Vodokanal of these legal proceedings improved held with support of the Ministry of the employees the address of the Governor the quality of wastewater treatment by Regional Development of the Russian of St. Petersburg to the Chairman of the customers, helped to prevent damage Federation, the State Corporation Government of the Russian Federation on to the central sewerage system, as well “The Fund for the Promotion of the the need of amending federal regulations as reduce the negative impact on water Housing and Utility Sector Reform”, with regard to the control of wastewater bodies. In total, Vodokanal employees were as well as other similar events. quality was prepared. involved in the investigation of 160 similar Vodokanal specialists prepared During 2013, Vodokanal employees proceedings in 2013. 85 About the company Interaction with mass media On 10 October 2013, the official ceremony of the Northern Tunnel Collector Completion was held. From that date Accessibility of information is one St. Petersburg treated 98.4% of of the most important Vodokanal values. wastewater. That happened on Interaction with the mass media is a good Vodokanal’s birthday, in the Year of way to make the information accessible Environment Protection. About 40 Russian and foreign mass media covered the ceremony. After 10 October 2013, a number of live TV and radio programs Vodokanal’s information policy aims to create information support of projects. with the participation of Vodokanal a positive company image, improve mutual The mass media’s interest in Vodokanal managers were organized, which were understanding between the company, its activities is growing every year. Over 9,000 dedicated to the completion of the customers and the society, and to foster the materials about the Company activities were Northern Tunnel Collector and future culture of water use and responsible attitude publicized (in printed media, Internet, radio plans of Vodokanal related to the towards the environment. Relations with the and TV) in 2013. In 2012, the number of such improvement of the Baltic Sea (how mass media are based on the principles of materials exceeded 8,000. Vodokanal will close the rest 1.6% of objectivity, reliability of information and quick wastewater still discharged untreated). response. Number of mass media The ethnographic expedition headed by The forms of interaction with the mass publications about the famous designer and blogger Artemy media are as follows: Vodokanal activities Lebedev visited one of the NTC’s facilities – • preparation and distribution of pressURS-422 Pumping Station, as well as releases and information reports about the South-West Wastewater Treatment Plant Company activities; Year Number and the Southern Water Treatment Plant. • response to the mass media’s inquiries; 2006 2,756 Information about the upcoming • interviews of Vodokanal’s representatives completion of the Collector, URS-422 in the mass media; 2007 3,177 Pumping Station and importance of this • press conferences, briefings, round tables; 2008 3,835 project not only for St. Petersburg but • press-tours for journalists to Vodokanal’s 2009 4,364 also for all the Baltic Sea countries, was facilities; distributed in media throughout the year. • initiating publications in printed and 2010 6,138 In general, there are about 200 publicaelectronic media, and TV/radio items; 2011 8,108 tions on this topic. • design and maintenance of websites In 2013, the Pinnipeds Rehabilitation 2012 8,836 describing the Company activities; Station and the release of treated animals • work with mass media as part of the 2013 9,254 into the wild attracted a great interest 86 of the mass media. 6 press tours were organized to the Pinnipeds Rehabilitation Station and the places of animals’ release that resulted in more than 200 publications and reportages. The project was widely covered by the media, including such TV channels as The First, The Fifth, NTV, RTR, STO TV, Saint-Petersburg, Mir, OTV, DTV, TK of the Federation Council. Numerous journalists’ individual inquiries were separately processed. Traditionally, opening and closing ceremonies of fountains, fountain working hours on the Day of Navy, the Day of Air Landing Troops and operation of snowactivities was regularly posted on A special column was created here melting facilities are topics of interest Vodokanal websites (Vodokanal’s official to cover the events occurred in the among journalists. In total, mass media website www.vodokanal.spb.ru, and the Environment Protection Year. released over 600 publications about Museum Complex’s website In 2013, over 300 news and the fountains, approximately 200 publicawww.vodokanal-museum.ru, Burevestnik 112 press-releases were posted tions about the snow-melting facilities. Sanatorium’s website www.vodokanalon Vodokanal’s official web-site. Journalists were also interested in zagorod.ru). In 2013, the Company also The Information and Public Relations Vodokanal’s activities related to the continued to develop the awareness-raising Department of Vodokanal answered elimination of odor at the Severny Internet-portal about water “Da-Voda“ on average 30-35 media inquiries wastewater landfill. Over 100 publications (www. da-voda.com) made with the support per month (requests for comments, were issued on that topic. of Vodokanal. interviews, shooting films). The digests of materials on Vodokanal activities are presented to the Company management on a daily basis. It helps The jury of the International Award PROBA-IPRA GWA 2013 respond to publications promptly, provide pronounced Vodokanal’s project “Helping the Pinnipeds” comments and clarifications as necessary the winner in the nomination “Best Social PR-Project”. and pinpoint new themes for interaction with the mass media. Another Vodokanal’s project– “Vodokanal in the Development of the Internet sphere Environment Protection Year” – was short-listed in the was in Vodokanal’s special focus in 2013. nomination “Best Company in Corporate PR” and awarded The information about the Company a diploma. 87 Cooperation with social media networks (VKontakte, Facebook, Twitter). 2.5 thousand To communicate with It communicates with its friends, answers people. the Internet audience, their questions, takes initiatives, tells The Neva Crayfish the most part of it being interesting facts about water and animals; regularly interacts with the youth, Vodokanal shares information on devices that help environmentally oriented Internet has chosen as its save water in everyday life, organizes users. In particular, users are interested representative – the chaenvironmental actions. In 2013, a lot in issues related to water and wastewater of information about the work of the treatment, work of the Neva Crayfish racter of the Da-Voda.com Pinnipeds Rehabilitation Centre and its at Vodokanal’s biomonitoring stations. portal – The Neva Crayfish. fosterlings was published on The Neva The Neva Crayfish is asked to tell about This character Crayfish web-page. events occurring in the environmental life is directly associated In total, the Neva Crayfish has over of the City. For example, in November 2013, with Vodokanal’s activity 11 thousand friends in social networks. The Neva Crayfish explained the process of On its birthday, which it celebrates potable water treatment to Internet users. on the 22nd of March – on the Water In November 2013, bloggers who On the Da-Voda.com portal The Neva and Baltic Sea Day – it receives a lot of participated in the ethnographic Crayfish gives video lessons, saves the congratulations from fans. expedition headed by Artemy Lebedev Gulf of Finland from dirt in the game There is also the Da-Voda account in (famous designer and traveler) visited “The Neva Grayfish against Waste” VKontakte and Facebook. At the end of Vodokanal facilities including the Southern and has its own accounts in the social 2013, the number of subscribers was over Water Treatment Plant, South-West 88 In his blog Alexander shared his impressions of what he saw: “Vodokanal – Leib-Guard SUE, you start to respect it museum “Our Captures”; before you get to know it better. Here crayfish that monitor the Neva everything is as it should be. Over the water and treated effluent; amounts last ten years (out of 155) Vodokanal has of treated effluent; complexity of the been following three principles: Do your facilities (including URS-422 Pumping business properly. Do not rest on your Station). In YEC everybody got a water laurels. Do not forget to tell about it all jet meter as a present and got a possibility around”. (For details see http://minakovas. Wastewater Treatment to play the new touch-table game “Wash livejournal.com). The poet Natalya noted: Plant, URS-422 Pumping Station, Youth up”. In the Universe of Water Museum “What I can say – it sounds amusing: Environmental Centre and The Universe guests saw the most interesting exhibits technical thought is in the air”, and the of Water Museum Complex. and a new development – a fragment of illustrator Vlada wrote the following Artemy Lebedev and his likeminded the stereo film about the beauty of water. words above the drawing of her team in fellows call their world city tours Besides Artemy Lebedev the the museum: “The Water Museum is the ethnographic expedition. In October and team of bloggers, members of the coolest. We have seen such 3D that Gravity November they studied St. Petersburg. expedition, consists of the illustrator Movie pales in comparison. Save water!” Members of the expedition wrote about Vlada Myakonkina, the photographer The photographer and the operator their impressions of the city life in their Artem Bogdanov, the poet Natalya posted on the Internet. The PiterEthnoExp blogs and the final report appeared Nechayannaya, the camera man Мax inspirer Artemy Lebedev summarized his on Lebedev’s web-site in the end of the Kabanov, the sommelier Yuliya Semenova story about the tenth expedition day: expedition. and the acrobat Мasha Теrentyeva. “Do not forget to flush a water-closet Members of the expedition were Аlexander Minakov acted as a local and use toilet brush. Or have so many especially impressed by the SWWTP historian and organizer. expensive facilities been built for nothing?” 89 Participation in exhibitions and conferences In 2013, Vodokanal St. Petersburg took an active part in different Russian and international exhibitions at all levels in order to optimize interaction with all stakeholders In March 2013, Vodokanal participated Latvia, Lithuania and other countries. in Geneva. At the Forum it was announced in the plenary session of XIV International During the Forum Vodokanal representthe Vodokanal received the international Forum “The Baltic Sea Days” with the ed its joint project with Baltic Sea Action award “for compliance with the internaparticipation of representatives from Group (BSAG) Fund related to the developtional norms and requirements to organiall states of the Baltic Sea Region, public ment of the road map aiming at the reduczation of business-processes, the quality figures, journalists, governmental authortion of adverse environmental impact on of management and end products”. ities of various levels, representatives of the single water system of Ladoga Lake – Vodokanal achievements were scientific community, educational instituOnega Lake – River Neva – Gulf of Finland. acknowledged at the second All-Russian tions and environmental agencies. Within In April 2013, Vodokanal experts Congress of Water Companies the framework of the Forum Vodokanal attended the Berlin Wasser International on 15–20 April 2013 in Ekaterinburg. organized the round table discussion – Exhibition. At the exhibition Vodokanal At the Congress Vodokanal was granted “Environmental education and raising presented its new Wastewater Guidebook. the diploma for XXI century worthy techpublic awareness”. Vodokanal experts This guidebook was drafted together with nology intensive and innovative solutions told about their experience in promoting German scientists and engineers from in water and wastewater systems. environmental awareness among children Bauhaus University of Weimar (specialized On 25–26 April 2013, Vodokanal and the youth, rational water use, social in construction and artistic design) and the representatives participated in the media as an instrument of environmentalGerman Association for Water, Wastewater traditional Days of St. Petersburg in awareness building in the context and Waste (DWA). Helsinki. This event was devoted to the of Da-Voda Internet-portal. In April 2013, St. Petersburg Vodokanal search for new ways of cooperation in In April 2013, the senior management took part in the International Business economy, culture, tourism and nature of Vodokanal took part in the plenary sesForum “Russia – Switzerland: Energy Efficienprotection. In the course of the round sion under the Baltic Sea Forum featuring cy” organized by Eurostandart International table discussion on “Prospects the chairperson of the Russian Federation Association, All-Russian Quality Organizaof environmental cooperation between Government Dmitry A. Medvedev, tion with the support of Switzerland Joint St. Petersburg and Helsinki” Vodokanal Ex-President of Finland Ms. Tarja Halonen, Chamber of Commerce and the Consulate experts made several reports with Prime-Ministers of Finland, Estonia, Norway, General of the Russian Federation regard to the development of water and 90 About the company sewerage systems in St. Petersburg, in Bern (Switzerland) and dealing with Mission of the Russian Federation to fulfilment by the Company of its earlier assessment and certification the United Nations in New York with the commitments to reduce negative of management systems worldwide. participation of the Russia’s Permanent environmental impact on the Baltic In June 2013, Vodokanal delegation Representative to the United Nations and Sea as well as new Baltic Sea protection attended the Days of St. Petersburg UN Security Council Vitaly Churkin (New measures. in Turku. York, USA). The briefing was organized On 21–22 May 2013, Vodokanal exOn 4 July 2013, Vodokanal participated ahead of the UN Global Compact Leaders’ perts participated in VI Neva International in the panel discussion “Eco-technologies Summit. Environmental Congress organized by of wastewater treatment for small During the festive events on the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of the settlements and family houses” organized 8–10 October 2013 dedicated to the CIS alongside with the Federal Council by the international coalition “Clean 155th anniversary of St. Petersburg of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Baltics”, the public organization “Friends Vodokanal, the company hosted the Federation, the Executive Committee of the Baltic” and the nature protection International Conference “Innovative of the Commonwealth Independent commission of the Russian Geographical path of the company development” with States (CIS), the United Nations Industrial Society. the involvement of federal and regional Development Organization (UNIDO). On 19 September 2013, Vodokanal governmental authorities, high-ranking Within the framework of the Congress hosted on its premises the 36th ordinary Russian and foreign guests as well as Vodokanal hosted on its premises the session of the General Assembly representatives of the diplomatic corps round table discussion – “Integrated manof the International Organization for accredited in St. Petersburg. agement of water resources: water use Standardization (ISO). Participants of the In October 2013, Vodokanal and water quality”. session discussed the application of ISO representatives participated in the In June 2013, experts of the standards in the international system Ministerial Session of the Baltic Marine Company took part in the International of environmental safety of the Baltic Environment Protection Commission Forum IQNet in St. Petersburg. At the Sea states, environmental certification (HELCOM) in Copenhagen to discuss about Forum Vodokanal was awarded with the and problems related to water use and the implementation of the Baltic certificate “for distinguished achievements tranboundary waters. Sea Action Plan. in implementation and maintaining the On 19–20 September 2013, Vodokanal In December 2013, the delegation outstanding management system”. IQNet representatives participated in the of the Company took part in IV All-Russian is a non-governmental and not-for-profit briefing – “Russian Hour. Investments of the Environment Protection Congress organization, it is an international network Russian Business into Sustainable Developin Moscow to summarize the results of the of partner certification bodies established ment” organized in the Permanent Environment Protection Year. 91 Results of Activities in 2013 Adoption of St. Petersburg Water and Wastewater Master Plan St. Petersburg water and wastewater master plan up to 2025 with an outlook to 2030 was adopted by the Resolution of St. Petersburg Government no.989 dated 11 December 2013 The master plan was developed in the exeThe master plan determines the developThe master plan comprises two parts: cution of the Federal Law no.416-FZ ment of the centralized water and sewerage the published part including texts “On Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal” systems of St. Petersburg and includes and graphics and the supporting part and in line with the Rules for the developthe following: including texts, graphics and e-model. ment and approval of water and wastewater • description of the centralized water and The structure of the published part master plans and master plan requirements sewerage systems; complies with the requirements applied set forth by the Decree of the Russian Feder• development strategy for the centralized to the content of water and wastewater ation Government no.782 dated 5 Septemwater and sewerage systems; master plans. The supporting part ber 2013. The master plan was developed • water and wastewater balances; consists of the detailed initial data, in accordance with the city development • development targets; various development options, rationale plan and on the basis of technical surveys • list of measures to achieve development for the best option, technical and of water and sewerage systems. targets and cost estimates of such measures. economic calculations. 94 Results of Activities in 2013 Measures incorporated in the master plan ensure: • Improvement of drinking water quality. The master plan provides for the reconstruction of water treatment plants taking water from surface water bodies, construction of water treatment plants taking water from underground water sources in Kurortny District, upgrading UV disinfection plants and rehabilitation of clean water reservoirs. • Enhancement of wastewater treatment. The master plan provides for the reconstruction of wastewater treatment plants, introduction of wastewater disinfection and tertiary treatment. • Reliable and stable water/wastewater services. The master plan provides for the reconstruction of water mains including the replacement of all reinforced concrete pipes, valves and fire hydrants, installation of service laterals for houses with different ownership, construction of backup tunnel sewers and connection shafts, reconstruction of existing tunnels sewers and sewerage network. • Connection of new customers to water and wastewater systems. The master plan provides for the construction of additional water supply and sewerage network to ensure connection of new customers to the systems. • Construction of water and sewerage network in the territories not connected to the centralized water and sewerage systems. The master plan provides for the construction of water and sewerage network in 70 historical districts of St. Petersburg not connected to the centralized water and sewerage systems as well as in allotment gardens located within the city territory. • Reduction of adverse impact on the environment. The master plan provides for the treatment of storm water and the construction of sewerage network and tunnel sewers to eliminate untreated wastewater discharges. • Increase energy efficiency of water and wastewater facilities. The master plan provides for the completion of water supply and wastewater disposal management system, upgrading of all water and sewerage pumping stations, automatic water/wastewater metering and data transmission, development of the chemical balance to control the quantity of pollutants in wastewater. The water and wastewater master plan is the basis for the development of Vodokanal investment programme as well as action plans to improve drinking water quality and reduce pollutant discharges into city water bodies. The water and wastewater master plan is subject to yearly adjustments in connection with the implementation of measures incorporated into the master plan and changes made to St. Petersburg development plan. 95 Water Supply Vodokanal St. Petersburg provides potable water to the inhabitants (over 5 million people) and to the companies and organizations in the city (46,600 customers) Vodokanal activities related to the Adjusted capacity of water treatment plants:* provision of water supply services include the following: Southern WTP 900,000 m3/day • water intake and water treatment; Northern WTP 608,000 m3/day • water transportation. St. Petersburg takes water from Main WTP 422,000 m3/day surface and underground sources. Volkovskaya WTP 211,000 m3/day The main water source is the Neva River; Kolpino WTP 151,000 m3/day Vodokanal takes more than 98% of water from it. Kronstadt WTP 18,000 m3/day The water supply system comprises: Zelenogorsk WTP 7,000 m3/day • 9 water treatment plants; Duderhof WTP 20,000 m3/day • 198 boosting pumping stations; • 6,865.7 km of water networks; Gantulovskaya Gora WTP 32,000 m3/day • 2 sodium hypochlorite plants. * Adjusted capacity of WTPs means capacity of WTPs calculated in consideration of raw water quality deterioration, Pipeline diameters of the municipal technical condition of water facilities and more stringent requirements to potable water quality in compliance with the Resolution of St. Petersburg Government no.1270 dated 21October 2008 (as amended by the Resolution of St. Petersburg water network in St. Petersburg range Government no.1384 dated 30 November 2009). from 50 mm (house connections) to 1.4 m (water pipelines). The bigger part (59%) of networks in the St. Petersburg water supply Daily average supply of potable water to the city system is made of cast iron. 2009 2,028,290 m3 About 60% of water networks in 2010 1,994,690 m3 St. Petersburg have been in operation for 15–50 years. The operating time 2011 1,922,900 m3 of 25% of all networks is over 50 years, 2012 1,853,300 m3 and such networks need reconstruction 2013 1,808,800 m3 or replacement. Water losses on the networks amounted to 13.7% in 2013; the breakdown rate of water networks (number of damages per 10 km) – 2.9. St. Petersburg water supply system is based on the area zoning principle. 98 Results of Activities in 2013 The Southern Water Supply System comprises • Southern Water Treatment Plant (first-lift pumping stations, water treatment The system supplies water to facilities, clean water reservoirs and second-lift pumping stations); the following administrative • Duderhof WTP (first-lift pumping stations, clean water reservoirs and second-lift districts: pumping stations); 70% of Moskovsky district, • Kolpino WTP (first-lift pumping station, water treatment facilities, clean water reservoirs and second-lift pumping station); 85% of Frunzensky district, • Kronstadt WTP (first-lift pumping station, water treatment facilities, clean water reservoirs and second-lift pumping station); 80% of Nevsky district’s left-bank part and 15% of Nevsky district’s right-bank part, • Petrodvorets WTP (first-lift pumping station, water treatment facilities, clean water reservoirs and second-lift pumping stations). Water from Southern WTP is tertiary treated here. The plant is also ready for use in case of need to take water from 65% of Kirovsky district, Nikolsky pond; 100% of Pushkinsky district, • named boosting pumping stations of the third and fourth lift: Moskovskaya, Frunzenskaya, Uritskaya, South-Western, Rybatskaya, Kupchinskaya, Strelninskaya, 100% of Petrodvortsovy district and the Lomonosovskaya, LGU Petrodvortsovaya Waterworks, Petrodvortsovaya town of Kronstadt, Waterworks, Pulkovskaya, Orlovskaya; 100% of Kolpinsky district, • boosting pumping stations of the third and fourth lift; • water supply and distribution networks. 100% of Krasnoselsky district. 99 The Northern Water Supply System comprises The system supplies water to • Northern WTP (first-lift pumping station, water treatment facilities, clean water reservoirs and second-lift pumping stations); the following administrative districts: • Zelenogorsk WTP (first-lift pumping stations, water treatment facilities, clean water reservoirs and second-lift pumping station); 100% Kurortny district, • Sestroretsk WTP (first-lift pumping station, water treatment facilities, clean 65% of Primorsky district, water reservoirs and second-lift pumping station). Water from Northern WTP is tertiary treated here. The plant is also ready for use in case of need to take water from Lake Razliv; 90% of Vyborgky district, • underground water sources of Kurortny district; 80% of Kalininsky district, • named boosting pumping stations of the third lift (Murinskaya, Kushelevskaya, 65% of Krasnogvardeysky district, Primorskaya, Severo-Primorskaya, Kolomyazhskaya, Ozero Dolgoe, Martynovskaya, Parnasskaya, Osinovaya Roshcha, Gorskaya, Pesochenskaya, 85% of Nevsky district’ right-bank part. Novoselovskaya, Shuvalovskaya WTPs); • boosting pumping stations of the third and fourth lift; • water supply and distribution networks. 100 Results of Activities in 2013 The Central Water Supply System comprises • Main WTP (first-lift pumping stations, water treatment facilities, clean water The system supplies water to reservoirs and second-lift pumping stations); the following administrative • Volkovskaya WTP (first-lift pumping station, water treatment facilities, clean water districts: reservoirs and second-lift pumping station); 100% of Petrogradsky, Vasileostrovsky, • named boosting pumping stations of the third and fourth lift (Vasileostrovskaya, Tsentralny, Admiralteisky districts Gavanskaya, Petrogradskaya); • boosting pumping stations of the third and fourth lift; 10% of Vyborgsky district, • water supply and distribution networks. 20% of Kalininsky district, 35% of Krasnogvardeisky district, 20% of Nevsky district’s left-bank part, 15% of Frunzensky district, 30% of Moskovsky district, 35% of Kirovsky district, 35% of Primorsky district. 101 Results of Activities in 2013 Water treatment technologies Treatment of water from surface sources The water treatment process at the key WTPs taking water from St. Petersburg surface The process solutions used to design and sources (the Neva River and the Gulf of Finland) includes the following stages: build K-6 block, a new 350,000 m³/day • a two-stage water disinfection system; water treatment block at Southern WTP, • coagulation of pollutants (aluminium sulfate is used); in operation since early 2011, • flocculation (polyacrylamide-based cationic flocculant is used); are as follows: • sand filtration in the contact clarifiers (one-stage treatment scheme); • pre-ozonation; • sedimentation and sand filtration in rapid filters (two-stage treatment scheme); • clarification: coagulation, flocculation, • powdered activated carbon is dosed when necessary (if the Neva water quality becomes sedimentation in lamella sedimentation worse, or for odour and oil removal). tank, sludge thickening, sludge recirculation and removal; • filtration through dual-media (sand/ granular activated carbon) rapid gravity The two-stage integrated process of filters; potable water disinfection guarantees • air-and-water backwashing of filters; • equalization, treatment and utilization epidemiological safety of water supply of backwash water; in St. Petersburg and full compliance of • sludge treatment; the microbiological parameters with the • storage, preparation and dosing current regulations of chemicals; • disinfection with chloramines. The process consists of chemical pretreatment with chloramines and secondary disinfection On its way to customers with ultraviolet. Chloramines are produced in the treated water by dosing of hazard-free water also undergoes chemicals, ammonium sulfate and sodium hypochlorite, and can maintain the disinfecting effect not only in the process of water treatment at WTPs, but also during water distribution UV treatment. via the municipal networks. 102 Potable water treatment of open filters without increasing the bed as anticorrosion agents. at Zelenogorsk WTP height. The lower filter bed is made of Both plants have the equipment as 0.6–0.8 mm quartz sand, the sand layer required to receive, dilute and dose 32% (groundwater) height being 800 mm. The upper filter solutions of calcium chloride, and the systems Zelenogorsk WTP takes raw water from bed is made of anthracite (0.8–2.0 mm); for preparation and dosing of 10% soda ash underground sources. The groundwater the height of the layer is 400 mm. (sodium carbonate). The dosing of calcium treatment process in Zelenogorsk aims at The second stage of Zelenogorsk WTP salts and carbonic acid into the treated water removing excessive concentrations of iron is designed for enhanced removal of iron and the resulting pH increase can slow down and manganese and consists of: and manganese and consists of six Culligan the corrosion process, and in some cases, fully • aeration; pressure filters (Hi-Flo 9 UFR 100), Grundfos stop oxidation of iron in steel pipes due to the • removal of the sludge resulting from air main-line pumps, flush-water pumps for formation of calcium carbonate film which oxidation of ferric hydroxide (III) by means pressure filters, stilling tanks, sodium isolates steel from water and the dissolved of filtration through the gravel-sand media hypochlorite dosing equipment, flow oxygen contained in it. of the first-stage rapid filters; meters and a chlorine analyzer. In 2012, in the follow-up of the joint • catalytic oxidation and separation of The water treatment process control is work carried out by Vodokanal and St. manganese as dioxide on the second-stage fully automated. The plant operation data Petersburg State Institute of Technology pressure filters. are displayed on the monitors of the plant’s (Technical University) with regard to the Water is disinfected by sodium control room operator. survey of steel pipe corrosion process hypochlorite solution. and issuance of recommendations on Oxidation of dissolved ferrous iron Tertiary water treatment improving anticorrosive features of the and blow-up of dissolved carbonic acid technologies used treated water, a stepwise water treatment is performed in the aerator. To enhance the oxidation of iron and manganese at Petrodvorets and with calcium chloride and soda ash was implemented at St. Petersburg WTPs to compounds, sodium hypochlorite solution Sestroretsk WTPs enable accurate dosing control which led is injected into water. Chlorination is Electrochemical corrosion of steel pipes to reduced consumption of anticorrosion made after the aeration and the sodium in the St. Petersburg water distribution agents. hypochlorite dose is 4-5 mg/l of active system results in secondary pollution of As a consequence, in 2013, the iron chlorine. potable water with iron. concentrations measured at checkpoints The first-stage rapid filters are Formerly, both Petrodvorets WTP and in Petrodvorets and Sestroretsk were equipped with TRITON drainage system: Sestroretsk WTP used their own surface always stable low. hemispheric channels located on the water sources – the Nikolsky pond and the bottom and covered by slotted elements. Razliv Lake. Later, because of excessive Tertiary water treatment These elements are produced by winding pollution of these water bodies both plants technologies used at stainless steel wire and welding it to a guide were converted to tertiary treatment frame of the element. The wire is profiled facilities to treat the water supplied by the boosting pumping stations in such a way that slots widening inwards city waterworks. The tertiary treatment and house connections are formed between its rows. This solution uses the existing water treatment units, i.e. To improve the potable water quality at ensures high reliability of the drainage sand filters (one-stage treatment scheme). remote sections of the network, tertiary structure, and the funnel-shaped slots To prevent corrosion of steel pipes treatment systems are constructed in the prevent the clogging of filter elements and and reduce iron concentrations in the boosting pumping stations and house facilitate the backwashing process. Due tertiary-treated water from Petrodvorets connections. Special filter media are used to TRITON drainage system, a dual-media and Sestroretsk WTPs, calcium chloride and there to remove iron. 25 tertiary treatment bed could be used for the reconstruction soda ash are dosed into the water systems were installed in 2013. 103 Water quality control Water quality control at Vodokanal St. Petersburg is carried out at all stages – from raw water intake to the water metering system at the house connection Water quality control is implemented The following groups of indices are used in parameters are short-listed for by the Company in accordance with the water quality control: monitoring. approved programs – The Working Program • composite; A systematic approach based on for Production Control of Potable Water • organoleptic; the principle: “WTP – water mains – city Quality and The Production Program for • chemical (organic and non-organic); quarter network – customer” was used Water Quality Control. • microbiological; for selection of the checkpoints to be The Working Program for Production • parasitological (Lamblia cysts); included into the Program for Production Control of Potable Water Quality in • virological (presence of hepatitis A virus Control. St. Petersburg for 2012–2017 has come into antigens and rotavirus antigens); The monitoring results enable us to: effect since 1 January 2012. It was developed • hydro-biological (phytoand zooplankton); • trace the changes in qualitative in accordance with SanPiN 2.1.4.1074-01 • radiation safety. characteristics of potable water at all “Potable water. Hygiene requirements to The main water quality parameter stages of water production and distribution; potable water supplied by centralized water values for 2013 are posted, in a tabular • identify hot spots and troubled sections supply systems. Quality control. Hygiene form, on the corporate website section of water networks; requirements to safety of hot water supply “Water supply. Water quality.” • prioritize investments in implementation systems”; approved by St. Petersburg (http://www.vodokanal.spb.ru/ of technical solutions (selection of water Department of Rospotrebnadzor and vodosnabzhenie/kachestvo_vody/). treatment technologies, reconstruction adopted by the Chairman of the Committee The Program for Production Control of the existing facilities and capital repair for Energy and Engineering Support. of Potable Water Quality covers of water networks, change of hydraulic The program covers 174 checkpoints 306 additional checkpoints allowing a more regimes of water system); where 86 water quality parameters are detailed assessment of the water • evaluate the efficiency of corrective monitored. supply system. Twelve most important actions. 104 Levels of water quality St. Petersburg is harmless quality of potable water control: in terms of its chemical in apartment blocks (where • on-line process control using automatic composition and safe in about 90,000 people live) analyzers and automated continuous terms of epidemiological and improved. monitoring systems; • laboratory control; radiation conditions. In 2014, this work will be continued. In 2013, Vodokanal also additionally In addition to the instrumental • control by an independent organization metering, the biomonitoring system monitored water quality in the distribution Water Research and Control Center; designed by the Russian Academy of networks of residential houses at the • control by Rospotrebnadzor. Sciences’ St. Petersburg Environmental addresses not included into the Working The automated analyzers are installed Safety Research Center is used at all city Program’s list of checkpoints. at all stages of water treatment, signals water intakes to control water quality 22,074 samples from the distribution from the instruments are sent to the in the water source, the Neva River. networks at the battery limit were control room and process engineers, thus Prior to the treatment process, analyzed. According to the water quality providing for the real-time control of the water from the Neva River is monitored monitoring results, critical addresses were process. by crayfish. Special sensors for on-line identified where the iron content reached 29,184 water samples were analyzed recording of the crayfish cardiac rhythm are the upper limit of maximum permissible in 2013. Minor deviations from regulatory attached to their carapaces. If there are toxic concentrations (MPC). The action plan requirements with regard to total iron substances in water, the cardiac rhythm of for these addresses was developed content were identified in the distribution the crayfish changes and a relevant signal in order to improve water quality. water network. is transmitted to the control room. The monitoring results The monitoring results This biomonitoring system is improved show that potable water in show that within 2013 the continuously. 105 Achievements of 2013 In 2013, rehabilitation and construction of networks and water supply facilities was implemented in order to provide guaranteed safety of drinking water for the customers, increase reliability of services and improve energy efficiency • processing equipment was replaced A steady trend towards improving the with energy-saving and energy-efficient key performance indicators was reached, equipment at 34 pumping stations; including: • 30 automatic water quality control • the number of network failures in the devices were installed to measure turbidity, Southern zone reduced by 30% in 2013 nitrogen, aluminium and iron content; as compared to 2009. The average annual • 53 sensors were installed in water supply energy consumption reduced by 20% Construction of the networks (at control points) that allowed in 2013 as compared to 2009; 1 first-lift pumping to optimize the operation of boosting • the water loss rate during production station and water intake pumping stations; and transportation of water to customers facilities at Main WTP • 18 flow meters were installed in water reduced by 33% in 2013 as compared New water intake facilities and a first-lift supply networks to form the water balance to 2009; pumping station at Main WTP are being of the Southern zone of St. Petersburg, • the number of registered customer calls built under the public contract. The work is as well as 12 flow meters were installed related to low head reduced by 96%. scheduled to be completed in 2014. Design to detect illegal connections and monitor The reconstruction of pumping works related to a new water treatment water supply at the battery limits with big stations in the Northern and Central water block at Main WTP will also start in 2014. customers; supply zones in St. Petersburg is being • the automated system was installed planned. Reconstruction and equipment to collect, accumulate, process and transfer replacement projects are developed for Establishment of the 2 water supply management the information about the volumes of water consumed during production, small WTPs. Projects for reconstruction of, system in St. Petersburg distribution and provision of services and replacement of equipment in, In 2013, under the project for the water to customers. machinery compartments at Northern supply system modernization in the These activities ensured uninterrupted WTP, Murinskaya PS, Kushelevskaya PS, Southern zone of St. Petersburg energyhigh quality water supply for customers in Petrogradskaya PS are developed. saving and energy-efficient equipment was Kirovsky, Krasnoselsky, Moskovsky, Nevsky In 2014, equipment installation and installed, including: and Frunzenksy districts of St. Petersburg. pre-commissioning will start. 106 Results of Activities in 2013 Water supply from As part of the water supply network of 6.5 km, the water supply network with 3 underground sources reconstruction, 4,116 pieces of equipment a length of 0.9 km, 4 sewerage pumping 3.1. Reserve water supply. were installed and replaced including stations (2013). The construction and installation 3,324 valves, 792 fire hydrants. Valves and In order to connect customers to works at Kolpino WTP are in progress. fire hydrants were replaced with modern the street networks, 4.7 km of house Underground water intakes at the town ones that do not require operator’s connections were constructed in 2012–2013. of Lisy Nos are being planned. presence and construction of manholes. 3.2. Centralized water supply to households. In order to ensure the water quality, Construction of water The design of WTPs in Molodezhnoye is 25 tertiary treatment systems were supply and sewerage completed; the design data are submitted installed at house connections on the 6 systems at the town to the expertise. With the WTPs in customer side; 33 house connections were cleaned to provide the required of Volodarsky place, the local ground water sources To provide centralized water supply will be used effectively to supply water water head. In order to increase the population and sewerage services to the town of to Kurortny district and new suburban Volodarsky, over 28.9 km of water supply developments. satisfaction with water supply services, separate house connections with cold networks and 41.0 km of sewerage The design of WTP at Dyuny networks should be constructed. (“Rzhavaya kanava”) is nearing completion. water flow meters were installed in houses having “one flow meter for several In 2012–2013, 27 km of water supply buildings” system. In 2014, this work will networks and 32.2 km of sewerage Construction and networks were constructed including 4 reconstruction of be continued. 10.1 km of water supply networks and water supply networks Construction of water 15.9 km of sewerage networks in 2013. In 2013, 72.3 km of water supply supply and sewerage To connect customers to the street networks were reconstructed, constructed 5 systems at the town networks, 1.5 km of house connections and overhauled including demounting and 3.0 km of sewer outlets were of “one flow meter for several of Olgino constructed in 2013. buildings” systems (in Krasnoselsky, To provide centralized water supply Krasnogvardeysky, Moskovsky and and sewerage services to the town of Provision of potable Vasileostrovsky districts). Water supply networks in Tsvetochnaya str. Olgino, the construction of street water supply and wastewater disposal systems 7 water quality In order to ensure the quality (from Ligovsky pr. to Zastavskaya str.), was fully completed in 2011–2013: of potable water and guarantee Novoizmaylovsky pr. (from Basseynaya 17.2 km of water supply networks and its safety, UV disinfection systems str. to Krasnoputilovksaya str.), 15.2 km of sewerage networks were were installed at Sestroretsk WTP and Khasanskaya str. (from Kommuna str. constructed, including the construction Gantulovskaya Gora WTP. The work is to Entuziastov pr.) were reconstructed. of the sewerage network with a length scheduled to be completed in 2014. 107 Prospects for water supply system development In order to increase the • Commencement of design works related disinfection systems will allow to ensure to the reconstruction of raw water pipes the safety of water supplied to inhabitants satisfaction of St. Petersburg at the Northern WTP as well as the as well as to save energy. inhabitants with the reconstruction of 700,000 m3/day • Commencement of design works related quality of water supply water treatment facilities including to the modernization of underground services and ensure the construction of an additional water water sources (“Gostilitskiye”, reliable and safe operation treatment stage and the reconstruction “Varvarinskiye”, “Vilpovitskiye”) including of water supply facilities, of clean water reservoirs. landscaping and site planning as well • Commencement of design works related as the establishment of the monitoring the following activities to the modernization of Volkovksaya and system. are to be implemented Kronstadt WTPs and their transformation • Commencement of design works related in 2014: to the boosting pumping stations. to the construction of the backwash water • Commencement of design works related • Modernization of UV disinfection recirculation system at the Southern Water to a new 500,000 m3/day water treatment systems at WTPs. Efforts related to Treatment Plant. block at the Main Water Treatment Plant. the modernization of the current UV • Completion of works related to the 108 implementation of the UV disinfection reconstruction of the Lopatinsky water water network (178 km), the installation system at Sestroretsk Water Treatment pipeline important for water supply of tertiary systems at house connections Plant and Gantulovskaya Gora Water to the right-bank part of the city; (25 pcs.). Treatment Plant. The installation of the – completion of works related to the • Continuation of works related to the UV disinfection system at these plants construction of the pipelines from replacement of valves (5,500 valves will ensure the safety of potable water Northern Water Treatment Plant to to be replaced). supplied to inhabitants of Kurortny, Murinskaya pumping station and from • Continuation of works related to the Lomonosov and Kronstandt districts and Main Water Treatment Plant to Vasilevsky establishment of the water supply save energy. Island. management system in the Northern • Continuation of works related to • Continuation of the program related to and Central Water Supply Zones. the construction and reconstruction of the replacement of reinforced concrete • Continuation of works related to water pipes that provide water to a large water pipe lines, including completion of the planning of water networks at the number of inhabitants and influence the reconstruction of the water pipelines Martyshkino, Molodezhnoye, Lisy Nos, the development of urban areas: along Narodnogo Opolchenia prospect; Toriki towns, etc. Commencement of water – completion of works related to the • Continuation of the reconstruction of the network design at other towns. 109 Wastewater Disposal St. Petersburg system of wastewater disposal and treatment is a complex of interconnected engineering facilities to provide collection of wastewater, its transportation and treatment at wastewater treatment plants followed by discharge into water bodies and wastewater sludge utilization St. Petersburg has a combined wastewater of direct discharge points and transportation sludge beds in Gorelovo settlement; disposal system. 70% of the territory is of sewerage to wastewater treatment plants. • sludge incineration plants – 3; connected to the combined sewerage Wastewater system includes: • 10 stationary snow-melting stations: system which collects domestic and • 15 wastewater treatment plants − 2, Oktyabrskaya Embankment (capacity industrial wastewater as well as surface comprising: – 7,000 m3/day); (rainfall, snow-melt) runoffs. The rest of the − municipal wastewater treatment − 77 Peterhoffskoe shosse (7,000 m3/day); territory – mostly new construction areas plants – 13; − 20, Sevastyanova str., Kolpino and suburbs – is sewered according to a − runoff treatment plants – 2. (7,000 m3/day); separate scheme where rainfall and • 141 sewerage pumping stations; − 45, Rizsky pr. (7,000 m3/day); snowmelt waters are collected separately • 8,240.60 km of sewerage networks − 83, Stachek pr. (3,500 m3/day); from other wastewater and discharged including: − Letter A, 69, Krasnoputilovskaya str. currently without any treatment. − gravity pipelines – 7,943.1 km; (3,500 m3/day). As of 1 January 2014, 98.4% of all − pressure pipelines – 297.4 km. − 123, Volkhonskoe shosse municipal sewage is treated, there are some • 256.75 km of tunnel collectors; (7,000 m3/day); discharges channeling wastewater without • 21,960 dump wells; − 2, Rybinskaya str. (5,000 m3/day); any treatment directly into city water bodies. • 1,206 of direct discharges including: − Mebelnaya str. (7,000 m3/day); Untreated wastewater is discharged − 104 of municipal wastewater discharges; − Kushelevskaya road (5,000 m3/day). through direct discharge points managed by − 1,092 of storm-water discharges and Diameters of the sewerage network Vodokanal and industrial organizations. storm-water basins; range from 100 mm (courtyard networks) Vodokanal continues its work targeted − 10 discharges of flushing water from to 1.5 m (water mains). Pipelines with to the closure of untreated wastewater waterworks. diameters up to 500 mm make up 79% discharges into water bodies, elimination • 2 landfills: Severny, Volkhonka-2 and of the total length of all sewerage networks. 112 Results of Activities in 2013 The main material of • ceramics and other materials – 4.8%. in the city having more than 1,000 shafts About 44% of all the networks have and bore wells. Internal diameter of tunnel sewerage pipes is as follows: been in operation for over 40 years. collectors ranges from 2 to 4.7 meters, • reinforced concrete – 58.0% Tunnel sewers are the basic mains for with laying depth of 15–80 meters. of the whole network; collecting and transporting wastewater to The capacity of sewerage pumping • concrete – 19.2%; wastewater treatment plants. Currently, stations ranges from 300 m3/day to • polyethylene – 10.7%; 256.75 km of tunnel sewers are operated 1.5 mio. m3/day. • cast iron – 7.3%; Adjusted capacity* of wastewater treatment plants: South-West Wastewater Treatment Plant 290,000 m3/day Northern Wastewater Treatment Plant 690,000 m3/day Central Wastewater Treatment Plant 1,050,000 m3/day Sestroretsk Wastewater Treatment Plant 17,000 m3/day Zelenogorsk Wastewater Treatment Plant 10,000 m3/day Repino Wastewater Treatment Plant 10,000 m3/day Petrodvorets Wastewater Treatment Plant 72,000 m3/day Kronstadt Wastewater Treatment Plant 28,000 m3/day Pushkin Wastewater Treatment Plant 71,000 m3/day Kolpino Wastewater Treatment Plant 69,000 m3/day Pontonny Wastewater Treatment Plant 1 1,000 m3/day Metallostroy Wastewater Treatment Plant 9,000 m3/day Pulkovo-3 Wastewater Treatment Plant 690 m3/day Kolpino Wastewater Treatment Plant 860 m3/day * Adjusted capacity of wastewater treatment plants is calculated for rainy weather conditions taking into account wastewater treatment quality requirements and technical condition of the facilities According to the results of 2013 the daily average volume of treated wastewater was 2,200,000 m3/day. The percentage of disinfected effluent was 19%. 113 Three catchment areas – Northern, Central and Southern – are established in St. Petersburg Northern catchment area оcovers Pushkinsky districts. The main collecting Runoff catchment areas. The area the largest part of the city (mainly the right sewer is a sewerage collector delivering in St. Petersburg with the separate sewerage bank of the Neva River) including Nevsky, wastewater to the Central Wastewater system (storm-water and domestic wastewaKrasnogvardeysky, Kalininsky, Vyborgsky, Treatment Plant (on the Bely Island). ter) account for about 1/3 of the whole sewPetrogradsky, Primorsky districts, a part The facility redistributing wastewater ered area of the city. The remaining 2/3 of the of Tsentralny district, and also receives between the Northern and Central territory is served by the combined sewerage wastewater from adjacent areas of the catchment areas is the sewage pumping system. In Kolpino, Pushkin, Pavlovsk and Leningrad Region. The main sewer station no.6. Sestroretsk runoffs are discharged into the of this catchment area is the Northern Southern catchment area covers storm-water sewerage system (which is Tunnel Collector delivering wastewater the southern territory of the city. It includes completely separate system). In Petrodvorets to the Northern WWTP. Commissioning a part of Kirovsky and Krasnoselsky districts and Kronstadt runoffs are discharged of the Northern Tunnel Collector section and the town of Strelna of Petrodvorets into both storm-water and combined sewerfrom Kantemirovskaya str. to Finlandsky district which wastewater is discharged age system (semi-separate system). Currentbridge significantly increased wastewater to South-West Wastewater Treatment ly, the runoff catchment area is defined. volumes entering the Northern WWTP. Plant through the tunnel collector system. The area where runoffs are collected into In addition, this catchment area includes The penstocks located in the shafts of tunnel the sewerage system accounts for 418 km2. local catchment areas of Kurortny district sewers regulate wastewater between the A water balance is made for each waste(Sestroretsk WWTP, Zelenogorsk WWTP, Southern and the Central catchment areas. water catchment area. However, the amount Repino WWTP, Molodezhnoe WWTP). Wastewater from Kolpinsky, of equipment installed and its technical charCentral catchment area covers the Kronstadtsky, a part of Pushkinsky acteristics do not allow to control wastewater territory of the left bank of the Neva River and Petrodvorets districts goes to disposal system and to regulate wastewater i.e. Nevsky (the left-bank), Vasileostrovsky, wastewater treatment plants located flow in the sewers depending on the level Tsentralny, Admiralteysky, Frunzensky, in each of these districts through the of rainfall and runoff inflow into the Moskovsky and a part of Kirovsky and pressure-gravity collectors. sewerage system. 114 St. Petersburg is the first megalopolis in the world to solve the problem of wastewater sludge utilization Before the commissioning of the sludge treated flue gases generated in the course Treated gases emitted into the atmosphere incineration plants, dewatered sludge was of sludge incineration meets the at all SIPs meet the requirements of the disposed in full to landfills for storage. requirements of the Russian Federation European Committee Directive 2000/76. At the present time, three sludge and the European Union; Gross emission of pollutants from all the incineration plants (SIP) constructed at • use of heat for hot water supply and SIPs is within the limits of maximum permisthe city’s biggest WWTPs – Central WWTP, heating of buildings; sible emission stated by Rosprirodnadzor. Northern WWTP and SWTP – are in • energy production by means of steam On-line control instruments are used operation. utilization at SWTP and Central WWTP; at all the plants to analyze the composition They incinerate sludge produced in the • possibility of ash utilization and of emitted flue gases. Besides, the indecourse of wastewater treatment at all industrial use. pendent organization – Water Quality WWTPs. This enabled the city to solve its The heat generated in the process Control Center – performs expanded primary task – to stop storing wastewater of incineration is used for technical monitoring of gas composition. sludge and reduce the negative purposes, space heating and electric energy Moreover, the SIP at SWTP applies environmental impact. production, thus enabling Vodokanal a unique biomonitoring system. The indicaAdvantages of incineration: St. Petersburg to achieve significant tors of flue gas quality are the giant African • 10-times reduction of generated savings of energy resources. snails which react not only to one-time waste amount; emissions, but also to minimal amounts • no pathogenic microflora and unpleasant Flue gases of all SIPs of concentrated hazardous substances, odor in ash; undergo a three-stage as well as to synergistic effect of various • concentration of harmful compounds in purification process. pollutants. 115 Wastewater treatment technologies Technologies to ensure wastewater These technological solutions enable treatment in compliance with the to manage the biological treatment system Russian norms and the requirements in a flexible way, adjusting the recirculation of the Baltic Marine Environment volumes and supply of oxygen for aeration. Protection Commission are As a result, with any changes of external factors affecting the treatment process implemented at Vodokanal’s (wastewater temperature, influent contamwastewater treatment plants inant concentrations), it became possible to select the optimal mode and ensure the required quality of treatment. The projects of the city wastewater treatment plants reconstruction are meant to upgrade biological treatment with effective solutions of UCT and JHB technologies. Modernization of aeration tanks at the largest WWTPs of the city (Central and Northern WWTPs) is currently under implementation. Wastewater treatment quality at WWTPs ment) is needed to be introduced at all The method of phosphorus chemical of the city is regulated by the Russian reguWWTPs of the city in order to stabilize treatprecipitation has been already introduced lations and international recommendations. ment quality. Now it is implemented only to improve phosphorus removal and stabiProcess diagrams of wastewater treatat Repino and Petrodvorets WWTPs. lize treatment parameters at all WWTPs ment plants include the following stages – Disinfection – disinfection using of the city. of wastewater and sludge treatment: ultraviolet radiation is introduced at Repino The principle of the chemical waste• Mechanical treatment – to remove WWTP, Sestroretsk WWTP, Petrodvorets water treatment is chemical reaction after coarse impurities and mineral suspended WWTP as well as at the South-West Wastedosing of chemical agents, and as a result solids from treated wastewater (screens, water Treatment Plant. phosphates form insoluble compounds grit removals, primary sedimentation – Sludge treatment – the main purpose which are removed from the system totanks). of the wastewater sludge treatment stage gether with the sludge. • Biological treatment – to remove is to minimize its volume and eliminate After the introduction of chemical suspended solids remaining after menegative impact on the environment (smell, wastewater treatment methods, HELCOM chanical treatment and dissolved organic pathogenic microflora). Optimal solution for requirement of no more than 0.5 mg/l contaminants from the treated wastewater. utilization of sludge produced in wastewaof total phosphorus in treated wastewater Treatment is carried out by activated sludge ter treatment plants is incineration. is steadily achieved at all WWTPs microorganisms in aeration tanks and secIn order to ensure the compliance of the city. ondary sedimentation tanks. of wastewater treatment with HELCOM recEfficiency of wastewater treat• Chemical treatment – to remove ommendations, Vodokanal of St. Petersburg ment at WWTPs of Vodokanal of St. phosphorus phosphates chemically. has been constantly upgrading biological Petersburg in 2013 was as follows: • Tertiary treatment – given that treatment by means of advanced nutrients suspended solids and BOD – over almost all water bodies in St. Petersburg, removal technologies. 95%; total phosphorus – 93% and where treated wastewater is discharged, The advanced UCT biological process total nitrogen – 70%. are categorized as fishery water bodies, (University of Cape Town) has been impleAt the present time, Vodokanal is it predetermines the quality requirements mented at SWTP and Sestroretsk WWTP, searching for efficient and cost-effective to wastewater discharged into water bodies and JHB process (University of Johanneseffluent disinfection technologies to be – suspended solids of less than 5 mg/l. burg) – at Petrodvorets WWTP, Repino implemented at all wastewater treatment Therefore, tertiary treatment (post-treatWWTP and Pushkin WWTP. plants of St. Petersburg. 116 Results of Activities in 2013 Wastewater quality control Wastewater quality control at Vodokanal’s facilities is carried out in accordance with Wastewater Quality Assessment Programs approved by the Neva-Ladoga Basin Water Authority and Rospotrebnadzor Authority Wastewater quality control is regularly and dissolved oxygen. Around being the crayfish habitat. As a result of performed: 1,150 samples are analyzed annually. such effect, water quality may deteriorate. • in the inlet chamber of wastewater Moreover, the South-West Wastewater Vodokanal’s wastewater treatment treatment plants; Treatment Plant has been constantly using plants are designed for treatment of • in the collection chamber in the outlet the system for biomonitoring the quality of household wastewater from the citizens. of wastewater treatment plants. the effluent to be discharged into the Neva Removal of specific pollutants at WWTPs is Wastewater quality control is carried Bay of the Gulf of Finland. Crayfish play the performed concurrently and with different out by monitoring 21 physical and chemical role of bioindicators: it is Australian Red efficiency. Many substances which are parameters, 8 microbiological and Claw crayfish in warm seasons, and Native not removed at the biological treatment parasitological parameters. Around Neva crayfish in cold seasons. Replacement facilities continually accumulate and may 30,000 components are determined annually. of crayfish depending on the season damage the plant having a disastrous Besides, wastewater composition is necessary to exclude false operation influence on activated sludge. control is regularly performed at the of bioelectronic monitoring system. To control the customers’ following processes points: the inlet In spite of the fact that the effluent compliance with regulatory chamber, collection chamber after primary quality is monitored with special clarifiers, effluent collection chamber of instruments by various parameters in values for the discharge of each WWTP. These control activities ensure the laboratories, it is only the organism pollutants from industries, the operation of the facilities in compliance of an animal-bioindicator that may Vodokanal performs with the established regulations. simultaneously assess a set of all the continuous monitoring To adjust the treatment mode the following qualitative characteristics of water where of wastewater quality parameters are monitored: temperature, it lives. Thanks to the bioelectronic control biological oxygen demand (BOD), chemical system based on the behavior of animals discharged by the customers oxygen demand (COD), phosphates, it is possible to monitor simultaneously the into St. Petersburg nitrogen group, suspended solids, alkalinity integrated effect of many factors on water, centralized sewerage system. 117 The main objective of customers’ requirements set by “Rules for cold protection plans to Vodokanal wastewater quality control is to reduce water supply and wastewater disposal” in 2013 was 4 times more than pollution of customers’ wastewater (approved by the Resolution of the in 2012 (43 customers). The quality coming to sewerage system and water Government no.644 dated 29 July 2013) of wastewater coming to WWTPs was bodies and to evaluate the customers’ in order to prevent the negative effect slightly improved in comparison with compliance with wastewater quality of discharges by the customers on the the previous years, evidencing that norms. During 2013, over 5,000 custocentralized sewerage systems. customers pay more attention mers were controlled by Vodokanal. To encourage water protection to environmental protection. Wastewater samples were taken from measure taken by the customers, Nevertheless, the quality of wastewater 4,300 customers’ discharge points. Total a concession charge for non-compliance coming to WWTPs still do not meet the number of determinations of wastewater with wastewater composition regulations requirements necessary for Vodokanal components in the customers’ samples is granted to those who implement such of St. Petersburg to comply with the was 172,582. In the course of 2013, measures. permissible discharge limits for most only 1% of the customers met In 2013, only 182 out of 3,100 custoof metals and oil products. wastewater quality requirements. mers (5.9%), who exceeded regulatory In 2013, representatives of the The customers shall pay an extra values, agreed water protection plans Company and its customers jointly charge for exceeding regulatory values. with Vodokanal of St. Petersburg, performed 374 inspections of customers’ Fees are charged for violation of effluent 6 companies were granted a concession territories to identify sources of wastewater composition regulations charge in due course provided that wastewater pollution (twice more than (established in order to prevent negative they would implement water protection in 2012). These inspections form the impact of customers’ wastewater on measures. However, the number basis for further development of water water bodies) * and for violation of the of customers which submitted water protection measures by the customers. *An extra charge is paid to the special account of Vodokanal. Money from this account is spent only for wastewater quality improvement and payment by Vodokanal of the fee for the negative environmental impact. The Government of St. Petersburg represented by the Committee for Energy and Engineering Support controls over the spending of funds from such an account. 118 Results of Activities in 2013 New standards of emerging industry-specific legislation on water supply and wastewater disposal require the industrial customers to implement water protection measures including construction and upgrade of local wastewater treatment facilities To develop the principle of customers’ responsibility for industrial wastewater quality, a number of resolutions were adopted by the Government of the Russian Federation. According to these regulatory acts: ment facilities is created by a possibility with industrial enterprises and industrial • standards for the customers wastefor big customers to setoff funds spent associations aiming to: water composition and properties are on water protection measures against the • assist customers in complying with reguintroduced in order to prevent negative charges paid for negative impact on water latory requirements to the discharge impacts on water bodies as well as on the bodies. of wastewater into the centralized sewercentralized sewerage systems; The obligation to construct and upage systems of St. Petersburg; • big customers (discharging more than grade local treatment facilities will come • assist in arranging wastewater metering; 200 m3/d of wastewater) are subjected into effect on January 1, 2015. • execute and improve the norms provided to state environmental supervision and Therefore, the customers are interestin the Law on Water Supply and Wastewarequired to pay for water bodies pollution. ed in finding the best possible wastewater ter Disposal and relevant by-laws. These customers shall also agree environtreatment processes and other technical The above mentioned cooperation is imment protection action plans with state solutions to avoid negative impact on plemented in the following forms: water supervisory authorities; the centralized sewerage system and • consultations based on the results • all big industrial customers as well as water bodies. of the analytical quality control customers, whose production activities “Rules for cold water supply and wasteof customers wastewater; cause discharge of specific pollutants, water disposal” and “Rules for commercial • recommendations on the action plan are obliged to arrange local treatment water and wastewater metering” approved to prevent discharge of pollutants facilities; by the Russian Government consolidated in excess of the set limits; • all customers discharging more than the law provisions encouraging the cus• assistance in the development of the 30 m3 of wastewater per day, whose tomers to arrange wastewater metering. terms of reference for design and conproduction activities cause discharge of Thus, the above mentioned Rules oblige struction of local treatment facilities; specific pollutants, are required to submit big customers (with wastewater discharge • recommendations for, and assistance in, a declaration on pollutants discharge to over 200 m3/d) as well as the customers choosing wastewater metering devices; its wastewater company. Such declaration who use external water supply without • seminars, workshops, reports made should be the basis for water protection validated water meters) to install wastewato clarify industry-specific laws, discussion plans of the customer; ter meters. of proposals to improve such laws. • a customer shall pay for violation Vodokanal is interested both in impleVodokanal intends to facilitate cooperaof the set standards aiming to prevent mentation of water protection measures tion with industrial enterprises and entrenegative impacts on the centralized by the customers and in reliable wastewapreneurs in these areas in the form of indisewerage system; ter metering with metering instruments. vidual consultations and recommendations • additional impetus to arrange local treatTherefore, Vodokanal actively cooperates as well as seminars, reports, workshops. 119 Achievements of 2013 flows in the collector by gravity due to the difference in heights: at the Finlyandsky Since the early 90-ies, Vodokanal Railway Bridge tunnels are laid at a depth of of St. Petersburg has made efforts to reduce minus 52 m, and then the collector gradually the discharge of untreated wastewater deepens up to minus 80 meters. But in the in order to mitigate negative impact Grenadersky Bridge area the tunnels go up. on the environment of the Baltic Sea The movement of water slows down and suspended solids in wastewater settle to the bottom of the collector. It may lead to the silting of the collector. That will cause problems in operation. URS pumping station will eliminate this threat. When necessary, wastewater will be redirected to the pumping station and pumped 60 meters up to the discharge tunnel, through which wastewater will move to Northern Wastewater Treatment Plant – again by gravity. The following measures were taken of untreated wastewater were no longer 3. The construction of the micro-tunnel along within the Neva Direct Discharges Closure drained into the Neva. It accounts for nearly the Robespierre Embankment Programme: 122 million cubic meters of wastewater per made it possible to eliminate backwash 1. In October 2013, the Northern Tunnel year. As a result, 98.4% of all wastewater discharges from the Main Water Treatment Collector Extension was completed. is treated in Petersburg. Plant into to the Neva River. Since October The collector system includes: 2. Construction of the unique hydraulic facility – 2013, backwash water in the amount • two 4 m diameter tunnels, 12.2 km each URS Pumping Station – was finished. It is of 50,000 m3/day has been delivered with the diameter of 4 m, laid at the depth a powerful pumping station located in a shaft to the Northern WWTP. of 40–90 m; with a depth of 90 m and a diameter 4. The design of the 1st stage of the Okhta • 8 microtunnels, total length – 7,600 km; of 24 meters between the two lines of the Tunnel Collector was completed. Design • 64 shafts, 6–9 m diameter each, at the collector. 12 high-capacity pumps are placed documents were submitted for the expertise. depth of 10–80 m; around the shaft. The weight of each is 5. Closure of untreated wastewater discharges • 5.2 km of street sewerage networks, about 9 tons, the capacity – 720 liters per was carried out along the Pirogovskaya 0.25–1.2 m in diameter. second. URS will give opportunity to control Embankment. With the Collector in place, 76 direct the velocity of wastewater in the collector. 6. The intercepting sewers along the Karpovka wastewater discharges were closed in the It is necessary to ensure self-cleaning of the River Embankment and the Repina Square are period of 2008 – 2013 and 334,000 m3/day collector from bottom sediments. Wastewater being designed. 120 Results of Activities in 2013 In the framework of the Sewerage System services to new residential developments, The result of such treatment is the Reliability Improvement Programme the construction of wastewater networks was production of safe substrate which is odor following works were implemented: completed in Olgino settlement. free and may be used for manufacturing 1. Construction of the 2nd line of the In Volodarsky settlement installation fertilizers or technogenic soil (to be used backup collector near the Muzhestva of the network is underway. for the construction and reconstruction Square. Rehabilitation of wasteof motorways). 2. Reconstruction of the tunnel sewer along water treatment plants Wastewater sludge Rizhsky pr. incineration plants 3. Reconstruction of the tunnel sewer from In order to meet HELCOM requirements, rehabilitation and modernization of small The expected useful life of the basic the shaft no.63 along Revolyutsii shosse SIP units at the Central WWTP is 12 years WWTPs in Kolpino, Kronstadt, Pushkin, according to the operation passport. SIP at to the shaft no.2 along Piskarevsky pr. Pontonny continued. the Central WWTP has been in operation 4. The design documentation for the Also, the 1st stage of the Northern for over 16 years. In 2013, the design following works was under development: WWTP rehabilitation was going on with contract with GUP “Lengiproinzhproject” • reconstruction of the tunnel collector implementation of the cutting-age effective was signed to rehabilitate the sludge of the Central WWTP from the shaft no.43 nutrients removal technologies. incineration facility together with (3, Gapsalskaya str.) to the shaft no.44b In 2013, design works based on JHB construction of two new incineration (Bely Island); process were performed with regard to lines at the Central WWTP. • construction of the connection line from the sections no.5-6 of the aeration tanks at Stationary snowthe shaft 1/27 to the shaft 441/2 the Central WWTP to improve wastewater (33, Obukhovskoy Oborony pr.); efficiency. melting stations • construction of the ring tunnel along Reconstruction of the aeration tank no.5 Natural and climatic conditions Basseynaya str. (from the shaft no.8 in at SWTP was carried out in 2013 including: of St. Petersburg are characterized with Kosmonavtov pr. to the shaft no.6 of the • replacement of the nitrate pumps; large amount of precipitations in winter. tunnel no.28); • installation of new type mixers; In this regard, one of the most important • construction of the ring tunnel no.18 • substitution of air valves automated tasks of the city economy is snow disposal along the Fontanka River Embankment to drives; from the city streets in winter period. the tunnel in Ruzovskogo str. • installation of oxygen and air flow In order to cease snow landfilling in the city area and to reduce negative impacts on Modernization and sensors. water bodies and soil, four snow-melting rehabilitation of the Recycling of landfilled stations were built and put into operation sewerage networks wastewater sludge in 2013 at the following addresses: In 2013, 68 km of sewerage networks To alleviate the negative environmental • 123, Volkhonskoe shosse (7,000 m3 per day); were reconstructed. The length of the impact on the environment, Vodokanal • 2, Rybinskaya str. (5,000 m3 per day); sewerage networks cleaned with the continued works on recycling wastewater • Mebelnaya str. (7,000 m3 per day); hydrodynamic flushing was increased up to sludge stored at the Severny landfill in the • Kushelevskaya road (5,000 m3 per day). 1,023 km per year. This fact made it possible town of Novoselki. Along with the geoIn total, 10 snow-melting stations were to reduce the number of blockages in the tubes method, new technical solutions to constructed and put into operation in networks up to 5 blockages per 10 km. disinfect and neutralize landfilled sludge 2012–2013 to receive snow in the amount To ensure provision of wastewater are being searched. of 59,000 m3/day. 121 Future Development of the Sewerage System To decrease negative environmental impact To increase reliability and to ensure uninterrupted provision of wastewater services, and reach sustainable wastewater treatment the following measures are to be implemented in 2014: quality, the following activities are to be 1. Construction of ring tunnels and backup collectors to ensure the possibility implemented: to examine and reconstruct tunnel collectors: 1. Close 3 domestic wastewater discharges – completion of the construction of the 2nd stage of the backup collector along Petrogradskaya Embankment with from Vernosti str. to the Murinsky Ruchey near the Muzhestva Square; total flow of 4,020 m3 per day. – preparation works for ring tunnel construction along Basseynaya str.; 2. Close domestic and storm water – preparation works for ring tunnel construction along Ruzovskogo str.; discharges of Petrovsky Stadium – preparation works for ring tunnel construction in Petrodvortsovsky district. on Petrovsky Island with the flow 2. Rehabilitation and construction of tunnel collectors: of 14,700 m3 per day. – commencement of construction of the 1st stage of Okhta Tunnel collector 3. Complete reconstruction of small WWTPs and design works for the 2nd and 3d stages; in Kronstadt, Kolpino, Pontonny and Pushkin. – reconstruction of the tunnel sewer to Bely Island from the shaft no.43 4. Finish the 1st stage and start the 2nd stage to the shaft no.44b; of the Northern WWTP rehabilitation. – completion of the tunnel reconstruction along Rizhsky pr., the section 5. Start reconstruction of the aeration between the shaft no.31 BIS (Rizhsky pr.) and Bely Island (Gapsalskaya str.). tanks no.5, 6 and design works for the 3. Construction of sewerage networks: reconstruction of the aeration tanks no.1, 2 – commencement of construction works to close direct discharges at the Central WWTP. between Metallostroy and the Central WWTP catchment areas; 6. Launch construction of new wastewater – commencement of reconstruction of the inlet collector to Zelenogorsk WWTP; treatment facilities in Molodezhnoe – reconstruction of sewerage networks – 58.5 km. settlement. 4. Flushing of the sewerage networks – 1,433.6 km 7. Commence designing of 2 new To improve energy efficiency and rational use of resources, Vodokanal proceeds with incineration lines at SIP of the Central WWTP. the establishment of St. Petersburg wastewater management system aimed at ensuring 8. For alleviating the negative impact of the optimal hydraulic control of the sewerage network and raising efficiency of the the sludge landfills, continue treatment centralized wastewater disposal facilities. For this purpose it is necessary to: and recycling of wastewater sludge by • install water flow metering and wastewater quality control instruments with automated the geo-tube method in order to produce data transmission; environmentally safe substrate; go on • arrange customer service by catchment areas; searching for new technical solutions of • develop chemical balance of wastewater disposal system; sludge treatment in order to produce • optimize pollution load on wastewater treatment facilities and water bodies nonhazardous substance. considering chemical balance. 122 The following activities are planned under on the following topics: construct and rehabilitate the following the chemical balance development: – European legislation regulating wastewater networks in 2014 to connect • research works to determine the impact reception of industrial wastewater into new and transformed territories: of specific pollution on the activity of the sewerage system in residential • continue construction of the combined biocoenosis of the biological treatment at areas; sewerage system for “Konnaya Lakhta” municipal wastewater treatment plants; – Experience in meeting requirements facility; • research works to investigate impact of the European legislation by • continue construction of external of untreated runoffs on water bodies; enterprises of different industries; engineering networks for the new • benchmarking of wastewater policies – Selection of treatment technologies residential development in Krasnoe Selo; applied in the European Union; for various contaminants; • construct infrastructure in new • continue interaction with industrial – Indicators of treatment efficiency; industrial areas; companies to develop action plans – Laboratory control of the customers’ • continue designing of sewerage for reducing negative impact on the wastewater quality. networks in Martyshkino, Molodezhnoe, environment; To ensure the availability of Lisiy Nos, Toriki and etc.; • conduct workshops with the involvement centralized wastewater disposal services • start designing of sewerage networks of other water utilities and industrialists to the citizens, the Company plans to in other settlements. 123 Specialized vehicles and equipment As of 1 January 2014, Vodokanal St. Petersburg has 1,029 transport units Types of vehicles Vodokanal’s vehicle park includes: • 188 specialized van trucks to transport • 56 Scania, Mercedes, MAN specialized workers and equipment; combined vehicles; • 131 dump trucks; • 31 steam generators • 129 items of road construction (STEAMRATOR MHT700); equipment including 50 JCB loader• 24 tank trailers for drinking water supply; excavators; • 470 other transport vehicles. 126 Results of Activities in 2013 Vodokanal has on the balance sheet diesel and have Euro-4 engines; characterized with the advanced chassis power plants – 16 units, including mobile • 1 KAMAZ-43114-15 test drilling unit capability and more comfort during diesel-electric station S1400 D5 to repair and maintain underground transportation of the teams. These in containers with the power (basic mode) – water wells; emergency vans will replace outdated 1,250/1,000 kVA/kW (3 units.). If cold water • 1 MERCEDES-BENZ SPRINTER 211 CDI emergency vans on ZIL chassis; supply is stopped during network repairs, mobile metrological laboratory (mobile • 40 cargo and passenger vans Mercedestrailer tanks are used for delivery complex – laboratory to analyze surface Benz Sprinter 311 CDI with advanced of drinking water to the citizens. water and wastewater samples) which is technical capability and more comfort Vodokanal has the following used to perform rapid analysis of surface during transportation of the teams. These units on the balance sheet: water and customers’ wastewater. cargo and passenger vans will replace • compact mobile boiler units In order to introduce liquid soil outdated vans on GAZ-2705 chassis; (STEAMRATOR MNT700, MNS700) used technology to backfill pits after • cargo and passenger van (laboratory) on instead of outdated automatic smoke network repairs, the Company Mercedes-Benz Sprinter 311 CDI chassis, exhaust facilities to warm fire hydrants purchased the following vehicles with high-tech equipment to perform and storm-water inlets in winter period; for the production and delivery of telediagnostics of water supply networks; • 1 boring machine ASTEC DD2024; such liquid soil to Vodokanal sites: • 8 sewer flushers SCANIA Flexline (8 m3); • 2 horizontal controlled drilling machines • 8 concrete mixers 58149Z on • 5 sewer flushers MAN Cityflex 204 (4 m3); (self-act) UNIVERSAL HDD mod. UNI 60*70; KAMAZ-6520-61 chassis; • 3 sewer flushers Scania (13 m3). • 1 VOLKSWAGEN 2EKE2 CRAFTER • 2 POWERSCREEN METROTRAK crushing car, Van truck – Mobile laboratory for plants; teleinspection. Application of this mobile • 2 JCB 426Z loading tractors; laboratory for diagnostics and examination • 2 JCB JS160W excavators. Also, in order to reduce of networks using high-tech robotic video Vodokanal plans to upgrade and negative environmental system has reduced networks examination develop its transport vehicles. The time and improved accuracy of defects Company plans to shift to the operation of impact of air polluting detection. the vehicles equipped with EURO-4 diesel emissions within the In 2013, Vodokanal purchased motors with advanced technical capability programme of change45 transport vehicles including as well as to apply multi-function transport over to gas fuel vehicles, the following: units thus reducing the number of vehicles Vodokanal plans to • 22 van trucks on MAN chassis operated by the Company including: for transportation of workers; • 2 vacuum excavators, the application of purchase 8 gas motor • 4 VOLKSWAGEN van trucks which will reduce the number of vehicles trucks. for transportation of workers; involved in water/sewerage network Vehicles are equipped to perform works repairs from five to three units at one site; on water supply and sewerage networks • 34 emergency vans on МАN chassis 127 Establishment of backup power supply system at Vodokanal’s facilities In 2013, 25 sites to accommodate and connect backup power supply units were established at Vodokanal’s core production facilities: • 14 sites for mobile diesel-electric power units (0.4/6 kV); In 2013, Vodokanal St. Petersburg • 11 sites to accommodate stationary highcompleted preparatory works for voltage diesel-electric power units installation of mobile and permanent (0.4/6 kV) at the following core facilities: backup power supply sources – Main Water Treatment Plant; (0.4/6/10 kV) at the company’s main – Volkovskaya Water Treatment Plant; water and wastewater treatment plants – Northern Water Treatment Plant in compliance with the Program on the (1st and 2nd pump rooms); development of the backup power supply – Southern Water Treatment Plant system and St. Petersburg Government (3d and 5th pump rooms); Resolution no.1454 dated 20 October 2011 – Kolpino Water Treatment Plant, “On the program of installation of backup 2nd elevation; power supply at socially significant and life– Moskovskaya Pumping Station; support facilities for 2012–2013”. – Central Wastewater Treatment Plant; For the first time ever, the company as – Northern Wastewater Treatment big as Vodokanal provides the connection Plant; of high-voltage pumps (up to 1.5 MW) – South-West Wastewater Treatment to backup power supply (diesel-electric Plant. power units – DEPUs and variable frequency drives). Technical solutions introduced in the course of the system development are unique and unprecedented. 128 Results of Activities in 2013 The decision to use variable frequency the starting current) and to reduce energy The establishment of the drives in combination with diesel-electric consumption of the pumping station by backup power supply system power units allowed to decrease the 10–12% due to the pumps operation with at Vodokanal’s facilities number of DEPUs (because of reducing variable frequency drives in normal mode. made it possible to maintain water head in the networks up to 10–15 m due to backup power supply units installed at waterworks supplying water from clean water tanks (water stock sufficient for the period up to 12 hours), and to ensure wastewater delivery to wastewater treatment plants in case of external power supply interruption. 129 Customer service Customer service in 2013 Customer service was a priority area for Vodokanal in 2013 From 2010 till May 2013, Vodokanal’s territorial divisions established within the Water • collection of payments under the Supply and Wastewater Disposal Production Branches provided consultation services contracts and checking of accounts to customers. receivable; The main task of water supply and wastewater disposal territorial divisions was not • provision of information and clarifications only to interact with customers of the service areas (for the purpose of high quality cold with regard to the above activities. water supply and wastewater disposal) but also to monitor the actual situation at the In 2013, pursuant to the Federal Law customers’ facilities in order to update the contractual relationship. In 2012, Vodokanal “On the Water Supply and Wastewater completed the inventory of customers’ facilities and collected reliable information about Disposal”, the Government of the Russian its customers. Federation approved the Rules of cold Since May 2013, taking into account positive experience in operating customer water supply and wastewater disposal services centers using the one contact principle in St. Petersburg and the opinion of the (decree no.644 dated 29 July 2013), Rules customers, Vodokanal has been interacting with clients and customers on the basis of the for commercial water/wastewater metering Customer Service Centre. (decree no.776 dated 4 September 2013), The functions of the Customer Service Centre are standard contract forms for water supply as follows: and wastewater disposal (decree no.645 • issuance of authorization documentation for cold water supply and wastewater networks dated 29 July 2013). connection (technical specifications, connection conditions), conclusion of connection Vodokanal provided to contracts, and issuance of certificates of conformity to connection conditions; customers information and • conclusion/amendment/termination of cold water supply and wastewater disposal contracts; clarifications in connection • cooperation in commercial water metering (volume of services); with new regulations. 132 Results of Activities in 2013 Volumes of sales The results of Vodokanal activities in 2011–2013 Federation no.124 dated 14 February 2012 show a clearly stable reduction in water consumption (previously payments were calculated on the basis of standard monthly by customers of St. Petersburg consumption value) leads to upgrading the water consumption metering and improving the collection of payments for cold and hot water. Water sales reduction for “Other Consumers” category, from 2011 onwards, is caused by saving fuel and energy resources by the companies, application of resource-saving technologies, elimination of breakdowns and leakages in in-house networks and modernization of equipment of industrial companies. Reduction of water consumption in St. Petersburg is caused by: • transition to collection of payments for water according to meter readings after the installation of cold and hot water meters (previously payments were calculated on the basis of standard monthly consumption value); • energy saving measures taken by customers The diagram illustrates the reduction in water to ensure rational water consumption in the (emergency repairs, elimination of leakages supply and wastewater disposal services housing and public utility sector. in in-house networks, repairs of in-house in St. Petersburg during 2011–2013. The major factor that has impact on the pipes and etc.); Volumes of water consumed were reduction of energy resources consumption • water savings by the citizens; reduced by 7.2% in the last three years. by customers is the obeyance of the Federal • implementation of energy saving measures Reduction of sales in 2013 amounted to 3.7%. Law no.261-FZ “On energy saving and energy by housing organizations, managing Water supply reduction trend may be efficiency increase, and on amending certain companies, condominiums and housing observed for both Households and Other legislative acts of the Russian Federation“ cooperatives (improvement of metering Consumers tariff groups. dated 23 November 2009. systems and control over the consumed Reduction of water supply volumes Thus, the mechanism of economic incentives services); for the “Households“ category is a result of rational water consumption works. • transition to collection of payments for of application by housing organizations Transition to collection of payments for water according to the rules provided in the of comprehensive measures on minimization water according to the rules provided in the Decree of the Government of the Russian of water losses in in-house networks Decree of the Government of the Russian Federation no.124 dated 14 February 2012. 133 Accounts receivable Vodokanal St. Petersburg has developed a mechanism of individual interaction with customers aimed to ensure timely collection of payments for potable water and wastewater services and settlement of any receivables To improve control over the accounts receivable and assign relevant experts with perThe customer category “Prosonal responsibility for debt recovery, the Customer Service Centre monthly approves, and follow-up the execution of, the individual payment collection plans split by customer viders of Services to Housecategories (“Service Providers”, “Budget of St. Petersburg”, “Federal Budget”, “Other”, holds” has the biggest share “Organizations of the Leningrad Region”, “Industry” and “Energy Suppliers”). (60.8% as of 1 January 2014) In 2013, Vodokanal had close interaction with the city authorities responsible for the distribution of the funds from the St. Petersburg budget including: in the overall structure of • If required, meetings in district administrations and the city administration committees accounts receivable. In 2013, were held aimed to determine reasons for accumulation of the debt and payment due dates. the share of such accounts • Exchange of information and electronic data about the allocated funds, actual volumes receivable increased by 4.4% in of the provided services (in physical and money terms) and accounts receivable with the comparison to 1 January 2013. city authorities responsible for distribution of St. Petersburg budgetary funds. In 2013, the Company continued its in• Full-scale quarterly reconciliation of payments with customers of the relevant categories. teraction with the Housing Committee and •Full-scale preparation and issuance of agreements on distribution of St. Petersburg the Committee for Energy and Engineerbudgetary funds limits (at the request of the customers). ing Support in terms of activities aimed •Timely issuance and delivery of bills to relevant customers on a monthly basis. at debt recovery by the customers under In 2013, due to the taken measures, accounts receivable of the customers “Providers of Services” category. under the “St. Petersburg Budget” category were reduced In addition, on behalf of St. Petersby RUB 14,800,000 (-40.4%). burg prosecutor’s office in order to avoid At the same time the management of the Customer Service Centre held joint workviolations in the housing and utility sector, shops with nonpayers aimed at resolving the issues on the collection and reconciliation the district prosecutors have been checkof payments. ing housing organizations (management In 2013, 358 meetings were held. Subsequent to the results of such meetings companies, housing cooperatives and 83 debt restructuring agreements were concluded with the customers confronted with associations) since May 2013. Vodokanal the lack of funds required to make payments for the provided services. representatives regularly participate in In 2013, the overdue accounts receivable were monitored with sustainable efficiency. workshops at the district prosecutor’s The activities aimed to limit or stop the provision of services to certain customers were offices, as well as in the meetings of the well coordinated. interdepartmental commissions to deal For example, in 2013, upon the request of the Customer Service Centre, the producwith clearing due payments by the customtion branches limited water supply/wastewater services for 103 customers and terminaters under “Providers of Municipal Services” ed the provision of services to 55 customers. category. 134 Results of Activities in 2013 Vodokanal also interacted with GUP Multiple-Access Computing Center “Housing were paid which is 83% more in comparison Services” to study reasons for the growth of accounts receivable of the customers with 2012 (RUB 530.9 Mio. RUB). under “Providers of Municipal Services” category. Based on the results of the conducted study it was found that 98% of the total increase of accounts receivable Additionally, in order to occurred due to the fact that amounts payable in accordance with the “Rules of municipal services provision to owners and users of spaces in apartment buildings improve control over the and houses” (approved by the Decree of the Government of the Russian Federation clearing of due payments no.354 dated 6 May 2011) were under-accrued. by the customers the “Plan Vodokanal cooperates with public authorities to find ways of solving this problem. of additional activities Recovery of accounts receivable through arbitration court and then through enforcement proceedings is one of the instruments to liquidate the accounts to generate income and receivable. reduce accounts receivable In 2013, 1398 lawsuits were brought into the arbitration court to collect debt with for the period of 1 August total amount of RUB 1,551.13 Mio. RUB. 2013 – 31 December 2013” was As of 30 December 2013: • the arbitration court delivered judgments at 764 lawsuits in favor of the Company developed and approved. at the amount of RUB 499.38 Mio. RUB, and RUB 149.98 Mio. RUB were paid prior The purpose of the Plan is to to the judgment; collect payments from the • 219 lawsuits were paid in full prior to the court judgment at the amount most problem customers. of RUB 241.25 Mio. RUB; From 1 August 2013 to 31 December • 53 lawsuits resulted in conclusion of amicable agreements on payment by 2013, the Company received funds installments with total amount of RUB 91.18 Mio. RUB. amounting to RUB 660.4 Mio. RUB in Also in 2013 as of 30 December 2013: follow-up of the Plan implementation. • 53 claims at total amount of RUB 19.74 Mio. RUB were sent to the respondents and In 2013, Vodokanal continued to had been paid before the lawsuits were taken to the court; publish the information about its main • the lawsuits brought in arbitration court prior to 2013 were completed, as a result nonpayers on its corporate website 143 judgments were made to collect RUB 140.64 Mio. RUB. (section “Lists of Nonpayers”). Thus, totally in 2013 (as of 30 December 2013), 907 judgments on recovery Such information is updated on of RUB 640.02 Mio. RUB were issued. a monthly basis. In 2013, 807 enforcement orders at the amount of RUB 636.7 Mio. RUB were As of 1 January 2014 Vodokanal’s received which is 35% more than in 2012 (596 enforcement orders at the amount accounts receivable amounted of RUB 374.6 Mio. RUB); the enforcement orders at the amount of RUB 972.4 Mio. RUB to RUB 5,080.83 Mio. RUB. 135 Structure of accounts receivable as of 1 January 2014 ‘000 RUB Customer group Accounts receivable Accounts receivable Difference as of 1 January 2013 as 1 January 2014 in accounts receivable Providers of services to households 2,521,232.6 3,090,358.4 569,125.8 GUP TEK (heat supplier) 168,875.6 166,784.4 – 2,091.2 TGK-1 (electricity supplier) 238,311.2 240,821.7 2,510.6 St. Petersburg budget 36,656.4 21,829.2 – 14,827.2 Federal budget 388,591.3 234,259.8 – 154,331.5 Organizations in Leningrad Region 457,769.1 595,223.9 137,454.7 Other 295,814.2 329,686.0 33,871.8 Industries 364,817.4 401,875.2 37,057.8 Total 4 ,472,067.7 5,080,838.6 608,770.9 The share of different customer categories in the structure of accounts receivable 136 Results of Activities in 2013 Connection to water distribution and sewerage networks Vodokanal issues The data on the issued authorizations for 2013 authorizations for are shown in the table: connection of new (reconstructed) facilities to municipal Increase distribution and Type of work Number of developed documents in the number sewerage networks of documents in 2013 Year 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 compared to 2012 This includes the issuance of: Issuance • specifications; of authorizations (including • connection conditions; specifications, 6,281 7,250 6,987 8,623 11,354* 12,394** 9,956*** 0% • connection contracts; connection conditions, • project validation; initial data, etc.) • certificates of conformity of built facilities to connection conditions. Consideration Customers’ applications for of design 3,045 3,169 2,950 3,456 3,794 4,120 4,211 0.03% documents authorizations were received by the The number Customer Service Centre at the address: of connection Building 5, 103 Moskovsky pr., from 9.00 agreements 123 311 314 476 424 0% a.m. till 6.00 p.m. (without lunch-break). prepared The one contact principle is used. The number Other visiting addresses for of agreements 24 181 260 374 333 0% concluded the customers are: • room 103, 7 Filtrovskoye shosse, Pushkin; The number of letters confirming conformity • room 218, 15 Saperny pereulok, Kolpino; to connection 489 466 489 363 0% • room 12, 1 Pereulok Suvorovtsev; conditions Petrodvorets. Applications for specifications can be * Including specifications — 3,261; connection conditions — 1,663; initial data — 219 submitted via the Internet. ** Including specifications — 2,761; connection conditions —1,532; initial data — 298 *** Including specifications — 3,792; connection conditions — 1,242; initial data — 229 137 Results of Activities in 2013 Time periods for issuing (by law – 30 working days); regulated by law); authorizations by Vodokanal: • connection agreement – 5 working days • certificate of conformity of built facilities • specifications – 2 working days (by law – 30 working days). to connection conditions – 5 working days (by law – 14 working days); • project approval – 10 working days (the term of issuing the certificate is not • connection conditions – 5 working days (the term of the project review is not regulated by law). The scheme of issuing authorizations for connection of facilities to municipal water and sewerage networks receiving receiving connection approval the certificate receiving conditions of project of conformity specifications and concluding documents of the built facility the connection (project validation) to connection agreement conditions 138 Call Centre Vodokanal St. Petersburg has its Hot Line to receive calls from the customers (phone: +7 (812) 305-09-09, see also “Interaction with customers” for more details) In 2004–2013, the implementation and use of the calls recording and handling system, as well as other improvements of this process, led to reduction of call duration from 12 to 2 minutes with the maximum waiting time of 2 minutes (in peak periods, when up to 200 calls per hour are received). At present, the average time of waiting for the operator’s reply is 2–20 seconds. In 2004–2013, the number of calls (general inquiries or consultations) increased from 55,659 to 120,493. The number of inquiries related to Vodokanal activities has increased over these years. It can be explained by the increase of new customers and the growing interest of the citizens in the Company operations. The number of complaints received by the Hot Line reduced from 30,146 to 26,562 in 2004–2013. The most serious complaints are those related to low cold water head and blockages in the yard sewers. In 2004, 2,673 complaints about low water head were received, and in 2013 there were only 24 legitimate complaints, i.e. the number of complaints has reduced by more than 110 times over 10 years. The number of complaints related to blockages of the yard sewers has reduced by 2.3 times in 2004–2013. 139 Customers’ satisfaction survey Vodokanal St. Petersburg annually performs opinion surveys among its customers and end-users (residents of apartment blocks) The survey-2013 results showed that the overwhelming majority of St. Petersburg citizens (85%) were satisfied with cold In 2013, Vodokanal made an opinion survey Vodokanal used two methods: telephone water quality. Compared among the citizens regarding the services polling and outdoor polling. According to 2012, citizens’ satisfaction provided by Vodokanal, i.e. end-user to the results of the surveys and on the satisfaction survey. The data were collected grounds of the opinion given by marketing with cold water quality by street interviewing of 1000 persons of all companies, it was decided that outdoor increased by 4.5%. age groups and different social status, living polling was more effective. 97% of residents were satisfied with the in different city districts. Since 2010, Vodokanal has conducted reliability of water supply (95% in 2012), The objective of such surveys is to opinion surveys in the form of outdoor and 87% – with the tap water head find out to what extent the end-users are polling. Questionnaires are developed on (86% in 2012). satisfied with the quality of services and the basis of a Likert-type scale (rating scale). The overwhelming majority (87%) social projects of Vodokanal. By analyzing Mathematical-statistical methods are used of residents were satisfied with cold the results of such surveys Vodokanal to analyze the collected data water odour. Satisfaction with tap water can identify problems, as the citizens see (e.g. scalogram analysis). color and taste were 86% and 85%, them, and improve its performance In 2012 and 2013, the sample size was respectively. in relevant areas. 1000 persons. The city residents highly appreciate The sociological survey procedure is Respondents are grouped by age, the quality of Vodokanal’s Hotline Service – improved every year. Before 2008, opinion gender, social status, district of residence, 97% of those who have ever called the polls were made by phone only. In 2009, etc. to ensure representative sampling. Hotline are satisfied with its performance. 140 Results of Activities in 2013 More than a half of city residents (66%) are satisfied with cold water tariffs (in 2012, it was 53.4%). 20% of residents were at a loss to evaluate the tariff. 81.4% of respondents could not say what tariff they paid for cold water supply. 55% of the city residents have water meters installed in their flats. The majority of those who have the meters (87%) think that they are worthwhile. The survey showed that residents have positive attitude to social projects of Vodokanal. Most of St. Petersburg residents know about The Universe operation of fountains and fountain of Water Museum Complex, this was complexes. confirmed by 69% of respondents. More than 90% of respondents are Almost all of them (99.8%) are satisfied satisfied with maintenance and service with the museum work. St. Petersburg of public toilets. Only 65% of citizens are residents also evaluate positively the satisfied with the number of public toilets. work of the Youth Environmental Centre. The survey showed that the amount Almost 90% of respondents are of the citizens, who mistakenly believed pleased with the Baltic Sea protection that Vodokanal is also responsible for hot measures taken by Vodokanal. water supply, decreased (now 39.8% Almost all respondents (98.9%) of respondents think so, in 2012 – 42%, gave positive assessment of Vodokanal in 2011 – 57%). 141 City Fountains Results of Activities in 2013 In 2013, Vodokanal of St. Petersburg operated 62 fountains and 4 fountain complexes One of the major tasks related As of 1 December 2013, 62 fountains and 4 fountain complexes were under to restoration of cultural and historical operational responsibility of Vodokanal St. Petersburg look of St. Petersburg is to rehabilitate old fountains, construct new ones and support their reliable functioning. Development of fountain facilities is an important condition for maintaining the status of St. Petersburg as cultural and historical center of Europe. Fountains are a part of an inimitable look of the capital of the Russian Empire of ХVIII–ХIХ centuries created by outstanding European craftsmen using traditions of building palaces, parks and gardens where fountains played an important role. The interest in the city fountain facilities deepened in the second half of XIX – beginning of XX centuries and in the 1930s and 1950s of XX century. At that time, there were built full-flowing fountains in Smolny Garden (1934), memorial fountain “Crown of Glory” in Moskovsky Park of Victory (1949) and a lot of typical little fountains in courtyards. These hydraulic engineering facilities amounted to over 300 units in our city. However, by the end of ХХ century, the major part of fountains was in a critical condition; fewer than 20 fountains were In 1996–2013, the city transferred 56 fountains to Vodokanal functional. In 1996, it was decided to transfer the for economic management, the most of which were in nonfountains to Vodokanal in order operable condition. to improve their condition. During that period, Vodokanal renovated 33 fountains. 144 Operational condition of the city fountains and fountain All fountains are located in most frequently visited places of the city. complexes being in the economic management of Vodokanal The fountains are unique: they are different in terms of year of construction, St. Petersburg dimensions, architecture and materials. Moreover, fountains are complex engineering facilities which require large-scale maintenance. In 2009, Vodokanal developed “The procedures for the integrated maintenance of the fountains” specifying maintenance rules and costs for each fountain. Maintenance procedures are individually tailored for each new unit taken over by Vodokanal with due regard to various factors influencing the scope of integrated maintenance (technical condition of a unit, utility networks connections, equipment availability, location, etc.). In 2013, the reconstruction of the historical fountain in Pisarev Garden (3, Pisareva street, building 1, lit.F) – cultural heritage of federal significance – was completed. The fountain built in 1885 is a part of a newly-reconstructed complex of palace buildings of the Grand Duke Alexei Alexandrovich (presently, House of Music), but it had been mostly in ruins for many decades. The project of the fountain reconstruction was developed under the targeted program of fountain facilities reconstruction in compliance with the requirements of the Committee for State Control, Use and Protection of Historical and Cultural Landmarks. “Crown of Glory” in Moskovsky Park of In the course of comprehensive design works, historical and archival surveys were Victory (188, Moskovsky pr., bld.1, lit.F); conducted. As a result of the surveys, a drawing of a vase fountain was found. • completion of the detailed design, This drawing was made by the academician of architecture Maximilian Messmacher, construction and installation works the designer of the palace of the Grand Duke Alexei Alexandrovich. In accordance for reconstruction of the fountain in with this drawing, the lost granite vase was replicated using the plaster model approved Aleksandrovsky Garden (3, Admiralteisky by the Committee for State Control, Use and Protection of Historical and Cultural pr., bld.1, lit.F); Landmarks. Up-to-date equipment to support the water recirculation system was installed • execution of construction and installation inside the authentic and renovated stone structures in accordance with a specially works for reconstruction of the fountain in designed technology. The fountain was connected to water and wastewater networks Zelenogorsk (559/1, Primorskoye shosse, and to the power grid. bld.1, lit.А); Moreover, in 2013, one more historic fountain, the drinking fountain (8, Sennaya • execution of construction and installation Square, bld.1, lit.F) was put into operation after reconstruction. This fountain had been works for capital repairs of the fountain transferred to Vodokanal in non-operable conditions. “Lighthouse” in the St. Petersburg 300th Besides, the fountain situated in Yuzhno-Primorsky Park of Victory (27, Peterhof Anniversary Park (74, Primorsky pr., lit.L); shosse, lit.K) resumed its operation after capital repair. • commencement of construction and Capital repairs of the fountains in the western and eastern lanes of the St. Petersburg installation works for reconstruction of the 300th Anniversary Park (74, Primorsky pr., lit.H, M) commenced. fountains in Rumyantsevsky Garden The reconstruction projects of the following fountains are under development: (2, Rumyantsevskaya Square, lit.H, F). • the fountains in Smolny Garden (1, Smolny Alley, bld.1, lit.F and bld.2, lit.F; 2, Smolny Moreover, detailed designs for Alley, bld.1, lit.F and bld.2, lit.F); reconstruction of the fountains at the • the fountain in Aleksandrovsky Garden (3, Admiralteysky pr., bld.1, lit.F); following addresses are planned to be • the fountains in Rumyantsevsky Garden (2, Rumyantsevskaya Square, lit.М, Н); developed: 34, Pavlovskaya str., bld.2, lit.A • the fountain “Crown of Glory” in Moskovsky Park of Victory (188, Moskovsky pr., in the town of Kolpino; 1, Komsomola str., bld.1, lit.F; bld.1,2, lit.G; 160, Fontanka emb., bld.1, • the fountain in Zelenogorsk (559/1, Primorskoye shosse, bld.1, lit.А). lit.F. Besides, capital repairs of the spherical Design works for capital repairs of the fountain “Lighthouse” in the St. Petersburg fountain in 56, Nevsky pr., bld.1, lit.F are 300th Anniversary Park (74, Primorsky pr., lit.M) are going on. planned to be performed. The capital repairs of the fountains in the western and eastern lanes of the Vodokanal will continue its cooperation St. Petersburg 300th Anniversary Park (74, Primorsky pr., lit.H, M), which started with the public institution the State Research in 2013, are planned to be completed in 2014. and Design Center of St. Petersburg Besides, the following works will be implemented in 2014: Master Plan subordinated to the Committee • completion of the detailed design, construction and installation works for reconstruction for City Planning and Architecture with of the fountains in Smolny Garden (1, Smolny Alley, bld.1, lit.F and bld.2, lit.F; 2, Smolny regard to the development of the city Alley, bld.1, lit.F and bld.2, lit.F); fountains design, light and hydrodynamic • commencement of construction and installation works for reconstruction of the fountain effects concept. 145 Public Toilets In 2013, Vodokanal St. Petersburg operated 598 public toilets There are 740 public toilets in the economic management of Vodokanal St. Petersburg, including: • 214 stationary toilets; • 140 networkable modular toilets; • 34 modular toilets with storage containers to be installed in the gardens and parks; The total number of outdoor public toilets • 20 mobile sanitary and hygienic complexes installed on vehicle chassis; in St. Petersburg in 1950-70s reached 700. • 307 mobile cabins; They were managed and operated by GUP • 25 urinal-type toilets. ”Tsentr-Servis”, the municipal authority “Spetssluzhba”, landscaping companies The following units were in operation: and housing offices. • 144 stationary toilets; In early 1990s, according to the • 68 modular toilets; inventory made by territorial district • 34 modular toilets with storage containers; authorities of St. Petersburg, there were • 307 mobile cabins; about 300 toilets on the city balance • 20 mobile sanitary and hygienic complexes (installed in buses, semitrailers sheet, a part of which had already been and Valday vehicles); let out on a long-term lease, and the • 25 urinal-type toilets. others were either devastated or falling into decay. Vodokanal St. Petersburg was assigned with the task to solve this problem. Vodokanal St. Petersburg has been operating public toilets since 2001. In December 2001, the Order of the Administration of St. Petersburg no.1492-ra “On the development of St. Petersburg public toilet network” was issued. Vodokanal St. Petersburg assumed responsibility for the maintenance of public toilets owned by the city of St. Petersburg and became responsible for contracting repair, renovation and development works. Pursuant to the Sanitary Rules of Installation and Maintenance of Public Toilets no.983–72 dated 19 June 1972 approved by the Deputy Chief Sanitary Inspector of the USSR, Vodokanal St. Petersburg issues technical specifications 148 Results of Activities in 2013 for the mandatory construction of public systems to ensure the personnel securitoilets will be reconstructed toilets in new shopping centers. Today, ty. Over 500 people are involved in operin 2014–2015. 15,676,200 Roubles almost every big shopping center has ation and maintenance of toilets. were spent under the program in 2013. free public toilets for all categories of Toilets are open from 9.00 a.m. till Vodokanal performed rehabilitation of visitors. 09.00 p.m. On public holidays toilets are one toilet, commenced construction and Since 2006, a lot of work has been open according to a special schedule. installation of 3 toilets and stared dedone to install new-generation modular Moreover, Vodokanal can extend the signing of 7 new toilets and connected to toilets next to underground stations and open hours if necessary, especially, durthe network 1 modular toilet. in the places approved by district admining public events. In accordance with the above proistrations. The toilets are equipped with During such the city festivals as the gram Vodokanal purchased modern sanitary and hygienic facilities. New Year, Christmas, Victory Day, 110 mobile toilet cabins in 2013. They are more comfortable and look Day of the City and Scarlet Sails By implementing target programs the nicer. Upon the completion of the public Vodokanal sets up mobile toilets. availability of toilet services provided by toilets development programme In total, mobile toilets were provided Vodokanal will reach the level 140 new-generation modular toilets for more than 800 events in 2013 of 6,554 persons per one toilet. will be installed by 2015. on requests of different organizations. Thanks to the advanced construction Vodokanal was the first to purchase In May 2012, the Government Decree methods and the use of new environmobile sanitary and hygienic toilet comno.502 “On target program for capital ment-resistant materials the rehabilitatplexes installed on the vehicle chassis. repairs of public toilets owned ed toilets will be in a serviceable condiWith such toilets, visitors can get services by St. Petersburg for 2013–2015” was tion for a long time. of better quality compared to mobile toiadopted. 12 stationary toilets will be For the comfort of the city residents let cabins. Currently, Vodokanal intends rehabilitated under this program. and visitors, Vodokanal closely coopto purchase improved models of such 10,708,100 Roubles were spent erates with the Committee for Press toilets. under the above-said program in 2013. and Mass Media Relations to place the The vehicle-based complexes and Vodokanal rehabilitated two toilets, cominformation about toilets location in modular toilets are useful in central dismenced construction and installation of municipal media. The information will be tricts where they help satisfy the demand 4 toilets and stared designing of 2 new updated annually when new toilets are for such services. toilets. put into operation. The outsourced specially trained perIn March 2013, the Government In 2014, Vodokanal plans to complete sonnel work in every public toilet manDecree “On St. Petersburg public toiconstruction and installation of three aged by the Company, and Vodokanal lets network development program for toilets, commence the reconstruction specialists supervise their work on 2013–2015” was adopted. In accordance of seven toilets and start the design a regular basis. The toilets have security with this development program 12 more works for two toilets. 149 Permanent snow-melting stations Construction and operation of permanent snow-melting stations is a new activity of Vodokanal In accordance with the St. Petersburg and melted there), a grit removal unit melting stations happens very quickly as Government Decree no.1334 dated (for sedimentation of suspended solids opposed to the snow dumps where stored 16 October 2007, snow shall be removed and litter), a sewage pumping station, snow melts till June which mars aesthetic from St. Petersburg roads and streets a crusher control panel and a checkpoint. look of the urban environment, and to specially equipped snow dumps. Wastewater can be pumped into the fine particles contained in snow are The snow storage capacities in snow-melting chamber by the existing polluting air. St. Petersburg are used up. In the end or newly-constructed sewage pumping Before October 2012, St. Petersburg of 2011, the city management decided stations depending on the location of the had only one permanent snow-melting to transfer from the snow disposal station. station at 43, Rizhsky prospect. By the at special dumps to snow melting at The permanent snow-melting stations time when this station was transferred permanent snow-melting stations. have big advantages over the snow to Vodokanal for economic management The snow-melting stations work on dumps: it was quite an outdated facility. the principle that the sewage heat (the • all contaminated wastewater from the Under St. Petersburg Government average temperature is 16–18°C) melts the snow-melting stations comes to WWTPs Order no.713 dated 12 July 2012 “On the snow loaded into the melting chamber; as opposed to the snow dumps where action plan for design, implementation it takes about 3 minutes to process wastewater may partly infiltrate into soil and modernization of permanent snow10 tons of snow. and produce adverse effect on water melting stations in St. Petersburg A permanent snow-melting station bodies and the environment; in 2012–2013” Vodokanal approved its consists of an underground snow-melting • they require a much smaller land area program for designing, implementation chamber with separator-crushers (snow is than snow dumps; and modernization of permanent snowunloaded from the truck into the chamber • snow disposal to the permanent snowmelting stations. 152 Results of Activities in 2013 In accordance with this Order, ten built using the soil freezing technology. separator-crushers (collection of big-sized permanent snow-melting stations were In compliance with the instruction of the industrial and domestic garbage, etc.). constructed in 2012–2013. city authorities, the snow-melting stations Moreover, each snow-melting station has Permanent snow-melting stations built were constructed within a very short time, a front-end loader to handle the dumped in 2012 are as follows: 1.5 times faster than was determined by snow and big-sized garbage. 1. 2, Oktyabrskaya emb. – the project. The automatic snow metering system 7,000 cubic meters of snow per day; In September 2013, design and is used to measure the amount of received 2. 77, Peterhofskoye shosse – survey works for the construction of the snow. The system performs the collection, 7,000 cubic meters of snow per day; permanent snow-melting station processing, storage, visualization and 3. 20, Sevastyanova str., Kolpino – in Shkipersky protok commenced. transmission of the data (tables, report 7,000 cubic meters of snow per day; Vodokanal St. Petersburg is the forms, receipts, etc.), keeps records of 4. 45, Rizhsky prospect – operator of snow-melting stations and the road traffic and the amount of snow 7,000 cubic meters of snow per day; provides snow collection and disposal brought to the snow-melting stations. 5. 83, Stachek pr. – 3,500 cubic meters services under the contract with the City In 2013, permanent snow-melting of snow per day; Landscaping Committee. stations collected and processed 6. 69, Krasnoputilovskaya str. – The operation of snow-melting 350,305.20 m3 of snow. 3,500 cubic meters of snow per day; stations is divided into the 117,637 m3 of snow (the biggest 7. 123, Volkhonskoye shosse – following periods: volume) was received by the station located 7,000 cubic meters of snow per day. • operating period; at 2, Oktyabrskaya emb., lit.A. Permanent snow-melting stations built • interseasonal maintenance period. The total amount of disposed in 2013 are as follows: During the interseasonal sediments and domestic solid waste was 8. Rybinskya str. – 5,000 cubic meters maintenance period: 21,357 m3 and 968 m3, respectively. of snow per day; • the stations are made ready for operation The interaction rules were developed 9. Mebelnaya str. – 7,000 cubic meters (15 days of the interseasonal maintenance for prompt interaction with road services. of snow per day (the station has been period); The key customer for collection and ready to receive snow since December • the stations are made ready for processing of snow at the permanent 2013; site improvement works will be interseasonal maintenance (the first 15 days snow-melting stations is the Municipal completed in 2014); of the interseasonal maintenance period). Landscaping Center. 10. Kushelevskaya road – 5,000 cubic meters The snow-melting stations work roundThe snow-melting stations of snow per day (the station has been ready the-clock throughout the operating period. proved to be functional, energyto receive snow since December 2013; Each station is served by 16 operators efficient and environment-friendly. site improvement works will be completed (4 shifts, 4 operators each) who measure and They can work round-the clock and in 2014). keep records of the incoming snow, make receive snow both from the city The specific feature of snow-melting visual inspections of the snow composition, roads and streets during snowfalls stations opened in 2013 is sewage pumping arrange access to separator-crushers and from temporary snow dumps in stations (depth – max. 35 m) which were for trucks and control the operation of dry weather. 153 154 innovations Implementation of new water and wastewater technologies Vodokanal St. Petersburg implements up-to-date technologies on a large scale to ensure provision of high-quality water and wastewater services to its customers and to minimize the environmental impact Water supply are wide-scale, regularity, transparency processing, interpretation and transmission and relative low cost. of results of satellite monitoring have been In 2013, Vodokanal St. Petersburg developed. Elaboration of together with the Institute of Limnology Integration of sub-satellite surveys 1 the scientificof the Russian Academy of Sciences helped to test the elaborated mechanism methodological elaborated the scientific-methodological of real-time interaction and transmission frameworks for satellite basis for satellite and sub-satellite of results of planktonic algae satellite monitoring of phytoplankton in the Ladoga monitoring to shipboard measurement and sub-satellite monitoring Lake and in the eastern part of the Gulf systems. Results of available data processing of phytoplankton in the of Finland and developed options show a high level correlation of highLadoga Lake and in the for establishing the satellite monitoring resolution and low-resolution satellite eastern part of the Gulf system for planktonic algae for the needs data, which proves the possibility to of Finland. Options of of Vodokanal. use satellite data for daily monitoring of establishing satellite This work was aimed at establishing planktonic algae. While developing options the system of real-time processing, for establishing real-time data processing monitoring system for interpretation and transmission of results system, high level accuracy of qualitative planktonic algae for the of satellite monitoring of planktonic algae estimation of sub-satellite (shipboard) and needs of Vodokanal. to Vodokanal St. Petersburg in the required satellite measurements (concentration At the present time, there exist various timescale. and spatial distribution of phytoplankton) methods of quantitative assessment of The results of the work are as follows: was confirmed. Thus, the real-time remote the antropogenic load on water bodies • The possibility to use the integrated data monitoring system ensures a considerable related to algae bloom in coastal areas. of shipboard and satellite measurements reduction of contact (shipboard) However, an integrated analysis of these for planktonic algae monitoring has been measurements subject to accessible weather methods is practically impossible due to confirmed; condition for satellite monitoring. the fact that the surveys were performed • Options of establishing the system The planktonic algae satellite locally and at different times, while surveys of real-time processing, interpretation monitoring system will be a part of the using various types of satellite imagery, and transmission of results of satellite water quality monitoring system for the optical and radar data do not have such monitoring of planktonic algae have been Neva River – Ladoga Lake water system drawbacks. Advantages of satellite data outlined. Relevant mechanisms of data to be implemented in 2014. 156 innovations Experimental research networks in St. Petersburg”. Use of “liquid soil” techand feasibility study In order to improve the operational relia2 bility of St. Petersburg water and wastewater 4 nology in Vodokanal of surface water treatsystems, the guidelines “Installation and St. Petersburg. ment technology. maintenance of water supply and wastewater Repair works on water and wastewaIn 2012, testing of a mobile pilot plant disposal networks” was approved in 2013. ter networks result in excavation of around based on new surface water treatment proThe document corresponds to the reg132,600 m3 of soil per year. Landfills cess was completed. The developed techulatory acts of the Russian Federation, and to store the municipal waste are overfilled. nology is a combination of natural surface to the regional norms and laws The price for excavated ground disposal water treatment processes using new tools, of St. Petersburg. is rising (depending on landfill location the new structural solutions and new materials. The document includes provisions to price is 100–250 RUB/m3). The pilot plant was tested at the Southern support installation and maintenance works; To decrease negative environmental Water Treatment Plant. provisions not included into the federal regimpact and lessen the amount of soil stored In 2013, the Company made preparaulatory acts and intended for application in at landfills, it was decided in 2013 tory work for putting a container-type St. Petersburg with due regard to natural and to use stabilized plasticity soil to refill package plant into full-scale operation. climatic characteristics. social and economic trenches after emergency repairs of water The design works for the container-type potential of the city as a subject of the Russian and wastewater networks. water treatment and bactericidal treatFederation; and provisions related to the qualStabilized plasticity soil (liquid soil) is ment plant (1,200 m3/day) were perity of municipal water supply and wastewater a self-hardening, self-leveling, rapid-drying formed. Design and detailed design docdisposal services to ensure at least (4–5 hours), removable innovative conumentation for the container-type plant a 50–100 year service life of water supply struction material which does not require were developed. Besides, preparatory and sewer networks. vibratory compaction. It is made of excavatworks for future installation of the plant The document is applicable to cold water ed soil (95%), mineral clay and low-strength were conducted at Kronstadt WTP. supply and sewer networks of St. Petersburg rapidly drying cement. The installation and commissioning of (including all associated facilities) starting from Ropy consistency of the soil makes the container-type plant, evaluation and adoutlet shutoff valves or external walls it possible to fill in hard-to-reach areas. justment of the plant operation modes will of municipal waterworks up to water metering Use of liquid soil in the course of emerbe performed in different seasons of 2014. units, building and facilities; and from inspecgency repairs enabled to: Preparation and approval tion wells up to inlet chambers of municipal 1. reduce number of ground subsidence; wastewater treatment plants excluding capital 2. reduce consumption of inert materials; 3 of the guidelines “Instalconstruction units. 3. reduce labour cost for emergency repairs lation and maintenance Compliance with the provisions thereof of the network; of water supply and ensures high quality of works and materials 4. reduce negative environmental impact during the installation and maintenance of waby lessening the amount of soil (hazardous wastewater disposal ter supply and wastewater disposal networks. waste of the 4th class) stored at the landfills. 157 The following procedure has been from cesspools and wells and its further and microbial agents developed for preparation of liquid soil transportation to disposal sites. contained in raw and to be used by St. Petersburg Vodokanal. The use of the vacuum excavator for Special vehicles deliver soil from a working emergency repairs enabled to: drinking water. site. A bucket separator separates asphalt 1. reduce the number of transportation In 2013, Vodokanal of St. Petersburg and concrete from soil. Then, soil is fed vehicles from five to two (a van for together with the Chair of Preventive to a crushing-screening unit where coarse transportation of repair teams and Medicine and Health Care of I.I. Mechnikov particles are ground for future use. a vacuum excavator); North-Western State Medical University After that, the material is fed to a mobile 2. reduce the time needed to do repair developed a model of the integrated popu(stationary) liquid soil production plant. works to 8 hours, including winter period; lation health risk assessment in view of the Special vehicles deliver prepared liquid soil 3. stop using hand labour and reduce additive effect of chemicals and microbito the working site. noise and dust levels; al agents contained in raw and drinking water. Vacuum excavator 4. reduce networks probing time and Based on the integrated risk assessused by Vodokanal prevent any damage of utilities; 5 St. Petersburg for pit 5. reduce dimensions of excavated ment model, an information system of trenches (possibility to work through drinking water quality assessment was excavation. small holes); developed by criteria of epidemiological A great number of transportation vehicles 6. increase working culture and reliability; safety, chemical safety and organoleptic are used annually during repair works. 7. improve working conditions and keep properties. The information system inIn winter, time required for emergency the sites clean. cludes the following calculation modules: and scheduled repairs increases since A vacuum excavator consists of • Integrated assessment of drinking water much time is needed to defrost soil. a tank, vacuum pump, control valves with by chemical safety parameters; During the earth works the risk pipelines, platforms and supplementary • Calculation of integrated epidemiological of damaging the underground utilities equipment. population health risk in case of using raw (electricity, gas, telephone, heating Vacuum excavators erode debris water and drinking water; systems) located close to water and sewer and ground and then pull the produced • Calculation of tap water quality index network is very high. slurry into the tank. The tank is filled up in terms of epidemiological and chemical To reduce the number of damages and by the vacuum generated by the vacuum safety parameters with regard to the addidecrease the time required for emergency pump. The vacuum trucks are emptied tive effect thereof. repairs, in 2013, it was decided to use by gravity or by air pressure from the The above approaches have been a vacuum excavator for pit excavation. vacuum pump. tested in Vodokanal St. Petersburg. Using Vacuum excavators are municipal these approaches, the integrated risk vehicles used for installation and Development of the calculations of chemical and epidemiologcleaning of municipal utilities, disposal ical safety of drinking water were made. of household and industrial waste, 6 integrated population health risk assessment The calculation results testify to the fact landscaping, posthole digging and other that St. Petersburg drinking water is safe, minor and short-term works. Moreover, method in view of the harmless and does not make negative they are used for removal of liquid waste additive effect of chemicals impact on the population health. 158 innovations Wastewater disposal Process solutions for of selected coal. This carbon type was search for new methods of odor control 1 removal of specific specially modified to remove hydrogen sulfide, methyl mercaptans and organic at wastewater sludge landfills. A number of laboratory and industrial tests of pollutants. odour. Chemicals added into the different chemicals, such as BiofoxWhile searching for technologies sorbents ensure effective removal and Oxidol, BioStreme were performed. Upon to improve the efficiency of specific accumulation of pollutants and good the pilot test results a feasibility study pollutants removal from the effluent, physical adsorption capacity. is made for each of the chemicals. tests of “Glint” coagulant were performed A period of filter good performance From June to October 2013, a pilot at the Northern WWTP during 2013. depends on the concentration of filtered test was performed to treat accumulated The objectives of the tests were to chemicals and on the working conditions wastewater sludge with AK-GR-R and analyze and evaluate sorption capacity such as temperature, humidity and MMT-BD-A chemicals and generate of activated carbon and activated toxicity. The filtration media operation the organic and mineral composition aluminosilicate adsorbent “Glint”, time as stated by the manufacture “AMIDA”. According to test results, to determine allowable filtration speed, is 2–4 years. In the course of operation there is a positive disinfecting effect, duration of the filtration cycle, cycle a positive effect was detected – the unsanitary-bacteriological and sanitarylength of aluminosilicate adsorbent “Glint” pleasant odour from a sewer manhole parasitological indicators of the treated and to compare the efficiency of each was removed. Testing is going to sludge meet the requirements of GOST sorbent to treat industrial wastewater. determine effective operation time R 17.4.3.07–2001, and odor is reduced. Works on testing sorbents are going on. of the filter. In 2014, testing of this technology will be Testing of unpleasant Implementation of continued. 2 odour removal methods. 3 methods reducing the Taking into account the successfully Vodokanal is searching for advanced implemented (2012) odour control pilot odour removal technologies. negative impact project at Severny landfill where the odor Unpleasant odour appears at different of wastewater sludge was removed by fine spraying of chemical parts of the wastewater disposal system: landfills on the environment. aqua solution, in 2013 automatic sewer networks, sewage pumping Since 2010, Vodokanal has been deodorizing units were installed along the stations, wastewater treatment plants, successfully using the Geotube perimeters of Severny and Volchonka-2 sludge landfills. technology that makes it possible to landfills. The length of the deodorizing Since April 2013, EMF filter installed treat landfilled sludge. As a result of lines is 3,800 meters at Severny landfill under a manhole cover has been tested application of this technology treated and 1,350 meters at Volchonka landfill. as one of the solutions of sewer manhole sludge makes no negative impact on the According to ОАО ”Research Institute odour removal. environment any longer and may of Atmospheric Air Protection”, automatic AddSorb® VA3 activated carbon be used for various household needs deodorizing units provide the reduction is used as filter media. It is high-activity in the future. of mercaptans up to 70%, and the landfill carbon produced by steam activation In 2013, works were carried out to odor intensity – by 40%. 159 The search for optimal Vacuum sewage system. at a high speed along the pipelines to 4 methods of runoff 5 The vacuum sewage system is an innovative technology of domestic the central vacuum station. The system ensures the maximum operational safety treatment. wastewater disposal. The outdoor with the minimum power consumption. One of the relevant challenges vacuum sewage system for a group of The main advantages of the vacuum of Vodokanal St. Petersburg is private houses and cottage estates is the sewage system: treatment of runoffs from areas having most effective. • reduction of financial costs for a separate sewage system to stop The vacuum sewage system is also used construction; discharging untreated rain and melt in areas with a high level of ground • smaller scope of excavation due to water into water bodies. As part of water occurrence, unfavorable geological narrow and shallow tranches; activities aimed to develop a runoff conditions, in areas with rocky or sandy • small pipe diameter (90–250 mm); treatment conception the search for soil, coastal and reclaimed areas, • flexibility in design and construction effective and economically-sound conservation zones and areas with high of vacuum sewage pipes; technologies is carried out. demands for environment protection. • an easy way to avoid obstacles; In the course of search for, and Mode of operation: • no need to place sewage wells along assessment of, optimal technologies Depending on the topography the sewage pipeline; of treating runoffs from rainwater wastewater is collected in a radius of • the isolated from atmosphere system collected in storm water chambers, several kilometers from the central prevents leakages and odour; peat filters were examined. From April vacuum station. Wastewater from • high automation level; to October 2013, a peat filter was every house is transported by gravity • minimum maintenance; tested at Vodokanal’s surface inlet; to the collection chamber outside the • vacuum sewage pipes and water supply samples were taken to determine the building. When the collection chamber pipes may be laid in the same trench. efficiency of treatment. In parallel, accumulates a certain volume of At present, a number of small cartridge filters were tested to treat wastewater the hydrostatic pressure settlements are planned to be sewered runoffs with the combined treatment activates the pneumatic controller that using the new technology – vacuum system that consists of nonwoven opens the pneumatic vacuum valve sewage system. synthetic fabric to clean from and the entire volume of wastewater The diagnostic system mechanical admixtures and sorbent – is discharged into the vacuum sewage modified activated carbon for fine pipelines. No power connection of the 6 for tunnel sewers influent treatment. collection chamber is needed, as all the inspection. According to the test results, pros equipment is pneumatically operated. To solve the challenge of all tunnel and cons of these treatment methods Atmospheric air is supplied through sewer inspection regardless the level were identified. The search for the vacuum valves into the system in points of wastewater in them, Vodokanal optimal runoff treatment technology located at a distance from the vacuum purchased the diagnostic floating system will be continued. station, and wastewater flow goes (DFS). 160 innovations The inspection of the tunnel sewer design and implementation of the gas/ conditions with DFS is performed by air monitoring system in the under vault moving the system, which is connected space of tunnel sewers is concluded with a conducting rope to the ground between The State Technological equipment, through the sewer. The DFS Institute and SUE “Vodokanal measurement part includes: sensors for of St. Petersburg”. ultrasonic underwater scanning; The implementation of the a TV camera with Zoom functions and monitoring system will provide rotations in different directions to continuous diagnostics at existing inspect defects of the above water part facilities, including: at different angles; recorders • determining the chemical composition of wastewater chemical composition. of gases in the under vault space of the The onboard computer correlates sewer; the inspection results with the actual • determining the pattern of air position of the pontoon bridge in the movement as well as the amount of air sewer (in the section of the sewer and in the under vault space of the tunnel along its axle). sewer; The above ground part of DFS • analysis of the deterioration processes is a truck consisting of a van with of reinforced structures and structures equipment, a crane with outboard under the influence of microbiological supports, a hook assembly and processes in the sewer shafts. a hydrosystem pump. After the commissioning of the mobile The purchase of the diagnostic diagnostics system in order to inspect floating system made it possible to get tunnel sewers and create the air/gas data on all previously uninspected sewer monitoring system the unified sections. methodology of tunnel sewer conditions Introduction of the control will be developed. 7 gas/air monitoring system in the under vault space of tunnel sewers. To determine the methods of continuous diagnostics of tunnels conditions and prevent their destruction, a contract for 161 Development of hydraulic simulation 162 An integral part of the whole water supply system modernization is the improvement of water distribution system. Hydraulic simulation is an important part of this work Hydraulic simulation instruments are used assessed impact from newly connected of the existing models Vodokanal experts to solve both operational tasks and developcustomers on the network hydraulic developed prospect models incorporating ment tasks for water supply network. modes. the forecasted water consumption for the During 2013 Vodokanal made calculaCapacities of the hydraulic simulation target time limit. tions of the scheduled service disconnecwere widely used for the development of The hydraulic calculations made it postions and switching over to other network Water and Wastewater Master Plan for sible to define indicative technical paramin order to forecast changes in water flow the period up to 2025 with the outlook to eters of construction and reconstruction and water head, determined options of 2030 adopted by St. Petersburg Governprojects, which were used for relevant pumping stations operation modes and ment in the end of 2013. On the grounds cost estimates. 163 Development of the geoinformation system Geoinformation system is designed for providing actual, reliable and comprehensive geoinformation about the Company’s facilities and city infrastructure facilities to Vodokanal subdivisions, consolidation of all types of accounting, registration of rights to property, information exchange with state authorities and information support of production processes module “Passport of the Facility”; work out and fix on-line the position of the subject from the mobile working place; develop and transmit to SYNERGEE WATER up-to-date model of engineering network. The structure of geoinformation system the network for cadastral record-keeping; • Simulation and shaping of water service includes technical means, software, and makes it possible to maintain registers disconnection areas, analyzing option for cartographic database of Vodokanal and of outlets, boosting pumping stations, optimization of such disconnections – communication channels. sewerage pumping stations, connection makes it possible to shape disconnection IS “Baltics” is a distribution graphics points, water wells and etc.; enables to areas, make lists of disconnected and information system established by submit network cleaning requests, control customers, passports of the disconnected using MapInfo MapXtreme tools. It has and confirm their execution; facilitates sites; simulate shaping of disconnection an open-architecture core and powerful making of inventories, drafting and areas and conduct automatic search for graphics engine. concluding of contracts with customers. excessive stop valves. IS “Baltics” operation is based on • WEB-access – performs standard GIS • Monitoring of the reconstruction stages 10 subsystems and their software modules operations with spatial objects, service in the Southern water supply zone – which ensure the following functions cartographic operations, makes it possible ensures required levels of control over of IS “Baltics”: to browse through records related to the reconstruction works. • Cartography – performs standard GIS technical parameters, events, engineering • Support the water network integrated operations with spatial objects, service network, Company’s assets and flow survey – ensures keeping of, and cartographic operations, operations on meters; enables to manage wastewater browsing through, the register of the technical record-keeping objects, makes network cleaning requests; solves planned water network integrated survey, it possible to manage vector and raster navigation tasks. visualizes the works completed under the data sets, defines the coverage for various • Administration – makes it possible to water network integrated survey. territorial zones. administer user accounts, lock out editing • Navigation – makes it possible • Property accounting – enables to manage of registers when several users work with to position elements of the engineering Vodokanal’s property, draw reports on such register, manage lists of users, tasks, network on the map and visualize these current and scheduled payments, update roles and news in IS “Baltics”. elements by means of double-frequency information about buildings, facilities, • Integration with external information GLONASS/GPS receivers (the accuracy in network and movable assets. systems and resources – makes it possible differential mode – equal to or more than • Technical record-keeping – updates to update information about facilities 2 m and in RTK online imaging mode – information about the status of water and addresses; primarily link the data of equal to or more than 0.20 m). wells and network sections, records accounting and technical record-keeping; Application of cutting-edge technologies changes in technical parameters of specify the place of emergency upon the for the development of the Company’s engineering network, ensures writing off, request from IS “Hot Line”; interact with IS own information system allowed to planning, repairing and preparation of “Customer Service Centre” and software resolve problems of security restrictions 166 innovations when working with cartographic data In 2013, IS “Baltics” was to introduce changes into cadastral related to the location and characteristics documents related to immovable items of engineering network at users developed in the following of Vodokanal engineering network. workstations by means of installing the directions: The register “Quality of water in certified information security software • Updating of the existing fundamental water bodies” was established to provide WIN 7 PRO no.2180 STEK RS. cartographic base. The work is carried information support during the control of Currently, IS “Baltics” cartographic under the data exchange agreement water quality in water bodies, to introduce database contains over 150 cartographic among the Committee for Informatization the data about water quality control points layers including: and Communication, Committee for Urban and results of water quality monitoring • present cadastral plan of the Development and Architecture, as well as to draw standard reports for the St. Petersburg Committee for Land GU “Investment Management” given period of time. Resources and Land Management; and St. Petersburg Committee for Land The module for informational • data of St. Petersburg urban-planning Resources and Land Management. support of the electrochemical corrosion information system from the Committee • Development of the package protection of steel pipelines was for Urban Development and Architecture; of interrelated information-computing developed and set into operation in order • information about investment tasks and models. to introduce (edit, remove) cartographic projects received from GU “Investment The Company experts developed the data related to the electrochemical Management”; module for planning and monitoring corrosion protection into e-map layers • the digital 1:10000 map of St. Petersburg of emergency and capital repairs in including technical characteristics of each dated 2005; sewerage network, drawing (planning) electrochemical corrosion element. The • raster tablets (1:500, 1:2000); of repair requests and running of repair register was established with regard to • orthophotomaps of St. Petersburg reports, visualization of the network electrochemical corrosion protection units, territory produced on the basis of the elements on the map. steel pipeline defects and results of steel aerial survey conducted in April – May Vodokanal set into operation the pipeline technical surveys. 2011 (resolution – 18 centimeters); subsystem for technical record-keeping The following functions were improved • digital surface map of St. Petersburg, of movable assets of the Company, which under the support contract: where all types of surface (grass plot, is supplemented with the technical data • recording of changes related to bushes, asphalt, tile and etc.) are from Everest Managements System, engineering network, maintaining registers presented in the form of areal objects established recording function for of synchronized asset identification (1:2000); multi-piece and single-piece equipment, numbers and preparation of the network • digital map of the Leningrad Region introduced data uploading function. for cadastral record-keeping; within a radius of 30 km from The Company developed and • monitoring of works related to pipeline St. Petersburg as well as the map of the commissioned the module for the blockages and accumulation of statistic town of Luga; preparation of engineering network data on pipeline blockages; • thematic information about engineering to cadastral record-keeping, making • monitoring of emergency and capital networks, land plots, buildings and lists of facilities under agreements with repairs of sewerage system, shaping facilities of the Company. contracting organizations which intend emergency and capital repair plans. 167 Energy-saving and energy efficiency projects Vodokanal St. Petersburg is one of the biggest energy consumers in St. Petersburg. In 2013, energy consumption of the Company accounted for 722.1 mio. kW/h The Company gives full attention to stations in the Southern water supply zone and no.7 in the town of Kolpino. At these activities ensuring energy savings and of St. Petersburg and use of alternative pumping stations Vodokanal replaced enhancing energy efficiency. energy sources (heat and electric energy pumping units and installed the process In 2013, electric energy consumption produced by sludge incineration). In 2013, control system. The Company started was reduced by 9.2 mio. kW/h as Vodokanal produced 3 mio. kW/h of its reconstruction of two biggest third-lift compared to the previous year. This result own electric energy. water pumping stations: Murinskaya PS was achieved among other things due In 2013, the reconstruction of the and Kushelevskaya PS. The works are to the implementation of water supply following sewerage pumping station scheduled for completion in 2015. management system, installation of was completed: Nizhnyaya doroga PS, Since 2012, Vodokanal has energy efficient equipment at the pumping Dunayskaya PS, pumping stations no.3 implemented and certified the energy 168 management system (EnMS) under services and take prompt management for conformity with ISO 50001:2011 ISO 50001:2011 “Energy Management decisions aimed at the increase of energy requirements. Systems. Requirements with Guidance efficiency of Vodokanal’s operations. In 2013, Vodokanal experts took for Use”. In October 2013, the energy part in conferences, seminars and panel Existing energy management system management system of Vodokanal discussions related to energy efficiency of the Company provides an opportunity St. Petersburg successfully passed the and energy management. In October 2013, to arrange efficient control over rational audit by the international certification some experts of the Company participated use of energy resources required for company SAI GLOBAL and the certification in UNIDO seminar – Energy Management the provision of water and wastewater association the Russian Register System. 169 Patents Main principles of Vodokanal intellectual exclusive rights to the intellectual installed in a well (utility model), blocking property policy are to: property; lock for water standpipe (utility model), • provide timely legal protection of • plan and manage design works and/or system for determination of reliability intellectual property (including technical development of services. and uninterrupted operation values for solutions as inventions and useful models, In 2013, Vodokanal prepared applicawater and sewerage network (invention), architectural-design solutions as industrial tion materials and lodged applications backwash water sludge utilization system models) in compliance with the intellectual to obtain patents for 14 inventions (invention), precoat filter (invention), property law; and utility models including adjustable sludge scraper movement controller • prevent the violation of the Company’s mounting for water standpipe to be (invention), etc. 170 The Company conducted patent variations at ground freezing and thawing. treatment by means of membrane researches under 20 topics. Vodokanal also implemented the bioreactor to produce process water and The Company got permissions following activities: developed the evaluation tests programme to implement four utility models. • made pilot model of flush water to be implemented at the Northern WWTP. In 2013, Vodokanal developed and regeneration by means of membrane Vodokanal started industrial use put to evaluation tests the pilot model bioreactor at water treatment plants and of technical solution related to water of the fire hydrant protection device developed the evaluation tests programme standpipes. 110 water standpipes with (temperature compensator) designed to be implemented at the Southern WTP; blocking locks were manufactured for trial for the compensation of temperature • made pilot model of wastewater operation. 171 Development of information infrastructure Information infrastructure of Vodokanal is an integral part of production, financial and economic operations of the Company In 2013, the following activities were • Vodokanal together with the relevant communication services and optimize implemented within the development committee of the city implements the costs. of the Company’s information pilot project for the installation of fiber • Within the development of automation infrastructure: optic lines in the sewerage system of aids and systems Vodokanal conducted • To develop communication systems the Company by means of microtubule large preparatory work related to Vodokanal tested and introduced into technology. harmonization of automation aids and operation high-speed broadband wireless • Vodokanal launches a large-scale work systems, developed uniform technical access which enabled to expand the on switching over to digital phone service solutions for automation of the metering corporate network and ensure the required (IP-telephony), which serves to increase process, completed integration and throughput when there is no possibility to operational mobility of the Company’s visualization of process data from provide wire communications. employees, enhance the reliability of 10 production facilities of the Company. 172 • To develop information infrastructure At the same time, in 2013, Vodokanal ISMS in structural subdivisions and fully the Company implemented a number introduced technical solutions for the completed the internal audit programme. of projects with regard to automation protection of information to ensure the Vodokanal developed and started of production operations. For instance, required protection level for the Company’s the implementation of the action Vodokanal developed and implemented information assets. plan (managerial and technical the automated system for metrological For the further development of the measures) that made it possible to assurance of production operations, made Information Security Management System pass the recertification audit and some improvements in the integrated (ISMS) (introduced in 2012) under the prove the conformity of Vodokanal’s record-keeping and accounting system and International Standard ISO/IEC 27001:2005, Information Security Management started the work to optimize the Company’s Vodokanal organized training of 37 manaSystem (ISMS) with the International document flow. gers of the Company responsible for Standard ISO/IEC 27001:2005. 173 Social responsibility Awareness-building Undertaking its mission, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” puts special emphasis on developing careful and responsible attitude towards the environment in general and water resources in particular The recent years’ stable trend towards cooperates with the mass media and uses pages in social networks. reduction of water consumption is, the potential of different Internet-resources. The key instruments of the company’s in particular, the result of Vodokanal’s In 2010, the Internet-portal www.da-voda.com awareness-building activities are the Youth awareness-building efforts. targeted for the active part of Internet Environmental Centre (YEC) and “The For the purpose of disseminating community was launched with the support Universe of Water” museum complex – the culture of water use and developing of Vodokanal. The principal character of both being part of the Information and environmental thinking Vodokanal widely the Portal – the Neva Crayfish – has its own Training Center. 176 Social responsibility Youth Environmental Centre In 2013, 28 environmental projects and programmes • for 1–5 year school students and college students: “Water Quality Test Lab”, “The Sea were implemented at the Youth Environmental Nearby”, “Secrets of the Baltic”, “The City By Centre, including 20 citywide, 5 international and the Sea”. 3 regional ones, where 35,815 people were involved In 2013, YEC specialists developed and offered to visitors new training activities and programmes: “Water Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow” in the museum rooms; and The Youth Environmental Centre (YEC) YEC is an advanced interactive centre “Water – a Global Resource”, “Baltic Expert”, is located in the former machine house offering interactive classes for pre”Water, Environment and Myself” in YEC of Main WTP (built in 1858). It has been schoolers, schoolchildren, college students interactive halls. working since 2002. and families; it implements environmental Since then, over 320,000 people have projects, provides informational and One of the most important participated in YEC programmes, and over methodological support to school and YEC activities in 2013 was 50 big (also international) projects have college teachers and organizes festival implementation of projects. been implemented. thematic events. Projects are implemented the whole In 2010–2011, YEC was reconstructed. YEC is an active participant of regional year round according to the content and At present, several interactive halls are open and international programmes and action plan of each project with the aim in the Centre building: projects. to promote sustainable use of natural • Hall of First Discoveries; Every day, YEC offers interactive resources and improve environmental • The Baltic Sea Hall; programmes for children and young people literacy among children, teenagers and • 3D cinema hall; of different age groups by request of families. In 2013, project teams were built • Media-hall; educational institutions: by requests of educational institutions. • Technical hall of the former machine • for 5–7 year old children: “Droplet’s They were trained at YEC workshops and house. Journey”, “Sea Adventures on Your Birthday”; then performed independent activities, The main task of the Centre is to help • for 1–5 year school students: “Water on made studies or creative works. In the final the younger generation realize the value of Earth”, “Water in Everyday Life”, “Mysteries project phase, the participants presented water, to raise the culture of water use in of Nature”, “Big, Little Sea”, ”Sea Adventures their results and got recognition of their our city, and to teach children simple skills on Your Birthday”; achievements. The young share knowledge of using this resource sparingly. Children • for 6–10 year school students: received under the projects with their transfer the knowledge and experience “The Sea Nearby”, “Secrets of the Baltic”, families and schoolmates and use they got to their families and schools. “The City By the Sea”; it in their everyday life. 177 Key projects implemented by YEC in 2013: in partnership with the General Consulate • presentation of Vodokanal’s awareness• “Water Olympiad” – project for preof Great Britain; building activities and implementation schoolers and primary school dedicated • Russian-German project “ECOvision” of interactive programme in the to the Environmental Protection Year; in partnership with the General Consulate ECOcinema in the framework of VI Neva • “Water +” – project for secondary school of Germany. Environmental Congress; dedicated to 155th anniversary Moreover, YEC participated in regional • programme of events for the of Vodokanal; and international programmes in 2013: International Earth Day; • “ECOgames” project for secondary school • competition “Fundamentals of Safe • co-organizer of VI All-Russian Scientific dedicated to The Earth Day; Water Use” in the framework of the AllEnvironmental Conference “Water – • “ECOsummer” project for participants Russian School Olympiad in Life Safety, Source of Life on Earth”; of summer camping programmes; the city round; • co-organizer of children programme • New Year event “New Year in the • conference for teachers–YEC partners, at the International Environmental Film Old Tower”. with representatives of the Ministry Festival “Green Vision”; International projects 2013: of Environment of Hamburg; • participation in the environmental • Russian-Finnish project “Training of the • UN Model International Youth festival and research-to-practice Young Through the International Advanced Conference; conference “Krasnoselskaya Rainbow”; Water Technologies Centre”; • interactive programme “Water, • co-organizer and participant of the in cooperation with Lahti, Finland. Environment and Myself” for participants city festival ”EcoOkhta”, implementation • Russian-British project “Green is great: of the festival “Europe Days” of interactive programme ”Learn from freshening up ideas for water use” in St. Petersburg; Nature”. Attendance of the Youth Environmental Centre in 2013 Readiness to save water among the participants of programmes and projects (%) 178 Social responsibility The achievements of Vodokanal’s Youth Environmental Centre are recognized both in Russia and in foreign countries. In 2004, YEC was awarded the National Environmental Prize of V.I. Vernadskiy Foundation for its contribution to the strengthening of environmental safety and sustainable development. In 2007, YEC was awarded the Certificate of the European Environmental Agency for teaching young people how to conserve the environment and the Baltic Sea. In November 2013, at the official closing of the Environmental Year in the State Kremlin Palace and at the “Russian Ecology” tele-marathon final held at RIA Novosty news agency, Vodokanal’s Youth Environmental Centre was declared the winner of the Environmental Year First National Prize in the nomination “Eco-Leader of the Year 2013”. The diploma states that YEC activities are highly commended “for persistent dissemination of environmental values and sharing best practices in the field of environment-friendly technologies and healthy life style”. In 2013, the YEC activities were made known to the Minister of Natural Resources and Environment of the Russian Federation Sergey Ye. Donskoy, the Danish Minister of Environment Ida Auken, representatives of the Russian President’s Office, participants of 36th General Assembly of the International Organization for Standardization and others. In 2013, interactive workshops on “modern environmental education and education for sustainable development” were organized for teachers of educational institutions. The workshops aimed to disseminate effective education methods and make the teachers more competent in selection of relevant topics for environmental lessons. Twenty thematic workshops were delivered in 2013; in total, 722 people attended them. According to the public opinion poll regarding the St. Petersburg citizens’ opinion about the services provided by Vodokanal, overall satisfaction with the work of YEC was 100% in 2013. 179 Museum complex Around 190,000 people visited the Universe of Water museum complex in 2013. The total attendance of the museum complex and the Youth Environmental Center was 225,500 people • Multimedia exhibition “The Universe designed for visitors of different age groups of Water” (in the former underground clean including very little children. Besides, The Universe of Water museum complex in water reservoir). It is a unique storage of visitors can use the novel sensor tables 56 Shpalernaya str. is an open social project modern water knowledge. The exhibition and take a look at the programs designed of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg“. is based on multimedia technologies, specially for the exhibition: “100 interesting The museum complex not only offers the full stereo effects and textual explanations. facts about water” and “Interactive Map picture of the man’s views of water and its Over thirty video-films disclosing various of St. Petersburg”. New models describing properties, but also shows the history aspects of the water element are physical properties of water were added to of St. Petersburg, the city where water demonstrated there. the exhibition. One more exhibit, a stateis a city-forming essence and the source In 2013, the museum celebrated its of-the-art fire hydrant, was put on display. of scientific, engineering and cultural 10th anniversary: the first two exhibitions The reconstruction of the exhibition achievements rather than just something that in the Water Tower were opened in 2003. helped diversify excursions and develop is used for household or industrial needs. The Universe of Water exhibition started new interactive programmes for The Universe of Water museum its work in 2008. Over the five years, it had children and families. complex comprises three exhibitions: received over 500,000 visitors. • Classical museum exhibition “The Water The exhibition located in the former World of St. Petersburg” (in the former clean water reservoir had been Water Tower). The exhibits – documents, modernized by Vodokanal’s 155th birthday. pictures, objects, collections of sanitary The modernization extended the array equipment and hatches – show the history of multimedia technologies used, and of water supply and sewerage origination enhanced capabilities for interaction and development. between visitors and exhibits (knowledge • Multimedia exhibition “The Underground can be obtained in different ways now: by World of St. Petersburg” (in the left annex looking, listening or acting). Some films and to the Water Tower). Visitors can trace the installations were adapted for children. route of water from the intake to treatment Moreover, new interactive facilities plants, then to the flats via distribution were added to the exhibition, such as networks and back to wastewater treatment new video-installations illustrating the plants. Here, they can also look at a model topics “The Origin of Life on Earth”, “Water of the historical center of St. Petersburg. Resources on the Planet”, “Special The model was produced by the Institute Chemical Properties of Water” and “Water of Architecture to Vodokanal’s order. Cycle in Nature”. The installations are 180 Social responsibility Visitors of the museum complex (number of persons) In 2013, the museum complex and YEC received 225,515 people. According to the public opinion poll regarding the St. Petersburg citizens’ opinion about the services provided by Vodokanal, overall satisfaction with the work of the museum complex was 99.8% in 2013. 181 Museum complex “The Universe of The museum staff Water” is a permanent participant of the continued to work international event “Museums at Night”. with the participants after This event helps impart water information the closure of the event: and ideas to many people who are not a thematic interactive programme regular museum goers. “Family Swim” was organized for the potential For the international event “Museums authors of the most interesting works, tourists about its at Night 2013” the experts of the museum and museum souvenirs were handed out. exhibitions. complex and the Youth Environmental In March 2013, The Universe of In late summer and early autumn, Center developed a special itinerary Water participated in the 20th Moscow both the museum complex and YEC took allowing to visit all three exhibitions International Travel & Tourism Exhibition part in the city’s thematic environmental of the museum complex and the Youth (MITT) 2013 held in Expocenter exhibition projects “EcoOkhta” and “Planet of Friends” Environmental Center with the same complex in Moscow. MITT is Russia’s organized in association with the museum ticket. largest international travel exhibition St. Petersburg Krasnogvardeyskiy District As many as 7,953 people visited in the in the top five of the world’s leading Administration. Museums at Night event at the Universe travel exhibitions. MITT organizers highly Environmental awareness-raising of Water museum complex. appreciated the contribution of the programmes “Meetings at the Water Well” A special concert program dedicated Universe of Water museum complex giving and “Learn from Nature” were organized to the 10th anniversary of the Water it a prize in the nomination “Vivid debut”. for the project guests. Museum was presented in the framework As a MITT participant, the Universe of 1,200 people were involved in the of the Museums at Night event. During the Water museum complex could present special-purpose programmes. program, adults and children could leave itself at the Russian tourist market, find During the autumn school vacation, their greetings and wishes to the museum. new partners for cooperation and tell 1–7 November, the museum complex 182 In 2013, temporary thematic exhibitions • Mihail Chemiakin’s exhibition “World were organized at the museum complex: Concealed in Waterdrops”. The exhibition • Exhibition of miniature art works “New featured 49 original works by the artist participated Atlantis”, in cooperation with the created in mixed media painting technique as usual in the St. Petersburg Puppeteer Association. (ink, pencil, watercolours), 16 giclees and City Festival of children • Solo exhibition of Tatiana Gavrilenko’s 8 original china plates painted according museum programmes “Children Days works “Portrait. Valaam” The exhibition to Chemiakin’s sketches at the Imperial in St. Petersburg Museums”. features 28 portraits of well-known Porcelain Factory. The Festival participants were offered clergymen of the Russian Orthodox Church • Exhibition of drawings made by students excursions to the historical exhibition of including the brethren of stavropegial of St. Petersburg children’s art schools and the Universe of Water museum complex: Valaam Monastery of Transfiguration non-formal education institutions “Water! • “IMHO: in my humble opinion” – of the Savior. Wow!”. The exhibition was organized for 13–15 year old children; • XI Corporate Exhibition of creative works in association with the St. Petersburg • “Visiting the Wash’em Clean” – by Vodokanal employees “Our Arts – Union of Designers and the Foundation for 7–10 year old children. for You, Vodokanal!” The exhibition “Petersburg Heritage and Perspective”. In the opinion of the children-Festival featured different works of art: In late December 2013, 56 experts, the museum complex ranked first paintings (oil, watercolours), graphics, environmental awareness-building among the “bilberry itinerary” museums sculptures, photos, applied art (wood interactive programmes “New-Year (Anna Akhmatova Museum in the Fountain carving, embroidery, knitting, floristics, Adventures in the Gulf of Finland” were House and the Memorial Museum of A.V. bead weaving; quilling, scrapbooking, conducted for the children of Vodokanal Suvorov). decoupage, string art); and literary works. employees and the city schoolchildren. 18,650 people participated in the There were 60 exponents who presented 6,583 people participated in the newspecial Festival programme. over 250 works. year programmes 2013. 183 Da-Voda website In 2013, Vodokanal’s social project Da-Voda website dedicated to careful attitude to water (da-voda.com) was developing. The website was launched with the support of 2PR agency in 2010. It works to draw the attention of active Internet users to water-related problems The main character of the website is the Neva Crayfish, a personage which has much posted on the website in 2013, the Neva to do with Vodokanal operations. Today, many people know that crayfish from the River Crayfish discussed why the population Neva work at all Vodokanal’s water intakes. They monitor the quality of water taken out of ringed seals in the Russian part of the of the Neva. The crayfish are a sort of Vodokanal’s business card. Gulf of Finland numbers not more than Through the Neva Crayfish, the portal Da-Voda explains and demonstrates why two hundred animals many well-known people do not waste water; what technical means are available “Video-lesson” is a popular section to save water without impairing comfort; how one can solve domestic water-related of the website where the Neva Crayfish problems; and what threats could arise from negligent attitude to water. acts as a “teacher”. In total, there were The Neva Crayfish has its pages in the social networks: Facebook, VKontakte, and over 62,000 visits to the site section Twitter. The Crayfish communicates with his friends in Russian and English. In the end to view short animated pictures about of 2013, the Neva Crayfish’s friends numbered 11,000 people. careful attitude to water. It should be In 2013, the new section “Environmental Protection Year” was added to Da-Voda mentioned that visitors of the website site. Animated graphics was used for visual presentation of information. The materials and its accounts in social networks were split into several categories: “Project of the Year”, “Project of the Month”, “Figure were more interested in global issues: of the Month”, “Event of the Month”, “Quotation of the Month”, and “Challenge of the where snow is disposed to, how to use Month”. For example, “Event of March” was XIV International Environmental Forum water meters, and what the city does “The Baltic Sea Day” held in St. Petersburg on 20-22 March, and “Project of March” was to preserve biodiversity and healthy the opening of Water Olympiad at Vodokanal’s Youth Environmental Centre. environment for the citizens. In October, the Northern Tunnel Collector Construction Project was declared “the Project This year, the website gave a detailed of the Year”, and “the Figure of the Month” was 98.4% – the percentage of wastewater report on the progress of the new project treatment achieved due to the NTC Project completion. In December, “the Quotation “Help the Pinnipeds”. The project initiated of the Month” were the words of the Russian President Vladimir Putin about the need to by 2PR agency helped save two grey seal restore the ecosystems of fresh water bodies in the North-West Russia, pronounced at pups and three Ladoga ringed seal pups. the meeting of the Security Council in Kremlin where the results of the Environmental The pinnipedian rehabilitation centre Protection Year were summarized: “Degradation of water quality in Lakes Ladoga and had been opened at one of Vodokanal’s Onega can lead to problems in drinking water supply to the whole North-West Region. treatment plants where the animals were This issue should be addressed immediately both at the federal and regional levels.” nursed back to health in March – The website character, the Neva Crayfish, told why the Environmental Protection July 2013. The seals were cured and Year was needed at a special video-lesson. In another video-lesson “Don’t Ruin Seals!” released to their natural habitat. 184 Social responsibility In general, the structure of the portal Da-Voda includes several sections. One of the sections “Gadgets” contains information about different devices that can reduce water consumption (without impairing your comfort) and evaluates their pros and cons. The Portal visitors can find out how much water can be saved by using infrared sensor mixing faucets; why spray nozzles should be used; learn about “training showers” and “cost-saving showers”, about water cycles equipped with environment-friendly water engines, etc. In 2013, the section “Thirst for Networking” featured interviews with the internationallevel stars: the writer and journalist Zakhar Prilepin, Tarja Halonen (The President of Finland in 2000–2012), executive director of Pacific Marine Mammal Center in California Keith Matassa, environmentalist and Environmental Oscar awardee Evgeniy Simonov who is engaged in the saving of water bodies, composer Grogoriy Gladkov; academician Igor Spasskiy, Petersburg actress Ekaterina Gorina, world-renowned architect and author of the bestseller “Cities for People” Jan Gehl, Polish filmmaker and philosopher Krzysztof Zanussi, and a well-known designer and blogger Artemiy Lebedev. In 2013, the section “Inquiry” also addressed the issues raised under the “Help the Pinnipeds” project. Multiple topics for the city teenagers to discuss contained questions, such as “How shall we save ringed and grey seals in the Baltic Sea?” and “Who should pay for the saving of Red Book animals?” In 2013, the website was presented at the international conference Sheikh Khalifa Excellence Award in Abu-Dhabi, the United Arab Emirates. In 2012, Vodokanal’s Da-Voda project won the best practice competition in creative use of social media organized by the European Foundation for Quality Management (EFQM). The competition was organized under the EFQM programme of recognizing the leading organizations and sharing best practices. In 2010, the Internet portal Da-Voda won the Runet Award in the nomination “Health and Recreation”, and in December 2011, it was announced the winner of the international contest in the field of public relations PROBA-IPRA Golden World Awards-2011 in the nomination “Best Social PR Project”. 185 Rehabilitation of marine mammals In the Gulf of Finland Year 2013, the Pinnipedian Rehabilitation Centre was opened at the premises of Vodokanal St. Petersburg under the “Help the Pinnipeds” project the first in Russia to develop an aid methodology used to help rare species of marine mammals, and to acquire practical experience in rehabilitation of endangered pinnipeds. Until recently, the lack of permanent base for rehabilitation activities has been the key problem. The endangered animals were taken to diverse places for rehabilitation: mountain-skiing Two pinniped species, grey seal and ringed of humans. The population of ringed lodge, forest guard’s cordon, summer seal, live in the Gulf of Finland and Lake seal is reducing catastrophically. cottages, the Zoo, and to the Gulf of Ladoga. Both species are entered into the In early XX century, the local seal Finland coast for lack of anything better. Red Book of the Russian Federation. In late population in the Gulf of Finland The Pinnipedian Rehabilitation Centre winter and early spring, females of marine numbered 50,000–70,000 animals, in 1982 – in Repino has been working from March mammals bring forth and then nurture 3,500–4,000, and in 2005 – not more than to July 2013. Several functional modules their pups on the ice. Over the recent 200 individuals. It can be attributed to the were set up at the treatment plant site: years, more and more pups have been ever-growing anthropogenic burden on warming unit – for initial inspection and prematurely detached from their mothers the habitat of ringed seals and the fact hospitalization of animals with impaired because of warm winters, quick melting that no effort is made to preserve them. thermoregulation. The animal care ground of ice, more dense sea traffic and roundThe specialists of the Marine Mammal has isolation wards and an adaptation the-year ice channeling of ships. Many seal Rehabilitation Centre of Leningrad Region pond. Moreover, there is a room for food pups perish or fall into the hands (V. Alexeyev and E. Andrievskaya) were preparation and storage on site. Open-air 186 Social responsibility ponds are constructed for the animals Three press tours to the rehabilitation the presentations made by the company ready for discharge. station in Repino were organized for the specialists at different conferences and In March–July, the centre helped mass media. The journalists could see seminars, in particular, during the two Baltic grey seals and three Ladoga how animals were tube-fed, how they St. Petersburg Days in Helsinki and Turku ringed seals. The animals were cured and were taught to feed on their own, catch and at the briefing presentation “Hour of released to their natural habitat. fish, prey and swim. The Centre specialists Russia. Investments of the Russian business In parallel, a wide awareness campaign gave comments and answered multiple in sustainable development” (held on was run to make the public familiar with questions about the habits and condition 18 September in the headquarters of the the problems of marine mammals and the of animals, etc. Permanent Delegation of the Russian condition of their habitat, the Baltic Sea Three more press tours were dedicated Federation to UN (New York, USA) in the and Lake Ladoga. The campaign continued to the release of animals to their natural framework of the UN Global Compact after all animals had been released. habitat. There were three “leaving events” Leaders Summit)). The participants of Instructions on what people should do in total: two in the Valaam Archipelago and conferences and seminars, including VI when they find any endangered seal pups one – in Kurgalskiy wildlife reserve. Neva Environmental Congress (May 2013) were disseminated through the mass media. All in all, over 200 publications and and the Conference “Vodokanal: Innovative The Hotline phone (+7 812 699-23-99) spots about the pinnipedian rehabilitation Path of Development” (October 2013) got received calls round-the-clock. centre were issued. information about the project. Having got a message from any citizen, The Centre activities and the condition A master-class dedicated to the project the Centre specialists started off to the of its fosterlings were presented in detail was given for the participants of the place where the animal had been found, on the Da-Voda website (www.da-voda.com) international students’ competition “Mass administered first aid and brought it to dedicated to careful attitude to water, on Media Perspective 2013” (November 2013). Repino. From late March to 17 July, they the pinnipedian rehabilitation centre pages Many company employees were have delivered medical care to animals in VKontakte network, and in the accounts involved in the project: the internal using their own unique methodology. of the Neva Crayfish, the character of Dacompany portal Vodokanal-Info organized The project was widely disseminated Voda website, in VKontakte and Facebook. collection of diapers and bedsheets for the in the mass media. Press releases The booklet “Help the Pinnipedian” Rehabilitation Centre; three videos about commenting on each event under the (in Russian and English) and the videofilm the project and a photo gallery were posted project (the opening of the Rehabilitation “We return seals to the Baltic” (in Russian on Vodokanal-TV page. Centre, arrival of new “patients”, and English) were issued under the project. The awareness campaign continued giving names to the pups, release The videofilm was shown at Vodokanal’s after the last animal was released, up to to natural habitat) were posted on exhibition stand during the Neva the end of 2013. The project results 2013 Vodokanal website (www.vodokanal.spb.ru) International Environmental Congress were summarized, and preparations to the and mailed to the mass media. (St. Petersburg, May 2013). The information next project phase in 2014 were made in All in all, 8 press releases were issued on Vodokanal’s marine mammal consideration of the fact that 2014 had been under the project. rehabilitation project was included in announced the Gulf of Finland Year. 187 near the Kantemirovskiy Bridge caught sight of a ringed seal on an ice floe floating down the Neva. The specialists had to figure out the animal’s route and, by the morning of 4 May, the ringed seal was caught on the shore near the motor boat stand in the vicinity of the 300th in the night of 11 April. Anniversary of St. Petersburg Park. The pups were The male ringed seal was about of different sex but three months old. Mekkerike IV was of approximately the same age: quite emaciated, and the rehabilitation about 1.5 months old. Their weight theurapists made a very guarded was one-fourth of normal: each weighed prognosis regarding its fate. The pup’s 10kg instead of standard 40kg. Besides, weight was 5.7kg only. Such body mass the female had a severe dislocation of its would be normal for a newborn seal but front left flapper. The flapper was fitted not for a youngster. Moreover, it had and some time later the animal could lean a temperature and an injury of the lower on it. The female pup later called Hally was jaw: the seal could not move it and, Patients of the Pinnipedian Rehabilitation found by the crew of the tug boat Sadko therefore, could not feed on its own. Station: in the Luga Bay. It has fully recovered by the end of Ringed seal Mekkerike III The sailors caught sight of the pup lying on the rehabilitation period. The seal, one The first ward, a ringed seal pup, was the ice, picked it up and got in touch with of the last “leavers”, was released into found on the ice of Lake Ladoga on specialists. Lake Ladoga on Holy Island in the Valaam 29 March. The pup was in a poor A male grey seal (Visty) reached Achipelago on 17 July. condition: starved, leukoma of one eye, a local community having crept away from Ringed seal Mekkerike V wounds inflicted by the crows. waterfront over a distance of nearly one Mekkerike V was found on 29 May on Mekkerike III stayed at the Pinnipedian kilometer. It was found by Dmitriy Titov, a little shoal between Finlandskiy railway Rehabilitation Centre for two months and dweller of Vistino settlement. bridge and the Alexander Nevskiy Bridge. recovered completely having put on over After a successful rehabilitation course Mekkerike V was the most complex 10kg of weight. On the day of discharge, the two Baltic grey seals were released in patient of all. In addition to weight deficit, it weighed 20.5kg. On 30 May it was Kurgalskiy wildlife reserve on 13 June. he had a severe bruise on its face and released into Lake Ladoga near Holy Island At the time of discharge, Hally’s weight was problems with pancreas. in the Valaam Achipelago. around 41kg and Visty’s – almost 45kg. The animal has also fully recovered. Grey seals Hally and Visty Ringed seal Mekkerike IV It was released into Lake Ladoga on Holy Two seal pups were brought to the Centre On 2 May, 4.00 a.m., the people strolling Island in the Valaam Achipelago on 17 July. 188 Social responsibility The “Help the Pinnipeds” project implemented jointly by Vodokanal St. Petersburg and 2 PR Agency was announced the winner in the nomination “Best Social PR Project” by the jury of the international award PROBA-IPRA GWA 2013 Environment protection St. Petersburg is the largest city of the Baltic Sea Region. The city and, consequently, Vodokanal bear particular responsibility for the Baltic Sea condition Protection of the environment and the The company implemented and certified tation in Vodokanal. The policy comprises Baltic Sea, sustainable use of natural its environmental management system an extended list of the company’s enviresources and responsibility to future in accordance with ISO14001 in order to ronmental commitments. New commitgenerations for the results of the comachieve effective implementation of the ments were developed in addition to the pany activities are the key priorities environmental concept. conventional ones (prevent pollution of of Vodokanal and constitute one During 2013, Vodokanal continued regional water bodies with wastewater, of the company’s strategic targets. consistent development of its environimplement reliable and effective methods Vodokanal’s environmental concept mental management system as an essenof wastewater disinfection, reduce pois based on the understanding of its tial part of the company management. In table water losses during treatment and role in creating a positive environmen2013, the new Environmental Policy of the transportation, etc.), including: reduction tal situation throughout the Baltic Sea company was developed and approved, of thermal and electric energy consumpRegion. Vodokanal performs its envias the 2008 policy commitments had tion by optimizing the processes, use ronmental activities, particularly, in the been fulfiled to a large extent. of vehicles with environment-friendly framework of the International It is remarkable that the new version engines, development and implementaConvention of the Baltic Marine Enviof environmental policy was developed in tion of educational and awareness-raising ronment Protection Commission the year of 10th anniversary of environprogrammes in the field of ecology and (HELCOM). mental management system implemensustainable use of resources. 192 Social responsibility Reduction of impact on water bodies in 2013 The following was done to improve wastewater treatment processes at WWTPs: • reconstruction of Northern Wastewater The impact on water bodies is mitigated in two ways: Treatment Plant with implementation • closure of untreated wastewater discharges; of the UCT technology by SWECO (Sweden) • construction, modernization or rehabilitation of wastewater treatment plants to meet for enhanced nutrients removal; the HELCOM recommendations and the Russian regulations on wastewater treatment and • the following works were carried out disinfection. under the Small Wastewater Treatment In 2013, Vodokanal carried out the following activities under the Neva Untreated Plants (Pushkin, Kolpino, Kronstadt, Wastewater Discharge Closure Programme: Pontonny) Rehabilitation Programme: • In October 2013, the Northern Tunnel Collector was completed. The following direct – Kronstadt WWTP: aeration tank discharges were diverted to the Collector: one at Vyborgskaya embankment, six rehabilitation, UCT technology discharges along Robespierre embankment, and three discharges of backwash water from implementation, rehabilitation the Main Water Treatment Plant. The total volume of diverted discharges is 87,000 cubic of secondary clarifiers, rehabilitation meters per day. The wastewater treatment level in St. Petersburg reached 98.4%. of grit channels; • Design of Okhta Collector for the purpose of eliminating untreated wastewater discharge – Kolpino WWTP: rehabilitation in the Okhta River basin, design of diversion scheme for untreated wastewater discharged of grit channels, rehabilitation of two into the Karpovka River in Petrogradsky district, design of sewerage network in Repina primary and two secondary clarifiers, Square with diversion of untreated wastewater discharged into the Fontanka River. installation of raw sludge pumps; – Pontonniy WWTP: installation of periodical bar screens, rehabilitation of secondary clarifier no.3, repair of two Parameter Unit 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 grit channels and replacement of jet pumps, repair of sludge thickener; – Pushkin WWTP: mechanical screens Mass of suspended solids discharged t/year 20,535 19,418 21,845.4 15,826.9 14,120.8 13,706.9 12,382.2 9,353.6 rehabilitation, installation of raw into water bodies sludge pumps, installation of four new blowers, installation of new drum Mass of total BOD screen for raw sludge. discharged t/year 26,860.2 6,074.3 28,627.3 18,718.2 17,677.9 15,635.6 13,311.7 11,271.2 Design for Molodezhnoye WWTP into water bodies construction was developed, which got the Mass of total positive opinion of the State Environmental nitrogen t/year 1,282.2 11,037.3 11,048.2 10,729.6 10,003 10,048.6 9,627.7 9,303.4 Appraisal authority. discharged The effectiveness of Vodokanal activities into water bodies aimed at the elimination of untreated Mass of total wastewater discharge and reconstruction phosphorus t/year 1,576.7 1,269.7 1,177.8 759.9 677.7 492.4 491.8 433.6 of wastewater treatment plants is proved by discharged into water bodies reduction of pollutants discharge into water bodies of St. Petersburg. 193 Reduction of impact on the atmospheric air Currently, 3 sludge incineration plants are operated in the city. Previously, sludge was disposed to landfills, in 2013 emissions of which are nowadays the main sources of negative impact on the atmosphere. The negative impact of landfills on the atmosphere is controlled in two ways: The impact of Vodokanal facilities on the atmospheric air is monitored • elimination of negative impact by by instruments. making the deposited sludge safe for The following measurements are made: the environment; • concentrations of pollutants at 131 sources of industrial emissions; • prevention of landfills odour spreading. • air quality and noise level in the buffer zone and the areas affected by 75 Vodokanal The geotube method comprising facilities; chemical treatment and static dewatering • performance control of 24 gas and dust removal facilities, incl. 9 flue gas treatment of sludge in geotubes has been applied facilities at sludge incineration plants (SIP). At Central and South-West SIPs flue gases at Severniy Landfill since 2010. undergo a two-stage treatment in electrostatic precipitators and the scrubber The landfill area could be reduced, and systems equipped with acid and alkaline columns; at Northern SIP they undergo hence emissions to the air decreased. a two-stage treatment in electrostatic precipitator and are dry-cleaned in bag filters By the end of 2013, 12% of the total sludge using chemicals (activated carbon and sodium hydrocarbonate). volume had been recycled in geotubes. Industrial emissions are controlled at the company sites in accordance with In 2013, the automatic deodorant the time schedules approved by supervisory authorities in consideration of maximum spraying system for odour removal permissible emissions (MPE) values. As a result, no above-limit values were recorded. was put into operation at Severniy and Air quality and noise level control in the checkpoints of the buffer zone and the Volkhonka-2 landfills. The length of the areas affected by Vodokanal facilities, is performed in accordance with the field deodorant spraying pipeline is 3,800 m observations programmes approved as part of the buffer zone size justification and 1,350 m at Severniy and Volkhonka project. The maximum concentrations of all researched components and noise landfills respectively. levels in the checkpoints did not exceed the hygienic standards. The automatic deodorant spraying Vodokanal employs biomonitoring systems along with the instrumental control. system comprises a pumping station Biosensor information systems are used at South-West WWTP to detect air toxicity. with a control unit and a pipeline with Living organisms, namely, snails, are used as indicators. Such system works to assess nozzles, through which the deodorant the total negative impact (synergetic effect) on the organism-indicator of pollution solution is sprayed (the pipeline is placed contained in the South-West WWTP’s buffer zone air. on columns along the landfill perimeter). 194 Social responsibility The spraying system operation is adjusted in gas-discharge cells and interacting The shaft 435/2 of the Northern Tunnel according to the data of the connected with the electrosynthesis products, Collector is equipped with the biological meteorological station, which checks gaseous pollutants are destroyed and air purification unit. The main element the wind direction. The bigger amount transformed into harmless compounds of of the unit is filtering biomass placed of chemical solution is supplied to the carbon dioxide and water. The remaining in separate cartridges arranged downwind side to produce the required pollutants not decomposed in the in parallel in a single package. odour removal effect. plasma-chemical reactor, are destroyed Biofiltration is based on microorganisms’ The applied method proved to be in catalytic reactor by enhanced natural ability to form biofilm on the highly effective according to the results oxidation. The measurements confirmed solid carrier porous surface, to remove of assessment of the Scientific Research the effectiveness of sorption-plasmaadmixtures of organic and non-organic Institute for atmospheric air protection catalytic air cleaning. volatile substances from the passing (OAO “NII ATMOSFERA”): mercaptans The existing network of tunnel air and to oxidize and decompose content in the air is reduced by 70%, and collectors is mainly located in residential them to water and carbon dioxide. odour intensity in total is reduced by 40%. areas and can cause discomfort to Natural substances are used as filter A range of devices and technologies citizens with the odour spreading through layers. They contain mineral salts and are implemented and tested at Vodokanal manholes and shaft hatch covers. substances required for the growth of facilities for atmospheric negative impact The air treatment systems are microorganisms. reduction and odour spread prevention. installed at shaft no.233 of RzhevkaMeasurement results showed high The majority of sewage pumping Porokhoviye collector and shaft no.7 of effectiveness of treatment for all stations is located in urban development the Northern Tunnel Collector in order to pollutants. areas near residential buildings and eliminate potential odours. The systems Filters with activated carbon bed for public facilities. SPS ventilation emits include: a filter, leak-proof housing, safety odour removal are applied at Vodokanal’s odorous gases into the air. valves and protective ventilation cover of manholes as pilot projects. A sorption-plasma-catalytic gas the hatch. The filter consists of a cylinder The filter is mounted under the cleaning plant was put into operation with removable cover and outlet for manhole cover and is used for sewage at sewage pumping station “11 kvartal” to connection to air ducts, pre-filters and odours absorption. remove organic (aromatic hydrocarbon) filler (special activated carbon). The filter housing is made entirely and non-organic (ammonia, hydrogen No odours were observed near of polyethylene, with the chamber inside sulfide, sulfur dioxide, mercaptans, the collector shafts during the plant filled with filtering layer (mesh bag etc.) substances. The plant consists operation, and the plant was easy to impregnated with activated carbon). of two stages: plasma-chemical reactor use. A programme for air sampling and The filter is equipped with a siphon for (ozonation unit) and catalytic reactor. pollutants concentrations measurements surface wastewater draining Passing the high-voltage discharge zone is currently under development. to the network. 195 Labour safety Vodokanal’s Occupational Health & Safety Management System developed in accordance with the requirements of the international standard OHSAS 18001–2007 and applicable Russian conditions of labour, organization law guarantees that identified risks are of labour and maintaining favourable social-psychological environment at work); under the control of the company • monitoring of health status of employees (health survey for detection of early symptoms of diseases, biological monitoring, polling of employees). The international audit carried out in October-November 2013 confirmed that OHSAS at SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” is operated in compliance with the requirements of OHSAS 18001–2007. During 2013, Vodokanal carried out the following activities as a part of the Occupational Health & Safety Management System: • working conditions at eight company production facilities were improved due to the introduction of new, safe practices and advanced technologies that ensure reliable The main purpose of the company’s The effective operation of OHSAS at SUE and failure-free operation and reduce the updated occupational health and safety “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” also includes rate of injuries and professional diseases; policy is to prevent accidents and to the employee’s health safety management. • monitoring and assessment of safe create proper conditions at workplaces to Programs for disease prevention and working conditions at 650 workplaces achieve high performance. Complexity of health improvement of employees, was organized and carried out based on production, and diversity of technologies monitoring of working conditions and instrumental measurements of hazardous and equipment used are taken into health of employees, as well as monitoring and harmful production factors; account. of efficiency of implemented measures are • 100% of employees are provided with Vodokanal employees and all an important element of OHSAS. individual protective gear; stakeholders (contractors, visitors) The monitoring system includes: • 6,163 company employees were trained are informed about the company’s • monitoring of working environment in occupational health and safety and their occupational health and safety policy. (assessment of sanitary and hygienic knowledge was tested. 198 Social responsibility Accident rate in different years 14 12 12 11 10 9 9 8 8 7 6 6 6 6 5 5 4 4 3 2 0 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 The following core indicators could be and implementation of control over facilities of the company. Action plans are achieved by the company due to accident industrial safety at hazardous production developed annually to ensure compprevention: facilities” approved by the Resolution liance with industrial safety requirements • the number of insurance events per of the RF Government no.263 dated in the course of operation of hazardous 1,000 employees: Vodokanal’s average March 10, 1999. On the basis of the Rules, production facilities. Information about is 0.46; industry average is 1.48; the company developed the Regulation the organization of control over industrial • the number of days of temporary “On control over industrial safety safety is provided to the local authorities disability per one insurance event: in the course of operation of hazardous of the Federal Mining and Industrial SafeVodokanal’s average is 124; industry production facilities of SUE “Vodokanal ty Inspectorate of Russia. average is 63.9. of St. Petersburg”” approved by the DirecAs of December 2013, 55 hazardous Industrial safety compliance inspector General in December 2013 and agreed production facilities were registered and tion is organized and implemented in the upon with the North-Western Department operated by the company. Vodokanal opercompany in accordance with Article of Rostekhbnadzor. ates chemically hazardous facilities, explo11 of the Federal Law no.116-FZ dated The company management issued sive and fire hazardous plants according 1997 “On industrial safety at production orders to organize control over industo relevant licenses issued by the Northfacilities’ and the Rules of organization trial safety at the hazardous production Western Department of Rostekhnadzor. 199 Personnel Policy All achievements of Vodokanal stem from the competence of its personnel, that is why the company pays special attention to personnel development, economic incentives and social protection of employees. All that helps harmonize the interests of the company and its employees The personnel in Vodokanal is managed in accordance with the personnel management strategy and policy. As of 1 January 2014, the staff of Vodokanal Vodokanal strategic goals The average age of employees was 43.63. numbered 8,792 persons. in personnel management are: • more effective use of personnel; Categories of personnel 01.01.2014 Number The average • improved personnel development Managers 1,616 of employees age system; • preservation and development Specialists and white 2,576 Men 5,209 44.41 of human resources; collar workers • increase of personnel satisfaction. Blue collar workers 4,600 Women 3,468 42.39 Total: 8,792 In 2013, labour turnover was 8.01%. Education Level, % Labour turnover, % 12 Workers Рабочие 10.49 9.93 9.11 8% 18% 36% 35% 3% 10 7.54 7.2 8.01 Specialist Специалисты andиwhite служащие collar workers 1 8 6.63 70% 1% 19% 5% 5% 6 Managers Руководители 4 74% 16% 5% 4% 2 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 0 Высшее Higher educationНеполное Undergraduate Среднее высшее Intermediate vocational Elementary проф. проф. ed. Начальное Среднее vocational ed. общее General Основное secondary ed. общееed. Basic general 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 202 Social responsibility The main personnel management approaches are: • strong managerial competence and Personnel recruitment, motivation and qualification of personnel; • effective use of labour resources; • improvement of basic remuneration appraisal and incentive systems, employees motivation; • achievement of global standards in labour and industrial safety; • improvement of personnel life quality, development of favorable conditions for Personnel recruitment is performed in compliance with the Company standards “Labor labour and recreation, social support Market Research” and “Recruitment and Employment Procedures”. of unemployed pensioners; Personnel is recruited according to applications prepared by department managers • creation of conditions for and submitted to HR-departments. The applications reflect selection criteria for implementation of young employees’s candidates i.e. qualification requirements. To fill vacancies, first of all, candidates are initiatives, for professional growth and selected from the Company’s succession pool. self-realization; Modern HR-technologies are used for search and • development of consistent system of training, promotion, development selection of candidates from the external labour market: and evaluation of employees; e-recruitment (web-resources), career fairs, targeted • development of dynamic corporate training in universities, specialized and unspecialized culture supporting effective interaction of employees and accelerating integration publications, interviewing, and comprehensive candidate of new assets and employees; appraisal. • provision of appropriate Motivation system for the company personnel is targeted at highly-efficient work age/professional composition of the staff; of personnel, continuous development, increase of personnel engagement and social • development of social partnership, safety, as well as its satisfaction, loyalty and commitment. mutual responsibility and trust; Personnel appraisal is made in accordance with Vodokanal’s standard “The Personnel • personnel loyalty, stable and positive Appraisal System” and aimed at personnel development. social environment. All employees who are candidates of personnel reserve pass the competence Vodokanal’s personnel management appraisal. The Talent Group is formed of the employees included in the high potential policy is aimed to implement these goals. staff, who are workers with the highest development potential. Based on the appraisal The personnel management function results, Plans of Individual Development of Employees are created for the employees is based on the process approach. included in the company personnel reserve; career planning is built. 203 Personnel training A special form of training activities are professional skills contests that help identify the employeesand development transmitters of advanced experience and provide professional development of other employees through the joint practical activity in professional contests. In 2013, Vodokanal held 19 final professional skills contests “Best Professional”, where 231 persons participated. 58 Vodokanal employees became winners and awardees. The best specialists in the following SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” personnel spheres were identified: technicians development at all levels is the key element of of chemical and biological laboratories; development and maintaining of high professional pump operators; electricians for repair and maintenance of electric equipment; level and motivation of personnel for high electric and gas welders; operators of operational performance with maximum excavators and truck-mounted cranes; employees’ potential engagement nurses; drivers; repair and maintenance workers; instrumentation repairmen; operational engineers; specialists for occupational safety, industrial safety and Personnel development comprises training subject to annual applications of the comproduction control; health and safety planning and implementation, career planpany units. inspectors. Competitions for environmenning and development, workforce capacity Given a wide range of personnel training tal management and quality management formation and development, development needs, the corporate training system systems auditors were held. Best emerof young specialists, students’ training and should be highly flexible and mobile, which gency repair teams in water supply and internship programme. is achieved through the diversity of training: sanitation sectors were identified. The training process in Vodokanal internal and external training, partnership Moreover, in 2013, Vodokanal repreis implemented according to the company training projects (Water College, Internal sentatives participated in interdisciplinary standard “Personnel Management at Advanced Water Technologies Centre), professional skill contests. SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”. cooperation with scientific institutions. Two Vodokanal employees won the Planning, Organization and Control Due to the flexible approach, the “Best Professional“ contest among workers of Personnel Training“. training can have optimal content, scope, of housing and public utilities An important factor of successful duration, cost, etc. in each specific case. of St. Petersburg and the Leningrad training is accurate identification of trainThrough personnel training and Region. And seven Vodokanal employees ing needs subject to shortand long-term improvement of qualifications, Vodokanal won the “Stroymaster” contest (held targets of the company, as well as employees acquire the knowledge and among construction market workers evaluation of training efficiency. skills as needed for successful work of St. Petersburg and the Leningrad Region). The training is arranged according performance, work more efficiently and The majority of Vodokanal’s profesto the company needs and the training are motivated to continuous professional sional contests are organized in the Water schedule for current year, which is drafted growth and self-education. Utilities Department of the Water College, 204 Social responsibility where the equipment meets modern recolleges of St. Petersburg participated a favourable training climate and quirements and can support the complexity in the intern programme. considers the training costs to be level of contest activities. Professional Training and qualification iminvestments in the fixed assets leadre-training and qualification improvement provement of Vodokanal employees ing to optimal use of the employee are performed at the Water Utilities is an ongoing process throughout potential. Department. the whole employment period. In 2013, 8,449 Vodokanal employees In the framework of cooperation with The company creates participated in different trainings. the College, Vodokanal provides hands-on training of the College students. In 2013, 28 students got hands-on training in Vodokanal. In addition, Vodokanal provides training for the College professors and foremen at the company sites. Succession pool establishment is one of the areas of the company HR-manageNumber of trainees, persons ment. Succession pool management is performed in accordance with the corporate standard “Succession Pool Management” and aims at personnel potential develop10000 ment. The succession pool comprises the current succession pool and potential 8000 succession pool. In addition, the Talent Group is formed of the employees included in the potential succession pool, who are 6000 workers with the highest development potential. 9,077 In 2013, the final “Leadership” stage 4000 7,867 8,449 of “Strategic Thinking and Ideas Generation” training, aiming at development of the Talent Group members, was organized 2000 in the succession pool school. The students intern programme 0 is implemented in the company for external succession pool of young specialists. 2011 2012 2013 It helps students consolidate their theoretical knowledge, acquire practical experience and develop professional skills. Through this programme, students from Russian higher and secondary educational and training institutions have an opportuCurrently, the HR-department of Vodokanal and the Information and Training Centre nity to learn advanced technologies and Branch are working to optimize training, re-training and qualification improvement acquire a unique practical experience. of employees and to improve the personnel development and training system which In 2013, 84 students from higher educaaccumulates the professional experience of Vodokanal employees and partners and tional institutions and 59 students from is closely related to the development strategy of Vodokanal and water sector, in general. 205 Social policy Vodokanal’s social policy is an important are aimed at creation and development Vodokanal’s social policy is applied element of its personnel, production and of high-quality labour resources, qualified to all employees and their families, economic potential. The social policy aims: management and corporate culture. as well as ex-employees, and promotes • to support the growth of productivity, Main aspects of social policy: business sustainability by creating favourefficiency and quality of work; • personnel development, improvement of able conditions for the solving of opera• to motivate the employees to improve professional level and skills of employees; tional tasks, reduction of risks in the social their qualifications; • building of corporate culture; and labour spheres, and in relations with • to solve managerial tasks and to secure • rehabilitation and recreation of employthe employees and ex-employees, which the most qualified employees, ensuring ees including their family members; are based on principles of social partnertheir rotation and loyalty to the company. • involvement and support of young people, ship and corporate citizenship. The basic principles of social policy are also in the framework of educational projects; The social aspects related to the set out in the company’s Collective Agree• sports programmes; company social development are particument. The social policy is implemented • provision of material aid; larly important, since the social strategy through the social programmes that have • assistance to veterans; parameters are under constant control the highest value for employees. • implementation of different children of the employees, trade union, and The company’s social programmes programmes. managers of Vodokanal. 208 Social responsibility Social benefits to company employees Social benefits to the company employees and ex-employees are specified in the Collective Agreement of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”: • to employees, who reached jubilee age, and to retiring employees; • to employees with an uninterrupted service Catering for the in the company for 25, 30, 35, 40 years; Company employees • financial assistance for childbirth; • financial assistance for medical treatment; In order to provide adequate nutrition for the employees, SUE “Vodokanal • payments after death of a relative; of St. Petersburg” organized operation of 17 canteens at its premises, where over • payments in other circumstances; 3.5 thousand people a week can be served. • targeted material assistance to the war Catering is an important factor and mechanism for implementing the company’s social veterans; policy. This contributes to increased efficiency and improvement of labour organization. • quarterly targeted material assistance In the night time, emergency teams and drivers working in 24-hour shifts are provided to retired employees. with free hot meals delivered to their work places in specially equipped vehicles. 209 Recognition of employees’ achievements for contribution to development of water supply and wastewater disposal systems SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg“ values its employees and recognizes their contribution of St. Petersburg. The title can be bestowed to achievement of goals and company development. for development, adoption and implemenAwarding the title “Labour Veteran of Vodokanal tation of cutting-edge equipment and technologies, application of forms and methods St. Petersburg”. of labour organization leading to a signifiThe title ”Veteran of Work of Vodokanal St. Petersburg” is awarded to employees cant economic impact, improvement of the who have the record of service of not less than 20 years in the company. positive image of the company in Russia At the same time the winner is awarded a lapel badge and certificate, as well as a cash and abroad, mentoring, strengthening of bonus. corporate culture and high professionalism. In 2013, the title “Labour Veteran of Vodokanal St. Petersburg” was bestowed At the same time the winner is awarded on 256 Vodokanal employees. a lapel badge and certificate, as well Awarding the title “Honorary Employee of Vodokanal as a bonus. St. Petersburg”. An Honorary Employee has a right to The title “Honorary Employee of Vodokanal St. Petersburg“ is bestowed on receive a free voucher to Burevestnik sana(at the request of managers and co-workers) the company employees and other persons torium for recreation and resort treatment. In 2013, the title “Honorary Employee of Vodokanal St. Petersburg“ was bestowed on 12 Vodokanal employees. The lapel badge “The Best Young Employee of Vodokanal St. Petersburg”. The lapel badge “The Best Young Employee of Vodokanal St. Petersburg” is bestowed on the employees of the company under the age of 35, who have the unbroken record of service of 5 years, for personal contribution to management and production, introduction of modern technologies to water supply and wastewater disposal processes, improvement of the service quality, professional skills promoting the development of Vodokanal, active participation in the social life of the company. In 2013, the lapel badge “The Best Young Employee of Vodokanal St. Petersburg” was bestowed on 11 young employees. Corporate prizes and prizes from regulatory and administrative authorities of the Russian Federation and St. Petersburg for the company employees. In 2013, 231 employees were awarded departmental and national prizes as well as prizes from regulatory and administrative authorities of St. Petersburg. 389 employees were awarded the Vodokanal certificate of honour and gratitudes. 210 Social responsibility organization of Recreation One of the social policy priorities is organization of recreation for employees and their families Socio-Economic Programmes Implementation Centre with the diagnostic division. The camp territory is guarded around-theCentre organizes cultural and leisure In 2013, 349 health care vouchers were clock and illuminated at night, day-andactivities aimed at ensuring proper provided for the employees and retirees night video monitoring is provided. recrteation for the company employees (participants and veterans of the Great The camp has its own fire station. in Burevestnik sanatorium (for children Patriotic War – the residents of besieged The station hosts regular training lessons and adults). Leningrad, home front workers, former for children vacationing in Zvezdny Burevestnik sanatorium has three sites: captives of Nazi camps). dedicated to the basics of fire safety • Burevestnik; A complex of recovery treatment in the following areas: • Omchino; programs and diagnostic techniques is • theoretical lessons on fire safety; • Zvezdniy. developed and implemented for Vodokanal • introduction to fire department This is a comfortable, modern, wellemployees working in harmful and (including fire truck); equipped and advanced recreation (or) hazardous labor conditions. Such • practical test of evacuation plans; and rehabilitation facility which can employees are provided extra leaves (over• fire relay. accommodate over 700 holiday-makers at leaves under the legislation of the Russian An individual programme aimed at the same time. The territory of Burevestnik Federation), 144 Vodokanal employees comprehensive development of children is guarded around-the-clock. had their rehabilitation holidays in the is elaborated for each session in Zvezdny. Due to a well-developed infrastructure, sanatorium in 2013. Different session themes and wellthe sanatorium provides a wide range In total, more than 8,000 Vodokanal developed infrastructure do not allow camp of modern recreation facilities. Hollidayemployees and their family members are children to be bored. The multipurpose makers can use swimming pools, a Finnish accommodated in Burevestnik annually. sport facilities are located in the camp sauna and a Russian steam room, fitness During vacations the territory including: facilities, a gym, tennis courts, outdoor • gyms: volleyball, basketball, mini football; company employees can send playgrounds for badminton, volleyball and • tennis and ping-pong; basketball. There is a library, a café, their children to Zvyozdny • gymnastics, trampolining and fitness a cinema and concert hall there. For those children’s health camp. facilities; who prefer equestrian sport there is All the conditions for children (comfortable • swimming pools for adults and children; a riding hall. and safe accommodation, leisure and • computer lab; Burevestnik has an up-to-date Medical cognitive activity) are arranged in Zvezdny. • classrooms for study groups; 211 • disco; in open air enclosures. Also, there is a Regulations to children. • library; pets’ corner for children to take care of • Development – to form practical skills • winter garden. hamsters and chinchillas exploring the of safety behavior. Zvezdny has also an indoor riding hall natural diversity of the Luga Lands under • Education – to create motivation for for equestrian sport under the guidance the supervision of specialists. responsible and conscientious behavior of instructors. Children are given a full In 2013, ecological programs in the streets and on the roads. set of equipment. There is a cinema and were implemented dedicated to In future, construction of “Auto City” concert hall. the Environment Year and aimed at is planned in Zvezdny territory. Besides, open playgrounds equipped developing children overall environmental 2,675 children aged 6–15 took holidays with modern coverage for playing tennis, culture and understanding of the necessity in Zvezdny recreation camp in 2013. table tennis, basketball, volleyball, of careful attitude to the environment In the territory of Burevestnik badminton and football are at the disposal including water. sanatorium spartakiada games for water of children. As a part of the prevention of road services units, festivals and traditional The Svinechnoe Lake with developed traffic injuries among children and winter and summer sports tourist meetings beaches and bathing places for children adolescents and for children to learn are held annually for the Vodokanal is situated in the camp territory. the Road Traffic Regulations, the “Auto employees (see more details in Sports The unique feature of Zvezdny Engineering” lessons were arranged for Support). is a private zoo where you can see a family the first time in 2013. A set of practical and Information about Burevestnik of camels, a brown bear, ostriches, theoretical measures on road safety was sanatorium (SUE “Vodokanal of peacocks, pheasants, mandarin ducks, developed and implemented in three areas: St. Petersburg”) can be found on the webaruis, donkeys, a reindeer, a silver fox • Information – to teach the Road Traffic site www.vodokanal-zagorod.ru. 212 Healthcare Vodokanal St. Petersburg has a system of medical care aimed to support occupational health and longevity, reduction of Disease rate with temporal disability industrial accidents and (per 100 employees/year) days away from work, improvement of the Company employees’ quality of life The basis of the medical support for Company’s employees is the Medical Center Branch Days of disability (per 100 employees/year) which mission is to provide a high-quality 1100 Disability cases (per 100 employees/year) medical care. 1,024.2 The branch staff consists of 346 specialists 100 978.8 including 4 professors, 6 doctors and 931.2 12 candidates of medical sciences, 30 doctors and 54 nurses of the highest category; 47% 900 employees have higher vocational education. In 2013, structural units of the Medical 778.6 Center were reequipp ed. That ensured pro68.2 66.6 70 vision of much-in-demand medical services, 63.3 increase of the number of patients served, 700 introduction of new methods of diagnosis 58.4 and treatment by means of high-quality up-to-date medical equipment. For this puprpose the following equipment was purchased and put into operation: 500 40 • the universal remotely-controlled X-ray 2010 system Luminos RF Classic with the digital radiography device – FCR Capsula X; • the digital panoramic X-ray dental unit Days of temporal disability Cases (per 100 employees/year) GXDP-700 with the tomography function; • KaVo dental units; • the ultrasound diagnostic unit Acuson X300 Premium Edition; • the ophthalmic diagnostic retina tomograph HRT3; • the endoscopic video system HI LINE HD+Pentax; In 2013, the Medical Centre provided medical services to the Company employees according • laboratory and physiotherapy equipment. to both the obligatory medical insurance program and the voluntary medical insurance Observations over the health condition of program. Vodokanal employees show a positive trend In total, over 310,000 medical services were provided to Vodokanal employees in 2013. to the reduction of disease rate and days away The efficiency of curative and preventive interventions is evaluated by such an important from work. Since 2010, the number of days index as the healthy and apparently healthy persons index (health groups I – II). away from work has been reduced by 24%. In Vodokanal of St. Petersburg this index is around 40%. 213 Health categories of the company employees 1st group. No chronic non-infectious diseases which may lead to disability 16% or untimely death are diagnosed; no risk factors exist for such chronic non-infectious diseases. 2st group. No chronic non-infectious diseases which may lead to disability or untimely death are diagnosed, however, there are risk factors for such chronic non-infectious diseases. 60% 24% 3st group. Diseases which require regular medical checkup or special (incl. high-tech) medical care. Regular medical examinations vs medical examinations at Burevestnik sanatorium An important activity of the Medical Center is a long-term follow-up care that includes medical and preventive measures with regard to socially significant diseases. Timely identification of such diseases allows providing proper medical services to this group of patients and prevent the development of dangerous complications. In 2013, a great attention was paid to regular medical examinations. Over 8,220 employees were examined. 214 Social responsibility Quantitative indicators of the Company employees’ vaccination An important area of healthcare work is conduction of mandatory vaccination of employees of decreed categories. Disease Rate of Viral Hepatitis A Due to obligatory vaccination and revaccination against typhoid fever and hepatitis A no cases of these diseases have been recorded among Vodokanal employees for over 8 years. Comparison of the hepatitis A disease rates in St. Petersburg and Vodokanal is shown on the diagram. 215 To prevent tuberculosis and early detect At the end of 2013, MIS Avicenna contained about 150,000 ambulatory medical respiratory diseases, all Vodokanal records. All data are available in electronic form which makes it user-friendly. employees undergo thoracic organs exAt the same time, data privacy is observed. aminations (chest fluorography, Patient e-record was introduced in the Medical Center. Electronic memory of such chest X-ray, computer tomography). record processes and stores medical reports, results of instrumental examination, Experts of the Medical Center actively clinic and laboratorial analyses. The certificate of prophylactic immunization participate in workshops and conferences is developed and included into e-record of the patient making it possible to monitor aimed at sharing experience and transimmunizations of the Company employees in compliance with the National Immuniferring the best practices. Conclusion zation Calendar and subject to the profession. of cooperation agreements with Medical An important element of Vodokanal social policy is the Collective Agreement under Academy of Postgraduate Education, which in 2013 the Medical Center implemented the following: Almazov Federal Heart, Blood and • provision of medical care under obligatory medical insurance policies and voluntary Endocrinology Centre, Russian Research medical insurance policies on the premises of the Medical Center (the Diagnostic and Center for Radiology and Surgical TechTreatment Centre and a dental clinic); nologies provided effective interaction • provision of certain types of medical and cosmetological services not included into and timely high-quality medical assisobligatory medical insurance and voluntary medical insurance programs; tance to Vodokanal employees. • medical support during rehabilitation leaves for Company employees, specified The Medical Center continued to in the Profession (Position) list in the annex to the Collective Agreement; improve the integrated database on • medical care for the former Vodokanal employees – participants of the Great health condition of Vodokanal employPatriotic War, who have the certificate “The Participant of the Great Patriotic War“, ees by means of the medical information and also Vodokanal employees and former personnel, who worked during the Siege system Avicenna (MIS Avicenna). of Leningrad at Company’s facilities. 216 Social responsibility by more than 700 employees of the Company. Vodokanal has permanent sports teams in volleyball, football, table tennis, swimming, ski race and a football team of Vodokanal veterans. Support of Vodokanal teams took part in sport competitions arranged by Physical Training and Sports Society FSO Russia (1st place Sports winner), Interregional Trade Union Committee (1st place winner), Central District of St. Petersburg (1st place winner). On the average about 15 sports teams from St. Petersburg industrial enterprises Implementation of the comprehensive enterprise participate in sports competitions. rehabilitation program and arrangement of sports Competitions in 15 kinds of sports are held. events contribute to the development and support Vodokanal St. Petersburg organized of healthy life, team building, strengthening sports competitions for the Company interpersonal relationship and friendly ties production branches in 13 kinds of sports. Over 800 employees participated in such competitions. In 2013, Vodokanal employees also participated in the following sports activities: • FSO “Russia” Ping-Pong Club Championship; • Head of Central District Mini Football Cup; Spartakiada games, festivals and traditional their sports achievements; • Central District Friendship Mini Football winter and summer competitions • the sports festival “Family Starts” with Cup; are held annually for the Vodokanal the participation of over 80 family teams • Mini Football Championship among employees in Burevestnik sanatorium. (over 300 people); veterans; Qualification games are also organized • Vodokanal summer sports competition • Russia Kayak and Canoe Paddling for each Company branch in Burevestnik with the participation of over Championship among veterans; sanatorium. 600 employees. • 1st League City Football Championship; In 2013, the following events took place Organizers of sports festivals • Volleyball Championship (amateur league); in Burevestnik sanatorium: use creative approach to arranging • World Championship among production • Vodokanal winter sports competitions competitions. Every time new kinds companies in Bulgaria, where with the participation of over of sports are included into competition Vodokanal took 1st place in football and 500 employees; program. In 2013, participants of sports 3rd place in darts. • two sports contests “Fellowship” competitions could compete in mock sumo In 2013, Vodokanal participated in the of Russia’s vodokanals with the wrestling, match their strength and check regional phase of the photo competition participation of the teams from Nizhny their accuracy of fire. “Sports for All” organized by the Federation Novgorod, Cherepovets, Vologda, Veliky Sports are one of the most important of Independent Trade Unions. 5 employees Novgorod, Vladimir, Vologda, Ryazan as elements of Vodokanal corporate activities. of Vodokanal became the winners of this well as the partner-companies AkvariusSports grounds, gyms and swimming pools photo competition. Auto, Vodokanalstroy, Alliance-Electro, are rented for sports activities and physical At present, Vodokanal St. Petersburg MRG-Invest (over 350 people in total); training. The trade union of Vodokanal is one of the leading company in the • the Youth Games Festival allowed more leased more than 10 swimming pools development of physical training and sports than 300 young employees to demonstrate in different districts of the city attended in St. Petersburg. 217 218 Tariff policy Legal framework for tariff regulation Before the adoption of the federal law The reformation of tariff system proceeds In 2013, heat tariffs were regulated no.416-FZ dated 07.12.2011 “On Water in parallel with the reformation of water under the federal law no.190-FZ dated Supply and Wastewater Disposal”, water sector and aims to improve transparency 27.07.2010 “On Heat Supply”, the Decree tariffs were regulated under the federal and quality and to strengthen public control of the Russian Government no.109 dated law no.210-FZ dated 30.12.2004 over the governmental regulation process. 26.02.2004 “On Electric and Thermal “On Principles of Public Utility’s Tariffs The main targets of the tariff policy for Energy Pricing in the Russian Federation”, Regulation”, the Decree of the Russian the coming years are as follows: improved the FTA Order no.20-e/2 dated 06.08.2004 Government no.520 dated 14.07.2008 availability of connection to water infra“On Approving Procedural Guidelines for “On Pricing Principles and Regulation structure for consumers, transition to Calculation of Regulated Electric (Heat) of Tariffs, Surcharges and Limiting Indices long-term tariff regulation, expansion Tariffs and Prices at Retail Market”, Decree to be Used by Public Utilities”, and the of off-budget financing sources for investof the Russian Government no.1075 dated Order of the Russian Ministry of Regionment programmes, and implementation 22.10.2012 “On Pricing in Heat Supply al Development no.47 dated 15.02.2011 of reliability / service quality indicators for Sphere”, the FTA Order no.130-e dated “On Approving Procedural Guidelines for the public utilities that carry out regulated 08.04.2005 “On approving procedures of Calculation of Tariffs and Surcharges in the activities. setting tariffs and/or tariff caps for electric sphere of Public Utilities”. The transition to long-term tariff regula(thermal) energy (power) and for the serIn order to implement the provisions tion will provide a possibility to develop longvices provided at wholesale /retail markets on tariff regulation set out in the law of term investment programmes on the basis of electric (thermal) energy (power)”, and water supply and wastewater disposal, of approved targets and to improve the the FTA Order no.231-e/4 dated 09.10.2012 the Russian Government adopted the ordiattractiveness of water sector for investors. “On establishing tariff caps for thermal nance no.406 dated 13.05.2013 “On State Under the current law, tariffs for water energy supplied to consumers by heat Regulation of Water Tariffs” which provides companies are regulated by the Russian suppliers, RF subjects’ average for 2013”. for: Federal Tariff Authority (FTA). The Federal The Tariff Committee issues spe1. Water pricing principles; and Tariff Authority empowered to exercise cial instructions establishing tariffs for 2. Rules of tariff regulation in the water legal control over the national regulation Vodokanal water services for each cussector. of prices (tariffs) for services and to monitor tomer group and for Vodokanal’s thermal The water pricing principles contain the use thereof, determines average price energy for each subsequent fiscal year. general provisions on the regulation of change limits for the subjects of the RusIn addition, the Tariff Committee sets tariffs and limiting indices, the method of sian Federation. At the level of St. Petersthe fee for connection of newly built estimating the necessary amount of gross burg as a subject of the Russian Federa(reconstructed) real estate units (buildings, revenue, methods of water tariff regulation, any tariff-related activities of structures, and other facilities) to cold tion, and the procedure of connection fee Vodokanal are supervised and monitored water and sewerage networks. calculation. by the St. Petersburg Tariff Committee. 220 Tariff policy Tariff policy principles The law of water supply and wastewater of water companies; shall be economically justified; disposal establishes the general principles • stable and non-discriminatory conditions • sufficient funding of any measures of national water policy: for business in the water sector; required to ensure reliable operation and • provision of potable water and sewerage • equal access to water services development of heat supply systems; services to the citizens is a priority task; for all customers; • motivation of energy efficiency and • a good investment climate in the water • transparent activities of water cost-efficiency of heat supply; sector, guaranteed repayment of private companies and the federal authorities, • the regulation of heat prices (tariffs) investments; authorities of RF subjects and local shall be transparent and visible to any • technical and structural integrity administrations responsible for regulation consumers including households; of centralized cold water supply and of water sector. • control over the observance of the sewerage systems; The federal law no.190-FZ dated legal requirements regarding the • the balance of economic interests 27.07.2010 “On Heat Supply” establishes improvement of energy saving and energy between water companies and their the basic principles of national heat efficiency for the purpose of reducing consumers shall be achieved and supply policy: energy losses, including requirements maintained; • availability of thermal energy (power) to the development and implementation • water tariffs shall be based for customers; of energy-saving/energy-efficiency on economically justified expenses • heat distribution costs of public utilities programmes and to energy metering. 221 Tariffs for Vodokanal services in 2013 Water tariffs of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg“ in 2013 Cold water tariffs, RUB/m3 Wastewater Item Period Customer group Potable tariffs, no. Utility water water RUB/m3 from 01.01.2013 15.02 15.02 to 30.06.2013 Municipal service 1 from providers Water tariffs for 2013 were established by 01.07.2013 17.27 17.27 the instruction of the Tariff Committee to no.422-r dated 30.11.2012 “On Establishing 31.12.2013 Tariffs for Cold Water and Sewerage Services to Be Provided by SUE “Vodokanal from of St. Petersburg“ in 2013”. 01.01.2013 17.72 17.72 to In 2013 the tariffs were determined with 30.06.2013 Households the following calendar breakdown: 2 • from January 1, 2013, the tariffs had been from (incl. VAT) maintained at the level determined on 01.07.2013 01.09. 2012; 20.38 20.38 to • on 01.07.2013 and 01.12.2013, the tariffs 31.12.2013 were raised for municipal service providers (households) by 15%; for utility water and from for other customers – by 4.7%. 01.01.2013 18.70 3.38 21.74 In 2013, the annual average tariff grew to 8.8% compared to 2012. 30.06.2013 3 Other from 01.07.2013 19.58 3.54 22.76 to 31.12.2013 Note: the tariffs are shown without the value-added tax except for the Household group. 222 Tariff policy Tariff for the heat supplied by SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg“ to consumers located in St. Petersburg, for 2013 Heat tariff Pressurized extraction steam Live and reduced Period Tariff type 1.2–2.5 2.5–7.0 7.0–13.0 over 13.0 steam kg/cm2 kg/cm2 kg/cm2 kg/cm2 Consumers paying for heat production (those who receive heat from the producers’ collectors) from 01.01.2013 Single-rate tariff, – 913.00 – – – to 30.06.2013 RUB/Gcal from 01.07.2013 Single-rate tariff, – 1,057.56 – – – to 31.12.2013 RUB/Gcal Note: the tariff is shown without the value-added tax. The 2013 tariff for the thermal energy From January 1, 2013, the tariff had been maintained supplied by Vodokanal was determined by the at the level determined on 01.09.2012. Instruction of the Tariff Committee no.557-r dated 17.12.2012 “On Establishing From 01.07.2013, the tariff had grown by 15.8%. Tariffs for the Thermal Energy Supplied In 2013, the annual average tariff grew by 6.2% compared by SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg“ to 2012. to Consumers Located in St. Petersburg, for 2013“. 223 Tariff policy Connection fees Fees for connection of newly built (reconstructed) real estate units (buildings, structures, and other) to Vodokanal’s cold water supply and sewerage systems in 2012-2014, RUB/m3/hour Fees for connection of newly built Contract demand Contract demand Contract demand (reconstructed) real estate units (buildings, Description < 4.17 m3/hour 4.17-41.67 m3/hour > 41.67 m3/hour structures, and other) to Vodokanal’s cold water supply and sewerage systems Cold water supply 714,000 711,600 709,200 in 2012–2014 were established by the Instruction of the Tariff Committee no.381-r dated 29.11.2011. Sewerage 738,000 735,600 733,200 Note: connection fees are shown without the value-added tax. Until the Rules of Cold Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal approved by the Decree of the Russian Government no.644 dated 29.07.2013, came into effect on 14.08.2013, the amount of connection fee had been calculated in compliance with clauses 14.1 and 14.2 of the Russian Government Decree no.360 dated 09 June 2007 “On approving the Rules of making and performing public contracts for connection to municipal infrastructure”, i.e. as the product of contract demand (in m3/hour) and connection fee. The Decree of the Russian Government no.645 dated 29.07.2013 “On approving model contracts of cold water supply and wastewater disposal” came into effect on 14.08.2013. The Decree determines standard contract forms for (technical) connection to the centralized cold water supply/sewerage systems. In 2013, connection fees were not raised and stayed at the level of 2009–2011. 224 Reasons Transparent for tariff tariffs growth In the Financial Plan of Vodokanal Until the adoption, on 31.01.2013, of the Guidelines for Disclosure of St. Petersburg the total expenditures of Information in the Water Sector approved by the Order of the Russian for purchasing materials, works or services Government no.6 dated 17.01.2013, Vodokanal had disclosed information comprise the material costs calculated on its regulated activities according to the procedure set out in the Guidelines on the basis of: for Disclosure of Information by Public Utilities no.1140 dated 30.12.2009. • state-regulated tariffs (prices) or their Vodokanal follows a consistent transparency policy aimed to facilitate projected values officially communicated access to the information that must be disclosed. All information referred by a relevant tariff-regulating (pricing) to in the Guidelines for Disclosure of Information, and any information authority; regarding establishment and application of tariffs in St. Petersburg, can be • industry-specific forecasted price change found on the official websites of Vodokanal and the St. Petersburg Tariff indices; Committee or in the official journal of the St. Petersburg Tariff Committee • forecasted price change indices officially (“Vestnik Komiteta po Tarifam Sankt-Peterburga”, Order of the St. Petersburg published by the Russian Ministry for Government no.223 dated 21.02.2011; Certificate of Mass Media Economic Development; no.TU 7800675 dated 27.08.2010). • macroeconomic forecast of social and The above resources are convenient official platforms for centralized, economic development as approved consistent and timely disclosure of information in compliance with the by the government of relevant RF subject Guidelines for Disclosure of Information. in consideration of the special features of regional development; • actual price trends (the soundness of such calculation shall be confirmed by a relevant regulatory body). 225 Financial Statements Main financial indicators Indicators, MRUB 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Turnover 16,720 18,413 20,060 22,797 23,649 25,276 Operating costs 14,123 15,484 17,694 19,853 19,546 21,311 Operating profit 2,597 2,929 2,366 2,944 4,103 3,965 Net profit (loss) 24 72 379 404 1,074 (291) Profitability of core 18.4 18.9 13.4 14.8 21.0 18.6 operations, % During 2008–2012, the growth of the compared with that of other municipal The main influence on the growth main financial indicators provided utilities. The Company profit was used of other expenses had the increase financing different actions aimed for connection to water supply and of property tax (due to the cancellation to achieve the service quality targets sewerage networks implemented under of property tax privileges) and exchange in line with the long-term company the investment program. rate differences (due to a significant development strategy. The indicator Vodokanal’s operating loss is caused change of the euro exchange rate “profitability of core operations” is high by the growth of other expenses. at the end of the year). 2013, 2013, Deviation Description ‘000 RUB ‘000 RUB ‘000 RUB % Other expenses including 4,033,440 2,424,672 1,608,768 66.3 – exchange differences 628,866 0 628,866 100.0 – property tax 2,300,667 1,437,015 863,652 60.1 228 Financial Statements Indicators 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Current ratio (standard: 1 to 2) 2.0 1.6 1.1 1.3 1.4 1.1 Cash ratio (0.2 or higher) 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.6 0.4 Vodokanal St. Petersburg maintains a rather high level of solvency which is evidenced by the fact that its profitability ratios are within the standard range meaning that the Company has sufficient funds for current payments. Indicators 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Equity to Total 0.84 0.87 0.88 0.90 0.88 0.88 Assets Financial 0.16 0.13 0.14 0.11 0.14 0.14 Leverage Vodokanal is a company with a high capital coefficient. The share of fixed assets in the balance sheet structure is over 90%. The Equity to Total Assets Ratio is high which means that the Company capital structure is stable. 229 Balance Sheet and Income Statement As of As of As of Clarifications Item Code 31 December 2013 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 1 2 3 4 5 6 ASSETS I. NON-CURRENT ASSETS 1 Intangible assets 1110 373 585 374 450 384 962 2 R&D results 1120 2 727 3 167 2 279 Intangible development – 1130 – – – assets – Fixed development assets 1140 – – – 3-5 Fixed assets 1150 175 513 683 159 442 471 143 992 939 from Line 1150: buildings 1151 19 167 102 19 141 330 16 679 513 230 Financial Statements As of As of As of Clarifications Item Code 31 December 2013 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 1 2 3 4 5 6 structures, transfer 1152 135 342 400 115 041 680 105 019 925 devices machinery and 1153 6 645 085 6 962 401 6 607 662 equipment, vehicles 6, 9, 10 Construction in progress 1154 14 145 975 18 059 305 15 428 773 Income-bearing 1160 – – – investments in inventories 7 Financial investments 1170 117 795 395 879 118 110 Deferred tax assets 1180 406 830 396 148 381 877 8 other non-current assets 1190 344 154 322 056 295 850 Section I, TOTAL 1100 176 758 774 160 934 171 145 176 017 231 As of As of As of Clarifications Item Code 31 December 2013 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 1 2 3 4 5 6 II.CURRENT ASSETS 9 Inventories 1210 1 693 843 1 421 169 1 351 092 from Line 1210 raw materials, materials, etc. 1211 1 011 912 784 320 769 228 deferred assets 1212 681 931 636 849 581 864 Value-added tax on purchased 1220 127 037 121 641 110 348 valuables 10 Accounts receivable 1230 8 202 620 6 643 553 5 688 978 from Line 1230 Accounts receivable due beyond 1231 928 787 1 232 155 707 059 12 months after the reporting date from Line 1231 Buyers and Clients 12311 56 950 29 884 76 436 Accounts receivable where payments are expected within 1232 7 273 833 5 411 398 4 981 919 12 months after the reporting date 232 Financial Statements As of As of As of Clarifications Item Code 31 December 2013 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 1 2 3 4 5 6 from Line1232 Buyers and 12321 5 213 286 4 684 707 3 990 130 Clients Financial investments 7 1240 608 000 922 000 – (other than cash equivalents) Monetary resources and cash * 1250 4 708 496 5 837 699 2 583 926 equivalents Other current assets 1260 – – – Section II, TOTAL 1200 15 339 996 14 946 062 9 734 344 BALANCE 1600 192 098 770 175 880 233 154 910 361 LIABILITIES III. CAPITAL AND RESERVES ** Registered capital 1310 4 851 580 3 475 580 1 467 627 Own shares bought out from 1320 – – – shareholders Revaluation of non-current ** 1340 88 461 197 88 630 171 88 719 533 assets Additional capital ** 1350 69 263 870 51 187 569 39 660 639 (not revaluated) ** Special-purpose receipts 1351 2 070 040 7 072 029 6 500 138 ** Reserve fund 1360 86 339 86 339 80 356 Undistributed profit ** 1370 2 057 468 2 352 430 1 249 067 (uncovered loss) Section III, TOTAL 1300 166 790 494 152 804 118 137 677 360 * Cash Flow Statement ** Statement of Changes in Equity 233 As of As of As of Clarifications Item Code 31 December 2013 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 1 2 3 4 5 6 IV. LONG-TERM LIABILITIES 11 Borrowings 1410 8 480 338 9 860 025 7 440 358 from Line 1410 Loans repayable beyond 12 months 1411 6 486 338 7 866 025 5 446 358 after the reporting date Credits repayable beyond 12 months 1412 1 994 000 1 994 000 1 994 000 after the reporting date Deferred tax liabilities 1420 279 036 180 359 98 560 Estimated liabilities 1430 – – – Other liabilities 1450 – – – Section IV, TOTAL 1400 8 759 374 10 040 384 7 538 918 V. SHORT-TERM LIABILITIES 11 Borrowings 1510 3 905 642 2 860 483 832 633 from Line 1510 Loans repayable within less than 1511 3 894 765 2 850 129 823 239 12 months after the reporting date Credits repayable within less than 1512 10 877 10 354 9 394 12 months after the reporting date 11 Accounts payable 1520 9 480 652 7 566 899 6 594 049 234 Financial Statements As of As of As of Clarifications Item Code 31 December 2013 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 1 2 3 4 5 6 from Line 1520 suppliers and contractors 1521 3 247 800 2 317 578 3 153 426 payroll debt 1522 182 359 156 934 149 841 debt to state extra-budgetary 1523 78 470 71 188 64 334 funds tax arrears 1524 1 175 744 1 144 173 1 050 881 other creditors 1525 4 796 279 3 877 026 2 175 567 Deferred income 1530 2 565 255 2 061 092 1 774 136 12 Estimated liabilities 1540 597 353 547 257 493 265 Other liabilities 1550 – – – Section V, TOTAL 1500 16 548 902 13 035 731 9 694 083 BALANCE 1700 192 098 770 175 880 233 154 910 361 Director General F.V. Karmazinov (signature) (name) Chief Accountant G.A. Khachaturova (signature) (name) 21 march March 2014 2014 235 INCOME STATEMENT Clarifications Item Code 2013 2012 Turnover 2110 25 275 716 23 649 007 Cost of sales 2120 (21 310 468) (19 546 351) Gross profit (loss) 2100 3 965 248 4 102 656 Commercial expenses 2210 – – Administrative expenses 2220 – – Sales profit (loss) 2200 3 965 248 4 102 656 Income from participation in other organizations 2310 1 115 2 211 Interest receivable 2320 79 462 3 935 Interest payable 2330 (275 677) (363 806) Other income 2340 651 816 786 925 Other expenses 2350 (4 033 440) (2 424 672) 236 Financial Statements Clarifications Item Code 2013 2012 Before-tax profit (loss) 2300 388 524 2 107 249 Current profit tax 2410 (591 337) (966 106) incl. constant tax liabilities (assets) 2421 (595 662) (612 003) Change of deferred tax liabilities 2430 (98 525) (81 907) Change of deferred tax assets 2450 16 496 14 560 Other 2460 (6 065) (192) Net profit (loss) 2400 1 073 604 (290 907) Result of non-current assets revaluation 2510 – – not included into the net profit (loss) of the period Result of other transactions not included 2520 – – into the net profit (loss) of the period Cumulative financial result of the period 2500 (290 907) 1 073 604 2900 – – 2910 – – Director General F.V. Karmazinov (signature) (name) Chief Accountant G.A. Khachaturova (signature) (name) 21 21 March 2014 march 2014 237 Contact Information State Unitary Enterprise “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” 42 Kavalergardskaya str., St. Petersburg 191015, Russia Tel.: +7 (812) 274-16-79, Fax +7 (812) 274-13-61 (Documents Division) e-mail: office@vodokanal.spb.ru e-mail: personal@vodokanal.spb.ru – Personnel Department (for CVs) Website: www.vodokanal.spb.ru Hot line – +7 (812) 305-09-09 Customer Service Center Branch Lit.A, 21 Gakkelevskaya str., St. Petersburg Open hours: 9.00 a.m. – 6.00 p.m. Tel.: +7 (812) 702-12-98 – Reception room Tel.: +7 (812) 329-34-51 (-52, -59, -68, -74, Fax – 329-34-62) consultancy on calculations Tel.:+7 (812) 438-44-17 – consultancy on prolongation and amendment of the agreements on potable water supply, wastewater and pollutants receive (“unified” agreements) Tel.:+7 (812) 438-44-11; +7 (812) 326-52-32 – consultancy on connection to the networks The detailed contact information can be found at the official website of the company: http://www.vodokanal.spb.ru in “For customers” page. Museum complex “The Universe of Water” 56 Shpalernaya str. (underground station “Chernyshevskaya”) Tel.: +7 (812) 438-43-75, 275-43-25, 438-43-01 Open hours: Wednesday-Sunday (Monday and Tuesday – closed). The museum is open 10.00 a.m. – 7.00 p.m. Tickets can be bought till 6.30 p.m. Website: www.vodokanal-museum.ru 238 Youth Environmental Centre 56, Shpalernaya str., (underground station “Chernyshevskaya”) Tel.: +7 (812) 438-43-96 E-mail: dec@vodokanal.spb.ru Website: www.vodokanal-ecocenter.ru Burevestnik Sanatorium Office in St. Petersburg 103, Moskovskiy pr., Room 8 Tel./Fax: +7 (812) 438-44-85 Tel.: +7 (812) 329-34-84, 329-34-40, +7 (921) 965-65-50 Open hours: Monday–Thursday – 9.00 a.m. – 6.00 p.m., Friday – 9.00 a.m. – 5.00 p.m. Office in Luga 16, Zapadnaya Street Tel.: +7 (813-72) 4-33-03, 2-36-60 Website: www.vodokanal-zagorod.ru Medical Center Branch Treatment & Diagnostic Center Lit.Я, 42 Kavalergardskaya str. Tel. +7 (812) 438-44-20, 326 52 78 Open hours: Monday–Friday, 8.00 a.m. – 8.00 p.m., Saturday and Sunday – closed. Treatment & Diagnostic Center (including X-Ray Diagnostics Department) Block 2, 103 Moskovskiy pr., St. Petersburg. Tel.: +7 (812) 438-47-77, 326-52-78 Open hours: seven days a week, 8.00 a.m. – 10.00 p.m. Dental Clinic Lit.AK, 56 Shpalernaya str. Tel.: +7 (812) 326-53-19 Open hours: Monday–Thursday, 9.00 a.m. – 8.00 p.m., Friday: 9.00 a.m. – 7.00 p.m., Saturday and Sunday – closed. E-mail: medcenter@vodokanal.spb.ru Website: www.med-vdk.ru 239
