Communication on Progress UN Global Compact (COP) on 2013 Additional information is available in the referenced documents and the GRI indicators of the Sustainability Performance Report. Human rights  When selecting employees and determining their assignment in the company, Geberit at EC5 taches great importance to qualifications appropriate to the task description. Applicable local minimum wages are well met. This considerably reduces the risk of human rights violations.  Geberit has a Code of Conduct in which the company undertakes to be an exemplary, reliaPrinciple 1: ble and fair business partner and employer at all times for all of the people with whom it has  Code of Support and dealings. As a fair partner, Geberit recognizes local, national and international laws, direcConduct for respect the protives and standards, and complies with them in full. Employees tection of interna Approximately 98% of all employees were trained in the Code of Conduct in 2008. Since tionally prothen, new employees receive their training in the Code as part of their job orientation. The  HR3 claimed human “Geberit Integrity Line” was launched on January 1, 2013, and gives all employees the op SO3 rights. portunity to report irregularities anonymously. There were no significant incidents in 2013.  Compliance with the Code of Conduct is monitored as part of an annual, binding Group-wide  DMA-HR survey. Verification is supplemented by internal audits on site. There was one case of work HR4 place bullying in the reporting year, which led to the dismissal of the person responsible.  With respect to human rights violations, the greatest risk for Geberit lies with suppliers, who  Sustainabilcan be influenced only indirectly. Geberit does all it can to minimize this risk and requires ity Strategy that business partners and suppliers comply with comprehensive standards.  The Code of Conduct for Suppliers is intended to ensure that Geberit’s suppliers act in  Code of Principle 2: accordance with internal and external guidelines, as well as internationally recognized Conduct for Make sure the standards concerning human rights and the ILO core labor standards. As of the end of 2013, Suppliers company is not 701 suppliers had signed the Code of Conduct. This equates to 95% of the total procurement complicit in huvalue. man rights abus In 2012, the planning system for the performance of systematic audits underwent further es. development. Audits focusing on sustainability are performed primarily on suppliers in the highest risk category. 40 suppliers, which equates to less than 5% of the total procurement  HR2 value, are classified in this category. 25 of these 40 suppliers have already been audited. Several third-party audits were carried out at suppliers in China in 2013. Discrepancies were discovered here and the necessary corrective measures were introduced. Labor practices  No rights with respect to exercising freedom of association or collective bargaining as dePrinciple 3: fined in the ILO core labor standards are subject to restriction at the Geberit Group. This is  HR5 Uphold the freeverified annually as part of a binding Group-wide survey. No restrictions were in effect in dom of associa2013. tion and the effective recognition of  Approximately 4,050 employees, and thus around two-thirds of all employees, are currently covered by collective agreements. Above all in Germany, Austria and Switzerland, over 90% the right to collec LA4 of employees are governed by a collective labor or wage agreement. There are no collective tive bargaining. agreements with employees in the USA and China (14% of all employees). Principle 4:  Geberit’s exposure with respect to forced and child labor is considered low because of its Uphold the elimiindustry sector and the countries in which business activities are carried out as well as its nation of all forms high quality requirements. of forced and compulsory labor.  Forced and child labor are categorically rejected at Geberit. According to the annual, binding Group-wide survey, no cases of forced or child labor were discovered in 2013, nor were any  HR6 Principle 5: cases revealed during the course of the audits performed among the suppliers. The basic  HR7 Uphold the effecprinciples established in the Code of Conduct for Suppliers expressly include compliance tive abolition of with the ILO core labor standards for the exclusion of forced and child labor. child labor.  The Geberit Code of Conduct clearly specifies how employees are to behave and how  Code of Geberit assumes responsibility as an employer in order to counteract discrimination in adConduct for herence with the ILO core labor standards. No cases of discrimination were reported in Employees 2013.  HR4 Principle 6: Uphold the elimination of discrimi Geberit has no personnel policy or employment practices providing for preferential treatment  EC7 nation in respect of persons from local vicinities. of employment  Protection of the principles of equality is anchored in the Geberit Code of Conduct. This and occupation. includes the prohibition of discrimination against any employee on the basis of gender. Fair  LA13-14 and equal pay for men and women is a matter of course at Geberit, as was verified and documented in 2013 as part of the annual, binding Group-wide survey. The proportion of female employees as of the end of 2013 was 31%; in management this figure was 6.5%. Communication on Progress UN Global Compact (COP) on the financial year 2013 1 Environmental protection  With the precautionary approach in mind, the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors has  4.11 implemented an extensive system for monitoring and controlling the risks (incl. environmental risks) linked to the business activities.  Geberit has long stood for a high level of environmental awareness and been committed to  Code of environmentally friendly, resource-efficient production as well as to the development of waConduct for ter-saving and sustainable products. Environmental criteria are considered in all decisionEmployees making processes. A demonstrably high standard is achieved in this regard, one which often Principle 7: greatly exceeds statutory requirements. Support a precau An analysis of the CO2 footprint over the entire value chain – from the provision of raw mate CO2tionary approach rials, the manufacturing of products at Geberit, logistics and use, right through to disposal – Footprint to environmental reveals that product use (67%) and the provision of raw materials (21%) are by far the larg EC2 challenges. est sources of CO2 emissions.  Manufacture of the products by Geberit accounts for only 3% of total CO2 emissions. In  EN16 absolute terms, CO2 emissions (Scope 1 and 2) decreased by 2.7% to 69,909 metric tons in 2013. The CO2 emissions per sales (currency-adjusted) improved by 6.1%. This confirms  EN18 that Geberit is on track with its long-term CO2 strategy.  Approximately CHF 1.3 million was spent on environmental protection and preventative environmental management in 2013. This involved external consulting services and training,  EN30 external certification and human resources expenditures.  All production plants (with the exception of the new site in India) and logistics are certified according to ISO 14001 and ISO 9001, and the Group certificate is valid until 2015. The an DMA-EN nual preparation of corporate eco-balances has been an established part of Geberit’s environmental strategy since 1991. The absolute environmental impact decreased by 2.1% in  Sustainabi2013. The environmental impact per sales (currency-adjusted) has improved by 5.5%. lity strategy Geberit is thus on track to meet its long-term target of 5% per year.  Geberit places its faith in energy saving and energy efficiency: In addition to the insulation of buildings, important measures include the continuous modernization of the machine fleet,  EN5 increasing the efficiency of production installations, the optimization of cooling systems  EN18 Principle 8: through the use of natural ambient cold (free cooling), the improved use of waste heat (heat Undertake initiarecovery) as well as the careful use of compressed air. Pre-audits were carried out at three tives to promote German plants for implementing the new ISO 50001 standard (energy management). greater environ The share of purchased green electricity increased from 20 GWh to 21 GWh in 2013. In total, mental responsirenewable energy sources accounted for 31.4% of electricity. At the plant in Givisiez (CH), a  EN18 bility. roof area of 3,050 m2 was made available to an energy supplier in 2013 for the installation of a photovoltaic system with annual electricity production of just under 0.5 GWh.  Thanks to savings measures, fresh water consumption has been reduced by just under 40% since 2006 and is leveling out at a constantly low level, with 2013 seeing a reduction of  EN8 3.5%.  Geberit regards eco-design as the key to environmentally friendly products. Beginning with the development process, the most environmentally friendly materials and functional princi EN26 ples are used, risks are minimized and high resource efficiency is pursued. Eco-design is also implemented in product modifications and technology projects. Every new product is to be better than its predecessor with respect to environmental aspects.  The “water footprint” throughout the Geberit value chain shows that nearly 100% of the water  1.2 consumption is attributable to the use of Geberit products by customers. Water-saving solu Water foottions can therefore exert a major impact here: The entire dual-flush and flush-stop “fleet of print Principle 9: cisterns” produced since 1998 has saved around 1,980 million cubic meters of water in 2013. Encourage the  Eight Geberit product groups – a total of over 370 sales products – carry the water efficiency development and label WELL, which enables customers to consciously opt for water-saving products. Seven of diffusion of envi EN26 these eight product groups carry the top A class label and account for around 20% of Group ronmentally sales. This water-efficiency label has been added to packaging and specified in the catalogs friendly technolosince 2013. gies.  Green building is a market of the future experiencing strong growth throughout the world. As  Story Green the leading system provider of sanitary solutions, Geberit is already offering suitable prodBuilding ucts for this purpose. Anti-corruption  As a long-time member of Transparency International Switzerland, Geberit is committed to  DMA-SO high standards in combating corruption. Principle 10:  In 2013, the Internal Audit Department audited a total of 16 companies. This represents  SO2 Work against almost one-third of all Geberit companies. In addition, approximately three to four in-depth corruption in all its  SO4 audits are carried out each year, whereby the audit focus is on the processes of Group-wide forms, including functions (e.g. Purchasing, IT, etc.). No cases of corruption were discovered in 2013. extortion and bribery.  As a rule, Geberit does not make donations to parties or politicians. All donations and related  SO5 commitments are neutral from a party political point of view. This was verified and docu SO6 mented as part of the annual, binding Group-wide survey. Communication on Progress UN Global Compact (COP) on the financial year 2013 2
