United Nations Global Compact Exxaro Resources Communication on Progress 2013 www.exxaro.com 1 Contents Statement of continued support of 3 the United Nations Global Compact Introduction 5 Background 6 Exxaro Exxaro’s business philosophy Exxaro’s approach to sustainability 10 Sustainability achievements Report on Exxaro’s compliance with 13 the 10 UNGC principles 2 Statement of continued support of the United Nations Global Compact Exxaro CEO, Sipho Nkosi has publicised his support for the UNGC Principles on the Exxaro website (www.exxaro.com) “Exxaro Resources is a proud signatory to the United Nations Global Compact and works actively to ensure on-going alignment with the 10 universally accepted principles enshrined in the UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Human rights and labour Policies and training reinforce our commitment Exxaro is one of the mining industry’s leading to internationally proclaimed human rights trainers, investing more than 5% of payroll with regards to discrimination, harassment and annually on employee development initiatives racism. Exxaro complies with South African such as our professionals-in-training programme, legislation and International Labour Organisation leadership development, specific strategies to guidelines with regards to freedom of association accelerate the learning and development of and collective bargaining. Exxaro devotes women and people with disabilities, formal study considerable resources to the health, safety and assistance, adult basic education and learnerships. development of employees and the communities Exxaro’s ownership structure, procurement in which we operate. strategy, employee share scheme, women in We aim for zero injuries and therefore zero mining approach and employment equity strategy fatalities by setting targets to improve safety are also helping to transform South Africa. performance by 30% each year. Awareness campaigns constantly reinforce the message: Environment Safety always, all the way. Exxaro supports a precautionary approach to Exxaro believes that empowering people will help environmental challenges with a wide range grow the company and the nation. Our objective is of policies and guidelines to ensure that all to achieve sustainable development and growth, activities are conducted responsibly with so we focus on areas that are relevant and regards to compliance and natural resource use. strategic to South Africa’s development. We uplift The company is developing and implementing and improve the lives of our host communities; environmentally friendly technologies. we provide and support education initiatives, including learnerships, artisan skills development Operating as we do in a water-stressed region, programmes, HIV/Aids education and awareness we concentrate on optimising water use by programmes, a bursary programme, community reusing and reclaiming contaminated water education, Saturday school programmes, to the fullest possible extent to minimise scholarships and adult literacy and numeracy raw-water abstraction. All our South African education programmes. operations have environmental management 3 programmes, while specific programmes guide The UNGC principles underpin our the implementation of best practice management vision of water, biodiversity, waste, air-quality and rehabilitation issues. When Exxaro was formed in 2006, we committed to creating a company that would make a positive As a coal producer and as an intensive energy sustainable difference to South Africa, both user, Exxaro plays a significant role in the energy economically and socially. This is embodied in our environment in South Africa. Climate change vision: Through our innovation and growth we risks in particular have informed the development will be a powerful source of endless possibilities. of a climate change response strategy. In its drive It is articulated in our belief that everything to become carbon neutral and at the same time we do and deliver today will allow others to thrive in a low-carbon economy, Exxaro in March realise their vision tomorrow. It is embedded in 2012 announced a 50:50 joint venture with The our values: empowered to grow and contribute, Tata Power Company Limited, of India, to form a teamwork, committed to excellence and honest new energy company, Cennergi (Pty) Limited. Our responsibility. new joint venture energy company is focused on generating power for the company and country Our vision, mission and values are all through a mix of renewable and cleaner energy underpinned by the principles of sustainability sources. and our commitment to the UN Global Compact’s principles of human rights, labour, environment Anti-corruption and anti-corruption”. The group has a zero-tolerance approach to corruption, an active Fraud and Ethics committee and is communicating fraud prevention policies to all levels of employees. 4 Introduction Exxaro Resources became a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact in 2007. This was a logical progression in our drive for sustainability, given mutual goals and the focus on universal values. In preparing this report, we drew on Exxaro policies, stakeholder feedback and the group’s annual review for 2013. Exxaro’s integrated report reflects a review of current standards and conventions including the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), UN Global Compact principles, Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development guidelines on multinational enterprises, International Labour Organisation conventions 69 and 176, as well as the UN Declaration of Human Rights in developing material themes. These themes include: • the implementation and maintenance of ethical business practices and sound systems of corporate governance; • the integration of sustainable development considerations in corporate decision-making processes; • the implementation of enterprise-wide risk management strategies based on the company’s material issues and credible data sets; • adherence to fundamental human rights and respect of cultures, customs and values in dealings with stakeholders; • contributing to the social, economic and institutional development of communities near our operations; • implementing effective, sustained and transparent engagement strategies with all stakeholders groups, as well as explicit responsiveness to stakeholder concerns; • striving towards zero harm in all aspects of the business; and • demonstrating understanding of and implementing responses to the business case for sustainability. The group’s progress in implementing Global Compact principles is summarised overleaf. This is an incremental process, with the ultimate aim of measurable annual progress in those principles where we are not already fully supportive. Sustainability Contact: Hanno Olinger, Manager Sustainability Email: hanno.olinger@exxaro.com Fixed: +27 12 307 3359 Mobile: +27 83 609 1094 Fax: +27 12 207 5327 5 Background Majority black-owned Exxaro is one of the largest South Africa-based diversified resources groups, with interests in the coal, titanium dioxide, ferrous and energy markets and current business interests in South Africa, Botswana, the Republic of the Congo, Inner Mongolia and Australia. The company is the second-largest coal producer in South Africa with current production of almost 40 million tonnes per annum (Mtpa), and is listed on the JSE Limited, where it is a constituent of both the Top 40 and Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) indices. At 31 December 2013, Exxaro had assets of R49,5 billion and a market capitalisation of R52 billion (US$5,02 billion). Although our company is just seven years old, our pedigree and wealth of skills stretch back over decades as a company rooted in South Africa and respected among its peers for its innovation, ethics and integrity. 6 Exxaro’s business philosophy Resource-to-market • Invest in energy, metal and mineral resources commodities Exxaro’s business philosophy is a description that generate sustainable economic returns of 1,5 times of the linkages amongst our beliefs of who the cost of capital we are and why we exist, our vision for the • Growth through industrial-application energy, metal and mineral commodities from diverse geographies by using business and how we will achieve our mission our own capabilities and relevant partnerships BUSINESS PHILOSOPHY through our business strategy. • Develop market insights for our products and innovate throughout the value chain for added value and competitive market advantage. Vision VISION, MISSION AND To be a powerful source of endless possibilities (reason for VALUES being). VALUE OF LIFE Mission AR R OU SH ND BE LU E Create value for our stakeholders through innovation and HA VA VI ED EA S passion. CU UE LT AL UR DV AN R OU Values Our values that will guide us in our mission are: OUR GAME PLAN MUTUALITY EMPOWERED HONEST STRATEGY STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT TO GROW AND RESPONSIBILITY RESOURCE TO MARKET ALIGNED COMMUNICATION CONTRIBUTE We speak the truth We develop and use our and are accountable knowledge and ingenuity for our actions. to achieve Exxaro’s vision. TEAMWORK COMMITTED TO EXCELLENCE We succeed together OUR STRATEGY VISION BRAND through a climate of We always strive to Our strategy • Demonstrate responsibility and accountability To be a powerful source of endless possibilities (reason for being). Sustainability means maintaining our reputation. respect and equality. achieve excellence • Develop leadership and people MISSION STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT • Optimise our portfolio Create value for our stakeholders Harness the universal powers for ourselves, others excellence. through innovation and passion. andof accountability • Demonstrate responsibility • Pursue operational and financial our stakeholders in favour of our strategy and objectives and Exxaro. VALUES BRAND through principles of materiality, mission are: and people • Develop leadership Our values that will guide us in our RESOURCE-TO-MARKET • Invest in energy, metal and completeness and responsiveness*. * AccountAbility: AA1000SES. • Empower to grow and contribute: we mineral resources commodities • Optimise our portfolio that generate sustainable develop and use our knowledge and economic returns of 1,5 times the cost of capital ingenuity to achieve Exxaro’s vision • Teamwork: we succeed together Sustainability means maintaining our reputation. • Pursue operational and financial excellence. • Growth through industrialapplication energy, metal and through a climate of respect and equality • Honest responsibility: we speak STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT mineral commodities from the truth and are accountable for diverse geographies by using our actions our own capabilities and relevant partnerships • Committed to excellence: we always strive to achieve excellence for • Develop market insights for Harness the universal powers of our stakeholders in ourselves, others and Exxaro. our products and innovate throughout the value chain for added value and competitive market advantage. favour of our strategy and objectives through principles of materiality, completeness and responsiveness*. * AccountAbility: AA1000SES. 7 Our business strategy Our stakeholders The strategy is complemented by the vision, Our stakeholders are clustered in the following mission and values, and reinforced by recognising categories: the significance of stakeholder engagement • Employees (full-time and contractors) in creating an enabling environment for our business to succeed. Exxaro’s business • Unions philosophy describes the linkages among our • Management and board beliefs of who we are and why we exist, our vision • Government (various departments) for the business and how we will achieve our • Regulators mission through our business strategy. • State-owned entities The strategy is based on a resource-to-market • JSE business model with the intent to invest (invest in • South African Reserve Bank energy, metal and mineral resource commodities • Communities that generate sustainable economic returns of 1,5 times the cost of capital), develop (develop • Shareholders and debt providers market insights for our products and appropriate (empowerment shareholders) technology throughout the value chain for • Investors added value and competitive market advantage), • Anglo American plc and grow extract energy, metal and mineral • Customers and suppliers commodities from diverse geographies by using (supply chain constituents) our own capabilities and relevant partnerships). • Interest groups This strategic intent rests on four strategic • NGOs objectives: • Media • To demonstrate responsibility and accountability to our stakeholders • To optimise our portfolio of investments and operations • To develop the capability of our leadership and people • To continuously seek operational excellence and outstanding financial results. 8 Exxaro’s approach to stakeholder Sustainable development engagement Exxaro acknowledges the five capitals (natural, Exxaro strives to engage with stakeholders in human, social, manufactured and financial) model a transparent and honest manner, and in the as a balanced approach to sustainable growth context of the company’s values. The intention to increase our potential to invest and develop. is to promote two-way engagement so that the Equally, we believe sustainability is an outcome of company and stakeholders understand one our actions it is not a separate objective, but the another. Exxaro’s priority is to focus on engaging foundation for our commitment to our strategic stakeholders on mutually material issues. Since objectives which are, themselves, aligned to the five inception in 2006, Exxaro has developed a sound capitals. system of stakeholder engagement performed by various managers. In 2014, we expect to progress towards the introduction of the AccountAbility AA1000SES stakeholder engagement standard which serves as a benchmark for quality engagement. The guiding principles of the AA1000SES as well as the principles of the following documents shape our stakeholder engagement: • King report on governance for South Africa 2009 (King III) • Global Reporting Initiative guidelines • Companies Act No 71 of 2008, as amended • IIRC reporting framework. 9 Exxaro’s approach to sustainability For Exxaro, sustainability is both a journey and the destination. We recognise that sustainability is an important element in ensuring the future is secured for every one of our stakeholders. The concept of sustainability and implementation of its constituent parts are integral to both our strategy and the way we measure the performance of our people. In implementing our approach to sustainability, Exxaro is guided by the five capitals model which has been tailored to the nature of our business and the needs of our stakeholders. The model uses a tiered approach where successive foundational layers need to be in place to support Exxaro’s strategy and ensure its sustainability. APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Value add Opportunities Gaps Reporting Stakeholders MANUFACTURED Material issues Risks Compliance and governance NATURAL HUMAN SOCIAL FINANCIAL Compliance and governance For Exxaro, sustainability is both Risks and material COMPLIANCE AND issues STAKEHOLDERS a journey and the destination. We GOVERNANCE recognise that sustainability is an Besides internal and external In a tightly regulated industry within aIndeveloping a tightly The regulated next tier to address industry isisrisks risks, it and material important to consider important element in ensuring the democracy, our licence to operate future is secured for every one of is multifaceted within a developing issues. In democracy,practice, this runs stakeholders’in parallel with of perspectives -our extending from corporate governance stakeholders. The concept of ourtolicence socialto operate is compliance our business requirements. and Exxaro’s their risks issues. are sustainability and implementation multifaceted — extending from Our approach to stakeholder and environmental performance. The legal spread across the sustainability spectrum. In engagement is detailed on of its constituent parts are integral corporate governance to social and universe Exxaro operates in has beenenvironmental mapped 2013 Exxaro performance. The successfully page 38. implemented a world to both our strategy (page 10) and over and 2 700 the way legal requirements we measure the govern mining Exxaro legal universe class enterprise operates in risk management process across has been mapped and over 2 700 REPORTING across all economic, social performance of our people. and governance the entire organisation. domains. Good governance underpinslegal In implementing our approach to our requirements govern mining At all levels and across the across all economic, social and sustainability spectrum, Exxaro sustainability. sustainability, Exxaro is guided governance domains. reports on essential indicators to by the five-capitals model — a ensure we reach our goals. Until well-documented sustainability Good governance, as detailed now, these have been guided framework used globally. This on page 60, underpins our by GRI. In future, reported key framework is tailored to the nature sustainability. performance indicators may vary 10 of our business and the needs of annually but all are intended RISKS AND MATERIAL our stakeholders. to measure the most pertinent ISSUES operational matters, risks and Stakeholders Opportunities Besides internal and external risks, it is important To ensure Exxaro’s future economic sustainability, to consider stakeholders’ perspectives of our it is important to identify opportunities to business and their issues. anticipate and create the future in innovative ways. To support this drive Exxaro has a Reporting formalised NEXT programme, among many other initiatives. At all levels and across the sustainability spectrum, Exxaro reports on essential indicators to ensure Value added through the we reach our goals. Until now, these have been sustainability approach guided by GRI. In future, reported key performance indicators may vary annually but all are intended The value added to the business and stakeholders to measure the most pertinent operational differs across the sustainability spectrum, and matters, risks and sustainability indicators. is both quantitative as well as qualitative. We add value because our sustainability approach Gaps extends beyond maintaining the organisation to development through growth, and playing a When gaps in Exxaro’s compliance targets, risks responsible role in society. Compliance to both and material issues, and stakeholder issues have the mining charter and Department of Trade been identified, it is imperative to close those and Industry (DTI) codes enables Exxaro to add gaps. A comprehensive combined assurance value, using a bottom-up approach to developing framework that collates all issues emanating from opportunities for empowerment. level 1, 2 and 3 audit findings was implemented in 2013. • Published assessment of state of risk BOARD management and internal controls on recommendations of audit committee • Responsible for ensuring 1st line of defence is effective. Written assessment on the state of risk management from SUSTAINABILITY, GM GRC AUDIT EXECUTIVE RISK AND • Approval of the combined COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMPLIANCE • Approval of ERM plan and risk assurance scope and COMMITTEE profiles. coverage. • Recommendations to audit • Monitoring and consideration committee on combined assurance of assurance provided. plan scope and coverage. • Consideration of assurance provided GENERAL (liaison with audit committee to MANAGER: cover overlaps and gaps) GOVERNANCE, RISK AND COMPLIANCE ENTERPRISE INTERNAL RISK COMPLIANCE AUDIT MANAGEMENT Forum representatives • Legal COMBINED • Safety, health and environmental ASSURANCE FORUM • Information management • Technology • Commodity representatives • Company secretary • Marketing and logistics • Risk control • Human resources • Supply chain management • Projects 11 Recent achievements 1. Exxaro Resources was included in the 2013 4. In January 2013 Exxaro was named the seventhglobal S&P Dow Jones Sustainability Indices. best company in the world for delivering the 2. Exxaro won the Institute of Risk Management highest returns to shareholders over a 10-year South Africa award for best Risk Information period, according to the Boston Consulting System implementation in October 2013. Group’s Value Creation in Mining 2012 report. 3. In August 2013, Exxaro was recognised with 5. Exxaro won second place in the mining category, the 2013 Frost & Sullivan Visionary Innovation and 7th place in the large business category, Award for outstanding achievement and earning it a Standard of Excellence Award in the superior performance in areas such as 2012 Deloitte Best Company to Work For survey. leadership, technological innovation, customer 6. Exxaro achieved a top score of 100 points on the service and strategic product development. Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) of the 2012 Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). Additional information can be obtained from Exxaro’s annual Integrated Report located at www.exxaro.com 12 Report on Exxaro’s compliance with the 10 UNGC Principles Human Rights Labour Principle 1: Principle 3: Businesses should support and respect the Businesses should uphold the freedom of protection of internationally proclaimed human association and the effective recognition of the rights. right to collective bargaining Exxaro subscribes to the Bill of Rights enshrined As a responsible corporate citizen, Exxaro in the South African Constitution which, amongst complies with all labour legislation in South other things, prohibits human rights abuses in Africa and with International Labour Organisation all forms. Labour legislation serves as a broad guidelines and encourages freedom of association framework within which employee relations and collective bargaining as outlined in the UN policies, systems and procedures are developed Global Compact. Almost 73% of our employees and in terms of which employees are managed are represented by affiliated unions, primarily (individually and collectively) in Exxaro. Induction the National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) (59%) programmes to educate employees about their and Solidarity (13%). Exxaro concentrates on human rights are in place, as are policies on maintaining sound relations with employees in discrimination, harassment and racism. There are bargaining units through ongoing engagement also workplace structures to protect employees’ with employee representatives via established human rights. Security personnel are fully forums. Negotiations for wages and conditions trained on human rights issues relevant to each of employment are conducted through these and operation. other in-house forums and the Chamber of Mines. Principle 2: Principle 4: Businesses should make sure that they are not Businesses should uphold the elimination of all complicit in human rights abuses. forms of forced and compulsory labour. Diversity training and awareness programmes Exxaro’s Labour and Human Rights Policy states are ongoing throughout Exxaro. Exxaro’s that “Subject to the provisions of the Constitution disciplinary codes are based on the principle of the Republic of South Africa, the Company of fairness as required by labour law, and will not cause, demand or impose forced labour supervisors have the skill to implement the on any other person”. Exxaro complies with the codes. To date Exxaro has not been complicit in Basic Conditions of Employment Act and other the violation of any human rights. legislation with regards to employment conditions and remuneration. No employee is forced to provide services against his/her will. 13 Principle 5: in engineering and mining at universities are Businesses should uphold the effective abolition women and 30% of the intake to learnerships of child labour. and skills programmes comprises women. As a responsible corporate citizen, Exxaro Environment complies with all labour legislation in South Africa and with International Labour Organisation Principle 7: guidelines which prohibit child labour, and ensures Businesses should support a precautionary child labour is not tolerated. No children are in approach to environmental challenges. the employ of Exxaro. The table below shows the breakdown of employees by age: South African mining companies are heavily regulated. Receiving, converting and retaining Ages (Years) Management Non all mining rights centres on compliance. To & Specialist Management ensure we continue to meet legal requirements as a minimum, compliance across Exxaro is 2013 2013 monitored by two board-mandated entities: the < 18 0 0 sustainability, risk and compliance committee 18 25 88 390 as well as the social and ethics committee (see 26 35 570 2038 governance diagram on page 11). 36 45 574 1488 Sustainable development issues are central to 46 – 55 425 1616 our business, particularly the use of natural 56-65 170 622 resources like water, air, biodiversity and land. Total 1638 6147 For Exxaro, responsible use means: • ensuring all activities are properly authorised; • using energy and water as efficiently as Principle 6: possible; and Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and • ensuring activities are conducted responsibly occupation. from the twin perspectives of compliance and natural resource use. Exxaro is ﬁrmly committed to the concept and An extract from Exxaro’s Safety, Health, practice of equal opportunity, irrespective of Environment and Community and Development race, religion, gender, health status, sexual (SSD) Policy states that “Exxaro commits to preference or nationality. Our employment policy complying with all applicable SHE legislation is in line with the South African Constitution and international obligations as a minimum which specifically prohibits any form of requirement and implementing effective discrimination. Moreover, our values guide the company standards, programmes and processes way we do business, and discrimination on to manage risks”. any grounds is not acceptable. Managers and supervisors are continuously trained on the All Exxaro’s business units have ISO 14001 appropriate application of disciplinary measures accreditation, reﬂecting the global industry should the need arise. Policies on discrimination, standards in place to minimise environmental harassment and racism are in place, as are impacts. structures to protect employees’ human rights in All our South African operations have the workplace. environmental management programmes Attracting women to work in the group‘s core (EMPs) as required under the Mineral and business of mining is a challenge and this Petroleum Resources Development Act (MPRDA) remains a focus area for Exxaro. Currently, 18% and the National Environmental Management of our workforce comprises women, the highest Act (NEMA). These EMPs are key indicators such figure in our industry, and we continue to in ensuring Exxaro remains a sustainable attract women through our talent pipelines. Just business. Exxaro also adopts the precautionary under 40% of young professionals-in-training principle entrenched in NEMA in evaluating the (PITs) are women, 27% of our full-time bursars environmental impacts of business opportunities. 14 Comprehensive group standards have enhanced Biodiversity the implementation of legal requirements and sustainable use of natural resources. These Our vision is to conserve biodiversity for include management standards for air quality, future generations through the sustainable water, energy, rehabilitation and mine closure, coexistence of our mining operations and the and environmental incident management and country’s natural resources. In addition to reporting. complying with legislation and best practice, Principle 8: we aim to develop a competitive advantage Business should undertake initiatives to through conservancy and re-establishing promote greater environmental responsibility. resilient ecosystems that underscore Exxaro’s commitment to entrench duty-of-care Exxaro focuses on conserving natural resources principles. and reducing the burden of pollutants on the environment by: In 2012, we developed the strategy and framework to reach our goals, and compiled • minimising the use of natural resources; baseline reports and biodiversity action plans for • complying with all statutory environmental most business units. A draft wetland policy and requirements as a minimum; management standard is to be aligned with best • actively participating in voluntary practice guidelines and the regulatory wetland environmental benchmarks such as the global offset guideline. However, the general principles carbon and water disclosure projects, among of the wetland offset guideline (as it stands) were others; and considered in our proposed projects. As example, • developing innovative policies and programmes the proposed Belfast project’s mine layout for addressing environmental impacts and use plan was adapted to avoid impacts on sensitive of natural resources. hillslope wetland and pans through consist interaction, inputs and liaison with DWA. Air quality Performance reviews against biodiversity action As a mining group, air quality (particularly of plans will begin in June 2014. Our detailed dust from open cast operations), is a risk to management standard (referred to above) guides Exxaro on several levels. Accordingly, we focus business units in implementing group policy, on minimising the impact on the receiving aiming to: environment, full legislative compliance, air • ensure a cost-effective integrated approach to quality management planning, risk management biodiversity management; and monitoring, measurement and reporting. Management measures include applying dust• be environmentally responsible in protecting suppressant agents on haul roads, watering and managing biodiversity; and secondary unpaved operational roads, vegetating • be ecologically sustainable by ensuring topsoil stockpiles and overburden material. biodiversity-rich areas are contained within Daily monitoring of dust fallout rates produces mining right areas, to manage and monitor results which are assessed against national dust protected and threatened Red Data species, control regulations. Although our operations are and control declared category 1, 2 and 3 classiﬁed under industrial targets according to invasive plants. new regulations, some are close to residential Wetland mapping and baseline assessments for areas. all business units (bar one) have been completed As such, we track our compliance against the to facilitate consideration of biodiversity-sensitive more stringent residential limit (600mg/m2/ areas as part of our business and mine-planning day) instead of the industrial limit(1 200mg/ decisions. While Exxaro is not yet able to quantify m2/day) to minimise the impact on residents. its impact in protected sites or areas of high Comparing Exxaro’s dust fallout rate against the biodiversity value, new industry guidelines were regulated industrial limit (1 200mg/m2/day), our used in 2013 to update areas of high biodiversity averaged coal operations exceeded the limit for value for all business units. three months in 2013. Four sites exceeded the residential limit in 2013. 15 Environmental rehabilitation Energy consumption Exxaro’s cradle-to-grave approach integrates Total energy consumed reduced by our operational activities from the planning and 2,1 % in 2013 to 4,2 peta-joules. feasibility stages of a mining project to post The bulk of savings came from reductions in closure. Environmental risks are monitored until diesel use, where energy consumed dropped by mine closure is obtained. over 4%. Our goal is to budget for and schedule ongoing Energy sourced from electricity increased by rehabilitation aligned with individual mining 1,2% in 2013, mostly due to expansion activities plans. Integral to this process is minimising at Grootegeluk. In 2013, Exxaro’s coal operations any negative impacts on affected parties or the focused on reducing energy consumption. environment, and communicating rehabilitation actions via established forums. Diesel was the most significant energy source in these operations, consuming 2,1 million GJ of Financial liabilities for mine closure are energy, notably ahead of the 1,9 million GJ of satisfactorily provided for under the Exxaro energy from electricity consumed in 2013. Environmental Rehabilitation Trust Fund (EERF) and financial guarantees issued in favour of the Department of Mineral Resources (DMR), which is Greenhouse gas emissions also updated annually on Exxaro’s environmental rehabilitation liabilities. Eskom and Exxaro have Following a notable reduction in carbon and other established an environmental rehabilitation trust greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from 2010 to for the Matla and Arnot captive mines. Although 2012, Exxaro remains committed to reducing its the fund contribution mechanism is not yet finalised carbon footprint. between the two parties, we expect this finalisation Specific energy-intensity improvement targets and first contributions to be made in 2014. were set for each operation in 2013 and will In terms of rehabilitation and mine closure, form part of remuneration-linked performance business units report quarterly on set indicators, contracts from 2014. Further absolute while environmental risk assessments are emission reductions are expected from these conducted five years before closure. At December initiatives. 2013, total land disturbed was was 9 452ha and Exxaro continues to report its carbon emissions total rehabilitated 1 725ha. The EERF provides for through the Carbon Disclosure Project South most liabilities, while additional bank guarantees Africa (CDP-SA). Exxaro has participated in the are taken out to provide for new developments and CDP since 2006. A highlight was achieving a cover any shortfalls in financial provisions. 16 Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index score of 100 plans, reuse and recycling methodologies. in 2012. Our continued leadership in the CDP An aspirational target of reducing the use of potable underscores our efforts on carbon efficiency, water by 5% across all business units remained in partly aimed at reducing the potential impact of place in 2013. Exxaro is also committed to protecting proposed carbon tax. and improving water quality by ensuring the water we discharge is of the same or better quality than Exxaro bases its accounting and reporting for we withdraw. GHG emissions on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Energy consumption and GHG emissions were reGroup-wide water conservation plans aligned stated by the group in 2013 following divestment to the national water management strategy are and discontinuation activities. expected to be finalised in the first quarter of 2015. Supporting our long-term water management In 2013, Exxaro reduced scope 1 emissions by strategy are two water treatment plants planned 31,8% while scope 2 emissions were flat on for operations at two operations in the Mpumalanga 2012 in absolute terms (ie no adjustments are province, with total capacity to treat 11,5 mega-litres made for divestments and discontinuations in per day. the reporting period). This equates to a 7,5% reduction in scope 1 and 2 emissions combined Innovative passive water treatment systems over the period. Scope 3 emissions, reported are being evaluated by our R&D department in for the first time in 2012, are defined as being collaboration with a local university as a long-term outside Exxaro’s control as they occur when solution to water management, including postproducts we sell are consumed by customers or closure. Exxaro is also collaborating with other from other indirect activities. In line with GHG mining houses through local research institutions reporting guidelines, which require adjusting for on a project to develop and implement appropriate divestments and discontinuations to baseline technology to deal with waste from planned water periods, Exxaro reduced scope 1 emissions by treatment plants. 3,9% and slightly increased scope 2 emissions Exxaro monitors water use and reports according by 1,2% in 2013 against 2012. This resulted in a to JSE SRI reporting categories, in turn aligned to reduction of 0,4% for combined scope 1 and 2 definitions and environmental categories within the emissions. GRI’s mining and minerals sector guidelines. While the accuracy of water measurement, monitoring Water management and reporting has improved significantly since 2011, on-site operational challenges remain. Significant Exxaro understands that water is a key strategic progress was made in 2013 to improve metering natural resource for South Africa. We use a and measurement of dewatering and rainwater holistic management strategy to conserve water catchment volumetric data specifically (detailed on and manage related risks, minimise impacts, our website). and operate efficiently through waterreduction 17 Exxaro continues to report on its water use and In terms of our strategy, we are actively management through the Carbon Disclosure participating in renewable energy initiatives, Project South Africa Water Programme (CDPboth to ensure security of supply for our own Water), where we are one of the leaders on operations and to reduce our carbon footprint. disclosure. Cennergi Proprietary Limited, our joint venture Exxaro reduced water withdrawals by 33% in with Tata Power, launched in 2012, achieved 2013, largely after divesting of our mineral sands financial closure on two wind projects in the operations in the prior year. In our coal operations, Eastern Cape with commissioning planned for ongoing management initiatives reduced water 2016: extraction significantly in 2012 and 2013 from • Amakhala Emoyeni wind farm near Bedford previous years. While this improving trend is (139MW) generally maintained compared to the pre-2012 period, there was a slight increase in overall water • Tsitsikamma Community wind farm on Mfengu extraction in 2013 versus 2012. community land (95MW). As part of each project, Cennergi and its partners Principle 9: have developed detailed and consultative plans Business should encourage the development and for community development. diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Exxaro encourages innovative technologies to During the review period, Exxaro announced a reduce environmental impacts, reuse and recycling coal supply and off take agreement for a 600MW of waste. coal-fired power plant in Limpopo with France’s GDF SUEZ, a global leader in independent power Noteworthy electricity optimising projects production. This marks Exxaro’s entry to the initiated at Grootegeluk in 2013 include the independent power producer market. implementation of energy-saving variable speeddrives (VSD) on conveyors in its discard system Exxaro has also partnered with Linc Energy and the Grootegeluk 2 plant which allow power Limited to develop energy solutions through adjustments depending on belt loading and underground coal gasification in sub-Saharan reduced start-up and loading times. Expected Africa, with a prefeasibility study to begin in 2015. energy savings are 20-25% in absolute electricity Construction of a co-generation plant at use and 25-40% in operational efficiency. This Namakwa Sands, on South Africa’s west coast, approach is being reviewed for implementation has been completed and is managed by Tronox at other operations within Grootegeluk and other Limited. We believe co-generation is an important business units. alternative energy supply in our country. 18 Anti-corruption • fraud and corruption risk assessments: although such risks form part of the holistic Principle 10: risk assessment process, a specific fraud and Businesses should work against all forms of corruption risk assessment process is still corruption, including extortion and bribery. under investigation. Exxaro remains committed to the highest Incidents of unethical behaviour standards of honesty, integrity and fairness. Ethics processes and policies are managed either At Exxaro, reports of alleged unethical behaviour by the general manager: governance, risk and are received through an anonymous reporting compliance or the group company secretary. hotline and other mechanisms. All reports The following policies are regularly reviewed: are periodically reviewed by the Exxaro ethics • Code of ethics committee and referred either for forensic investigation or to functional heads to be • Whistle blowing investigated. In 2013, 400 cases of alleged • Conflict of interests unethical behaviour (2012: 272) were reported • Fraud investigation for investigation, 45 of these via the ethics line • Fraud prevention (2012: 43). In total, 393 people were subjected • Fraud response to disciplinary hearings arising from the cases reported, with 132 arrests made by the South • Gifts and benefits from suppliers African Police Services (SAPS) for criminal The group’s ethics processes are managed by the prosecution based on the results of investigations ethics committee, which comprises executives, referred to them (2012: 60). The direct monetary representatives of internal audit and the chief value of cases reported and investigated was R11 audit executive. Chaired by the chief audit 497 926 (2012: R8 632 026) with R8 861 563 executive, it meets either monthly or as required being recovered/saved due to the investigations. to consider issues of noncompliance to the group The types of fraud investigated included: code of ethics or conflicts of interest policy, as well as matters reported on the ethics hotline or • fraudulently changing bank accounts; to management. • tender fraud; The following items from the anti-fraud, • accepting bribes and favours for contracts; corruption and bribery risk management strategy • misusing position; are still in process and will continue to receive • conflicts of interest; attention in 2014: • irregularities with appointments of employees; • improving detection capabilities and surprise and audits by implementing process control; • unsafe working procedure or failure to report • an anti-fraud and corruption awareness safety incidents. campaign: certain steps were taken, but this will continue in 2014; and 19
