Un Global Compact Communication on Progress RØRBÆK MØLLER OG RØRBÆK OG MØLLER ARKITEKTER APS About Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter At Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter we work in this area, and take part in developmental in order to influence and develop the built projects concerning, for example energy environment. Our projects and buildings shall renovation and Cradle 2 Cradle building. offer daily joy and inspiration, both now and in the future, while working in harmony with their Throughout the last year one of our architects surroundings and history of which they are a have taken the education as DGNB consultants part. We work hard to maintain a sustainable (certification system for sustainable building), growth, all the while developing our project and the running project “Rødovre VUC” is competencies, as well as establishing strategic projected according to the DGNB-certification partnerships, both inside and outside Denmark. system. We are just now one of five teams compeeting for the prestigious “The Development Copenhagen Climate Block”. Innovation, by its broadest definition, is a central tenet of the firm. It is of great Trust importance that every member of staff is part Mutual trust between a client and us as a of a professional environment that works on company is a central element of our success development and improvement in relation to through more than 60 years. Many of our changes in the society and the profession. projects are completed for clients with whom Our core skills within planning and building we have, over many years, developed a very are constantly being improved, through close partnership. As well as demanding high a continued systematic evaluation of our standards in building and building technique, work. Responsibility for strategic skills within we concentrate on speedy and effective intelligent design, building, and material decision making processes. We are very aware techniques, as well as sustainability, is of the responsibility controlling budgets involve handled by individuals that ensure this and offer the creative and visionary sparring our knowledge is an integral part of any project clients are entitled to. group. We are, over and above this, extremely involved in employing new, young, talented staff Qualified staff of where they can gain experience, and utilize Rørbæk og Møller are a core group of skilled, us as a learning platform. experienced staff that ensure quality and continuity in the services we offer. The staff Sustainability make up is balanced around a range of The latest knowledge within sustainability is professional experience levels, and project integrated into all our projects. Our staff is groups are composed in reference to the aware that the architectonic essentials have skill sets our clients request. As well as our a fundamental influence on sustainability in regular staff, we can also draw on a network building. Key members of staff ensure the firm of freelance staff that ensures flexibility in the is up to speed with the latest developments staffing of our projects. Communiction in Progress 2014 2 Statement of continued support December 3. 2014 Dear Mr. Secretary-General Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter ApS joined the Global Compact in October 2009 because we believe that a joint corporate social responsibility is vital to ensure better conditions for all. Therefore, we hereby express our continued support to the United Nations Global Compact initiative, and we are pleased to hand in our fourth COP Report. We have addressed all 10 principles, but our main emphasis is on principles 7, 8 and 9. When designing buildings, we make an effort to incorporate the most environmentally friendly solutions in order to create holistic buildings that consider both indoor climate, environment, sustainability, and energy consumption. All of which link to the architectural quality of the building, as well as the general function. Please find the relevant information in the attached references. We also make a great effort to transform existing buildings for future use by incorporating sustainable solutions, and thereby utilising the massive resources represented in the existing buildings, and offsetting the huge amount of resources required to replace them. Throughout the last year, three of our architects have taken the education as DGNB (Certification System for Sustainable Building) consultants, and the running projects ‘Skovskolen in Nødebo’ plus ‘The Rødovre VUC’ are projected according to the DGNB-certification system. Just now, Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter are runners up competing as one of five teams, to design the prestigious ‘Klima Karéen’ (The Copenhagen Climate Block). The 2014 COP, further contains increases in our engagement with Corporate Social Responsibility: Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter has recently joined Foreningen for Byggeriets Samfundsansvar, a society campaigning for members to take a stand as active partners of The Danish Building Society in a sustainable society. The charter builds on the same principles as the UN Global Compact Charter. Concerning the financial agenda, it has been decided that the company policy is to make the annual financial report widely accessible, and thus, we have improved it for complete transparency for both the well-informed public and for others with a special interest. Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter are proud to be part of the Global Compact initiative and are committed to continue working with and promoting the ten principles. With kind regards, Sincerely yours Nicolai Overgaard Anders Wesley Hansen CEO Partner Communiction in Progress 2014 3 Human rights Principles A major part of our staff works with accessibility on a daily basis as most of our projects have 1 Businesses should support and respect to live up to strict accessibility standards as the protection of internationally proclaimed defined by UN’s Convention on the Rights of human rights. Persons with Disabilities. One employee has attended relevant courses/seminars in order 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in to keep our practise updated on the latest human rights abuse. accessibility measures. Our Commitment Future Actions Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter supports the We will continue to respect and uphold the United Nations Universal Declaration of human rights principles. Human Rights. Accessibility for all will continuously have Actions taken our focus, and we will make sure our staff is We operate in Denmark and comply with the updated on the latest accessibility measures. Danish National Legislation, which meets the international conventions. Communiction in Progress 2014 4 Labour Principles When we hire a new employee his/her workplace is checked by an occupational therapist to 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of minimize the risk of occupational injuries. association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. A number of our employes have taken further education in precaution in the building projects to 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and assure the safest working environment at the site. compulsory labour. Rørbæk og Møller Arkiteker do not employ 5 The effective abolition of child labour children under age. 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect We use a job appraisal review tool that ensures of employment and occupation. that all employees get a professional job appraisal review and a development plan. The Our Commitment tool facilitates the review and the follow-up Rørbæk og Møller supports the International process. The reviews are held once a year. Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Future actions We intend to keep up with all our good Actions taken intensions. We employ working environment At Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter we respect all coordinators. They secure that our projects employees right to enter into associations and are built under best practice together with the recognize the right to collective bargaining. responsible staff. Accordingly, the coordinators take care of security and health. All employees have individual contracts stating terms, conditions of service and notice of leave. Most of our building Projects are carried out according to the ILD-conventions. Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter gives equal opportunities to all present and future New membership of “Foreningen for Byggeriets employees, regardless of gender, age, race, Samfundsansvar”. religion, nationality, ethnic and social origin, disability, political or sexual orientation and Contractors are legally obliged to employ a certain family status. amount of apprentices as part of the general conditions for public construction projects. Communiction in Progress 2014 5 ENVIRONMENT Principles Actions taken 7 Business should support a precautionary Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter make proactive approach to environmental challenges. efforts to minimize the environmental effects of our building projects and in the daily operation 8 Business should undertake initiatives of our two offices. to promote greater environmental responsibility. In terms of our building projects we implemented an environmental policy almost 9 Business should encourage the 20 years ago, and we make an effort to advise development and diffusion of our clients to choose environmentally friendly environmentally friendly technologies. solutions instead of standard solutions. Not all environmentally friendly solutions are feasible, Our Commitment but we aim at setting new standards regarding Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter support The Rio sustainable architecture. Therefore, a group of Declaration on Environment and Development. three employees are continuously retrained and oversee all projects to guarantee a continuous At Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter we believe that development of our firm within this area. quality architecture and sustainability are two sides of the same coin. One does not work Rørbæk and Møller Architects latest large without the other. construktion, various projects at DTU, Technical University of Denmark, are all projected Buildings in the future require a strong according to the 2015 Buildingprocedure with sustainability strategy. But most important of all extra high standards on low energi. is to have a holistic perspective on the human being in the centre, because we make buildings We have made several transformation projects for people. What makes the building usable and in the year that has passed where we have durable and thereby sustainable is the indoor successfully incorporated sustainable solutions, climate, the indoor environment, the outdoor for example laboratories for Geogenetics, study environment, the daylight, the architectural facilities for the Farmaceutical Institute of The design, the social relations, the energy flow and University of Copenhagen, Gefion Gymnasium. functionality. Transformation is an area we are very interested in because it possible to incorporate Through general building approaches such as sustainable solutions and thereby utilising the location and orientation of the building, use massive resources represented in existing of daylight, reducing material consumption, buildings, and offsetting the huge amount money and time, we are making energy resources it requires to replace them. saving architecture by using simple classical architectural principles. Due to our interest in environmentally friendly projects, we have ventured into the ESCO In order to meet the present environmental area together with a contractor, and have just challenges we constantly have to keep been shortlisted to participate in two ESCO ourselves up to date with the latest tenders. ESCO is an ”energy service company” technologies within the building industry. that plans and executes energy-efficient savings. The idea is to make improvements and investments in the building mass that are financed by the gained energy savings. It is a fast growing area in Denmark. Communiction in Progress 2014 6 Archiving digitally is now standard on all new Future Actions projects in the office, and it has reduced our Internally in the office we will work on reducing paper consumption significantly. our energy consumption by using less electricity, using less paper per employee and go through The studio/office has lately split up in minor our office supplies to see if we can substitute units in order to assure the employes the some of them with more environmentally shortest and most Eco-frinedly transport and friendly ones. reduce transportation by car. Futhermore we are close to our clients so it is posiible to walk, All the bulbs have throughout the last year been bike and use public transportation to and from changed to low energi light bulbs. meetings/building sites etc. We have implementing green printing and Furthermore, half of our staff still cycle to work, copying solutions using, as far as possible, and once again we participated in the public recycled paper. campaign “We cycle to work”. Our company is in the process of relocating from two to a single location. Communiction in Progress 2014 7 Examples of Energy-efficient Projects DTU Life Science & Bioengineering rooms. The building contains a large amount of GMO 2, BSL 2 and BSL 3 facilities. Client : DTU, Technical University of DK Scientists and students from the three instituts Location : Lyngby Denmark kan futhermore welcome that they will move Year : During the design into a building that works as a social dynamo. Area : 38.800 m2 The purpose is to create synergy between the three instituts through a vital environment Oceanographers, Food Scientists and that promotes the formation of networks both Veterinary Researchers can look foreward internal and across the research areas. to move into new facilties, when DTU brings AQUA, the Food Institute and the Vetenarian Furthermore the new buillding will contribute Institute together at Lyngby Campus in the new to minimize DTU’s climateand environmental building for Life Science and Bioengineering. impact and is a “State of the Art” exampel of sustainable construction. The purpose with the construction is to create a research area of international standard the Rørbæk and Møller Architects latest large building consist mainly of laboratories and construktion, various projects at DTU, Technical resarch offices. Furthermore the building University of Denmark, are all projected houses Pharmacological Pilot Plant plus wet according to the 2015 Buildingprocedure with and dry animal stables with associated section extra high standards on low energi. Communiction in Progress 2014 8 Examples of Energy-efficient Projects DTU Agora The project is designed according to the DGNB system that is characterized by looking Client : DTU, Technical University of DK at all the sustainable aspects both social, Location : Lyngby Denmark economical and environmental, which means that both low energi consumption, materials, Year : 2014 2015 indoor environment, art and comfort are Area : 2.865 m2 (reconstruction) thought into the project. 1.848 m2 (new building) The project is placed in a new building between three existing buildings and will in that way The aim with the project is to create a setting be the natural meetingpoint for the three for partly unique experimental facilities in sections that AGORA is a part of. The new PowerlabDK with a dynamic and open place building includes two large study rooms for for teamwork among researchers, students experimantal education and two large labs, all and engineers, and partly, in synergy with with large glass parts so that the research and this, an ambitious place for learning at a education are visible and present. topprofessionel and competitive level. Communiction in Progress 2014 9 Examples of Energy-efficient Projects N. Zahles Gymnasium – Expansion Client : N. Zahles Skoler Location : Nørre Voldgade, Copenhagen Year : 2010 2012 Area : 1.000 m2 Rørbæk og Møller Architects have been responsible of the expansion of N. Zahles Gymnasium that was opened in April 2012. The expansion makes through its design and characteristic exterior sunscreen made of aluminum a beautiful and receptive framework for the High Schools daily work. With a new expansion on the roof of the main building near Nørreport Station the high school has taken a step towards new and updated teaching facilities in a visionary and sustainable building. The annex contains classrooms, study area, canteen and a common rooftop terrace from where you have a total view of Copenhagen. Through several passive actions, partly by urban densification and by building on the roof of an exciting building where the loss of energy is biggest, and partly by isolating the new annex, the high school reduces the total use of energy considerably. Rørbæk og Møller Architects have recently received the ALU Prize 2012 for the expansion of N. Zahles Gymnasieskole. The prize is assigned in recognition of “Intelligent and innovative use of aluminum that promotes sustainable construction in 2012” Communiction in Progress 2014 10 Examples of Energy-efficient Projects Skovskolen, nødebo, DK of educationand common stay. A building where the professionel preoccupation is in the Client : Faculty of Life Sciences center through teaching facilities and access to University of Copenhagen knowledge and inspiration. Location : Nødebovej 77A Furthermore a new wing for students 3480 Fredensborg stayingover night for one or more nights is being established. The building has Year : 2012 2016 effortless accessibility and the simple spirit At Skovskolen various educations witin that characterizes the other studenthouses forestry, landscaping, garden and park area are at Skovskolen will be passed on to the new implemented and developed. A new building for buildings main concept. There will be focused education is meant to support both guidance on integration of sustainability in use of long of each student as well as the traditional life materials, few requirements to maintanence studies both in groups and selfstudies. The and reduction of heat loss. Fresh air, natural vision is to create a building for education ventilation and optimized use of natural light are where students and teachers can meet, work also fundamental parameters in the design of and reside through out the year both night the new building. and day and move smoothly between the use Communiction in Progress 2014 11 Examples of Energy-efficient Projects Københavns Åbne Gymnasium Client : Københavns Åbne Gymnasium Location : 133 Sjælør Boulevard, Valby Year : 2013-2014 Type : Educational building Area : 1000 m2 Through renovation and extension, the beautiful school buildings by Danish architect Eske Kristensen (1905-2000), that comprise the high school Københavns Åbne Gymnasium, there has been established new learning facilities, bringing it completely up to date. The new updated building now supports contemporary educational methods in a creative and innovative learning environment. The redesigned Københavns Åbne Gymnasium, gives more room for absorption, education, and the various social activities that help secure students’ growth and development. The new extension functions as a connecting building on two floors. It consists of a new multi-functional space, the ‘heart’ of the high school. It is an aesthetically pleasing space with unique daylighting. The double height room acts as both foyer and flexible learning area and can support group work, workshops, cafés and lounges. The design of the connecting building also allows hosting of parties and other large social functions. In the high-ceilinged, transparent multifunctional room, the visitor will also experience close contact with the exterior spaces. In the existing main building, the canteen, kitchen, teachers’ rooms, a library, and classrooms were all renovated or rebuilt as part of this project. Communiction in Progress 2014 12 Examples of Energy-efficient Projects Lindevangskolen The atrium constitutes the ’heart’ of the functional communal area, around which Client : The Frederiksberg Municipality the classrooms and the open squares are Location : Frederiksberg organized. Every floor contains a square, as Greater Copenhagen part of the open common area, with a capacity for both breaks/ interim stays and play, as well Year : 2014-2016 (Project in progress) as more educational functions. There is visual Type : Sustainable School Building contact between all the squares that share the atrium. The atrium is itself a comparatively Area : 1300 m2 intimate space, easily decoded and with plenty of daylight, thereby inviting to social gatherings The project comprises the establishing of a and play. This also gives schoolchildren the new wing to the Lindevangsskole with inspiring opportunity to meet in an informal environment facilities for a combined pre-school section, cutting across grades and year. As stated, and junior school/after school facilities (for the atrium is the ‘heart’ of the preschool schoolchildren from grades 0-3. The existing and primary section, helping young children school buildings at Lindevangsskolen are under mentally and socially begin their education . a preservation order. This building is a ‘best practice’ example of The building is constructed around an atrium sustainable building. which opens to direct views and access to the schoolyard, in addition to a magnificent outlook towards the West and the Lindevang Park. Communiction in Progress 2014 13 Examples of Energy-efficient Projects The Rødovre VUC The Rødovre VUC is a sustainable development, planned as both an open Client : Rødovre VUC educational workspace, and as an active part Location : Åmarksvej 1, Rødovre of the streetscape with an open, inviting ground floor, housing public functions – supplemented Year : 2013 2014 by a large roof garden. Type : Sustainable building The building is designed to create a functional, Area : 2265 m2 gross flexible, and sustainable environment. It integrates a number of sustainable First Prize in Architectural Competition functions, such as reusable building materials manufactured using minimal resources, The Rødovre VUC is a building complex that, optimized biodiversity in its outdoor spaces, with its proximity to the new recycling centre temperature control through thermal mass at Sydhavnen in Copenhagen, deals with elements, natural ventilation and green roofs architectural sustainability on a macro scale, and terraces to aid rainwater retention. as well as the relationship between public and private space, and the challenges faced The building qualifies for DGNB-Bronze in establishing green roofs and terraces with certification. optimal growth conditions for planting. Communiction in Progress 2014 14 Examples of Energy-efficient Projects The Albertslund Canal Area adventurous transition from landscape to dense city, where everybody, young and old is Client : Faculty of Life Sciences invited to take a short break or take part in an University of Copenhagen activity. New meeting places along the canal Location : Nødebovej 77A ensure that the local environment and the social coherence remain strong. The project also 3480 Fredensborg contributes towards rainwater collection, which Year : During the design is diverted through the canal and the LARsolutions. Furthermore, the overall planning Rørbæk and Møller Architects have been, involves solutions that, through new planting, together with Schul Landscape Architects, purify the canal. managing the organization for the proposal In relation to this commission, and in reference describing how the Albertslund Canal Area can to The Copenhagen Climate Block, the be revitalized through sustainable growth, and Albertslund Canal is an example of how the tell the story of a unique relationship between existing housing areas’ outdoor facilities can the existing building mass and green areas in revitalize and make the environment attractive the municipality. for the inhabitants, while, at the same time, The city space along the existing canal will stimulating city living, solely through the use of hereby be transformed into a varied and sustainable methods. Communiction in Progress 2014 15 Examples of Energy-efficient Projects Kongsholmcentret/ existing courtyards are to be covered, opening The Kongsholm Centre up for new spatial and circulative possibilities, Client : The Municipality of Albertslund creating a network of informal meeting and social gathering areas which can also be Location : Albertslund used by the educational institutions therein. The remaining courtyards are redesigned as Year : 2013 inspiring green public areas with LAR solutions. The building extension is a sustainable, Type : A Sustainable, low-energy construction designed as a multiEnergy Efficient Building function space that opens out to the newly established square for students. An integral development of The Kongsholm Centre in Albertslund. Through close collaboration between the client and the users, the project has promoted a The Kongsholm Centre is a late-modern block new design and a common vision, to create building in Albertslund, which today houses innovative and inspiring facilities for learning, the local music school, the continuation vastly reducing the total energy consumption, school, and several Adult Education Centres as well as opening the space to the nearby (VUC). The block is renovated and extended surroundings, thereby contributing to a so that in the future it can house both The revitalization of the urban milieu surrounding Kongsholm High School and HF. The aim is to The Kongsholm Centre. strengthen the Kongsholm Centre’s role as a local rallying-ground for young people both for Like the project, The Copenhagen Climate their scheduled time and especially in their free Block, The Kongsholm Centre reference is an time, where the space houses many of the local example of total energy use optimization on sports associations etc. an entire city block, how LAR-solutions can be established, and how opening up the building The buildings blocks go through a thorough block towards the city helps to further a livable energy saving renovation, and parts of the urban lifestyle in a local community. Communiction in Progress 2014 16 Anti-corruption Principles 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Our Commitment Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter support The United Nations Convention Against corruption and fully comply with Danish and international legislation. Actions taken Rørbæk and Møller Arkitekter only operate in Denmark and have never been involved in any kind of corruption. According to The 2010 Corruption Perceptions Index Denmark has the lowest rate of corruption together with Singapore and New Zealand. Future Actions Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter will continuously uphold Danish and international legislation. Our COP will be available both on the United Nations Global Compact website and our own website and intranet. Contact information Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter ApS Jægersborg Allé 1A 2920 Charlottenlund +45 39 40 10 11 www.r-m.dk Nicolai Overgaard CEO, partner no@r-m.dk Communiction in Progress 2014 17
