2013 Sustainability Report Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated We are JLL. We take responsibility. Who we are JLL is a leading financial and professional services firm specializing in real estate. We offer comprehensive, integrated real estate and investment management expertise on a local, regional and global level to owner, occupier, developer and investor clients in over 75 countries and from more than 200 corporate offices. Across our three geographic business Where we have corporate offices 2013 Revenue by market 2013 (%) Key financials segments – the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA); and Asia Pacific – we n United States Revenue – ten-year track record (million $) Offices 93 69 64 n United Kingdom deliver a complete array of real estate services 32 3 3 n Other Europe 4,462 and manage a portfolio of approximately Countries 8 27 15 3 4 n Australia 3,933 3 billion square feet (278 million m2) 3,585 5 n Greater China worldwide. We completed 28,900 transactions 42 (inc. Hong Kong) for landlord and tenant clients, representing 6 n France 658 million square feet (61 million m2) of n Germany 6 space, and provided capital markets services n India for $98.7 billion of client transactions. 9 n Japan 14 n Americas other 950 Our fourth business segment – LaSalle n Other Asia Investment Management – is a wholly owned n Singapore member of the Jones Lang LaSalle group and Americas EMEA Asia Pacific one of the world’s largest and most diversified Revenue by service line 2013 (%) 2003 2011 2012 2013 real estate investment management firms with Worldwide employees $47.6 billion of assets under management. n Leasing 2011 2012 2013 We are a publicly-owned company that is 52,700 6 n Property & Facility 48,000 9 Management Net income (million $) 164 208 269 incorporated in the state of Maryland. Shares 45,500 of Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated are traded 33 n Capital Markets Earnings ($ per diluted share) 3.70 4.63 5.98 10 & Hotels on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE:JLL) EBITDA (million $) 339 391 476 n Advisory, Consulting and our global headquarters is in Chicago, & Other Illinois. 18 n Project & Development Services Report title: At JLL, sustainability means recognizing the responsibility we have within the global community to act as 24 n LaSalle Investment a good corporate citizen that addresses our environmental, Management social and governance impacts. 2011 2012 2013 2013 Sustainability Report | 2 About this report Welcome to our 2013 Sustainability Report. It presents a summary of our performance against the most important sustainability issues our organization faced during the 2013 calendar year. The sustainability issues we report on across our five focus areas were refined through a materiality review we conducted in Navigating this report SERVICES OPERATIONS early 2014. We aimed to reduce the number of metrics, thereby This is a table of contents that also provides a description simplifying the message we convey to our stakeholders. Publishing of how we address sustainability across each of JLL’s five this document earlier in the year also reflects our objective to more focus areas for our clients and for ourselves. Sustainability for our clients. Sustainability for our firm. closely align our sustainability reporting with our Annual (financial) Report that is published in April. Working with clients to reduce Managing our own This report covers the three geographical business segments energy and greenhouse gas environmental footprint. that comprise our real estate services: the Americas; Europe, Energy and resources emissions. page 12 page 8 Middle East and Africa (EMEA); and Asia Pacific. It also covers the activities of LaSalle Investment Management, which is a global business and represents our fourth business segment. More Providing green building expertise Implementing green building detailed information on LaSalle’s sustainability approach and to achieve our clients’ cost and practices in our corporate performance can be found on its website. Unless otherwise stated, Green buildings environmental goals. offices. the data in this report covers 85% of our corporate offices, all page 10 page 12 activities related to our Energy and Sustainability Services, and some activity from sustainability advice embedded into Delivering excellent client services through our focus on ethics, transparency other services. and technology. Enhancing client capabilities with our commitment to sustainability Client service excellence thought leadership and external involvement. More detailed performance and analysis regarding all of our page 14 sustainability goals and issues, including full data qualifying notes, details of the materiality review and our compliance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 guidelines, the International Integrated Making a positive impact through Serving as a responsible corporate Reporting Council’s (IIRC) <IR> Framework and the United our procurement decisions and citizen in our communities and Community and supply chain supply chain influence. supply chain. Nations Global Compact, will be available on our website from page 16 page 16 Q4 2014 at www.jll.com/sustainability. Striving to be an employer of choice that attracts, rewards and develops diverse Cover image: JLL acts as both office agent and property & asset managers for Atria talent so that we can better serve our clients. Prioritizing health and safety for One, a BREEAM ‘Excellent’ Grade A Office developed by the City of Edinburgh Council. JLL helped to deliver an award winning BREEAM ‘Excellent’ fit out for Workplace, well-being and diversity ourselves and our clients. building tenants: the UK Green Investment Bank (see case study on page 11). page 18 2013 Sustainability Report | 3 An introduction from our CEO Five areas of focus – energy and resources, green buildings, client service excellence, community and supply chain, and workplace well-being and diversity – combine to define sustainability for JLL. Our ability to thrive for more than 250 years indicates that we know what My message was simple: Since commercial buildings account for about it takes to sustain a company over time. To maintain and extend our 40 percent of all greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in the developed position, we hold ourselves accountable for the social, environmental and world, our industry has a key role to play in tackling climate change. economic impacts of our business. Since we manage 3 billion square feet of space globally for our clients, we can contribute by developing industry-leading strategies, tools and At its heart, sustainability at JLL is about technologies that help clients improve energy efficiency and control maintaining and expanding our role as associated costs. Cumulatively, we have helped U.S. clients reduce GHG emissions by an estimated 11.9 million metric tons since 2007, saving a good corporate citizen. We are proud them more than $2.5 billion in energy costs. This has also created a of our reputation for acting with integrity significant business opportunity: Our Energy and Sustainability Services revenues increased by 16% in 2013. and for the ways our people contribute to Sustainability experts in Project and Development Services work on the communities in which they live and green building certifications, for example, and we are embedding energy work. Our influence also extends more and sustainability services in the advice we provide to clients. We now broadly: We develop real estate services have nearly 1,500 LEED and other sustainability accredited professionals worldwide, a powerful measure of our commitment to a sustainable future. that anticipate and address our clients’ Within JLL, we have cut greenhouse gas emissions from our corporate needs while creating positive change in our offices by 7% since 2012 due to energy reduction initiatives such as Colin Dyer industry. Together, these will ensure that JLL occupying more efficient buildings. In 2013 we set three targets that will President and Chief Executive Officer guide our actions to 2017: reduce GHG emissions per employee by Executive Sustainability Sponsor remains a sustainable enterprise that clients, 10%, reduce energy use per employee by 10%, and reduce rented employees, investors and other stakeholders area per employee by 8%. can rely on for the long term. Our focus on energy, resources and green buildings represents one aspect of our sustainability activities. But we also remain committed to We believe climate change creates major environmental and economic delivering the highest ethical practices, supporting the communities in risks and opportunities for our clients and our firm. In April 2014 I testified which we operate and making JLL a welcoming and motivating place before the U.S. Congress Bicameral Task Force on Climate Change. for our employees. A sustainable company is a diverse and inclusive 2013 Sustainability Report | 4 organization, and we want our employees to mirror the world of our clients Looking to the future, we will continue to work to maintain our reputation and communities. Many of the awards we received in 2013 illustrate the as a sustainable enterprise, a company that is trusted and relied upon by importance we place on promoting workplace diversity. all our stakeholders. Any discussion of sustainability at JLL should single out the contributions Thank you for your continued interest in JLL. of our employees. Together, they invested more than 2,800 days in 2013 to support thousands of causes around the world. Coupled with charitable Colin Dyer contributions of $4.4 million from corporate and employee donations, President and Chief Executive Officer these activities confirm JLL’s reputation as a good corporate citizen. Executive Sustainability Sponsor Finally, earlier this year I announced my executive sponsorship of both our Energy and Sustainability Services business line and our Corporate Sustainability activities. This will allow me to be more closely involved in both by representing all our sustainability activities through our Global Executive Board and Board of Directors. Sustainability awards We are regularly recognized for our sustainability efforts through high-profile awards such as those received in 2013 and in the first half of 2014. We received the ENERGY STAR Sustained Excellence Award for the third consecutive year for our dedication to driving energy efficiency in both our corporate and client portfolios. We were also recognized as one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies for the seventh consecutive year by the Ethisphere Institute in 2014. Additionally, Fortune Magazine named us as one of America’s 100 Most Trustworthy Companies in 2013 and JLL was named one of the 100 Best Corporate Citizens by the Corporate Responsibility Magazine. In total, we received 31 local, national and global sustainability awards in 2013. A full list of international, regional and local awards is available on our website. 2013 Sustainability Report | 5 Our sustainability strategy and governance JLL aims to lead the transformation of the real estate industry by making a positive impact both within and beyond our business. Our Global Sustainability Commitment defines our Two pillars for delivering our commitment sustainability objectives relating to five focus areas: Sustainability Global Priorities (G5) Global Sustainability Commitment LaSalle ESG Policy The five focus areas of our sustainability strategy cut across two pillars: n Energy and resources: Significantly reduce the ● ● Services and Operations. The first pillar includes the services we provide environmental impact from real estate to clients through our Energy and Sustainability Services business and n Green buildings: Integrate sustainability within all our LaSalle Responsible Investing activities. We are also increasingly real estate decisions Services Operations focused on integrating sustainability principles across all of our real estate nC  lient service excellence: Deliver the highest services, thereby providing embedded sustainability advice. The second standards to our clients worldwide pillar focuses on operational efforts related to our own people and offices Energy and Global Corporate Sustainability Services, Sustainability, that ensure we ‘walk the talk’ as a sustainable corporation. nC  ommunity and supply chain: Extend our embedded regional and local sustainability values to enable widespread change sustainability advice & groups & Although we view both pillars as critical to our sustainability strategy, LaSalle responsible ACT: A Cleaner we are aware that the potential positive impact through our energy and nW  orkplace, well-being and diversity: Foster a growing investing Tomorrow sustainability services to clients can be substantially greater than the and inspiring place for our employees to work environmental impact of our own operations. However, we also deem our wider corporate sustainability efforts such as governance and diversity to be important in ensuring we exist as a prosperous business over the long term for our stakeholders. Sustainability governance Energy and Green Client service Community and Workplace, resources buildings excellence supply chain well-being and diversity Our CEO’s newly-established role as executive sponsor across the two pillars of our sustainability strategy provides a strong link to JLL’s Board Enterprise risk management ● Governance ● Professional standards of Directors. Our CEO and the Board of Directors take an active role in overseeing the company’s sustainability efforts, drawing on updates from the following bodies: Services: The Global Energy and Sustainability Services (ESS) Board is the main body responsible for developing and implementing a consistent global ESS offering. This Board is made up of regional heads of ESS and is led by the global Chairman of ESS. 2013 Sustainability Report | 6 Our sustainability strategy and governance Complementary to the Board, LaSalle governs its activities through At the most recent annual meeting of our shareholders, who are Sustainability roles the Global Sustainability Committee in accordance with the LaSalle primarily institutional investors, over 99% of the votes for each Investment Management Policy on Sustainability and Responsible Director were in favor and over 98% of the votes were in favor of our Services Investing. Chaired by LaSalle’s non-executive Chairman, the Committee executive compensation. Sustainability consists of senior leaders from all businesses worldwide, ensuring that professionals Additional information about our corporate governance may be found LaSalle remains up-to-date on sustainability topics and that we share in our Transparency Report and in the 2014 Annual Meeting of our practices company-wide. Shareholders and Proxy Statement, all of which are available on Operations: Our internal programs are governed by the Global our website. Corporate Sustainability (GCS) Board that we recently established to oversee our internal sustainability goals, performance, strategy and Roles and responsibilities reporting, while also ensuring a coordinated and consistent approach around the world. It includes corporate function leaders from Finance, Reporting into the GCS Board, the newly established Corporate Human Resources, Legal Services and Corporate Sustainability. In Sustainability Committee meets quarterly to share good practices and addition, members also represent Communications, Public Relations, learning from our various activities locally and regionally. This group LaSalle and ESS leadership. This cross-functional group reports into consists of employees with some functional responsibility for internal the Global Operating Board, which includes a wider representation sustainability who work in collaboration with voluntary champions in each 177 of corporate function leaders including our Chief Financial Officer country. Over 39% of countries have chosen to adopt their own formal LaSalle (who also sits on the GCS Board) and regional and business segment sustainability programs in a sign of the growing commitment around Responsible 3 Investing Chief Operating Officers among others. corporate sustainability across JLL. Operations At a global level, a team of three dedicated resources oversees our Corporate governance and executive remuneration firm-wide approach alongside 58 regional and local roles. These figures Global Corporate 3 Sustainability do not include volunteer or champions networks; executive sustainability We conduct our corporate governance according to the listing standards Regional and sponsors; our 24 global ethics officers; or other committees that may local roles of the NYSE. Our Board of Directors has ultimate responsibility for spend some of their time on sustainability. In addition to these formal overseeing our business. The Board elects our Chairman, Chief roles, we consider sustainability to be a part of every employee’s role in Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as well as other senior one way or another. 58 officers. The management team, with the Board’s oversight, is responsible for conducting the company’s business to enhance its The largest group of dedicated roles are our 177 sustainability U.S. Diversity & 2 Inclusion long-term value. professionals, the majority of which are from our Energy and Sustainability Services group. This number grew by 13% from Services and operations We have implemented additional measures designed to provide 2012-2013 and is consistent with the growth in ESS revenue from Sustainability shareholders with the highest level of governance: annual voting 1 $21.8 million to $25.4 million in the same period, and the 323 University for Directors; majority voting for Directors; enhanced abilities to sustainability clients we worked with in 2013. call for special meetings; and annual advisory voting on executive Data note: Regional and local roles include part-time functions. compensation. 2013 Sustainability Report | 7 Addressing energy and resources through our services The complexity of the climate change challenge means that government action alone cannot provide the urgent solutions required; proactive solutions from business are key. The greatest contribution we can make to mitigate climate change is to help U.S. client energy savings 2013 (estimated) our clients reduce their energy use and GHG emissions. Our efforts also serve to cut costs and to improve operational efficiency. For this reason, we 39 invest significant resources into developing energy and carbon management services for clients alongside efforts to manage our own footprint. Energy management for our clients 377 An integral part of our Energy and Sustainability Services offering is to help clients develop energy management programs that provide measurable Am I spending too much on energy, 220 savings and results. This approach considers not just how facilities are built, water and waste? operated and maintained, but also their location and occupiers’ behaviors. In 2013 our advice helped deliver energy savings of 377 million kWh for These are frequent questions our clients ask, including property Cost Energy GHG emissions owners, occupiers and managers. In the UK, JLL and the savings savings savings clients. These reductions saved clients the equivalent of $39 million, and Better Buildings Partnership have teamed up to provide a the impact in terms of reduced GHG emissions was equivalent to removing (million $) (million kWh) (thousand metric fresh set of data for comparing the environmental performance roughly 46,300 cars annually from the road. tons CO2) of commercial properties. The database is the largest of its The decrease from previous years reflects the fact that a number of kind in the UK and comprises more than 700 retail and office Annual U.S. client energy savings (estimated) projects reached completion in 2012, and the results of projects that were properties totaling 11 million square feet (1 million m2) and accounting for around 400,000 metric tons of GHG emissions. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 initiated in 2013 have not yet been captured. This is supported by a 33% The Real Estate Environmental Benchmark also includes Cost savings 38 95 100 128 105 176 39 increase in the number of buildings our sustainability teams worked on information on buildings’ water and waste impacts, and can (million $) in 2013 compared to 2012. Lastly, as we continue to engage in longbe used to understand where cost savings can be made, inform Energy savings 210 790 836 912 963 1,663 377 term relationships with our clients, we also believe new energy efficiency meaningful target setting and demonstrate good environmental (million kWh) measures yield fewer additional savings after a certain efficiency level is management. GHG emissions 133 438 465 563 587 913 220 achieved through prior measures. savings (thousand Cumulatively, we have helped our U.S. clients reduce greenhouse gas metric tons CO2) (GHG) emissions by an estimated 11.9 million metric tons and saved them All figures relate to our U.S. managed portfolio and are based on extrapolated data from an estimated $2.5 billion in energy costs since 2007. ENERGY STAR. See our website for how cumulative savings are calculated. 2013 Sustainability Report | 8 Addressing energy and resources through our services Responsible management of energy remains one of the most costClient renewable energy 2013 (estimated) effective climate change mitigation strategies. Type Planning and feasibility Installed or consented As more clients (as well as our own people) see economic and (metric tons CO2e) (metric tons CO2e) environmental value in measuring and improving energy usage, we Wind 2,763,705 614 expect that the savings will continue to rise. This also presents a growing Solar 39,013 17,424 opportunity for our business to deliver long-term value for our employees Total averted GHG 2,802,718 18,038 and shareholders. emissions (potential) Total MW capacity 1,861 28 Energy management at LaSalle Investment Management investment opportunities and provide commercial and financial advice to clients across every major renewable energy technology type. With $47.6 billion of assets under management by the end of 2013, there is also significant potential for LaSalle Investment Management to embed In 2013, total GHG emissions averted from installed or consented sustainable best practices in the assets that it acquires and manages for renewable projects that we advised on was more than 18,000 metric tons clients. One of LaSalle Investment Management’s five Guiding Principles CO2e. A further 2.8 million metric tons could be averted, assuming all JLL expertise boosts solar generation is to reduce the environmental impact of clients’ properties and monitor remaining wind, solar and biomass projects that we advised on last year Solar power is an increasingly viable alternative energy source, the effects of climate change on those properties. achieve planning consent or successful development. thanks in part to technological advances that have improved Accurate measurement and benchmarking are fundamental to achieving Year-on-year comparisons are not always meaningful, but the drop from performance and reduced start-up costs. As real estate owners this goal and in 2013 more than 300 assets were submitted to the 596,000 and 5.8 million metric tons CO2e from installed or consented and and occupiers look to increase their investment in solar power Greenprint Foundation Carbon Index for benchmarking and tracking planning and feasibility emissions respectively in 2012 is explained by a generation, JLL is helping clients develop strategies that navigate the often complex challenges to meet their energy (exceeding the goal of 275). LaSalle Investment Management is number of factors. On the one hand, 2012 saw a number of large-scale and sustainability goals. In 2013 JLL’s Alternative Energy committed to reducing energy and has focused on setting targets for core projects either installed or granted consent that did not occur again Solutions team began supporting one of California’s largest funds in which it controls the environmental metrics at the assets. During in 2013; additionally, a number of projects did not pass the feasibility real estate owners with ambitious plans to scale-up its onsite 2013 LaSalle Investment Management also finalized environmental, social and planning stage. The trend also reflects a broader challenge facing solar generation capabilities. JLL is providing advice including and governance (ESG) portfolio guidance to complement its performance renewable energy in the U.S. and Europe where, despite technological site selection and vendor screening for between 100 and 150 monitoring and further integrate ESG issues into internal investment advances and falling prices leading to a growth in renewable energy locations with the potential to generate as much as 80 MW decisions, as well as with business partners. capacity worldwide, declining policy support and other incentives has (enough to power approximately 19,000 homes). increased the threshold at which projects become financially viable. Renewable energy for our clients Find out more We advise clients on a range of renewable technologies including photovoltaic (largely in the U.S. but increasingly in Europe), wind and You can visit the sustainability section of our website for more biomass (both largely in the UK). Our capabilities in renewable energy information around what we are doing to deliver energy and resources allow us to provide local as well as worldwide solutions designed to meet savings for clients. each client’s unique objectives. For example, our specialist Renewable Energy Capital Group helps to raise development capital, identify 2013 Sustainability Report | 9 Expert advice on green buildings Green buildings are more than just energy efficient. They are sensitive to local habitats, protect the health and well-being of occupiers, and use sustainably sourced materials. Client green building certifications 2013 LEED BREEAM Green Globes Green Mark Green Star 9 8 JLL helps international software company achieve LEED Gold 57 9 8 1 1 With JLL’s support, software company Intuit achieved LEED Gold certification following a 54,000 square foot (5,000 m2) project at its corporate headquarters in Mountain View, Our services address the complete lifecycle of a building – from design their original goals. During 2013, JLL’s advice helped our clients achieve California. JLL’s Project and Development Services and planning through to construction, occupation and management, 76 green building certifications (up from 59 in 2012) covering 5.2 million team worked closely with our construction and refurbishment, and sale. square feet (481,200 m2), including 75% to LEED, 12% to BREEAM, and architectural partners to support the client’s 11% to Green Globes standards. broader energy and sustainability goals. Features Leading the way through better performing buildings included the use of low-flow plumbing fixtures Green buildings skills and accreditations that reduced potable water use by 35%. All new We are improving the performance of our clients’ buildings, and this equipment purchased was ENERGY STAR rated impact is growing. In 2013 our sustainability teams worked on a total of Our commitment to the professional development of our employees and 93% of on-site construction waste was diverted 1,852 buildings, which represents a 33% increase compared to 2012. ensures we have the skills and capacity to deliver expert green building from landfill. Furthermore, 28% of all building This growth was primarily driven by a number of new client mandates in advice to our clients. In 2013, our ambition to deliver the highest standards material was manufactured using recycled material Asia Pacific. to clients worldwide through our sustainability expertise was demonstrated and 50% of the total building material was manufactured within 500 miles of the site. when we became the world’s top employer of LEED Accredited An aspect of this is our strong track record in helping owners and Professionals and Green Associates according to the LEED Professional occupiers achieve targeted LEED and other green building certifications; Directory. By the end of 2013, we had 1,417 energy and sustainability LEED®, and its related logo, is a trademark owned by the U.S. Green Building in several cases, our teams have helped clients attain levels beyond Council® and is used with permission. BREEAM is a registered trademark accredited professionals. owned by BRE and is used with permission. All rights reserved. 2013 Sustainability Report | 10 Expert advice on green buildings Experts in green leasing Energy and sustainability accreditations Accreditation type 2011 2012 2013 Our network of leasing and sustainability experts, along with tools such as our Green Facilities Assessment Tenant Module, OneView Lease LEED (U.S. and world) 906 1,257 1,332 Administration and LaSalle Investment Management’s Green Lease Green Star (Australia) 94 87 23 Guidelines, help our clients to maximize environmental and financial Association of Energy Engineers: 31 26 29 savings in their leased portfolios. Certified Energy Manager (global) Association of Energy Engineers: 20 19 21 We are helping a growing number of clients to achieve their carbon Other AEE accreditations (global) reduction and wider sustainability ambitions through our transaction Other accreditations 89 82 67 management role. This ranges from pre-acquisition sustainability audits of buildings, to determining energy and cost savings that might be achieved NABERS Energy (Australia) 12 10 9 through integrating sustainability factors into lease administration, green BREEAM (UK and Europe) 10 9 11 leasing, and workplace innovation standards. AIEMA (UK) 9 6 5 For example, we have worked with several international clients to define Total 1,171 1,496 1,497 and to plan global green leasing strategies that deliver cost savings and Data note: The total accreditations exceeds the number of accredited professionals because A sustainable workplace some professionals have multiple credentials. support their broader environmental objectives. The JLL team analyzes A sustainable fit out led by JLL has helped the world’s first clients’ existing leases, provides cost savings recommendations, and green bank create a workplace that puts employee well-being provides guidance on clauses to include in new leases. JLL is taking an active role in a new global research project led by the at the forefront. JLL UK’s Buildings and Construction team World Green Building Council to better understand the link between were chosen by the UK Green Investment Bank to deliver the Enhancing workplace productivity through employee health, well-being and productivity and sustainable workplaces. BREEAM ‘Excellent’ fit out of their new headquarters building sustainability JLL experts sit on the project’s Steering Committee and are involved with at Atria One in Edinburgh. JLL helped to create a flexible its technical working groups that are looking to develop common metrics and inspirational workplace using environmentally-friendly For office-based organizations, personnel costs can be up to 90% of that measure productivity and well-being, as well as providing guidance on construction materials to maximize employee well-being and operational costs. With this focus on top-line revenues, even small the type of features that will improve performance in these areas. deliver benefits such as increased productivity and reduced increases in worker productivity can result in considerable savings. absenteeism. The project was one of only two office fit out There is a growing body of research that demonstrates how green design projects in the UK chosen to participate in the BREEAM Find out more features can positively enhance the health, well-being and productivity Non-Domestic Refurbishment 2014 Pilot Scheme, and was of employees through improvements to the physical environment such recognized as a Regional Winner in the annual British Council You can visit the sustainability section of our website for more information for Offices Awards. as light, air quality, indoor temperature, noise and space. The issue around what we are doing to deliver expert advice on green building for is a growing concern for our clients. Our most recent survey of global our clients. commercial real estate executives on the issue (conducted in 2010) found that an increasing number of executives recognized the value of enhancing workplace strategies that promote employee health, well-being and productivity. 2013 Sustainability Report | 11 Addressing energy, resources and green buildings in our own operations GHG emissions from energy use in our corporate offices and from business travel represent our most significant direct environmental impacts. We remain focused on reducing our footprint through best in class JLL building GHG emissions and energy use workplace strategies. To this end, JLL has committed to reduce GHG emissions and energy from our offices by 10% per employee by 2017 JLL building GHG emissions per corporate office employee (against a 2012 baseline). Additionally, we have set a target to reduce (metric tons CO2e) rented area in our offices by 8% per employee by 2017. 1.6 1.5 Reducing our carbon footprint In 2013 JLL’s total GHG emissions were approximately 52,880 metric JLL in China set new standards tons of CO2e, up 7% compared with 2012. While our total emissions JLL’s Wuhan office in China set a new standard when it became increased, our business also grew. Our global revenue increased by the first LEED Commercial Interiors Gold building in the city. 13% and the number of corporate office based employees by 8%. The interior fit out sought to build a healthy and productive 2012 2013 Consequently, our emissions per employee decreased by 7% to workplace for employees that is both cost effective and has a 1.5 metric tons in JLL’s offices. reduced environmental impact. Our Project and Development JLL building energy use per corporate office employee (MWh) Services and Energy and Sustainability Services teams worked ACT: A Cleaner Tomorrow is our internal program that seeks to reduce the closely to select suitable materials and furniture such as 3.7 environmental impact of our offices and travel primarily through employee ENERGY STAR and China Energy Label class one equipment 3.5 engagement and communications. In 2013 approximately 66% of our to reduce energy consumption. Other solutions included corporate offices had an energy and GHG reduction initiative, many of LED lighting and occupant control system to reduce lighting which tied closely with the ACT program. To reduce our impact from power consumption. travel, 58% of offices have video conferencing facilities. Much like the advice we give to clients, we take advantage of opportunities to green our energy supply. By the end of 2013, 12% of 2012 2013 our offices procured renewable energy. 2013 Sustainability Report | 12 Addressing energy, resources and green buidlings in our own operations Our own occupation of green buildings JLL workplace density JLL total GHG emissions We implement green building practices where Square feet per corporate office employee Thousand metric tons CO2e possible. 23 of our offices had a green building or fit 52.9 48.5 49.3 out certification such as LEED, BREEAM or RICS 176 172 50 15 163 Thousands corporate office employees Ska as of 2013. A further 102 offices incorporated (16.4m ) 2 (16.0m2) (15.1m2) 40 12 green building or fit out principles, but did not obtain a certification. This number is growing (from 15 30 9 and 89 respectively in 2012) as we increase our occupation of green certified new offices at a higher 20 6 rate than total offices. 10 3 Waste management in our offices 2011 2012 2013 0 0 As a tenant, JLL has little control over waste practices 2011 2012 2013 WorkSmart model 2010 improves 2011 2012 in the majority of our offices. We only manage the n Americas n Asia Pacific n EMEA productivity and team spirit waste contract in 5% of our offices, and in these locations we have recycling programs. Despite this, We are constantly looking at ways to Source of JLL GHG emissions 2013 (%) JLL offices with green building practices enhance the performance of our people and 52% of offices reported at least one waste initiative 2013 (%) offices. Much of this is channeled through in 2013. our alternative workplace strategies that are in place at 54% of JLL offices. 71% of Find out more employees at our Sydney office said they were 10 21 20 more productive following the introduction You can visit the sustainability section of our website 26 29 of JLL’s proprietary WorkSmart model that for more information on how we are reducing the 42 0.5 0.2 uses non-assigned desks to create multiple environmental impact of our operations. work settings. These include focus desks, quiet rooms, discussion pods and ‘touch and 24 go’ areas for employees who go into the office 24 48 for short periods. Feedback at our Stockholm 29 office in Sweden (above), which introduced 27 similar features in 2013 has also been positive, with employees reporting a better n Scope 1: Company-owned vehicles n Green building/fit out with certification team spirit. n Scope 1: Natural gas n Green building/fit out with principles n Scope 2: Electricity n No certification or principles n Scope 3: Business travel n Scope 3: Building-related estimations 2013 Sustainability Report | 13 A strong focus on client service excellence Our mission is to deliver fully integrated, innovative solutions Transparency in everything for real estate owners, occupiers, developers and investors we do worldwide. Our clients are increasingly looking for confirmation that critical business partners such as JLL are well managed. Clients want to know that their supply chain will be there for the long term, and that their service providers are interacting with them fairly and A relentless focus on the highest ethical standards, technology and openly. JLL’s new Transparency Report is Number of ethics investigations conducted designed to give our clients this confidence. thought leadership are fundamental to ensuring we can provide exceptional services in the long term. Our culture of connectivity and It details our governance and internal % of total employees controls, approach to risk management and integrity enables us to deliver consistently high levels of service to all of the interconnected activities that sustain our 0.53 our clients wherever they are. organization. The report highlights policies 0.47 0.30 and procedures that drive responsibility and Ethics accountability throughout our organization and our clients’, giving us a level of Our Code of Business Ethics outlines our commitment to maintaining the transparency we believe is unmatched in highest standard of ethics and integrity throughout our business. We are our industry. determined to enhance the global reputation that we have established 2011 2012 2013 for ethical conduct. This is a reputation recognized by the Ethisphere Institute’s ‘World’s Most Ethical Companies’ list, which included JLL for the seventh year in a row during 2014. Ethics investigations We also take pride in how our employees perceive our commitment. (% of total investigations) 2011 2012 2013 According to our 2012 Global Employee Engagement Survey (which is Transparency Report Specific actions taken as a result of 77% 77% 73% conducted every two years), 95% of employees said they fully understood ethics violations, including terminations their obligations under our Code of Ethics, and 87% agreed that JLL shows a commitment to ethical business decisions and conduct. Ethics, HR and anti-corruption training We place a strong emphasis on ethics training and education. In 2013 2011 2012 2013 we gave in-person training to approximately 4,100 employees on ethics, JLL employees who received training 3,753 3,858 4,095 HR and anti-corruption, which is in addition to other online training and communications efforts that comprise our Ethics Everywhere program. Jones Lang LaSa 2013 Transparency lle Incorporated Report 2013 Sustainability Report | 14 for clients A strong focus on client service excellence Using technology to advance our sustainability P&G (far in global markets, left)the Ethisphere Institute, the World Economic including services offer Forum Partnering Against Corruption Initiative, the International Integrated LaSalle Reporting Council, andInvestment Management the Boston College (left) Center for Corporate Our in-house energy and sustainability platforms such as OneView Energy Citizenship. Complementary to JLL’s involvement in the United Nations and Sustainability Analytics help us to manage an ever-increasing volume Global Compact, LaSalle Investment Management has been a signatory of sustainability data on behalf of our clients around the globe. This, to the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) initiative along with other platforms such as Portfolio Energy and Environmental since 2009. As part of this, it has made a commitment to report on Reporting System and the Environmental Sustainability Platform, progress towards the PRI’s six principles of responsible investing. demonstrate our global expertise in the provision of technology solutions. More than 126,100 buildings are on our proprietary sustainability Find out more platforms, which help our clients and ourselves measure and improve environmental performance. You can visit the sustainability section of our website for more information on what we are doing to deliver client service excellence. Sustainability thought leadership and external involvement Achieving sustainability goals through We invest heavily in research to guide our clients’ real estate investment technology and occupation strategies. Sustainability is a key focus area and in 2013 A relatively small-scale initiative to increase operating we produced 35 sustainability thought leadership publications, including efficiency services The for Procter & Gamblewe (P&G)deliver has turned into What started as a relatively smallour Global Sustainability Perspective and Green Blog. These cover issues To secure attractive financing for its a global smart building management strategy. P&G scale such as initiative to increase employee engagement, technology and resilient investor clients, LaSalle Investment smart buildingoperating globally often technology create experienced average annual energy cost savings of 10% after deploying JLL’s IntelliCommand in a test group cities. In addition to our client-focused sustainability thought leadership, efficiency for Procter & Gamble we play an active role in broader corporate sustainability thinking around Management identified and took of laboratories, offices and technical facilities. The initial turned governance, into a global reporting, strategy, and enterprisebuilding smart risk management. advantage of a gap in the European is expanding in value IntelliCommand that facilities waysto additional takearound investment was returned within the first three months, and P&G management During 2013 we took strategy. organizations and initiatives,real estate debt markets. As the Following part in 47 sustainability the world. While the immediate goal of the pilot was to reduce such as the CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project), the Global us, and our clients, energy costs, the program has also improved systems reliability, a pilot Real Estateprogram that produced Sustainability Benchmark, 8 toBuilding Global Financial Crisis forced many and the World Green supported corporate sustainability initiatives and increased employee productivity for P&G. percent 13Council. energy Regarding cost our corporate savings, sustainability efforts, P&G we are also an European banks to retreat from active participant in efforts seeking to improve integrity and transparency beyond traditional real is expanding JLL’s IntelliCommand™ anything but the most ‘plain vanilla’ smart building management technology senior debt financing, LaSalle saw an estate boundaries. The to additional facilities around the opportunity to provide clients with world. While the immediate goal attractive risk-adjusted returns by following case studies of the pilot was to reduce energy securing innovative debt financing to briefly illustrate some costs, the program has also improved access European real estate markets. systems reliability, supported LaSalle invested over £460 million 15 of the many ways we corporate sustainability initiatives in debt investments in 2013. LaSalle 2013 Sustainability Report | and increased employee productivity partnered with APG to provide Our contribution to the Home grown in the city Urban farms are a growing phenomenon in cities worldwide. community and our supply In Hong Kong, over 20 volunteers from JLL worked with social enterprises Time to Grow and Sowers Exchange to create a unique urban farm. Located on the roof of the Bank of America Tower chain influence in the Central district, the 3,000 square foot (280 m2) farm offers uninterrupted views across the Hong Kong skyline. But it also has an important social and environmental message. As well as providing a supply of fresh vegetables for the local food bank Feeding Hong We place great value on the wider reputation Kong, it aims to raise awareness about how food is grown and sourced while bringing together the local community to create a more sustainable city. of our business as a responsible contributor to the community, and as a positive influence on Education in Mexico our supply chain. Education is a powerful tool for change. In Mexico, employees from JLL’s Project and Development Services team worked with suppliers and Proeducación to bring about change by building a library at José Antonio Alzate public elementary school in Chalco, near Total charitable contributions Community support Mexico City. Proeducación is a non-profit organization committed to improving the quality of elementary education in Mexican public (million $) Our community strategy addresses the local needs schools and the library is the first of 23 planned for schools across of our communities, capitalizing on the talents and the country. The initiative is part of JLL Mexico’s ‘Put your Skills to 5 4.4 interests of our diverse workforce. An important Work’ program that aims to harness the expertise of our employees, 4.3 15 measure of this impact comes in the form of our 0.2 suppliers and clients to support and strengthen the work of non-profit Thousands corporate office employees 4 3.8 voluntary donations in funds and time, as well as other organizations in meeting community needs. 0.3 1.0 12 1.5 in-kind contributions. 0.5 3 0.5 In 2013 we recorded total charitable contributions of 0.5 0.5 9 JLL Property Triathlon at least $4.4 million, which include both corporate and 2 0.2 In the UK, more than 2,000 property professionals gathered at employee donations.6 Our corporate donations of $3.9 2.5 2.6 million account for 1.2% of pre-tax profits. In addition, Dorney Lake near London for the seventh annual JLL Property 1 2.0 3 JLL employees volunteered more than 2,821 days to Triathlon in 2013. The event is firmly established as one of the UK’s support charitable causes, a 61% increase compared largest triathlons and has raised over £1.1 million to date for charity. The 2013 event raised money for the Samaritans who provide support to 2012. Although0 we have2010continued 2011 to improve 2012 our 0 for people in emotional distress. Our two-year partnership with the 2011 2012 2013 monitoring systems for community activities in 2013, Samaritans is the charity’s largest partnership in history. During the we still feel these figures underestimate our actual total first 12 months, JLL and LaSalle Investment Management employees n Global Firm Management n Asia Pacific charitable contributions and volunteer days. raised more than £226,000 (enough to answer 59,000 calls) through n EMEA n Americas a range of corporate, team and individual challenges. 2013 Sustainability Report | 16 Our contribution to the community and our supply chain influence Supply chain influence Responsible procurement is a growing issue for our clients. Many have set, or are looking to integrate responsible procurement objectives into We have a significant opportunity to influence suppliers on a large scale, their operations, and this represents an opportunity for us to anticipate and are committed to improving the sustainability of our procurement and align with clients’ goals. We offer a range of services from ratings practices and those of our suppliers. All suppliers, meaning any firm or of products and services across different environmental criteria, to individual providing a product or service to JLL or indirectly to our clients providing ongoing client and vendor education on best practices in real as a contractor or subcontractor, is expected to adhere to the JLL Vendor estate procurement. Code of Conduct. In the U.S., we include a number of general and industry specific We have worked with the Ethisphere Institute to develop a survey that sustainability criteria in supplier proposals and questionnaires for gathers information on programs and policies covering ethics, compliance multi-client contracts that we manage centrally. In 2013, we surveyed and environmental impacts, including targets and objectives related to the 53 preferred suppliers to better understand how they manage performance of our own and our clients’ suppliers. We also participate in sustainability issues. The survey gathered information on general issues Ethisphere’s Supplier Risk Index, which is an online tool designed to help such as suppliers’ environmental and ethical practices and performance, organizations identify and manage potential risks in their supply chain by as well as industry specific questions around their services. The findings providing information on ethics and sustainability practices. will ultimately help us to identify further opportunities to support clients in selecting and procuring sustainable products and services. We do not have specific policies that require local sourcing, nor do we always stipulate preferred vendors, but many are locally based small and Managing our procurement decisions medium-sized enterprises. A dedicated supplier diversity manager in the U.S. manages our $150 million annual spend with minority suppliers and contractors, as well as our Suppliers of Distinction award that recognizes We also apply sustainability criteria to our procurement practices, focusing A shining light on the top items by spend: office and kitchen supplies. Additionally, our suppliers who play an integral role in helping us deliver exceptional JLL is one of the world’s biggest purchasers of light bulbs. IT procurement policies specify the selection of energy efficient PCs and service to our clients. In Asia Pacific alone we manage more than 70 million light printing equipment where possible. points for over 150 corporate clients, and we estimate that Responsible procurement for clients Find out more our Facilities Management team sources more light bulbs than any other company. We have partnered with Philips In 2012 we were responsible for more than $1.5 billion in annual client globally to deliver innovative lighting solutions that achieve You can visit the sustainability section of our website for more information expenditures for the properties we managed. This covers items such as both energy and cost savings without compromising quality. on our community activities and our approach to addressing sustainability janitorial and food services, as well as products ranging from light bulbs For example, replacing fluorescent lamps with LED in the supply chain. alternatives at the regional headquarters of an international to carpeting. finance company improved lighting levels while reducing associated energy consumption by up to 50%. The new lamps last up to 40,000 hours longer and have delivered wider benefits including a healthier and more comfortable work environment. JLL and our clients also benefit from the partnership by gaining early access to Philips new technology. 2013 Sustainability Report | 17 Workplace, well-being, and diversity in our business We strive to be the employer of choice in our industry. We promote a work environment that attracts, welcomes and retains highly talented and diverse individuals. We encourage and enable our people to succeed, while treating them fairly and rewarding their contributions. Diversity in the workplace Diversity and inclusion Diversity is a part of our value system and a strategic imperative for our Female employees (% of total employees) business. Having the best talent with different experiences, backgrounds and 34 34 34 perspectives means we can deliver and create the best services and solutions for our clients. To achieve this, we have created a workplace culture that empowers all employees to meet their fullest potential. We have made substantial progress to date: most of our country operations are now led by local leaders and in 2013, 44% of countries had at least one diversity and inclusion initiative. In the U.S. these efforts are supported by 2011 2012 2013 an active network of employee resource groups that aim to inspire, support and mentor employees from diverse backgrounds. However, in many aspects Female Directors (% of Directors) the composition of our workforce reflects that lack of diversity in the real estate industry generally. We make every effort to counter this through our Inclusive workplace culture participation in organizations such as Diversity Best Practices in the U.S. and 26 25 26 our leadership of the Changing the Face of Property campaign in the UK. In December 2013, JLL’s commitment to embracing an inclusive workplace culture was recognized by the Globally, women comprise 34% of total employees and 26% of Directors. Human Rights Campaign that included us in their In 2013, three out of ten members of the Board were female including our Corporate Equality Index. JLL scored 90 out of 100 Chairman. Eight members of the Board are either non-U.S. based and/or are points (nine points above the FORTUNE 500 average) diverse in terms of cultural or ethnic backgrounds. JLL is a three-time winner for policies and practices relating to lesbian, gay, 2011 2012 2013 bisexual and transgender workplace equality. The of the 2020 Women on Boards ‘W’ Company Award that aims to recognize recognition capped off a successful year that also companies for their commitment to Board-level gender diversity. saw JLL honored by the Black Equal Opportunity Employment Journal in its annual ‘Best of the Best’ lists, both as a ‘Top Diverse Employer’ as well as ‘Top Diverse Supplier Program’. 2013 Sustainability Report | 18 Workplace, well-being and diversity in our own business Training and development We have identified employee recognition and rewards as a challenge Health and safety: RIR in past surveys. Positively, the results of our 2012 Global Employee Engagement Survey (the last year data is available) show that Recordable case incidence rate We support the development needs of all employees and increased our training and development spend from $225 per employee in 2012 the percentage of employees who are extremely satisfied that 0.8 0.7 0.8 to $235 per employee in 2013. This is in addition to substantial training compensation plans reward outstanding performance increased to 0.7 0.6 0.6 0.7 expenditures on a local basis that we are unable to quantify. 51% (from 47% in 2010). 0.6 0.6 The JLL Sustainability University educates our people in technical 0.5 0.5 Health, safety and well-being initiatives aspects of sustainability, focusing primarily on the delivery of green 0.4 0.4 building services to our clients such as LEED certification projects. JLL considers safety a top priority. Our goal is ‘no harm to people 0.3 0.3 In addition to these activities, the University offers a training platform or property’ and all employees are responsible for contributing to 0.2 0.2 for those who want a broad understanding of sustainability. These this goal. JLL’s Global Health and Safety Policy covers all activities sessions cover a range of topics from energy management to our 0.1 0.1 undertaken by our Integrated Facilities Management and Property internal programs. and Asset Management businesses. The policy sets out minimum 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2 In EMEA, we have designed a sustainability training course that aims standards expected of employees who work in client facilities. to embed sustainability into all our services and to increase awareness Our recordable incident rate (RIR), a measure of recordable injuries of the environmental and social impacts associated with the built Health and safety: DART and illnesses per 100 full-time employees per year, remained stable environment. We plan to roll it out across the region in 2014. at 0.6 in 2013. Days away, restricted duty and transfer (DART), Days away, restricted duty and transfer rate In total, we delivered more than 11,800 hours of sustainability-related a measure 0.7 0.8 of recordable injuries and illnesses per 100 full-time 0.8 training across all JLL operations in 2013 (including around 4,600 employees per year that0.6 0.7 resulted in 0.6 days away from work, decreased 0.7 hours delivered through the Sustainability University alone). by 28%. These compare to industry averages of 3.7 and 1.9 0.6 0.6 0.5 respectively for Facilities Support Services and 3.3 and 1.4 for Real 0.5 0.5 0.4 Engagement and compensation Estate Property Managers. 0.4 0.4 0.3 Our efforts also extend to support for work-life balance and We conduct regular surveys to understand how our employees view 0.3 0.3 improvements such as desk side ergonomic assessments. In 2013, the company and their jobs. According to the results of our 2013 0.2 0.2 63% of countries reported at least one health, safety and well-being interim Global Employee Engagement Survey, 81% of employees 0.1 0.1 initiative. either agree or strongly agree with the statement that they are 0 0 extremely satisfied with JLL as a place to work. This is up from 75% in 2013 2011 2012 2013 Find out2011 more 2012 our last full survey (conducted in 2012), and is ten percentage points above the global norm measured by Kenexa, our survey administrator. Data note: The health and safety data above represent the You can visit the sustainability section of our website for more Integrated Facilities Management business globally and all information on our approach to employee issues. employees in the U.S. Total Reward is a concept we use to attract and retain the best talent, maintaining our position as an employer of choice. It represents a variety of financial and non-financial programs and plans which are designed to reward, recognize and motivate employees. 2013 Sustainability Report | 19 Contacts Other publications 2013 Annual Report Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 15APR201418543074 Hello We are JLL Corporate Facts Our Code of Ethics Jones Lang LaSalle and LaSalle Investment Management Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 13APR201414543441 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Code of Business Ethics 2014 Corporate Facts (Information based on public reporting as of December 31, 2013) 1 Dan Probst Sarah Nicholls 2013 Annual Report 2014 Annual Meeting of 2014 Corporate Facts Code of Business Ethics Chairman Energy and Head of Global Corporate Shareholders and Proxy Sustainability Services Sustainability Statement JLL JLL 200 East Randolph Drive 200 East Randolph Drive Chicago, IL 60601 Chicago, IL 60601   dan.probst@am.jll.com sarah.nicholls@jll.com  Transparency www.jll.com/services/corporates/ http://www.jll.com/sustainability Report corporates-energy-and-sustainability Our Vendor Code of Conduct www.jll.com/services/investors-anddevelopers/energy-and-sustainability Jones Lang LaSalle and LaSalle Investment Management Vendor Code of Conduct Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2013 Transparency Report Vendor Code of Conduct 2013 Transparency 2013 Ethics Everywhere Report 2013 Sustainability Report | 20
