GRI Report 2013 and UN Global Compact Communication on Progress GRI Report 2013 2 About This Report In this document, Continental AG presents its sustainability report for the year 2013. It relates to fiscal year 2013 (January 1 to December 31, 2013) and is aimed at investors, analysts, customers, employees, suppliers, politicians, and public authorities, as well as all other stakeholders that have relations with the company and want to know the values and principles that define our actions. The report aims to create transparency and therefore present – alongside our wide range of activities and achievements – all those areas in which we need to improve further. Over recent years, we have based the structure and content of this report on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (version G3.0). We have for the first time reported on all additional indicators. Founded in the 1990s, the aim of this initiative is to establish a framework accepted around the world as a means of facilitating comparison and enhancing the credibility of the achievements reported by the respective companies and organizations. Based on our self-assessment, the 2013 report meets application level B. Our company prepares this report voluntarily to create transparency. However, it is compulsory to prepare the enclosed Communication on Progress to the Global Compact of the United Nations on an annual basis as part of our participation. GRI-Report 2013 Overview of the Key Figures of the Continental Corporation Overview of the Key Figures of the Continental Corporation Owing to the first-time adoption of IAS 19 (revised 2011), Employee Benefits, as at January 1, 2013, all subsequent figures for the comparative period have been restated in accordance with the requirements of IAS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors. in € millions 2013 2012  in % Sales 33,331.0 32,736.2 1.8 EBITDA 5,095.0 4,967.4 2.6 in % of sales 15.3 15.2 EBIT 3,263.7 3,186.2 2.4 in % of sales 9.8 9.7 Net income attributable to the shareholders of the parent 1,923.1 1,905.2 0.9 Earnings per share in € 9.62 9.53 0.9 Adjusted sales 1 33,164.3 32,684.7 1.5 Adjusted operating result (adjusted EBIT) 2 3,736.5 3,611.5 3.5 in % of adjusted sales 11.3 11.0 Free cash flow 1,818.3 1,652.5 10.0 Net indebtedness 4,289.3 5,319.9 –19.4 Gearing ratio in % 46.0 65.2 Total equity 9,322.2 8,156.4 14.3 Equity ratio in % 34.8 29.7 Number of employees as at December 31 3 177,762 169,639 4.8 Dividend per share in € 2.504 2.25 Share price at year-end 5 in € 159.40 87.59 Share price 5 (high) in € 161.90 87.95 Share price 5 (low) in € 80.66 48.10 1 Before changes in the scope of consolidation. 2 Before amortization of intangible assets from the purchase price allocation (PPA), changes in the scope of consolidation, and special effects. 3 Excluding trainees. 4 Subject to the approval of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on April 25, 2014. 5 Price quotations of the Continental share in the XETRA system of Deutsche Börse AG. GRI-Report 2013 Content and GRI Index 1 Contents and GRI Index 1. Strategy and Analysis …………………………………………………………….…..………….. 4 4.4 Mechanisms for dialogue between shareholders and em1.1 Statement from the organization’s most senior ployees and the Supervisory Board/Executive Board ……..... 9 decision maker ………………………………………………………………………………………..……… 4 4.5 Link between compensation for members of the govern1.2 Key sustainability risks, opportunities, and impacts ……......…. 4 ance bodies and the performance of the organization ..…10 4.6 Procedures of the executive committees to prevent conflicts of interest …………………………………………………………………………...……… 10 2. Organizational Profile 4.7 Qualifications and expertise of the executive 2.1 Name of the company ………………………………………………………………………...……. 5 committees in the area of sustainability ………………………………….. 10 2.2 Important brands, products, and services ……………………….….……… 5 4.8 Statement of mission, company values, and codes 2.3 Business units and corporate structure …………………………….…………. 5 of conduct ………………………………………………………………………………………………….…… 10 2.4 Corporate headquarters …………………………………………………………...….…………. 5 4.9 Procedures of the Executive Board and Supervisory 2.5 Number/name of countries with major operations ……..…..….. 6 Board to control and monitor sustainability performance 10 2.6 Ownership structure ………………………………………………………………………….....……. 6 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Executive Board’s 2.7 Markets served ……………………………………………………………………………………….………. 6 sustainability performance ………………………………………………………………… 10 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization ………………………………………….……… 6 4.11 Implementation of the precautionary approach ……….………. 10 2.9 Key changes in the period under review ……………………………....…… 7 4.12 Involvement in and support of external standards, 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period …………………..…….. 7 agreements, and initiatives ……………………………………………………….……….. 10 4.13 Memberships in associations and interest groups …….…….. 11 3. Report Parameters 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the company ...… 11 3.1 Reporting period ………………………………………………………………………………...………… 8 4.15 Basis for identification of stakeholders ……………………………....…….. 11 3.2 Date of the most recent report …………………………………………………..…..….. 8 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement …………………………......… 11 3.3 Reporting cycle …………………………………………………………………………………….…..……. 8 4.17 Statement on key topics and concerns of the 3.4 Contact person for questions regarding the report ……...……. 8 Stakeholders ……………………………………………………………………………………………..…… 11 3.5 Process for defining report content ……………………………………….……….. 8 3.6 Scope of the report ……………………………………………………………………………...……… 8 Economic Performance Indicators 3.7 Limitations/scope of the report ……………………………………………………....…. 8 Corporate Policy and Management Approach 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, etc. …..... 8 EC1 Data on Financial Income ………………………………………………........…...……… 12 3.9 Measurement techniques and basis of data calculations .. 8 EC2 Risks, Opportunities, and Consequences 3.10 Changes compared to previous reports with of Climate Change …………………………………………………………………...…...………… 12 regard to re-statements/new interpretations …………………....……… 8 EC3 The Company’s Social Benefits and Pension 3.11 Changes vis-à-vis previous reports as regards Obligations …………………………………………………………………………………………......……. 12 topics, scope, and measurement techniques …………………....…….. 8 EC4 Financial Assistance Received from Government ……......... 12 3.12 GRI Index table ……………………………………………………………………………………....………. 8 EC5 Ratio of Standard Entry Level Wage Compared with 3.13 External audit of claims …………………………………………………………………......……. 8 Local Minimum Wage …………………………………………………………………..…...…. 12 EC6 Spending on Locally Based Suppliers …………………………....…...…… 13 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement EC7 Hiring Local Staff ………………………………………………………………………………...…... 13 4.1 Governance structure and responsibility for EC8 Investments for the Welfare of the Local Community 13 sustainability ……………………………………………………………………………………………..……… 9 EC9 Indirect Economic Impacts ………………………………………………………....…… 13 4.2 Independence of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board ……………………………………………………………………………...……….. 9 Environmental Performance Indicators 4.3 Highest governance body among companies Environmental Policy and Management Approach without a supervisory board ………………………………………………………………… 9 EN1 Materials Used …………………………………………………………………………...………...…… 14 EN2 Percentage of Recycling Material ……………………………………......…….. 14 GRI-Report 2013 Content and GRI Index 2 EN3 Direct Energy Consumption ……………………………...…………………………. 14 LA6 Percentage of Employees Represented in EN4 Indirect Energy Consumption …………………………….……………………….. 15 Occupational Health and Safety Committees ……….……….. 20 EN5 Energy-Saving Measures ……………………………………………………….………… 15 LA7 Accident Statistics …………………………………………………………………………..….. 20 EN6 Energy-Saving Measures in Products ……………………………….……. 15 LA8 Company Health Management Programs …………………….….. 20 EN7 Reduction of Indirect Energy Consumption ………………..……. 15 LA9 Company Agreements on Occupational Safety ……….….. 20 EN8 Water Consumption ……………………………………………………………………….…… 15 LA10 Training Statistics ……………………………………………………………………………..….. 21 EN9 Water Sources ……………………………………………………………………………………..….. 16 LA11 Lifelong Learning and Knowledge Management …….….. 21 EN10 Percentage of Reclaimed and Reused Water ………………..…. 16 LA12 Percentage of Employees Receiving Performance EN11 Protected Areas ……………………………………………………………………………………… 16 Reviews and Development Programs ………………………………….. 21 EN12 Impact on Protected Areas ………………………………………………………….… 16 LA13 Composition of Governance Bodies Regarding EN13 Habitats Protected or Restored ……………………………………………….…. 16 Diversity and Equal Opportunities ……………………………………..…… 21 EN14 Measures and Plans to Promote Biodiversity ………………...… 16 LA14 Ratio of Basic Salary of Men to Women ……………………..……… 22 EN15 Number of Red List Species Affected ………………………..…………… 16 EN16 Greenhouse Gas Emissions ………………………………………………...………… 16 Human Rights EN17 Other Greenhouse Gas Emissions …………………………………..……….. 17 Corporate Policy and Management Approach ……….....…. 23 EN18 Initiatives to Reduce Greenhouse Gases ……………………....…….. 17 HR1 Investment Agreements with Human Rights Clauses 23 EN19 Emissions of Ozone-Depleting Substances …………………..…… 17 HR2 Percentage of Contractors/Suppliers Subjected to EN20 Other Air Emissions …………………………………………………………………………….. 17 Human Rights Screening ………………………………………………………………. 23 EN21 Waste WaterEN22 Spills of Hazardous Substances ….…. 17 HR3 Human Rights Training for Employees …………………………...….. 23 EN22 Waste ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………... 17 HR4 Incidents of Discrimination and Action Taken ……………….. 23 EN23 Spills of Hazardous Substances ………………………………………………..... 18 HR5 Operations Entailing a Significant Risk for the EN24 Transported Waste Shipped Internationally …………..………….. 18 Employees’ Freedom of Association …………………………………..… 23 EN25 Water Bodies Affected by Discharges of Water HR6 Operations Entailing a Significant Risk of Child Labor 23 and Runoff …………………………………………………………………………………..……………… 18 HR7 Operations Entailing a Significant Risk of Forced Labor 24 EN26 Initiatives to Mitigate the Environmental Impact HR8 Human Rights Training for Security Personnel …………….. 24 of Products and Services ……………………………………………………...…..……. 18 HR9 Violations Involving Rights of Indigenous People …….… 24 EN27 Reclaimed Products and Packaging ………………………………...……. 18 EN28 Fines ………………………………………………………………………………………………………...……. 18 EN29 Environmental Protection Expenditures and Society Investments …………………………………………………………………………….……………..… 18 Corporate Policy and Management Approach EN30 Environmental Protection Expenditures and SO1 Impact of Operations on Local Communities ……………...… 25 Investments …………………………………………………………………………………..………….. 18 SO2 Percentage of Business Units Analyzed for Corruption Risks ……………………………………………………………………….……...….. 25 SO3 Percentage of Employees Trained in the Social Performance Indicators Identification of Corruption Risks ………………………………...…………. 25 SO4 Action Taken in Response to Incidents of Corruption 26 Labor Practices and Decent Work SO5 Participation in the Forming of Political Will ……………..…….. 26 Corporate Policy and Management Approach SO6 Contributions to Political Parties and Politicians ………….. 26 LA1 Information on the Total Workforce …………………………….………….. 19 SO7 Legal Action Against the Company for AntiLA2 Employee Fluctuation ………………………………………………………………..……… 19 Competitive Behavior ……………………………………………………………………….. 26 LA3 Company Benefits for Full-Time Employees ……………………… 19 SO8 Fines or Sanctions Against the Company Due to LA4 Percentage of Employees Covered by Collective Non-Compliance with Laws and Regulations …………………. 26 Bargaining Agreements …………………………………………………………….……… 20 LA5 Notice Periods Regarding Operational Changes ……..…….. 20 GRI-Report 2013 Content and GRI Index 3 Product Responsibility Corporate Policy and Management Approach PR1 Product Responsibility for Humans and the Environment Across the Entire Life Cycle ………………….…….. 27 PR2 Non-Compliance with Requirements Regarding Product Responsibility …………………………………………………….……….…….. 27 PR3 Legally Required Obligations to Provide Information Regarding Product Responsibility ………………………………….………. 27 PR4 Non-Compliance with Regulations Concerning Information and Labeling ……………………………………………………….…..… 27 PR5 Practices to Measure Customer Satisfaction …………….….… 27 PR6 Laws and Standards Relating to Product Advertising 27 PR7 Non-Compliance with Advertising Requirements …….… 27 PR8 Complaints Regarding Breaches of Customer Data Privacy …………………………………………………………………………………….……... 28 PR9 Fines for Non-Compliance with Legal Requirements Regarding Product Usage ……………………………………………….…………… 28 Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact ………………………………..…………...…………. 29 GRI-Report 2013 Strategy and Analysis 4 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the organization’s most senior 1.2 Key sustainability risks, opportunities, and impacts decision maker Careful corporate management and good corporate governSustainable management and corporate social responsibility ance also require that the company deal with risk in a responsiare among Continental’s fundamental values. Both strengthen ble manner. Continental operates a corporation-wide internal the culture of For One Another while contributing to forwardcontrol and risk management system that helps analyze and looking and value-based corporate management. As a signatory manage the company’s risk situation. We use this management of the Global Compact of the United Nations, we support its ten system to identify and evaluate developments that could give principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and rise to significant disadvantages and to avoid risks that would anti-corruption. endanger the continued existence of the company. We respect the freedom of future generations and live up to our Risk management is included in the annual audit In terms of responsibility. With our products and services, we help expand – the system for early risk recognition, the auditor found that the and do not restrict – their opportunities for development. Executive Board had taken the necessary measures under the German Stock Corporation Act (Section 91 AktG) to identify Our goal is to increase the safety, comfort, and energy efficiendevelopments at an early stage that pose a risk to the company cy of vehicles. To this end, we focus in particular on the intellias a going concern. gent networking of vehicles with each other, their environment, and the Internet. And we want to make mobility affordable for More detailed information on this is provided in the “Risks and everyone. We also make significant contributions of benefit to Opportunities” section of our Annual Report 2013. society for a number of additional key industries – such as wind turbines for energy generation or conveyor belt systems to Continental – Annual Report 2013 transport materials without harming the environment. These contributions improve the protection, health, and quality of life of people. Freedom to act and personal responsibility are the roots of Continental’s growth. We strengthen our vitality and sustainability by granting the greatest possible freedom to our employees early on in their career and encouraging them to use that freedom. At every level, we motivate them to self-organize their work and take responsibility for the results. The past fiscal year went very well for Continental. Our sustainability-oriented, responsible actions contributed to this. We consider sustainable management to be a strategic corporate development task. It is therefore an element of our corporate strategy to combine financial and non-financial performance indicators and to take a holistic approach resulting in a contribution that impacts positively on our employees, the environment, and society. Dr. Elmar Degenhart Chairman of the Executive Board GRI-Report 2013 Organizational Profile 5 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the company › Under the guiding concept of “Clean Power”, the Powertrain Continental Aktiengesellschaft. division (74 locations in 21 countries develops innovative solutions for gasoline and diesel engines, as well as electrical 2.2 Important brands, products, and services drive systems. These not only make driving more environOur product portfolio includes brake systems, systems and mentally friendly and affordable, they also enhance comfort components for powertrains, chassis and instrumentation, infoand the pleasure of driving; share of sales in 2013: 19 percent tainment solutions, vehicle electronics, tires, technical elastomer (unchanged). products, and systems for networked automobile communications. › The Interior division (94 locations in 25 countries) deals with information management within vehicles. Under the motto Below are the important brands for each area: “Always On”, it works to network drivers and passengers with their own and other vehicles, the environment and mobile de› Technical products: ContiTech, Schwingmetall, Benecke-Kaliko, vices; share of sales in 2013: 20 percent (unchanged). Phoenix Rubber Group › Automotive: Continental, ATE, VDO › Short braking distances and high grip for maximum safety, › Tires: Continental, General Tire, Uniroyal, Semperit, Barum, low rolling resistance to reduce fuel consumption – this is Gislaved, Mabor, Viking, Matador, Sime Tyres, Euzkadi what the Tire division works on. It has the right tires for every application in its product range – from passenger cars 2.3 Business units and corporate structure through trucks, buses and construction site vehicles to indusThe corporation is split into two “groups” comprising a total of trial vehicles, bicycles and motorcycles; share of sales in 2013: five divisions. 28 percent (2012: 29 percent). Automotive Group › In line with the principle of “Engineering Green Value”, the ContiTech division (99 locations in 28 countries) develops › The Chassis & Safety division (84 locations in 20 countries) products made from rubber and plastic – products that are develops and produces intelligent systems for greater safety individually customized for a wide range of industries; share and driving dynamics. With “Vision Zero”, the vision of acciof sales in 2013: 11 percent (unchanged). dent-free driving, it works towards an automotive future in which life is protected even better and injuries are avoided › Several divisions are represented at some locations. even more effectively; share of sales in 2013: 22 percent (2012: 21 percent). 2.4 Corporate headquarters Hanover, Germany. GRI-Report 2013 Organizational Profile 6 2.5 Number/name of countries with major operations 2.7 Markets served Continental has 300 locations in 49 countries: Continental operates globally; we have customers in almost every country in the world. The regional distribution of sales in › Europe (24): Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Fin2013: land, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Ireland, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, › 30 percent Europe (excluding Germany) Serbia, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, UK › 24 percent Germany › North America (3): Canada, Mexico, U.S. › 22 percent NAFTA region › South America (5): Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Columbia, Ecuador › 19 percent Asia › Africa (3): Algeria, Morocco, South Africa › 5 percent other countries › Asia (13): China, India, Indonesia, Japan, Kazakhstan, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, ThaiThis distribution is virtually unchanged on the previous year. land, United Arab Emirates 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization › Australia In 2013, the corporation’s 177,762 employees generated sales amounting to €33.3 billion, representing an increase of 1.8 You can find a current overview of all locations via the following percent on 2012 (€32.7 billion). Worldwide, Continental is link. among the top three suppliers in the automotive supply industry. In 2013, approximately 72 percent of our sales were attriThe world of Continental at a glance butable to automotive manufacturers, and 28 percent to customers from other branches of industry and end users. 2.6 Ownership structure Continental is a stock corporation under German law. As of 2.9 Key changes in the period under review December 31, 2013, 46.0 percent of shares were owned by the In the period under review, the Schaeffler Group’s shareholding Schaeffler Group, Herzogenaurach (Germany), and 54.0 percent in Continental AG fell from 49.9 percent to 46.0 percent, while were in free float (this is attributable to investors in 27 counthe percentage of shares in free float rose from 50.1 percent to tries). Continental AG is listed on the German stock index (DAX). 54.0 percent. GRI-Report 2013 Organizational Profile 7 The number of worldwide locations increased from 291 to 300. 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period During the reporting period, Continental received awards including the following: › European Transport Sustainability Prize from the HUSS publishing company for the ContiLifeCycle plant in HanoverStöcken (to recognize the developments and achievements of the commercial vehicle industry in the field of sustainable products). › Excellent Development Partner from the electric vehicle manufacturer Tesla. The manufacturer of luxury-class electric vehicles awarded the accolade in recognition of Continental’s collaboration. › In 2013, readers of the trade journal Firmenauto chose Continental as a Best Brand (tires category) for the seventh time. Around 2,800 fleet professionals took part in the vote. › Continental’s location in Tianjin, China, received the Teda Award for its high level of commitment to environmental protection. The location was singled out for special praise thanks to its continuous improvement in energy savings and waste management as well as regularly organized projects to boost environmental awareness. GRI-Report 2013 Report Parameters 8 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period 3.7 Limitations/scope of the report January 1, 2013, to December 31, 2013. See 3.6. 3.2 Date of the most recent report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, etc. December 2013 (for 2012). In addition to the parent company, the corporation’s scope of consolidation includes 443 German and foreign companies in 3.3 Reporting cycle which Continental Aktiengesellschaft directly or indirectly conContinental published a report in PDF form on the Internet for trols more than 20 percent of voting rights. the first time for fiscal year 2011. A report has been published annually since then. 3.9 Measurement techniques and basis of data calculations 3.4 Contact person for questions regarding the report See 3.6. Petra Hamich Continental Aktiengesellschaft 3.10 Changes compared to previous reports with regard Corporate Communications to re-statements/new interpretations Vahrenwalder Strasse 9 This report also looks at all additional indicators referred to in 30165 Hanover the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Germany Guidelines (version 3.0). petra.hamich@conti.de 3.11 Changes compared to previous reports regarding 3.5 Process for defining report content topics, scope, and measurement techniques This report provides an overview of the sustainability targets, We work consistently to improve the quality of our environmenstrategies, and activities of Continental AG. It adheres to version tal data. For internal purposes, this allows us to monitor envi3.0 of the internationally recognized Global Reporting Initiative ronmental performance at different levels as well as compare (GRI) Guidelines. Continental regards these guidelines as an and benchmark the individual units against competitors. To important framework to follow. ensure the comparability of our environmental performance figures over several years, we have defined corporate regula3.6 Scope of the report tions with regard to prospective and retrospective changes to Our financial and personnel data covers all companies that data (an explanatory note is given in this report wherever this have been included in accordance with the definitions given in is necessary). the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 10 (Consolidated Financial Statements) or that are to be classified as a For the first time, this report uses adjusted sales in € (euros) joint arrangement in accordance with IFRS 11 (Joint Arrangegenerated in a given reporting period to calculate specific enviments); any cases where this does not hold true (for some perronmental performance figures. Adjusted sales are published in sonnel data, for instance) are indicated. the consolidated financial statements of Continental AG. Compared to sales reported according to IFRS, these sales are priEnvironmental indicators relate to the key production locations marily adjusted for changes in the scope of consolidation in worldwide over which Continental has operational control. At order to portray the organic growth of Continental AG. The present, there are 173 of these locations, 155 of which have a previous years have been adjusted retrospectively in order to certified environmental management system (ISO 14001). The ensure the comparability of specific environmental perforfollowing are not included in the recording of environmental mance data. indicators: 3.12 GRI Index table › Locations where it is not possible to organize data collection See page 4 et seq. (e.g. greenfield sites) 3.13 External audit of claims › Locations that are irrelevant to the corporation’s environmenThe auditing firm KPMG AG conducted an independent limited tal indicators (e.g. test tracks, research and development cenassurance engagement for the indicators “direct CO2 emissions ters, distribution sites). in millions of metric tons”, “indirect CO2 emissions in millions of metric tons”, and “specific CO2 emissions in metric To determine the scope of this report, Continental abides by the tons/adjusted sales” (see EN16) for fiscal year 2013. principle of operational control and factors in all locations and companies where controls exist. Operational control exists if Information about economic circumstances as well as facts and Continental has a shareholding of more than 50 percent or if figures about the sections “Environmental Performance IndicaContinental has full decision-making power regarding operators” (EN) and “Labor Practices and Decent Work” (LA) are tions on the basis of other contractual regulations. Majority based primarily on information from the Annual Report 2013. shareholdings are consolidated in the reported data. GRI-Report 2013 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 9 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure and responsibility for A sustainability council has been in place since the end of 2010 sustainability to manage sustainability policy and corporate responsibility. It In line with the law and the Articles of Incorporation, the Execucomprises two members of the Executive Board as well as tive Board, the Supervisory Board, and the Annual Shareholders’ representatives from Environment, Human Resources, Law and Meeting are the executive bodies of Continental AG. As a GerCompliance, Corporate Health and Safety, Investor Relations, man stock corporation, the company has a dual management Corporate Auditing, and Corporate Communications. The counsystem characterized by a strict personnel division between the cil is chaired by the Executive Board member for Human ReExecutive Board (management) and the Supervisory Board sources. The sustainability council convenes four times a year (control). as well as on other occasions as necessary. The Executive Board has sole responsibility for managing the 4.2 Independence of the Chairman of the Supervisory company free from instructions from third parties in accordBoard ance with the German Stock Corporation Act, the company’s The additional mandates of the Chairman of the Supervisory Articles of Incorporation, its By-Laws, while taking into account Board are specified in the Annual Report (see the “Further Inthe resolutions of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. Notwithformation” section of the Annual Report). No conflicts of interest standing the principle of joint responsibility, whereby all memarose during the reporting period. bers of the Executive Board share equal responsibility for management of the company, the members of Executive Board are Continental – Annual Report 2013 all responsible for the areas entrusted to them. The Chairman is responsible for the company’s overall management and busi4.3 Highest governance body among companies without ness policy; he ensures management coordination and unia supervisory board formity on the Executive Board and represents the company to As a German stock corporation, Continental has a supervisory the public. The Executive Board had nine members (eight men, board. one woman) in fiscal year 2013. 4.4 Mechanisms for dialogue between shareholders and The five divisions are represented by one member each on the employees and the Supervisory Board/Executive Board Executive Board. With the exception of Corporate Purchasing, Continental maintains systematic and ongoing dialogue with the central units are represented by the Chief Executive Officer, existing and potential equity and bond investors, analysts, and the Chief Financial Officer, and the Chief Human Resources other capital market participants. One point of focus is personal Officer. The central units assume cross-divisional functions contact with our private shareholders as well as with schools necessary for corporate management, including Finance and and universities. The Executive Board and Supervisory Board Controlling, Law and Compliance, Corporate Social Responsibilanswer questions from shareholders at the Annual Shareholdity, and Environment and Quality Management in particular. ers’ Meeting. In 2013, we defined cooperation within the corporation as a To facilitate dialogue between the Executive Board and em“Balance of Cooperation.” The aim is to establish and promote a ployees, we use worldwide video conferences (three to four common and uniform understanding of our cooperation across times a year), the corporation’s internal social network, letters organizational levels and geographical boundaries. from the Executive Board on the occasion of recent events, the quarterly comments on key financial figures, as well as town To strengthen the organization in China and pave the way for hall meetings at the locations. profitable and sustainable growth, one member of the Executive Board has been responsible for all Continental business Co-determination in the workplace is one element of employee activities in China since August 2013. involvement that has a long history at Continental. While employee co-determination is governed by law in Germany, it is Continental AG’s Supervisory Board has 20 members. In acguided by local circumstances in other countries. Continental’s cordance with the Mitbestimmungsgesetz (German Co-deterEuropean locations appoint employee representatives to the mination Act) and the company’s Articles of Incorporation, it European Works Council (EWC), which has existed since 1992 maintains equal representation of shareholders and employees. and convenes annually to share experiences with the Executive The Supervisory Board appoints the Executive Board and suBoard member for Human Resources and the employer reprepervises and advises it in the management of the company. As sentatives for each respective country. specified by law, certain corporate management matters require its approval. It is directly involved in decisions of material 4.5 Link between compensation for members of the importance to the company. The Chairman of the Supervisory governance bodies and the performance of the Board coordinates its work and represents its interests vis-à-vis organization third parties. He is in regular contact with the Executive Board, Executive Board members receive fixed annual remuneration and in particular with its chairman, to discuss the company’s paid in 12 monthly installments. They also receive variable strategy, development, and risk management. remuneration (a performance bonus) linked to the attainment of certain targets relating to the year-on-year change in the GRI-Report 2013 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 10 Continental value contribution (CVC) and the return on capital 4.8 Statement of mission, company values, employed (ROCE). It is possible that variable remuneration will and codes of conduct not be paid if certain minimum values are not achieved. Further, The most important documents at corporation level are: the Supervisory Board can determine a strategic target at the beginning of each fiscal year. For 2013, it had set a target › Corporate guidelines. Since 1989, our BASICS have been based on attainment of a specific free cash flow. conveying the corporation’s vision, values, and self-image. They were reformulated at the beginning of 2012. To reflect extraordinary developments that have influenced the degree to which targets are achieved, the Supervisory Board › Code of conduct. We published a new version of the “Contihas the right – at its due discretion – to retroactively adjust the nental Code of Conduct” in 17 languages in September 2012. established attainment of goals (on which the calculation of variable remuneration is based) by 20 percent upward or › Principles of our corporate social responsibility. These provide downward. In any event, the performance bonus is capped at an overview of our CSR principles. 150 percent of the fixed target bonus. 40 percent of variable remuneration awarded in a fiscal year is paid out in the form of › Corporate Governance Principles. Based on applicable legal a lump sum as an annual bonus. The remaining 60 percent is provisions, the German Corporate Governance Code, and the converted into virtual shares of Continental AG. Following a corporate guidelines, these principles provide a detailed deholding period of three years after the end of the fiscal year for scription of the corporation’s managerial and supervisory which variable remuneration is awarded, the value of these tasks and processes. These were last updated in December virtual shares is paid out together with the value of the divi2013. dends distributed over the holding period. Overview of Continental’s CSR documents The conversion of the variable remuneration into virtual shares and payment of their value after the holding period are based 4.9 Procedures of the Executive Board and Supervisory on the average share price for the three-month period immediBoard to control and monitor sustainability performance ately preceding the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting in the year of See 4.1. conversion or payment. However, the amount paid after the holding period may not fall below 50 percent of the value at the 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Executive Board’s time of conversion or be more than three times this same value. sustainability performance In addition, the Supervisory Board may retroactively revise the Information for evaluating the Executive Board’s performance is amount calculated in such a way by 20 percent upward or shown in section 4.5 as well as in the Annual Report 2013 (see downward to balance out extraordinary developments – a nothe remuneration report of the Annual Report). ticeable change in the share price, for example, due wholly or mainly to external influences In addition to the performance 4.11 Implementation of the precautionary approach bonus, a special bonus can be agreed upon for special projects A uniform, corporation-wide risk management system is in in individual cases and a recognition bonus can be granted. For place for early detection, cause analysis, assessment, and energy and environmental managers and operations managers, avoidance – or at least minimization of – risks. It regulates the part of the variable remuneration is based on the extent to recording, assessment, documentation, and reporting of risks which the company’s environmental targets have been attained. and is integrated in the company’s strategy, planning, and budgeting processes. The risk management system, which fully 4.6 Procedures of the executive committees to prevent complies with the Corporate Governance Principles of the Conconflicts of interest tinental Corporation and with statutory requirements, is includThe Supervisory Board has established by-laws that include ed in the annual audit. provisions on dealing with conflicts of interest. In addition, Continental AG’s Corporate Governance Principles also address this 4.12 Involvement in and support of external standards, issue for Supervisory Board and Executive Board members. agreements, and initiatives There were no conflicts to this effect during the year under The Continental Corporation is committed to and has signed review. In the opinion of the Supervisory Board, it always had a the following initiatives and declarations of commitment: sufficient number of independent members during the reporting period. Furthermore, our Code of Conduct – which likewise › Global Compact of the United Nations (October 2012). This addresses conflicts of interest – is binding for all employees. demonstrates our clear commitment to the Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environ4.7 Qualifications and expertise of the executive ment, and anti-corruption. committees in the area of sustainability The sustainability council founded in 2010 offers expert advice › The Luxembourg Declaration on Workplace Health Promotion to the Executive Board on issues of sustainability and corporate in the European Union (May 2010). Goal: to promote comparesponsibility (see 4.1). ny health management. GRI-Report 2013 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 11 › “Charta der Vielfalt” (German Diversity Charter) (December › Verband deutscher Sicherheitsingenieure (VDSI) 2008). Goal: to promote equal opportunities and diversity in [Association of German Safety Engineers] the workforce. › Verein Deutscher Ingenieure (VDI) › The European Road Safety Charter (November 2007). Goal: to [Association of German Engineers] increase road safety. › Verein zur Förderung des Betrieblichen Brandschutzes NieIn addition, companies of the corporation have signed further dersachsen (vfbb) [German Association to Promote Opera(country-)specific codes or declarations of commitment. For tional Fire Protection in Lower Saxony] example, Continental Reifen Deutschland GmbH has signed the “Gemeinsame Erklärung Erfolgsfaktor Familie” [joint declaration › Wirtschaftsverband der deutschen Kautschukindustrie (WdK) of the success factor family]. [Trade Association of the German Rubber Industry] 4.13 Memberships in associations and interest groups › Wissensfabrik – Unternehmen für Deutschland This section lists the majority of the corporation’s memberships. [Knowledge Factory – Companies for Germany] Due to the scope of this document, memberships of the individual subsidiaries and locations (for example, memberships in › World Business Council for Sustainable Development German chambers of industry and commerce or employers’ (WBCSD) associations) have not been included. › Zentrale zur Bekämpfung unlauteren Wettbewerbs › Association Connecting Electronics Industries (IPC) [German Center for Combating Unfair Competition] › Cyber-Sicherheitsrat Deutschland e.V. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the company [Cyber-Security Council Germany] Our stakeholders are our customers, shareholders and employees, the community, our partners, and our suppliers. We work › Deutsche Gesellschaft für Personalführung (DGFP) together with them in a wide range of areas and treat everyone [German Association for Personnel Management] with sincerity and fairness. › Deutsche Kautschukgesellschaft [German Rubber Society] 4.15 Basis for identification of stakeholders See 4.14. › Deutsche Vereinigung für internationales Steuerrecht [German Association for International Tax Law] 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement Our shareholders and employees are at the center of our › Deutscher Verkehrssicherheitsrat (DVR) stakeholder engagement. See 4.4 for further information. Con[German Road Safety Council] tinental also maintains ongoing dialogue with customers (development partnerships) as well as scientists (research projects). › Deutsches Institut für Kautschuktechnologie (DIK) To respond as effectively as possible to the needs of junior [German Institute of Rubber Technology] employees in its role as an employer, Continental has been surveying graduates every year since 2004 in Germany, every › European Tyre & Rubber Manufacturers’ Association (ETRMA) two years since 2005 in Romania, and for the first time in 2011 in China and in 2013 in Brazil. In addition, Continental regularly › Forschungsvereinigung Automobiltechnik (FAT) conducts vehicle user surveys covering aspects such as driving [Research Association of Automotive Technology] behavior, hybrid technology, and road traffic safety. The representative Continental Mobility Study 2013 highlighted the ac› Organisation Werbungtreibende im Markenverband (OWM) ceptance of driver assistance systems and automated driving [German Advertisers’ Association] among car drivers in Germany, Japan, China, and the U.S.A. The corporation’s locations share information and opinions with the › Schmalenbach-Gesellschaft für Betriebswirtschaft general public through a wide range of intensive activities. [Schmalenbach Society for Business Administration] 4.17 Statement on key topics and concerns of the › Stifterverband für die Deutsche Wissenschaft stakeholders [Donors’ Association for German Science] See 4.16. › Verband der Automobilindustrie (VDA) [German Association of the Automotive Industry] GRI-Report 2013 Economic Performance Indicators 12 Economic Performance Indicators Corporate Policy and Management Approach › Introduction of eco-labels for products. With these labels, With our know-how, our technologies, systems, and products, Continental could advertise its ecologically beneficial products we play an important role when it comes to the megatrends in more effectively, thereby setting itself apart from competitors. the automotive industry – safety, the environment, information, and affordable cars. We are working to make accidentand › Hybrid vehicle technology. If this technology gains ground on injury-free motoring, earth-friendly, resource-thrifty mobility, as the market, the demand for the relevant components would well as intelligent and networked road traffic a reality. With our rise – Continental is already well-positioned in this future marproducts, we make significant contributions of benefit to society ket. for a number of additional key industries – such as wind turbines for efficient energy generation or conveyor belt systems EC3 The Company’s Social Benefits and Pension to transport raw materials without harming the environment. Obligations We are an innovation powerhouse for new paths to industrial The Continental Corporation offers its employees pension plans progress. in the form of defined benefits and defined contributions, either as general or individual plans. The provisions cover the obligaOur BASICS are fundamental for Continental’s lasting success. tions from defined benefit plans, in particular in Germany, the These corporate guidelines describe the vision, mission, and U.S.A., Canada, the U.K., Austria, France, Mexico, Italy, and Irevalues that guide our corporate activities and how we interact land. For many of the plans, separate pension funds are availawith one another and with all other stakeholders. We are conble to fully or partially finance the company’s pension obligavinced that our values create value. After all, we have been tions. These pension fund assets can only be used to settle supplying our customers for more than 140 years with not only pension obligations. The principal funds are in the U.S.A., the high-performance products but also forward-looking solutions. U.K., and Germany in the form of contractual trust arrangements (CTAs). EC1 Data on Financial Income In fiscal year 2013, sales of the Continental Corporation rose by Our international pension strategy focuses on switching from 1.8 percent to €33.3 billion (previous year: €32.7 billion). Earndefined benefit to defined contribution plans in order to offer ings before interest and taxes (EBIT) increased to €3.3 billion both employees and the company a sustainable and readily (previous year: €3.1 billion). Investments for research and deunderstandable pension system. Continental promotes private velopment rose to €1.9 billion (previous year: €1.7 billion). contributions made by employees by adding corporate subsidies to the money they invest. Continental also encourages EC2 Risks, Opportunities, and Consequences employees to pay into a “deferred compensation scheme.” of Climate Change Almost all employees in Germany receive an employer-funded Potential risks: pension plan; at the end of 2013, almost half of all employees were paying into a deferred compensation scheme. › Additional regulations that restrict or limit car traffic as measures aimed at combating global warming. This could Further information on pensions and similar obligations can be lead to a significant decrease in car sales – and consequently found in the “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements” of adversely affect demand for Continental’s products and serthe Annual Report 2013 as well as in section LA3. vices. Continental – Annual Report 2013 › Production cutbacks at the locations due to changing (regional) climatic conditions. EC4 Financial Assistance Received from Government Government subsidies in 2013, amounting to a total of €7.9 › Bottlenecks in the availability of raw materials. million (previous year: €7.3 million), that were not intended for investments in fixed assets are shown in the “Other” and funcPotential opportunities: tion costs sections of the income statement. Government investment grants amounting to €20.1 million (previous year: › Additional legal regulations to reduce CO 2 emissions. We €29.4 million) were deducted directly from the acquisition already generate around a third of our sales with products costs. Continental received about €4 million as part of the that are designed to reduce CO2 emissions. compensation scheme of Germany’s Renewable Energies Act (EEG). Provisions were set up in the same amount for 2013. › New legal regulations to reduce air pollution. For example, the Powertrain division develops and produces efficient injection EC5 Ratio of Standard Entry Level Wage Compared with systems and cooling water pumps that reduce fuel consumpLocal Minimum Wage (Addition) tion (and therefore emissions). As yet, we have not recorded any data on this. › Rising energy taxes are increasing the demand for fuelefficient products. Our Powertrain, Tire, and ContiTech divisions focus on this goal in their research and development activities. GRI-Repor t2013 Economic Performance Indicators 13 EC6 Spending on Locally Based Suppliers EC9 Indirect Economic Impacts Develop locally, purchase locally (insofar as this makes sense The Continental Corporation is a comparatively large employer and is possible from the perspective of global sourcing). Our at its locations and contributes to development of the region business approach is to produce and market locally. Quality, and infrastructure by providing jobs and training opportunities, material, and costs are our key purchase criteria. We use local tax payments, and contracts with local suppliers and service suppliers if they satisfy these three requirements. providers. EC7 Hiring Local Staff Income tax expense for the 2013 fiscal year amounted to As a corporation with international operations and locations in €449.6 million (previous year: €697.8 million), which corre49 countries, we make every effort to ensure that we are a sponds to a tax rate of 18.3 percent compared with 26.0 pergood local employer. We offer attractive jobs, training opportucent the previous year. Tax payments in the 2013 fiscal year nities, and career paths. Wherever possible, we entrust the task amounted to €805.4 million (previous year: €683.5 million), of managing the locations to managers that come from the which corresponds to a rate of 32.7 percent (previous year: region and are familiar with the local culture. 25.4 percent). EC8 Investments for the Welfare of the Local Community As an international corporation, Continental has a decentralized organization with strong local responsibility. This also applies for its social commitment. As far as possible, charitable projects, donations, and other activities are the responsibility of the decentralized locations and their committed employees. Exceptions to this include national challenges such as our commitment in the event of (humanitarian) disasters, In such matters, the corporation practices its corporate social responsibility as a whole. In 2013, for example, the corporation provided $200,000 to support reconstruction following the Philippines typhoon as well as €250,000 to support the reconstruction of areas destroyed by floods in Germany. GRI-Report 2013 Environmental Performance Indicators 14 Environmental Performance Indicators Environmental Policy and Management Approach energy consumption, product packaging, plant tidiness and We are facing up to the ecological challenges. Environmental cleanliness, product safety data sheets, environmental certificaprotection is a key management responsibility for us. We began tion, and contingency management in the plant. The infordeveloping environmental management systems around 30 mation is checked as part of the supplier audit. Continental years ago. For example, at the beginning of the 1990s, we at regularly requests valid environment certificates from the large Continental enunciated our responsibility for protecting the majority of suppliers with which it already has contracts. At the environment in our corporate guidelines, the BASICS, and speciend of 2013, we had 2,481 suppliers with quality certification fied this responsibility as an objective in the corporation’s ESH on our records, around 67 percent of whom had an environ(Environment, Safety, Health) policy. By doing so, we acknowlmental management system certified to ISO 14001. edged early on that the global expansion of our corporate activities is also reflected in the increasing use of natural resources, EN1 Materials Used rising energy consumption, and the release of substances into The plants operated by the Rubber Group mainly process natuthe environment. At the heart of our ESH policy is a systematic ral and synthetic rubber, silica, carbon black, vulcanization and approach to reducing any negative environmental impact, acaging protection chemicals, and steel whereas the Automotive companied by an improvement in economic and social condiGroup mainly processes aluminum alloys, steel, electronic comtions. ponents, and plastics. In 2013, we decided on a new environmental strategy that is EN2 Percentage of Recycling Material coordinated with Continental’s overall strategy. It bears a clearer In the Rubber Group, prepared components (reclaimed materirelation to key global challenges (climate change, shortage of al) and belt steel with a high volume of recycled material are resources) as well as the opportunities and competitive advanused. In the Automotive Group, the aluminum alloys and steels tages arising from these challenges for our company. Measures contain a high volume of recycled material. We also process that are key to the successful implementation of the strategy recycled plastics. The share of reclaimed materials is currently are assigned to each strategic dimension. The new environmenaround 3 percent of the rubber mass and the volume of recytal strategy includes action plans for the different requirements cled material in steel and aluminum is at least 70 percent. in both our groups. EN3 Direct Energy Consumption At the end of 2013, 155 production locations worldwide were Total energy consumption of the environmentally-relevant 173 certified in accordance with the international environmental locations, 155 of which have ISO 14001 certification, included management standard ISO 14001. This translates into about for the environmental performance indicators rose by 5.9 per90 percent of all environmentally relevant production locations. cent to 27.5 million gigajoules (previous year: 26.0 million gigaAt the same time, we are making sure that our suppliers also joules) due to the increased demand for our products as well as operate in line with key environmental principles. Before new new product launches and start of production in new factories suppliers are commissioned, for example, a supplier assessment (greenfield sites). Electricity accounted for 13.9 million gigais conducted using a questionnaire focusing on criteria such as joules and fossil fuels for 13.6 million gigajoules. Energy consumption 2,748 3,000 2,596 2,422 2,500 2,000 1,500 802 797 829 1,000 669 500 0 2011 2012 2013 Target 2020 Waste (1,000 t) Specific energy consumption (GJ/€ million adjusted sales) GRI-Report 2013 Environmental Performance Indicators 15 Water consumption 1,800 1,605 1,617 1,463 1,600 1,400 1,200 1,000 800 485 493 488 600 394 400 200 0 2011 2012 2013 Target 2020 1,0000 m3 Specific water consumption (m3/€ million adjusted sales) This data comes from our global, central reporting system and under review, we completed and commissioned the new has been checked by auditing firm KPMG AG in accordance ContiLifeCycle plant in Hanover-Stöcken for retreaded truck and with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements bus tires (including a recycling plant for rubber from used tires). (ISAE) 3000. More than 100 new jobs have been created here. Unique in this combination throughout the sector worldwide, the plant conEnergy intensity increased compared with 2012, rising from cludes the tire production cycle and will leverage the synergies 797 to 829 gigajoules per million euros of sales. Our objective from retreading and rubber recycling. Thanks to the recycling is to reduce specific energy consumption to 669 gigajoules per process developed by Continental, the volume of recycled mamillion euros of adjusted sales by 2020. terials in new tires can be doubled (from 3 percent at present to 6 percent or more). In 2013, the company received the “EuroEN4 Indirect Energy Consumption pean Transport Sustainability Prize” in the “Tire and Tire SerThe scope 2 CO2 emissions from the consumption of energy vices” category for the ContiLifeCycle plant (see 2.10). can be described primarily by the consumption of electric energy and purchased steam. In 2013, electric consumption In the European Union, currently 38 percent of old tires (either totaled 13.9 million gigajoules (previous year: 13.1 million gigawhole or shredded) are used to generate energy in the cement joules). industry. Another 41 percent of the annual volume of old tires is processed further to create technically high-quality secondEN5 Energy-Saving Measures (Additional Indicator) ary raw materials. They are used to produce materials for the The increase in energy consumption over the past few years construction of sports facilities and roads, for example. (due to increased production) gave rise to a significant increase in specific energy consumption – from 797 to 829 gigajoules See also PR1 on this. per million euros of adjusted sales. This 4 percent increase is due to the 3.3 percent increase in production as well as to EN7 Reduction of Indirect Energy Consumption changes in accounting (see 3.11). By 2016, we aim to reduce (Additional Indicator) this figure to 669 gigajoules per million euros of adjusted sales. See EN5 and EN6. One of the corporation’s environmental objectives is to reduce energy consumption by 3 percent each year from 2012 to EN8 Water Consumption 2020. In 2013, water consumption rose slightly to 16.2 million cubic meters (previous year: 16.0 million cubic meters). Here too, the EN6 Energy-Saving Measures in Products (Additional reason for the rise was increased production. In contrast, speciIndicator) fic consumption (per million euros of adjusted sales) reduced In light of increasingly scarce resources, we believe it is our slightly compared with 2012, falling from 493 to 488 cubic duty to develop sustainable solutions for tire production in meters per million euros of sales. By 2020, we want to reduce order to reduce the demand for natural resources and therespecific water consumption to 394 cubic meters per million fore also lower the energy requirement of products. In the year euros of adjusted sales. GRI-Report 2013 Environmental Performance Indicators 16 EN9 Water Sources (Additional Indicator) powered using biofuels. A wide range of components suitable In total, 24 percent of water consumed in 2013 originated from for conventional fuels and bioethanol are available. While this surface water, 37 percent from the public drinking water nethelps to conserve resources and, in turn, contributes to climate work, and 39 percent from our own wells. protection, it can negatively impact biodiversity if the raw materials come from monocultures. We are aware of this problem. In EN10 Percentage of Reclaimed and Reused Water addition, Continental is driving forward the use of renewable (Additional Indicator) raw materials such as natural rubber and vegetable oils. ToAs yet, we have not recorded any data on this. gether with the Fraunhofer Institute for Molecular Biology and Applied Ecology (IME) at the University of Münster, we are workEN11 Protected Areas ing on developing new approaches in the “RUBIN – Industrial Adrspach, Czech Republic: This location is situated in the Emergence of Natural Rubber from Dandelion” project. This is “Broumovsko” nature reserve. because we are expecting a considerable rise in demand for natural rubber over the long term. The use of rubber from danBabenhausen (Germany): The “Magersandrasen” nature reserve delion roots has many benefits: Unlike the traditional rubber (FFH, flora-fauna-habitat) is located within the site premises in plant, the Russian dandelion plant – which is particularly rich in front of the administrative building. This area is inspected annurubber – does not depend on a tropical climate and can be ally in the presence of the nature conservation authority. grown in temperate latitudes. As a result, transport routes can be shortened and valuable areas of rainforest conserved. Hanover-Stöcken, Germany: This location is situated on the edge of an FFH area. EN15 Number of Red List Species Affected (Addition) Continental is not aware of any endangered species with a Nuremberg, Germany: A water protection area is situated 500 habitat in our production areas. meters from the location and an FFH / bird sanctuary is situated one kilometer away. EN16 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Total CO2 emissions of the included locations amounted to 2.52 EN12 Impact on Protected Areas million metric tons in 2013 (previous year: 2.45 million metric Continental is not aware of any negative impact. tons). This constitutes a slight increase by 2.6 percent as a result of the 3.3 percent increase in production. Direct CO2 EN13 Habitats Protected or Restored emissions (Scope 1 according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol) (Additional Indicator) amounted to 659,000 metric tons in 2013 (previous year: The majority of our plants are located in industrial and com592,000 metric tons), while indirect emissions from external mercial areas. If protected or restored habitats are located in energy sources (Scope 2) remained more or less constant at close proximity, we minimize any potential negative impact on 1.86 million metric tons. These values yield a specific figure of these areas. 75.9 metric tons of CO2 emissions per million euros of adjusted sales in 2013 (previous year: 75.3 metric tons). By 2020, we EN14 Measures and Plans to Promote Biodiversity want to reduce this figure to 61.3 metric tons per million euros (Additional Indicator) of adjusted sales. Many of our components – piezo injection valves for conventional gasoline and diesel engines, for example – can be easily GRI-Report 2013 Environmental Performance Indicators 17 CO2 emissions 2,500 1,780 1,861 1,857 2,000 1,500 1,000 753 753 759 592 659 613 495 500 0 2011 2012 2013 Target 2020 Scope 1 (1,000 t) Scope 2 (1,000 t) Specific CO2 emissions (100 kg/€ million adjusted sales) Waste generation and recovery 400 339 350 252 265 300 250 200 150 102 84 84 82 85 84 83 90 100 50 0 2011 2012 2013 Target 2020 Waste (1,000 t) Specific waste Specific waste (%) (100 kg/€ million adjusted sales) The data we have recorded relates to all environmentallyEN18 Initiatives to Reduce Greenhouse Gases relevant manufacturing facilities over which Continental AG has (Additional Indicator) operational control (173 of the 216 corporate locations). The Climate protection is at the heart of our environmental manemission factors come from the GHG Protocol. agement and corporate strategy. We develop products and systems that reduce the emissions of polluting gases. We do EN17 Other Greenhouse Gas Emissions this, on the one hand, by reducing the weight of our products Only marginal amounts of methane, nitrous oxide, and fluoro(reduced fuel consumption) and, on the other, making continucarbons are released in production and these emissions are ous improvements in product properties in terms of rolling and falling continuously. friction resistance of tires, engines, and transmissions. We help to protect the climate by increasing our use of renewable raw materials as well. GRI-Report 2013 Environmental Performance Indicators 18 We have been responding to the CDP’s extensive catalog of EN25 Water Bodies Affected by Discharges of Water and questions on our commitment to climate protection every year Runoff since 2009. The process is linked to a public ranking of our Continental is not aware of any water bodies affected by discompany. In 2012, we moved up in the Climate Disclosure charges of water and runoff. Leadership Index (CDLI). In the most recent assessment published in October 2013, Continental yet again achieved a record EN26 Initiatives to Mitigate the Environmental Impact of high with 82 points in the automotive supply industry group. Products and Services Further information can be found in our response to the CDP In 2013, around one-third of our sales – around €11 billion – (see link). were for products that are exceptionally energy-efficient or demonstrably lead to reduced emissions of pollutants or CO2 . In CDP the past few years, for example, we have managed to substantially reduce the weight of our brake components while at the EN19 Emissions of Ozone-Depleting Substances same time enhancing braking performance. In addition, we are A few of our locations outside Europe produce minimal, unforecontinuously improving the average rolling resistance of our seen emissions (leaks) of ozone-depleting substances from air tires – without compromising on safety. Our piezo injection conditioning systems. Continental of course complies with legal valves for conventional gasoline and diesel engines reduce CO2 requirements in these countries to discharge such substances. emissions by up to 20 percent. What is more, our telematics systems and optimized hose lines reduce climate-relevant EN20 Other Air Emissions emissions. Our products for the automotive industry shall conThe locations with on-site boiler houses emit low levels of nitrotinue to help reduce CO2 emissions from cars and trucks. Hygen oxide, dust, and sulfur dioxide. In rubber processing, we use brid drives for cars can lower CO2 emissions by 10 to 25 pervolatile organic compounds (VOCs) for surface treatment. We cent, depending on the hybrid type and application conditions. are working on a project concerning the development of alternatives to VOCs. Our products also contribute to climate protection in nonautomotive applications. For example, our conveyor belts with EN21 Waste Water optimized rolling resistance (energy-optimized conveyor belts) As yet, we do not record the quantity of discharged waste wasignificantly reduce the energy required in open-cast coal minter, but it is less than the total water consumption (due to evaping. In addition, the new ContiThermo-Protect insulation prooration in the use of cooling water). Furthermore, waste water tects industrial equipment from heat loss even in inaccessible treatment plants ensure that surface water pollution is miniplaces and thereby reduces the amount of fossil raw materials mized. Waste water from sanitary facilities is discharged directly required to produce heat energy. into public sewage systems. EN27 Reclaimed Products and Packaging EN22 Waste Continental has no take-back obligation for original equipment In 2013, the corporation produced 339,000 metric tons of components, as the law assigns responsibility for this to the waste (previous year: 265,000 metric tons). This considerable vehicle manufacturers. In many European countries, we do increase results primarily from the consolidation of waste colreclaim old tires in accordance with national laws. However, we lection and, to a much lesser extent, from the increased producare not able to specify quantities due to differing legal regulation volume. The specific waste volume per million euros of tions. The average recycling rate for old tires (from all manufacadjusted sales thus increased to 10.2 metric tons (previous turers) in Europe is currently around 96 percent. Continental year: 8.2 metric tons). In 2013, we recycled (or sent for recyplayed a role in achieving this notable success as a corporate cling) around 84 percent of waste. We are striving for a specific member of the European Tire and Rubber Manufacturers’ Assowaste volume of 8.3 metric tons per million euros of adjusted ciation (ERTMA). sales and a recycling rate of 90 percent by 2020. EN28 Fines EN23 Spills of Hazardous Substances Financial penalties, legal disputes, and claims for damages are There may be minor emissions of fuels/oils in the event of plant disclosed in the Annual Report 2013 (see “Other Disclosures” of malfunctions. the Annual Report, page 229). EN24 Transported Waste Shipped Internationally EN29 Environmental Impacts of Transportation (Addition) (Additional Indicator) Continental does not export any waste. We have contracts with As yet, we have not recorded any data on this. certified, professional waste recyclers who collect our waste and correctly recycle or dispose of it. Since no uniform international EN30 Environmental Protection Expenditures and definition of the term “hazardous waste” exists, it is not yet Investments (Additional Indicator) possible for us to report on this. However, the possibility of As yet, we have not recorded any data on this. Continental importing or exporting hazardous waste can be ruled out. GRI-Report 2013 Social Performance Indicators 19 Social Performance Indicators Labor Practices and Decent Work Corporate Policy and Management Approach Demographic trends in the Western industrial nations over the Continental’s workforce has grown rapidly over the past few next few years will represent a major challenge for Continental years. The company has tapped into new business areas and too: the number of older employees will increase, especially in international markets and integrated these in the corporation. our factories. Our “Demography Program,” launched in 2005, is On the global labor markets, the competition for specialist and a comprehensive concept aimed at dealing with this issue. managerial staff is growing due to a reduction in the working population. We are continually developing our human resources In 2013, the percentages that the age groups held in our work(HR) strategy to enable our company to take on the growing force were as follows*: internal and external challenges involved in HR work. › Up to 25 years: 13 percent (previous year 14 percent) Employee development and training enjoy high priority at Continental since they form the basis for the long-term success of › 26–35 years: 33 percent (32 percent) our company. Responsibility for our employees is therefore a central component of the corporation’s commitment. We afford › 36–45 years: 27 percent (27 percent) our employees the best possible advancement and training opportunities. Our HR work is based on the following six strate› 46–55 years: 20 percent (20 percent) gic areas: › 56–65 years: 7 percent (7 percent) › Creating competitive working conditions LA2 Employee Fluctuation* › Positioning Continental on the market as an attractive emAs at December 31, 2013, corporation-wide fluctuation was 3.7 ployer percent (previous year: 3.9 percent). The average job tenure worldwide was 9.5 years (Germany: 14.7 years). Around 94 › Supporting organizational development percent of employees form the core workforce. › Ensuring first-class HR work by developing skills and improvEmployee fluctuation differs by country and region: ing processes › Asia: 8.3 percent (previous year: 7.0 percent) › Securing executive talent for future years at an early stage through the talent management program and continuous › NAFTA: 5.7 percent (6.3 percent) human resources development › Europe (excluding Germany): 2.8 percent (3.3 percent) › Promoting a values-based leadership and performance culture › South America: 2.4 percent (4.8 percent) All divisions and locations implement the appropriate measures. › Germany: 1.1 percent (1.2 percent) LA1 Information on the Total Workforce At the end of 2013, Continental employed 177,762 women › Rest: 1.6 percent (3.1 percent) and men in 49 countries, almost two-thirds of them in Europe (and half of them in Germany). The number of employees rose LA3 Company Benefits for Full-Time Employees by 8,123 over the previous year. In 2013, Continental em(Additional Indicator) ployed 11,460 temporary workers. The percentage of women In 2011, the Continental Executive Board decided to introduce as a proportion of the global workforce* was 27.6 percent (in an annual value sharing bonus for all employees worldwide. A Germany: 21.1 percent) and the percentage of women in mancorporation-wide agreement to this effect was concluded with agement positions was 9 percent. the corporate Works Council in Germany. The program allows employees of the corporation to participate directly in the sucThe number of trainees at the German locations rose slightly. At cess of the company by receiving a bonus. The amount they the end of 2013, 2,025 young people were undergoing training receive depends on the absolute value contribution of the Conwith us (previous year: 1,987). The percentage of trainees in tinental Corporation in the fiscal year in question. The total Germany remained stable at 4.3 percent. In 2012, we concludvolume of profits distributed for 2013 was around €100 million ed an agreement specifying that, in the future, young trainees (virtually the same as in 2012). will receive employment contracts of indefinite duration following completion of their training with us. *The recording scope does not yet cover all employees worldwide. At the end of 2013, 155,500 employees were included (previous year: 138,000), which equates to a coverage of 87 percent. The worldwide standardization of the HR systems is currently being implemented in a project, which is slated for completion sometime in 2014. GRI-Report 2013 Social Performance Indicators 20 Our international pension strategy focuses on switching from LA7 Accident Statistics defined benefit to defined contribution plans in order to offer Absence and accident rates reflect the success of preventative both employees and the company a sustainable and readily occupational health and safety measures in the corporation. understandable pension system. Continental promotes private With regard to illness-related absences, the encouraging trend contributions made by employees by adding corporate subsiin the past few years stabilized in 2013: Each employee was dies to the money they invest. Continental also encourages absent for an average of just 3.5 percent of his/her contractualemployees to pay into a deferred compensation scheme, ly agreed working time; the figure last year was likewise 3.5 whereby employees relinquish part of their earned income. percent (see table). The number of industrial accidents per Continental then invests this in the company pension scheme. million hours worked has fallen considerably in the past few years, from 5.7 (2008) to 3.3 (2013). As a result, the number of See also EC3. hours lost per million hours worked reduced from 942 to 472 hours during the same period. Two fatal industrial accidents in LA4 Percentage of Employees Covered by Collective 2013 in Ecuador and India overshadow this positive result. Bargaining Agreements Continental observes the “Tripartite Declaration of Principles LA8 Company Health Management Programs concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy” of the Our corporation-wide “Company Health Management GuideInternational Labour Organization (ILO) in its HR policy. This lines” define the overarching standards regarding company declaration includes the employees’ right to freedom of associahealth management. The management team at the respective tion. At Continental, 70 percent of employees work in countries locations is responsible for local health protection and must that are members of the Organisation for Economic Co-operafulfill the relevant national requirements regarding, for example, tion and Development (OECD) and are expected to comply with occupational health checkups. Some programs are global in the aforementioned principle. In Germany, collective bargaining scope (e.g. flu vaccinations), while others are only regional (e.g. agreements have been reached for almost 85 percent of the preventative checkups for bowel cancer). Due to the decentralcore workforce. These are collective agreements and other ized corporate structure, corporation-wide data regarding global regulations negotiated between employer and employee repreexpenditure on health protection is not available. sentatives. Continental is among the signatories of the Luxembourg DeclaLA5 Notice Periods Regarding Operational Changes ration on Workplace Health Promotion in the European Union. The Executive Board reports to the Supervisory Board on matIt was adopted by all members of the European Network for ters regarding (upcoming) operational changes in the corporaWorkplace Health Promotion (ENWHP) in 1997 to promote tion, informing the employee representatives at the same time. health and occupational safety in the companies of member Continental ensures that employees are informed about major states and to encourage member states to attach greater imoperational changes early on. There were no such major portance to workplace health promotion (WHP). In keeping with changes in 2013. At the locations and in the business units of the Luxembourg Declaration, we intensively promote the introContinental AG, employee representatives are elected on the duction of a holistic, systematic, and integrated company health basis of the respective legislation. These representatives likemanagement system at all of our locations worldwide. wise inform Continental about changes at an early stage. We comply with all legal regulations relating to notice periods as At many of our locations, employees can not only use the comwell as those governed separately by collective bargaining pany medical services, but also get involved in a variety of agreements. measures relating to workplace health promotion covering areas such as physical activity, diet, and relaxation. They can LA6 Percentage of Employees Represented in also take part in health screening. In the year under review, we Occupational Health and Safety Committees introduced our “Healthy Leadership” programs to give manag(Additional Indicator) ers health skills and provide “Stress Control” techniques in other All Continental AG employees in Germany are represented in countries to improve employees’ abilities to deal with stress. the legally required occupational health and safety committees through Works Councils and Safety Officers. Accident statistics 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 1 Absences due to sickness 4.0 4.0 3.8 3.5 3.5 3.5 Accident rate2 5.7 5.0 4.6 4.2 3.6 3.3 Hours lost 3 942 845 729 638 574 472 1 Absences = paid and unpaid absences due to sickness in relation to the contractual working hours in percent. 2 Accident rate = number of work-related accidents worldwide with one or more days lost per million hours worked. 3 Hours lost = number of accident-related hours lost worldwide per million hours worked GRI-Report 2013 Social Performance Indicators 21 Thanks to the “Employee Assistance Program” implemented by › Corporate Entry Program: a tailored package for new employan external service provider, we help employees with workees with university degrees offering them a profound insight related or personal problems while ensuring their anonymity. into the corporation and helping them to hone their qualificaOur aim was to make 30 percent of our production workplaces tions profile. suitable for workers of all ages by 2015 – but we achieved this goal ahead of schedule in 2013. The process is being rolled out › Assessment and Development Center: for the identification further in view of the ever-rising number of older employees. and fostering of highly talented employees with the potential The aim is for half of all workplaces in the German production to become future managers in preparation for management locations to be age-stable by 2020. We design new workplaces positions. in accordance with the latest ergonomic findings. › Leadership Entry Program: preparation of new managers for LA9 Company Agreements on Occupational Safety their duties with regard to social skills, leadership, and man(Additional Indicator) agement culture. The “Safety and Health” (SH) department is responsible for occupational safety at the corporate level and reports directly › International Management Program: experienced managers to the Executive Board member for HR. Our goal is zero incihandle challenging corporate projects at a high academic dents (“we go for zero incidents”). In the year under review, 25 level. locations worldwide were certified in accordance with OHSAS 18001 – the international standard for occupational health and › BIG SIX Radar: 360° feedback process to help managers idensafety management – and comparable systems. Company tify strengths and development potential. agreements on occupational safety are concluded at the locations in Germany. We offer our industrial employees specific training courses at all production locations. We perform regular checks to determine LA10 Training Statistics the effectiveness and sustainability of these measures. As yet, we have not created any statistics on this. See also LA12. “BASICS live” is the name of our regular global employee survey, which is an important tool for improving corporate culture and LA11 Lifelong Learning and Knowledge Management cooperation within the corporation. Here, the employees assess (Additional Indicator) their level of satisfaction with Continental and the quality of Lifelong learning is particularly challenging in times of demomanagement in the corporation. Our divisions and locations graphic change. In the words of our corporate guidelines: “We have the opportunity to add their own questions. promote lifelong learning along with personal and professional development. We make knowledge available to everyone in our LA13 Composition of Governance Bodies Regarding company as quickly as possible and offer mutual support for Diversity and Equal Opportunities enabling swift adjustment to changes within our environment.” Continental is committed to treating all employees equally, Continental supports this by providing a comprehensive range regardless of age, gender, nationality, religion, skin color, or of further training programs and a company suggestions mansexual orientation. For us, it is the abilities and potential within agement system. “Continental Ideas Management” encourages people themselves that count. This is expressed in our corpoand calls for the commitment and motivation of our employees rate guidelines as well as through our signing of the German and gives them a proactive role in improving their own working “Diversity Charter.” environment. Their commitment is rewarded with bonuses and special campaigns. In accordance with the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code, the Supervisory Board of Continental In 2013, more than 500,000 ideas were submitted, of which AG has specified a number of targets for its composition. around 440,000 were put into effect. These led to savings of Among other things, the aim is to increase the percentage of more than €160 million. See also LA12. women in the Supervisory Board to 20 percent over the medium term (this had already been achieved by the scheduled LA12 Percentage of Employees Receiving Performance election in 2014). The Supervisory Board is keen to ensure that Reviews and Development Programs (Additional women are afforded appropriate consideration when it comes Indicator) to appointments to the Executive Board. In 2013, one woman Development plans are envisaged for around 100,00 employwas on the Executive Board (responsible for the area of HR and ees. Our personal development programs offer employees the also director of labor relations). ideal basis for their successful professional and personal development. Around 3,000 employees worldwide occupy a management position (executive or senior executive position). The proportion of women occupying these positions was 9 percent in 2013 GRI-Report 2013 Social Performance Indicators 22 (previous year: 8 percent). Continental wants to double this figure by 2020. Around 70 percent of our employees work outside Germany and 40 percent outside Europe. The many different nationalities of the employees working at the locations also contributes to this highly international nature. An important aim is to achieve a balanced ratio of local to international managers. This is in line with market requirements as well as the current global understanding. The proportion of local and international managers fluctuates according to the region; in 2013, the percentage of foreign managers in the corporation was 40 percent. LA14 Ratio of Basic Salary of Men to Women Continental’s remuneration models relate to roles, knowledge, and experience – irrespective of gender. In Germany, this is binding in collective agreements with the IG Metall and IG BCE trade unions. No such differentiation is made for non-pay-scale employees either. GRI-Report 2013 Social Performance Indicators 23 Social Performance Indicators Human Rights Corporate Policy and Management Approach HR3 Human Rights Training for Employees (Additional Continental supports compliance with human rights wherever Indicator) and whenever it can. However, we believe that a company can In the year under review, approximately 35,000 employees only contribute toward compliance with human rights as a (98 percent of those invited) from 35 countries took part in an complement to politics, not as a replacement of it. We ensure e-learning course on our Code of Conduct, which also covers that no human rights are infringed upon within our sphere of the issue of human rights. influence, particularly with regard to forced or child labor. This is firmly embedded in our principles of corporate social responsiHR4 Incidents of Discrimination and Action Taken bility and our Supplier Code of Conduct and is reinforced by our The following is included in our Code of Conduct, which applies participation in the UN Global Compact. to all employees: “We are proud of the diversity the worldwide business of Continental offers. We will treat our fellow employHR1 Investment Agreements with Human Rights Clauses ees, potential employees, suppliers, customers, and any other Since 2011, we have obligated all of our suppliers and service persons with whom we conduct business with fairness and providers to uphold our “Supplier Code of Conduct.” This code respect, refraining from any discrimination, harassment, and of conduct comprises ten points, one of which is human rights. other improper behavior with respect to gender, age, race, skin Our suppliers promise to observe these principles When investcolor, ethnicity or national origin, citizenship, religion or religious ing in the construction of new locations, we ensure that we beliefs, physical or mental disability, veteran status, sexual orienuphold the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. tation, or any other characteristics protected by applicable law.” HR2 Percentage of Contractors/Suppliers Subjected All employees or stakeholders who become aware of illegal or to Human Rights Screening dubious activities can report any information they have to our Continental maintains a network of around 5,000 suppliers for compliance and anti-corruption hotline. In the year under reproduction materials (around 3,700 in the Automotive Group view, 28 of the 134 incidents reported via the hotline related to and around 1,300 in the Rubber Group). In 2013, we purHR issues (including discrimination and harassment). chased 64 percent of production materials and 69 percent of the total purchasing volume obtained from companies headHR5 Operations Entailing a Significant Risk for the quartered in states belonging to the Organisation for Economic Employees’ Freedom of Association Co-operation and Development (OECD), where human rights As a company conducting operations and procuring goods at violations are not expected to occur. an international level, we cannot exclude this risk. We can assume, however, that 69 percent of our purchasing volume for In addition to the self-commitment of suppliers to adhere to the materials is with suppliers based in OECD countries who thereCode of Conduct, raw material suppliers are inspected before fore respect and enable their employees’ freedom of associathe delivery relationship is entered into. The aim here is to extion. amine, using various criteria, the supplier's suitability to supply over the long term. The criteria include technological and finanOur Code of Conduct points out that Continental adheres to cial criteria as well as general corporate aspects. The plant visits existing laws and requirements – which includes ensuring freeconducted as part of the inspection also provide an insight into dom of association and assembly. Our Law and Compliance the general working conditions. This insight is taken into acdepartments deal with reports of potential violations and also count accordingly in the evaluation should any problems beconduct step-by-step investigations. Our Supplier Code of Concome apparent. If the defined countermeasures do not achieve duct obligates all suppliers and service providers to respect the desired success, a delivery relationship may in extreme human rights, which include freedom of association. See also cases be ruled out. HR2. Continental Supplier Code of Conduct HR6 Operations Entailing a Significant Risk of Child Labor See HR5. GRI-Report 2013 Social Performance Indicators 24 HR7 Operations Entailing a Significant Risk of Forced Labor See HR5. HR8 Human Rights Training for Security Personnel (Additional Indicator) Just like all other employees, our security personnel is likewise obligated to respect human rights and behave in accordance with local laws and requirements. However, as yet, there are no special training sessions on this. HR9 Violations Involving Rights of Indigenous People (Additional Indicator) Continental is not aware of any incidents connected with our business activities in which the rights of indigenous people were violated. GRI-Report 2013 Social Performance Indicators 25 Social Performance Indicators Society Corporate Policy and Management Approach as well as external sources (such as the Transparency InternaOne of our basic values is Trust. Trust assumes integrity, honestional Corruption Perception Index). ty, and incorruptibility. Management and employee compliance with all the legal requirements that apply to Continental AG and The CMS comprises three pillars: its subsidiaries as well as all internal regulations has therefore long been our goal and is part of our corporate culture. › Prevention: risk analysis and employee training. This is reflected not only in our corporate guidelines, the BA› Exposure: scheduled and ad hoc reviews. SICS, and the Corporate Governance Principles, but also in the corporate social responsibility principles and the Code of Con› Response: consequences of compliance violations. duct. In accordance with the respective legal conditions of each country, all employees must agree to the Code of Conduct. In 2011, 2012, and 2013, Continental AG arranged for auditing National teams led by the local compliance coordinators are in firm Ernst & Young (EY) to audit the design of its CMS for the charge of implementation. The 2012 revised version of the areas of anti-corruption, competition/antitrust law, fraud, and Code of Conduct is to be signed by all employees by the end of other property offenses. The audit was carried out in accord2014. We also adopted an anti-corruption guideline in 2012. It ance with standard PS 980 of the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer is intended to increase awareness of compliance with the rele(IDW). EY issued an unqualified audit opinion in each case. Emvant regulations at all levels and provide guidance in dealing ployees and third parties can report potentially suspicious cases with the issue of gifts and benefits. via the compliance and anti-corruption hotline, which are dealt with by the Corporate Auditing and Compliance departments. Continental faces up to its social responsibilities and respects In 2013, 134 incidents were reported via the hotline – 21 (16 the laws and cultures of every country. Thanks to our profitable percent) of which were related to the issues of bribery or corperformance, we provide secure jobs in many regions of the ruption. world. In addition, we want to create value for those who live and work near our facilities as well. Our voluntary engagement Messages to the Anti-Corruption Hotline 134 focuses on three areas where we position ourselves on the basis of our business model, our challenges, or our self-image Contacts, of which in %: and where we aim to promote sustainable development: social HR topics (incl. discrimination and harassment) 21 well-being and traffic safety, education and science, and sport. Anti-corruption/bribery 16 Concerns regarding fraudulent activities, money laundering, export Continental fully supports commitment to charitable causes. In control, forging of documents, etc. 11 2012, we also adopted a new donations policy intended to help Fair business practice/conflict of interests 11 employees exercise their commitment even more effectively Theft, misuse of property, sabotage, vandalism 5 and with greater visibility. Accounting 2 SO1 Impact of Operations on Local Communities Anti-trust and competition law 1 Continental is a comparatively large employer at many locaMiscellaneous 33 tions and makes a significant contribution to the development of the region by providing jobs and training opportunities, tax payments, and contracts with local suppliers and service proCompliance and anti-corruption hotline viders. See also EC8 and EC9. SO3 Percentage of Employees Trained in the Identification SO2 Percentage of Business Units Analyzed for of Corruption Risks Corruption Risks In the year under review, we launched an electronic learning The Executive Board is fully committed to a “zero tolerance” program, available in ten languages, on compliance and the policy with regard to corruption and antitrust. A comprehensive Code of Conduct. All employees around the world with comanalysis forms the basis of our Compliance Management Sysputer-based workplaces are obliged to take part. By the end of tem (CMS): The company and its business activities are exam2013, more than 50,000 of our employees had taken part – ined in terms of potential compliance risks that can arise from which translates to around 28 percent of the corporation’s its structures and processes, a specific market situation, or workforce. region. During this analysis, we take into account, among other things, the results of a regular corporation-wide risk inventory GRI-Report 2013 Social Performance Indicators 26 SO4 Action Taken in Response to Incidents of Corruption In the period under review, individual instances of corrupt behavior occurred in the company. As punishment for these incidents, we implemented disciplinary measures, made extraordinary dismissals, and imposed criminal charges. SO5 Participation in the Forming of Political Will Our standpoints on economic policy are expressed, for example, in our annual reports; our interests are represented in the specialist work of the associations and institutions to which we belong (see 4.13). SO6 Contributions to Political Parties and Politicians (Additional Indicator) Continental acts in a politically neutral manner and does not give any donations or other monetary contributions to political parties, politicians, or related associations (e.g. voting associations). This restriction is firmly embedded in the corporation’s donations policy. SO7 Legal Action Against the Company for AntiCompetitive Behavior (Additional Indicator) Information on this is provided in the Annual Report 2013 (see “Other Disclosures” of the Annual Report) and, if necessary, our interim financial reports. SO8 Fines or Sanctions Against the Company Due to Non-Compliance with Laws and Regulations See SO7. GRI-Report 2013 Product Responsibility 27 Product Responsibility Corporate Policy and Management Approach PR2 Non-Compliance with Requirements Regarding Our responsibility extends over the entire life cycle of our prodProduct Responsibility (Additional Indicator) ucts – starting with the raw materials used, product developContinental is subject to product liability lawsuits and other ment, and manufacture, to their use and subsequent recycling. proceedings in which customers and third parties accuse the Continental conducts development and production to the highcompany of alleged infringement of its duty of care, nonest possible standards in order to minimize the impact on compliance with warranty obligations, or material defects. From health and the environment. It is up to customers to ensure that 2006 to the end of 2013, the total costs for dealing with such products are used for their intended purpose. claims and proceedings amounted to less than €50 million annually. Our ISO 9001-certified quality management system, which is in place at all of our locations worldwide and is subject to regular PR3 Legally Required Obligations to Provide Information recertification, contains detailed specifications regarding prodRegarding Product Responsibility uct safety and quality. After all, they form the basis on which we A standardized labeling obligation for motor vehicle tires has fulfill the diverse range of requirements placed on us by for applied within the European Union (EU) since November 2012. instance our customers (such as reducing the fuel consumption This is aimed at enhancing road safety while reducing fuel conof vehicles). sumption: the EU tire label uses three criteria to indicate a tire’s environmental and safety-relevant characteristics. Continental Thanks to our products and technology, we not only enable this provides the relevant information, which can also be accessed to happen, but also constantly seek new ways to bring about online by our customers. further optimization. As a result, we make a valuable contribution to sustainable mobility. We consider the creation of prodThe New EU Tire Label ucts that significantly improve road safety to be yet another major benefit of our work to society; it is one that we pursue – The EU’s REACH directive (Registration, Evaluation, and Authorilike environmental protection – in our research and developzation of Chemicals) is relevant for both groups within the corment. poration. This directive stipulates detailed obligations to provide the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) with information relatPR1 Product Responsibility for Humans and the ing to specific substances. A substantial portion of the subEnvironment Across the Entire Life Cycle stances delivered to Continental had to be registered by the In development and production, we work to the highest standmanufacturers by the end of May 2013. To do this, comprehenards in order to minimize the impact of our production activities sive data on issues such as toxicity to humans, danger to the and products on health and the environment to the greatest environment, and the safe use of the substance had to be gathpossible extent. When using raw materials, we endeavor to ered and collectively presented in reports for submission to utilize natural resources in a conscientious manner. Our 14 ECHA. The data for safe use was determined jointly by the inproduct life cycle assessments (11 in the Rubber Group, 3 in dustries manufacturing and using them, such as Continental. the Automotive Group) provide important information here. In production, we plan to reduce energy and water consumption, PR4 Non-Compliance with Regulations Concerning CO2 emissions, and waste by 2020 (basis year: 2012). At the Information and Labeling (Additional Indicator) same time, we are endeavoring to increase the recycling rate of There were no known cases of non-compliance in the 2013 industrial waste year on year by 2 percent. See also EN 3, 8, 16, fiscal year. 22. PR5 Practices to Measure Customer Satisfaction Special attention is paid to creating energy-efficient, safe, and (Additional Indicator) recyclable products (see also EN6). With the “Safety for all” In the 2013 fiscal year, Continental did not conduct any cusconcept, the Chassis & Safety division is focusing not only on tomer surveys. providing safety technologies in line with the various customer and market requirements but also on enabling these technoloPR6 Laws and Standards Relating to Product Advertising gies to be installed in all vehicle classes. We provide our cusCompliance with all the laws and regulations that apply to Contomers with all relevant information to make it easier for them tinental AG and its subsidiaries, including the relevant laws to recycle our products. In the Automotive Group, this is regarding the prevention of unfair competition, is part of our achieved by means of a recycling passport, which includes corporate culture. component drawings and material data and explains dismantling steps. PR 7 Non-Compliance with Advertising Requirements (Additional Indicator) On the subject of noise emissions, Continental is involved in No instances of non-compliance in this regard arose during the initiatives for reducing tire and road noise, including the SIperiod under review. As a member of the German Advertisers’ LENCE research project of the European Union, as well as the Association (OWM), we adhere to the OWM’s Code of Conduct. “Quiet Traffic” and “Quiet Road Traffic” projects in Germany. This contains recommendations regarding conduct during GRI-Report 2013 Product Responsibility 28 collaboration between brand companies and the advertising industry. OWM – Code of Conduct PR8 Complaints Regarding Breaches of Customer Data Privacy Data protection at Continental is regulated in a corporate guideline designed to ensure that personal data is handled correctly in the corporation as a whole. In 2013, no major complaints regarding breaches of customer data privacy were received. PR 9 Fines for Non-Compliance with Legal Requirements Regarding Product Usage (Additional Indicator) See PR2. GRI-Report 2013 Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact 29 Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact Continental AG has since 2012 participated in the UN Global Compact, which defines ten basic principles of corporate social responsibility for companies (human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption). The table displays the guidelines and management systems we use to support the implementation of these principles. It also summarizes the progress made in their implementation in 2013. Prinzip Guidelines & systems Measures Results in 2013 Human rights Principle 1: Support of human › BASICS corporate guidelines › Participation in the events › Around 35,000 employees rights and discussions of the Ger(98% of those invited) from › Principles of corporate social man Global Compact Net35 countries took part in an Principle 2: Elimination of human responsibility work e-learning course on our rights violations Code of Conduct, which also › Supplier Code of Conduct covered the topic of human rights. Labor Principle 3: Upholding of freedom › BASICS corporate guidelines › Continental follows the › Around 70% of Continental's of association and right to “Tripartite Declaration of Prinemployees are employed in collective bargaining › Principles of corporate social ciples concerning Multinamember states of the Organiresponsibility tional Enterprises and Social zation for Economic Co-opePrinciple 4: Elimination of all Policy” of the International ration and Development forms of forced and compulsory › Supplier Code of Conduct Labor Organization (ILO) and (OECD). labor the values outlined therein for its HR policy. › We can assume that 69 perPrinciple 5: Abolition of child labor cent of our purchasing volume is with suppliers based in OECD countries who respect and enable their employees’ freedom of association. Principle 6: Elimination of › BASICS corporate guidelines › Core areas: promotion of › The percentage of internadiscrimination gender and international tional managers in the corpo› Principles of corporate social diversity ration in 2013 stood at 40 responsibility percent (2012: 33%). › Medium-term goal: 20 per› Code of Conduct cent women on the Supervi› 30 percent of our production sory Board workplaces are now age› Supplier Code of Conduct stable (ergonomic). › Goal for 2020: 16 percent › Member of the “Charta der women in management posiVielfalt” (German Diversity tions (2013: 9%) Charter) GRI-Report 2013 Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact 30 Prinzip Guidelines & systems Measures Results in 2013 Environment Principle 7: Precautionary › Continental environmental › Extensive investment in › A recycling process develenvironmental protection policy research and technology to oped by us has made it posreduce energy consumption sible to almost double the › Environmental management and CO2 emissions volume of recycled material systems certified to ISO in new tires (from 3% to 6% 14001 at all environmentally › Fourteen product life cycle percent). relevant locations assessments prepared so far in order to gain detailed in› We received the European › Principles of corporate social formation about environmenTransport Sustainability Prize responsibility tal impact for our new ContiLifeCycle plant in Hanover. › Continental mission › Energyand resource-efficient production processes Principle 8: Promotion of greater › Continental environmental › Participation in CDP ques› The Executive Board adopted environmental responsibility policy tionnaire. The process is a new environmental strategy linked to a public ranking of in 2013 › Environmental management the company by the CDP systems certified to ISO (Climate Disclosure Leader› 69 percent of suppliers had a 14001 at all environmentally ship Index) certified environmental manrelevant locations agement system in 2013 (ISO › Continental regularly assess14001) › Principles of corporate social es the level of certification to responsibility ISO 14001 of the majority of the suppliers with which it › Code of Conduct already has contracts › New suppliers are surveyed and assessed using a questionnaire on environmental aspects GRI-Report 2013 Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact 31 Prinzip Guidelines & systems Measures Results in 2013 Principle 9: Diffusion of environ› Continental environmental › Extensive investment in re› In 2013, we generated onementally friendly technologies policy search and technology to rethird of our sales (approxiduce energy consumption mately €11 billion) with prod› Continental mission and CO2 emissions ucts that are exceptionally energy-efficient or lead to › Increase in energy efficiency demonstrably reduced emisacross all phases of the prodsions of pollutants or CO2 uct life cycle emissions. › Promotion of the use of renewable raw materials such as natural rubber and vegetable oils › Continental is a member of the Sustainable Natural Rubber Project working group of the International Rubber Study Group and is involved in research projects on the topic of quiet traffic. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Measures against › Code of conduct › Compliance department › By the end of 2013, around corruption 35,000 employees (98% per› Anti-corruption guideline › Training programs for emcent of those invited) from 35 ployees countries had taken part an eLearning course on Compli› E-learning program on antiance and our Code of Concorruption and antitrust law duct. (compulsory for all employees with a PC workstation) › Compliance hotline for employees and external persons Continental Aktiengesellschaft Vahrenwalder Strasse 9 30165 Hanover Germany www.continental-corporation.com 2013.1
