Annual Report 2013 Annual Report 2013 Cover: Triodis high-performance butterfly valve for shutting off liquefied gas Group F i n a n c i a l H igh l ight s P roducts and Serv ices Bu s i n e s s D e v e l o p ment a nd Ea r nings Single-stage Pumps 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Standardised pumps, process pumps, circulator Order intake €m 2,241.2 2,257.4 2,132.3 2,075.0 1,934.0 pumps, service water pumps, slurry pumps Sales revenue €m 2,247.3 2,268.2 2,091.0 1,939.3 1,892.8 Earnings before interest and taxes ( EBIT ) €m 136.2 150.4* 133.4 148.9 185.7 Earnings before taxes (EBT ) €m 119.4 132.8* 120.5 135.8 172.8 Earnings after income taxes €m 79.9 90.3* 83.3 90.0 122.4 Multistage pumps Cash flow €m 142.3 156.9* 137.0 148.5 172.4 Boiler feed pumps, boiler circulating pumps, booster pumps, pressure booster pumps, high-pressure pumps Ba l a n c e Sh e e t for reverse osmosis applications, water transport pumps 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Key Indicators / Products and Services Balance sheet total €m 2,151.5 2,188.0* 1,974.1 1,861.3 1,645.4 Fixed assets €m 591.2 602.0 560.5 515.3 469.3 Capital expenditure €m 57.1 91.4 93.5 72.8 86.6 Submersible Pumps Depreciation and amortisation expense €m 60.2 58.6 51.0 48.1 43.4 Well pumps, waste water, sewage and drainage pumps, Current assets €m 1,520.6 1,546.2 1,389.2 1,329.2 1,158.6 mixers, tubular casing pumps, condensate pumps Equity (incl. non-controlling interest) €m 844.5 832.2* 869.1 825.6 720.6 Equity ratio (incl. non-controlling interest) % 39.3 38.0* 44.0 44.4 43.8 Automation and Drives Pr o fi ta b i l i t y Control systems, energy-efficient pump drives, 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 pressure booster systems, fire-fighting systems, Return on sales % 5.3 5.9* 5.8 7.0 9.1 lifting units Return on equity % 14.2 15.6* 14.2 17.6 26.1 Return on capital employed % 6.6 7.5* 7.4 8.9 12.4 E m p l oy e e s Valves 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Butterfly valves, globe valves, gate valves, control Number of employees at 31 Dec. 16,546 16,207 15,674 14,697 14,249 valves, diaphragm valves, ball valves, actuators and Staff costs €m 787.6 758.3* 698.0 649.8 618.3 control systems Sh a r e s 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Market capitalisation at 31 Dec. €m 804.3 769.4 741.0 1,051.2 707.6 Service Earnings per ordinary share ( EPS ) € 37.38 42.48* 40.95 44.09 61.32 Installation, commissioning, start-up, inspection, Earnings per preference share ( EPS ) € 37.64 42.74* 41.21 44.35 61.58 servicing, maintenance and repair of pumps, related Dividend per ordinary share € 12.00 12.00 12.00 12.00 12.00 systems and valves; modular service concepts and Dividend per preference share € 12.26 12.26 12.26 12.26 12.26 system analyses for entire systems * Adjustment to reflect the retroactive amendment to IAS 19 1 Assuming responsibility. All sorts of fluids keep our society in motion. They enable agriculture and industry to be productive, provide people with water and energy, and supply cleaning and fire protection systems. As one of the leading international ­suppliers of pumps, valves and associated services, KSB is responsible for the functioning of strategically important parts of this infrastructure. − But for KSB, responsibility does not end here. It is part of our value-based corporate culture, it shapes how we act and interact in our day-to-day work and governs how we serve our customers. Three examples in this report show how we ­understand and fulfil our ecological, social and economic responsibility. 2 Con t e nt s 24 Ecologi ca l resp onsi bi li ty Submersible mixers of the Amaprop series ensure particularly efficient gas production in biogas plants. 62 Soci al resp onsi bi li ty In Brazil, KSB gives young people with limited educational opportunities access to the world of employment. 138 Economi c resp onsi bi li ty Energy-efficient and safe – the latest Magnochem generation is an extremely economic solution for customers. 3 Man ag em en t a nd Issu es 2013 C o n s o l i dat e d Fin a n cia l Stat em e n t s 4 Chairman’s Letter 68 Balance Sheet 6 Board of Management 69 Statement of Comprehensive Income 8 Report of the Supervisory Board 70 Statement of Changes in Equity 14 A Look Back at 2013 72 Statement of Cash Flows 16 Employees 73 Notes 18 Corporate Social Responsibility 131 List of Shareholdings 22 KSB Shares 135 Supervisory Board 136 Board of Management 137 Proposal on the Appropriation of the Net Retained Earnings of KSB AG G ro up Man agem ent Report G e n e r a l Inf o rm ati o n 30 Basic Principles of the Group 144 Responsibility Statement 34 Economic Review 145 Auditor’s Report 44 Events after the Reporting Period 147 Glossary 45 Report on Expected Developments 148 Contacts 50 Opportunities and Risks Report 59 Acquisition-related Disclosures 60 Corporate Governance Statement (Section 289a of the HGB) 60 Remuneration of the Board of Management C ov e r Group Financial Highlights Products and Services Global Presence Financial Calendar Legend Gl os s ary 4 M a nagement a nd issues 2013 Dr. Wolfgang Schmitt, Chairman of the Board of Management There is no point in beating about the bush: 2013 was not one of KSB’s better financial years. Certainly, we made progress in many of our strategic projects, launched new products on to the market and ensured that, globally, we are well-positioned to face the future. However, we cannot be content with a 10.1 % fall in pre-tax earnings and a 0.9 % drop in sales revenue. Rather, what our performance has made very clear is the extent to which our company’s success to date has also been dependent on a prospering project business. And it is this project business that has failed to take off in the present economic climate, with investors in many sectors continuing to postpone their investment projects. We will therefore now be expanding our general business even more rapidly. Outside Europe in particular is where we see great potential for this business with standard pumps and valves. At the same time, we will of course be exploiting the opportunities associated with growing project business in 2014, as the expected economic upturn comes into play. In this context, we are assuming that the global backlog of investments will slowly clear. Service offers growth prospects A further development focus for us is our service and spare parts business. We continue to view the aftermarket segment as a good source of growth opportunities. We will be tapping into these by establishing new sites, providing customers with a rapid service and offering a broad range of services, complete with energy-saving measures. In 2013, we made good progress in this regard, as reflected in the performance of our Service segment. Looking to the current year, our aim is to grow strongly in this segment while focusing our attention on M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 5 C h ai r m an ’s L et t er growth outside our European core market. To achieve this, we will be setting up new and ­expanding existing service centres, not least in the world’s mining regions. New framework agreements with the energy industry give us the opportunity to demonstrate our service ­expertise in France and to do so over the long term. REORGANISATION STRENGTHENS GLOBALISATION This year, we will be putting our energy into making the necessary progress in the targeted areas. Our Group’s organisational structure, implemented in 2014, will help us to achieve this. The new organisation, including in particular a promising positioning of Sales, will contribute to serving our customers across the world as effectively as possible using all of the different sales channels, from e-commerce through to individual project management. At the same time, we are strengthening our global networks and regional responsibility for business operations and our finances. The KSB Group s management team was also restructured at the beginning of the year. It now comprises the Board of Management together with eleven top managers, with the aim of shortening decision-making channels and facilitating liaison at a global level. Another aim of these organisational measures is to strengthen team spirit and the sense of responsibility across all hierarchical levels. RESPONSIBILITY HAS MANY ASPECTS For KSB, responsibility is one of the key values underpinning our corporate culture. It is only when every single employee feels responsible for the company’s success, and commits to achieving that success, that we can achieve the excellence that we promise our customers. Yet, for us, responsibility also means promoting economically reasonable production processes, contributing to the protection of the environment and helping to find solutions to social issues. Some examples of how we go about doing this are provided in this Annual Report. Not least, however, we have an obligation to you, our shareholders, to ensure that KSB has a successful future ahead of it. This year we will be working on a range of measures that reflect this responsibility, reducing our structural and project costs, improving our range of products and services and making targeted use of the opportunities presented by the global economic recovery. We are more than confident that KSB will be able to report on renewed levels of growth over the coming year. Dr. Wolfgang Schmitt, Chairman of the Board of Management of KSB Aktiengesellschaft 6 M a nagement a nd issues 2013 B oa r d o f Management M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 7 B oa r d o f Man ag em en t New appointment with effect from 2014 Dipl.-Kfm. Werner Stegmüller has been a member of the Board of Management since 1 January 2014. He is responsible for Processes, Group Controlling, Regional Finance, Purchasing, IT, Legal & Compliance and Internal Audits. Members of the Board of Management in 2013 From left to right: Dr. Wolfgang Schmitt joined the Board of Management on 7 April 2006, and has been Chairman of the Board since 15 December 2006. In the year under review he was primarily responsible for ­Finance and Accounting, Controlling, Legal, Communications, Strategy and the Business Units Valves and Service. Dr.-Ing. Peter Buthmann has been on the Board of Management since 1 January 2007. His main responsibilities in 2013 included Operations, Sales and Marketing, Human Resources, Central Purchasing, ­P rogramme Coordination and the Business Unit Submersible Pumps. He was also Human Resources Director. Prof. Dr.-Ing. Dieter-Heinz Hellmann was a member of the Board of Management from 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2013 with functional responsibility for Technology. The areas assigned to him were Research, Development and Business Processes (Technology). In addition, he was in charge of the three Business Units Single-­ stage Pumps, ­M ultistage Pumps, and Automation and Drives. He was also in charge of Internal Audits during the year under review. 8 M a nagement a nd issues 2013 R e p o rt o f t h e Su pervisory Boar d Throughout the last financial year, the Supervisory Board continued to perform its tasks with great care in accordance with the law, the Articles of Association and the Rules of Procedure. We regularly advised the Board of Management on corporate management issues and monitored its work. The Supervisory Board was consulted directly and at an early stage with regard to decisions of fundamental importance. The Board of Management informed us about the position of the company, in particular its business, financial and staffing situation, planned investments, as well as corporate planning and strategic and organisational development i­ssues via written and oral reports prepared regularly and on an ad hoc basis in a comprehensive and timely manner. We continued to meet on a regular basis to discuss selected issues, both with and in the absence of the Board of Management. We discussed the Company’s significant business transactions in detail on the basis of the Board of Management’s reports. Any departures in business developments from the plans and targets were reviewed and commented on in detail by the Board of Management. After thorough examination and discussion, we adopted our resolutions on the reports and proposals by the Board of Management. Beyond the intensive work in the plenary sessions and in the committees, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board in particular and other Supervisory Board members were in frequent contact with the Board of Management outside the meetings to discuss the current business development and significant transactions as well as questions of strategy, planning, risk assessment, risk management and compliance. In the reporting period, no conflicts of interest arose involving members of the Board of Management or the Supervisory Board that would have been subject to compulsory disclosure in the Report of the ­Supervisory Board. Main focus of work in the Supervisory Board plenary sessions and in the committees Core topics of our discussions with the Board of Management were strategy implementation and the continued development of the corporate organisation. The analysis of business development in selected Business Units and Regions represented an additional focus, as did comprehensive investment programmes at various different sites. We also closely examined the economic situation in and the prospects associated with specific market areas. Four regular Supervisory Board meetings were held in 2013, and one constituent meeting. The performance of KSB Aktiengesellschaft and the Group was the subject of regular discussions in the plenary sessions, primarily with regard to order intake, sales revenue, earnings, assets and employment levels as well as the current economic situation, strategy, and investment, divestment and acquisition projects. We carefully studied the German and international service activ­ities, including the concept in place for expanding these in China. Given the large number of acquisitions in recent years, we paid continued attention to their structured integration and management to ensure the desired level of profitability. The Board of Management regularly explained to us in detail the ways in which KSB can achieve the planned growth for the coming years, including the underlying methodological and strategic considerations. All investments were subjected to critical analysis before being M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 9 R e po r t o f t h e Su p er v i so r y Boa rd Planning and Finance Mediation Committee Corporate Development ­Committee ­Committee Dr. Martin Auer Klaus Kühborth Dr. Hermann Nestler Co m m i t t e e s o f t h e No. of meetings: 4 No. of meetings: 0 No. of meetings: 4 Supe rv i s o ry B oa r d and their chairs (as of 16 May 2013) Audit Committee Personnel Committee Nomination Committee and number of meetings Dr. Thomas Seeberg Klaus Kühborth No chair in the year under review No. of meetings: 4 No. of meetings: 6 No. of meetings: 4 a­ pproved and subsequently overseen by us. In this context, the Supervisory Board released initial funds for the purpose of modernising the foundry at the Pegnitz site in Germany. On several occasions, we reviewed the status of modernisation and expansion work at our locations in North and South America. A major investment decision was made for the benefit of our US subsidiary GIW Industries, Inc.; its headquarters in Grovetown, Georgia, will be gradually ­expanded and modernised over the coming years. In order to obtain a major Chinese order for the supply of pumps, we had to comprehensively expand our local manufacturing facilities. We received several reports from the Board of Management on the status of the order, which is now being processed and will take several years to complete. In a number of countries, the start or expansion of business activities led to property acquisitions. In each case we discussed the long-term impact of such measures. Given the changes in the energy sector, not least the turnaround in energy policy in Germany, we continued to look at the issue of how these radical market movements are impacting or will impact in future our business operations. We subjected the deliberations of the Board of Management on this subject to critical scrutiny, focusing in particular on the qualitative assessment of corresponding measures, and on the current state of progress. Repeatedly on the agenda was the continued development of our organisational structure. We devoted particular attention in this respect to the structuring of our international sales activities. Another focus was on the adjustments to our Group management structure. The concept adopted at the end of 2012 was fleshed out in greater detail and presented to top management in the middle of the year. The changes entered into force at the beginning of 2014. As well as a strengthening of regional responsibilities, we expect the changes to result in the Board of Management being able to focus to a greater extent on fundamental, strategic issues. Another focus of our work was the status – as explained regularly by the Board of Management – of the measures in place to develop our value-based corporate culture. 10 M a nagement a nd issues 2013 In September the Supervisory Board convened for a meeting near the Beinwil site in Switzerland, where it was able to assess how business was developing there and visit the production facilities. In addition, we informed ourselves about selected products and functions of the Group. Against the background of the changes to the composition of the Supervisory Board in the year under review, and the appointment of a new Chairman of the Supervisory Board, we discussed further ways of optimising the Supervisory Board’s work, through for example a more efficient internal organisational structure. At the December meeting, we discussed and approved a major investment in the expansion of valve production at the La Roche Chalais site in France. We also looked at business performance during the year and planning for 2014. In order to perform its duties efficiently, the Supervisory Board worked with six committees in the past financial year. These prepare the Supervisory Board’s resolutions and the special topics to be discussed in the plenary sessions. In addition, they also make their own decisions – to the extent that this is legally permissible – within the scope of their areas of responsibility. This allocation has proved worthwhile in practice. The Chairs of the committees regularly and comprehensively report in the plenary sessions on the content and results of the work carried out in the committees. The Nomination Committee looks at the shareholder representative nominations prior to the Supervisory Board elections at the Annual General Meeting. The Planning and Finance Committee focuses on corporate and investment planning and the financial situation of the company. Given our strategic objectives, the Committee discussed in detail the tools available for reliable and forward-looking planning, including appropriate and informative performance indicators. The new methodology used to incorporate forecasts and requirements was presented by the Board of Management and also dealt with in depth. The Corporate Development Committee deals with a changing range of key issues. It discussed in particular the areas of strategy controlling, production management and innovation, and looked at a number of major investments, including in France and North America. Discussions on a comprehensive and Group-wide overhaul of the controlling and internal management system also figured on the agenda, as did measures to accompany the establishment of new Group companies in the Philippines and Colombia. The discussions on securing and optimising the provision of castings to our manufacturing facilities continued. The heads of the relevant specialist departments often took part in the committee meetings, along with the responsible members of the Board of Management. The Personnel Committee primarily addresses topics relating to the Board of Management’s remuneration, including the terms of the individual service contracts, as well as other Board of Management issues. Decisions on the Board of Management’s remuneration are made in plenary sessions, with the Committee meeting regularly to act in a preparatory capacity. In addition, the Committee discussed staff development issues with the aim of prioritising the ­recruitment of candidates for the Board of Management and other management positions from within the company’s own ranks. In 2013, the Committee members again participated M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 11 R e po r t o f t h e Su p er v i so r y Boa rd in events with potential candidates for various different management levels in an effort to foster a direct exchange of ideas. The committee discussed in detail the need to reassign responsibilities as a consequence of the retirement from the Board of Management of Prof. Dr. Dieter-H. Hellmann on age grounds with effect from the 2013 year end. Also the subject of careful ­deliberation was the first-time appointment of Dipl.-Kfm. Werner Stegmüller to the Board of Management of KSB Aktiengesellschaft, with effect from 1 January 2014 for four years. The meetings of the Audit Committee were always attended by the Member of the Board responsible for Finance and, on several occasions, by the auditors. The committee primarily discussed the 2012 annual and consolidated financial statements, the audit reports submitted by the auditors and the internal auditors, and the effectiveness and further development of the risk management system and compliance organisation. In particular, the Committee prepared the independent examination by the Supervisory Board of the financial statements, the management reports and the proposal on the appropriation of the net retained earnings. In this context, it also defined key audit areas for the external auditing of the 2013 financial statements. In addition, the half-year financial report was discussed with the Board of Management. The committee submitted a proposal to the plenary session for the selection of ­auditors by the Annual General Meeting on 15 May 2013 and subsequently commissioned them to carry out the audit of the annual and consolidated financial statements for the 2013 ­financial year. The declaration of independence by the auditors was obtained in accordance with section 7.2.1 of the German Corporate Governance Code and the auditors’ continued independence was monitored. The committee also discussed the monitoring of the financial reporting process and the effectiveness of the internal control and auditing system. There was no requirement during the year under review to convene the Mediation Committee pursuant to section 27(3) MitbestG [Mitbestimmungsgesetz – German Co-Determination Act]. Corporate governance and statement of compliance The Supervisory Board continuously monitored developments in corporate governance standards throughout the year. The Board of Management and the Supervisory Board report on ­corporate governance at KSB in accordance with section 3.10 of the German Corporate Governance Code as part of the Corporate Governance Statement pursuant to section 289a HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch – German Commercial Code]. On 5 December 2013 they issued a joint updated statement of compliance in accordance with section 161 of the AktG [Aktiengesetz – German Public Companies Act] and made it permanently available to shareholders on the company’s web site. With just a few exceptions, KSB Aktiengesellschaft complies with the recommendations set out in the Code in the version dated 13 May 2013. Audit of the 2013 annual and consolidated financial statements The accounting documentation, in addition to the proposal by the Board of Management on the appropriation of net retained earnings and the audit reports submitted by the auditors, was provided in good time to all members of the Supervisory Board. The documents were 12 M a nagement a nd issues 2013 examined in detail by the Audit Committee on 18 March 2014 as well as by the Supervisory Board plenary session on 25 March 2014 and explained in depth in both cases by the Board of Management. The auditors attended the meetings of both bodies, reported on the findings of the audit and were available to provide additional information. The Supervisory Board examined the annual financial statements and the management report of KSB Aktiengesellschaft for the year ended 31 December 2013, which were prepared in ­accordance with the provisions of the Handelsgesetzbuch [HGB – German Commercial Code], as well as the consolidated financial statements and the group management report for the year ended 31 December 2013, which were prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), and the proposal by the Board of Management on the appropriation of net retained earnings. The Frankfurt am Main offices of BDO AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft based in Hamburg audited the annual financial statements and the management report of KSB Aktien­gesellschaft for the year ended 31 December 2013, as well as the consolidated financial statements and the group management report for the year ended 31 December 2013, and issued an unqualified audit opinion. The key audit areas defined for the auditors by the Audit Committee for the year under review were: Verification of the appropriateness and effectiveness of the Group-wide risk management system and of the proper nature of management reporting in accordance with the new German Accounting Standard No. 20 (DRS 20), particularly with regard to the report on expected developments, as well as the opportunities and risk report. The auditors reported their findings on these key audit areas both orally and in writing. The Supervisory Board concurs with the auditors’ findings. Based on its own final examination results, the Supervisory Board plenary session did not raise any objections to the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements, management report and group management report. In accordance with the recommendation of the Audit Committee the Supervisory Board approved the financial statements prepared by the Board of Management; the annual financial statements are thus adopted. After its own examination, the Supervisory Board deems the proposal by the Board of Management on the appropriation of net retained earnings of KSB Aktien­gesellschaft to be appropriate and concurs with it. Dependent company report The auditors also audited the dependent company report for the 2013 financial year prepared by the Board of Management in accordance with section 312 AktG and issued the following unqualified audit opinion on this report: “On completion of our audit and assessment in accordance with professional standards, we confirm that 1. the actual amounts and disclosures in the report are correct; 2. the consideration paid by the company for the transactions listed in the report was not ­inappropriately high.” M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 13 R e po r t o f t h e Su p er v i so r y Boa rd The reports by the Board of Management and the auditors were provided in good time to all members of the Supervisory Board and were also discussed by the Audit Committee and at plenary sessions. The auditors attended the meetings of both bodies, reported on the material findings of the audit and were available to provide additional information. The Supervisory Board concurs with the auditors’ findings. Both the recommendation by the Audit Committee and the final results of the Supervisory Board plenary session’s examination did not give rise to any objections to the dependent company report prepared by the Board of Management and to the statement by the Board of Management at the end of the dependent company report. Changes on the Board of Management and Supervisory Board The changes on the Board of Management have already been described above. Dr. Hans-­ Joachim Jacob, the long-standing Chairman of the Supervisory Board, retired with effect from the close of last year’s Annual General Meeting on 15 May 2013, having reached the age limit for members. The Annual General Meeting elected Prof. Dr. Michael Hoffmann-Becking as a new member of the Supervisory Board. In addition, Dr. Jörg Matthias Großmann – following his appointment by court order in 2012 – and, once again, Mr. Klaus Kühborth, were elected to the Supervisory Board. The period of office of the employee representatives on the Supervisory Board came to an end, as scheduled, at the close of this Annual General Meeting. At the elections on 16 and 17 April 2013, Ms Sigrid Maurer, Dr. Stephan Bross, Mr. Alois Lautner and Mr. Volker Seidel were all re-elected to the Supervisory Board with Mr. René Klotz and Mr. Wolfgang Kormann being elected for the first time. At its constituent meeting on 15 May 2013, the Supervisory Board elected Mr. Klaus Kühborth as its Chairman and Mr. Alois Lautner as its Deputy Chairman. In this context, the Supervisory Board wishes to thank the departing members for the many years of cooperation in an atmosphere of mutual trust. The Supervisory Board would like to acknowledge and thank the Board of Management, the employees and employee representatives of all Group companies for their good work in the year under review. Frankenthal, 25 March 2014 The Supervisory Board 14 M a nagement a nd issues 2013 A Look Back at 2 0 1 3 Q1 Inauguration Organisational The new plant in Jundiaí, structure project Brazil, is officially opened. KSB AG restructures its All facilities are designed activities and organises itself in accordance with the latest in a way that makes a clearer Young researchers energy efficiency and distinction between operative environmental standards. tasks and Group functions. Innovation The new Calio circulator Norway pump is launched onto the KSB acquires a 34 percent market. Fitted with a par­ interest in WM Teknikk AS ticularly energy-efficient in Ski with the objective ­hydraulic system, it meets of promoting our general the legal requirements business with standard app­licable from 2015 as products in Norway. 93 pupils present their stipulated in the Energyprojects in the regional related Products Directive. Award Release for sale round of “Jugend forscht – KSB is judged one of the best KSB is pushing on with its Schüler experimentieren” 100 employers in Germany harmonisation of standardised [Youth researches – pupils in a survey organised by the pumps. The technically experiment], organised by Focus news magazine and revised Etanorm offers KSB in its Frankenthal the Xing online career customers a particularly vocational training centre. platform. KSB is rated energy-­efficient pump set in second among mechanical 43 sizes. Distribution engineering companies. channels KSB is establishing a network of franchises in France to Q2 ­increase sales of standard pumps and valves. The new sales concept is named “K2”, after the second highest mountain on earth. M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 15 A Lo o k Back Q3 Social Media KSB is expanding its communication via social media. In October, the “KSB Company” Facebook page takes off to a widely Valves Inauguration acclaimed start. KSB Pumps Limited inaugurates a new workshop Saudi Arabia at the Coimbatore site in KSB receives an order to India. Staff assemble high­supply more than 100 Omega pressure valves with nominal pumps for the expansion diameters of 350 to 600 mm of the King ­Abdulaziz for power plants across an International Airport in area of 1,125 square metres. Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. The The workshop also boasts a 328 KSB butterfly valves units will be used in the new test facility. Flood control help to right the wreck of district cooling systems KSB is supplying pump sets the Costa Concordia cruise serving various supply centres. for a new rainwater ship and keep it upright off pumping station in Huainan, the Italian island of Giglio. Innovation ­China. The plant transports The Federal Ministry of 95,000 m3 of rainwater ONLINE LEXICON Food, Agriculture and per hour from the communal KSB is making its reference ­Consumer Protection and sewerage system into the work on pump engineering Fachagentur Nachwachsende Huaihe river. This protects available online for the first Rohstoffe e.V. [German the city from flooding during time. ­government advisory agency] heavy rain. Q4 www.pumpenlexikon.de lets support a joint biogas engineers, technicians and project. KSB is involved as students obtain infor­mation an expert on the on technical terms and their transportation of highly meanings quickly and easily. viscous fluids. 16 M a nagement a nd issues 2013 Emp l oye e s Highly trained, experienced employees are key to the success Qualification standards for employee of our business. Our future will be shaped by their skills integration and dedication. To this end we create a working environment If new employees are to integrate successfully, it is essential that inspires and connects people and is founded on an that they are familiar with the most important methods, open leadership culture that is based on mutual trust, respect, systems and rules in the company. We impart the basic commitment and performance. knowledge they require as quickly as possible. With this in mind, in 2013 we created international qualification Strategic HR planning standards for the first time. They define how KSB companies We currently employ 16,546 people worldwide. In order to have to instruct employees to ensure that they can fulfil assess our future employee requirements more precisely we their responsibilities independently. In a first step, these have been introducing strategic HR planning in stages since standards will be implemented in 13 countries, including 2011. It is intended to ensure that all KSB companies around Germany, France and the BRIC countries. Some of the the world have sufficient employees with the right required learning modules are taught by our trainers in qualifications in the medium and long term. In particular, person, while others are accessed by our employees via a in 2013 we determined the personnel requirements of our media centre on our global Intranet. Indian companies in all areas of activity in the coming years. In addition, we are defining measures to develop the skills Strengthening the value-based approach of the workforce in accordance with this target structure. Trust, honesty, responsibility, professionalism and appreciation inform work processes at KSB and the way we In order to adapt our staff to future needs in qualitative act and interact with customers and other partners. These terms, we are using training and development options values provide the basis for our activities and are part of our and preparing replacements for vacant positions early on. corporate culture. To ensure that we act in accordance with Alongside the age, skills and qualification profile of our our values, employees and managers meet in communication workforce, a significant factor in our strategic HR planning forums to address how these are incorporated into our work is the staff numbers needed to accommodate the targeted and our interaction with each other. They come together in growth in the individual areas. “value dialogues” to discuss the extent to which values are already successfully applied and where opportunities remain Cultivating competencies to improve cooperation. In the year under review, around Managing skills plays an increasingly important role in our 150 people in Germany took part in such exchanges of views. company’s HR development planning. Changes in technology In addition, some 90 members of management attended a and commercial methodology require us to continually seminar on “Value-based Leadership – Leading Professionally train our employees and equip them to perform new tasks with the KSB Values”. Value-based training sessions were throughout their working lives. At KSB we distinguish also held in France, Thailand and South America. between core, specialist, and leadership skills, which we foster by means of innovative development concepts. Education and encouraging young talent The objective is to expand and broaden the skills of our We consider the technical and commercial training of young employees in line with changing business activities, while talent to be of prime importance for our future. By addressing taking into account the personal objectives of our employees. this topic, we are counteracting the anticipated shortage of As the basis of our planning, in the year under review we skilled personnel. For this reason, in 2013 we invested € 8.7 defined the competencies and skills that our management million in preparing 317 school leavers across Germany for worldwide already possessed and those that needed to be their later employment in the company. In 2012 we launched developed. In 2014, we will be creating this transparency for a training programme combined with academic studies to our other employees as well. M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 17 E m p l o y ees cover our own future engineering needs, which offers trainees Commitment and inventiveness expert support right through to their bachelor’s degree. We “Our technology. Your success.” That summarises our also help graduates of dual work / degree programmes with approach to creating added value for our customers. Our their master’s studies. Ten students took part in such activities are therefore focused on providing products and programmes in the year under review. services that offer our customers quantifiable advantages. KSB is top employer In line with this objective, our employees each make their We wish to be a particularly attractive employer – both per se own special contribution to our company’s success in their and in comparison with other companies – for our staff daily work. Their commitment and inventiveness are what members and potential employees. A survey organised by the characterise our company – both internally and externally. It Focus news magazine and the Xing career platform in 2013 is down to them that we earn our customers’ loyalty and revealed that KSB is considered to be one of Germany’s 100 attract new customers to our company. best employers. Of the mechanical engineering companies, KSB was in second place, while overall our company was The Board of Management would like to thank all employees ranked 53rd. The rankings were based on responses from for their commitment in 2013. Special thanks also go to the around 6,300 employees, who evaluated their employers and members of the employee representative committees, including companies within their own industries. Criteria included the Executives’ Committee. They were both critical and image, social responsibility, loyalty to employees, remuneration, constructive in promoting the interests of the staff, thereby recognition for achievements, further education / training and contributing positively to the working environment. the working environment. KSB’s trainees also put teamwork to the test outside their companies. 18 M a nagement a nd issues 2013 Cor porat e S o c i a l R e s p o n s i bilit y Our actions as a company are not measured solely against 2013, this impartial arbitrator has also functioned as a economic benchmarks. We also take ecological and social contact for any instances of human rights infringements interests into account. That means that we take a responsible such as discrimination. approach to natural resources and the environment, take care of our employees and fulfil our social responsibilities. Promoting health Staff absences reduce a company’s productivity and In particular we aim to meet the requirements of sustainable competitiveness. For this reason, our commitment to the development for the sake of future generations. Our company health of our employees extends the legal occupational committed itself to that objective when it signed the UN health requirements. In Germany, for example, this takes Global Compact in 2010. This compact between the United the form of occupational health management under Nations, companies and organisations aims to bring about medical supervision. A holistic approach allows physical a higher level of social and economic justice. There are also and psychological stresses to be identified and contained many KSB customers among its 10,000 signatories. in good time. Observing standards Our approach focuses on employees making their own We not only wish to achieve the improvements defined in decisions regarding their health. To this end we offer options the UN Global Compact with respect to labour standards, ranging from vaccinations and other preventative measures environmental protection, business conduct and observance of to PC-based exercise programmes and corporate sports events. human rights within our own company, we also require these of our suppliers. In 2012 we surveyed KSB Aktiengesellschaft’s Protecting natural resources key suppliers on these issues. In the year under review we Companies face complex requirements when it comes to expanded the survey and enquired at global level about the environmental protection, quality and occupational health that extent to which our business partners share our commitment require globally coordinated activities. These are handled by to the social, ecological and economic values defined by the specialist staff members as part of an Integrated Management United Nations. To date, our ongoing survey has reached more System . These same staff members are also responsible for than 50 % of our supplier chain. obtaining international standards certifications. Of our 36 production plants, 32 currently possess such certifications. We are committed to observing legal and ethical standards. Our Australian plant in Tottenham was added to the list By doing so, we preserve KSB’s good reputation, which bolsters in 2013 and we also had sales and service offices in Australia, the confidence of customers and business partners. To avoid Germany, the Czech Republic and Hungary certified in the the possibility of any misconduct, we have acquainted more year under review. than 4,000 employees with compliance topics such as corruption prevention and cartel / antitrust law. Such training We are reducing our consumption of energy and raw was, of course, of particular relevance to employees in sales materials as much as possible by means of efficient and purchasing, who need to react with great sensitivity to production processes. At some of our sites we are generating any deviations from standards. environmentally friendly electricity for our own use. In Nashik, India, wind, sun and biogas contribute towards the Even if all reasonable precautions are taken, infringements of plant’s energy requirements. We are also conscious of the applicable law or internal rules of conduct can occur. In such origins of electrical energy in some of our smaller locations cases, employees can inform their line managers or the Group without production facilities. Since 2013 our British Compliance Officer. In addition, there is an independent company has being using “green electricity” whose ombudsman whom they can contact in confidence. Since generation causes 10 % fewer emissions. M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 19 C o r p o r at e So ci al Resp o n sibility In Jundiaí, Brazil, we inaugurated a plant that serves as A global company requires people to cooperate across great a showpiece from an ecological perspective. All of the distances, which creates a need for meetings. To reduce travel plant’s facilities meet the latest energy consumption and costs and environmental emissions, we use an international environmental protection standards. The construction video network for such direct communications. In 2013 we of the production facility allows it to operate using only set up eight new video-conferencing rooms and we now have natural light; no artificial lighting at all is required during 54 such facilities in 17 countries. More than 10,000 video daytime. Hot water is obtained using solar energy and conferences were held in the past year to discuss and resolve there is a system in place to collect rainwater for use in cross-location matters. We will continue to expand the video industrial processes, sanitary facilities and, in the event network. of emergencies, fire protection. In India we expanded an existing rainwater harvesting system in 2013. When companies engage in manufacturing, waste is an inevitable by-product. We try to employ recyclable materials Exploiting green potential wherever possible. If such materials are to be reused, they Our employees’ environmentally aware behaviour saves must first be separated, which is why, from 2013, we have energy. We encourage our staff to come up with ideas to obliged all our service locations to separate their waste, even protect valuable resources. In 2013 we received suggestions where local legislation does not require this. In China we for improvements from employees in Australia, Germany, changed our packaging to minimise the use of materials that Switzerland, Turkey and the United States. These resulted cannot be recycled. in numerous individual measures, such as the introduction of lights with movement sensors that avoid unnecessary lighting. KSB is testing environmentally friendly electric vehicles with a range of 100 km in two of its German plants. 20 M a nagement a nd issues 2013 Efficient products save energy development in the vicinity of their locations. We are The distinguishing feature of environmentally friendly involved in initiatives and institutions to help people in many technical products is that their use requires little electricity. locations. A focus of our social activities is education. Not Manufacturing and providing energy-efficient products least because of demographic developments in some Western is in line with our customers’ growing interest in such countries, the number of skilled personnel is set to fall, so equipment. KSB was quick to adapt to this development education is, in our opinion, an important topic for the future. and offers a comprehensive concept to utilise savings As a founding member of the “Wissensfabrik – Unternehmen potentials. für Deutschland e.V.” [Knowledge Factory – Companies for Germany], we help kindergartens and schools awaken young The idea: KSB optimises not just individual components, people’s interest in science and technology at an early stage. such as pumps and drives; we take entire hydraulic systems KSB provides learning materials for experiments and practical into consideration. To achieve this, system specialists pay exercises and trains teachers and educators to use them visits to pump system operators and perform a comprehensive correctly. Another element of our involvement in the analysis. Where necessary, they recommend technical Knowledge Factory is a storytelling project for speech adjustments and harmonise plant components to make the development in early childhood. system work efficiently. In many cases this can result in energy savings of up to 60 %. The demand for this service In 2013 we played host for the first time in the regional offer rose by about 10 % in the year under review. We round of the largest European youth competition in the field therefore increased our advertising of the service in 2013 to of sciences and technology. The 93 participants in “Jugend attract even more customers. forscht – Schüler experimentieren” [Youth Researches – Pupils Experiment] presented their projects, which addressed a In 2012 and 2013 our designers completely redesigned variety of topics. several standardised chemical and water pumps, with a major focus on improved energy efficiency. It is not always easy for young people to master the transition from school to the world of work. In Germany In the year under review we launched a highly efficient we are members of a network in which schools and business circulator pump on the market that meets the European regularly exchange views. The aim is for young people to Union’s 2015 efficiency requirements. In Europe alone, realise via concrete projects that different aspects of the there are 140 million circulator pumps that run at fixed academic knowledge they acquire at school can be a speed and are often the largest electricity consumer in a requirement for some careers. We are playing an active part home. Energy consumption and emissions can be reduced in persuading other companies and organisations to join the by exchanging old units for high-efficiency pumps. The initiative. European Commission estimates there to be a savings potential of 23 terawatt hours by 2020, which is equivalent We also support a programme in Brazil that prepares young to Ireland’s annual electricity consumption and would people for the job market. See our report on page 62. lower CO2 emissions by around 11 tonnes. Supporting education Social responsibility is an integral part of our corporate identity. Three of four KSB companies currently play an active role in the social, ecological and economic M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 21 C o r p o r at e So ci al Resp o n sibility Imbued with the spirit of discovery: KSB for the first time organised the regional round of “Jugend forscht – Schüler experimentieren” [Youth Researches – Pupils Experiment]. Global commitment Our US employees are traditionally strongly involved in We are engaged in various social projects in Asia via our charitable work. For example, they actively support local KSB CARE aid fund, where the focus of our involvement charitable institutions that take care of needy children in 2013 was again on educational projects. For example, we and their families. The staff regularly give blood for the equipped schools and needy pupils in India and Indonesia US Red Cross. with learning materials and equipment. In addition, KSB offers financial assistance worldwide. KSB The KSB companies in South Korea and Taiwan assisted the Aktiengesellschaft alone donated around € 170,000 and victims of the devastating typhoon in the Philippines. made contributions in kind to various organisations and social projects in 2013. 22 M a nagement a nd issues 2013 KSB S ha re s Stock market environment Fed’s plans. Investors were duly reassured that a monetary Low interest rates and the continuation of an expansionist policy turnaround was not imminent, clearing the way for an monetary policy in many industrial states shaped events on the upwards movement on the stock markets during the second capital markets during 2013. The additional levels of liquidity half of the year. enabled the central banks to calm the markets somewhat, helping to combat the higher levels of volatility of the past few In Europe, the European Central Bank cut interest rates by years triggered by the financial and debt crisis. The monetary 25 basis points in May and then again in November, to a policy measures were also intended to favour an economic record low of 0.25 %. These interest rate reductions also had upturn. This environment lent the equity markets renewed a positive impact on the stock markets. impetus. Many of the major indices were able to grow again, reaching new all-time highs. In this environment, the DAX recorded a gain of 24 % for 2013, ending the year on 9,552 points, only just below its allDespite this growth, and after a strong start to the year, prices time high of 9,594 points. began to falter again across the world’s stock markets in May. This sudden fall was sparked by the US Federal Reserve’s The EuroStoxx, meanwhile, grew by 17 %. This slightly announcement that it intended to restrict the buying up of smaller increase can be attributed to the fact that the bonds. Investors were unsettled by the prospect of liquidity fundamentals for Europe as a whole were somewhat weaker being gradually reduced. Yet, by the middle of the year, the than the German equivalents, as was also reflected in the prevailing opinion on the capital markets was that interest valuations. rates would remain low for some time to come despite the Dividend development 2013 (proposed) 2012 Ordinary share Dividend € 12.00 € 12.00 Dividend yield 2.5 % 2.6 % Preference share Dividend € 12.26 € 12.26 Dividend yield 2.8 % 3.0 % Ordinary share Preference share ISIN DE0006292006 DE0006292030 Reuters symbol KSBG KSBG_p Bloomberg symbol KSB KSB3 Share capital € 22.7 million € 22.1 million Shares in free float approx. 20 % 100 % Year-end closing price 30 Dec. 2013 € 481.0 € 437.0 Market capitalisation 31 Dec. 2013 € 804.3 million M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 23 K S B Sh ar es The US Dow Jones index ended 2013 close to 27 % up on October. Although some of these gains were shed again over the previous year, while the Nikkei 225 in Japan recorded a the subsequent months, both the preference and the ordinary considerable gain of 54 %. The growth policy pursued by shares ended the year valued more highly. the Japanese government was a key factor in this performance. The company’s market capitalisation at the year end was KSB shares make gains € 804.3 million, around 5 % higher than at the previous The KSB shares were also able to grow in 2013. The year-­end year end. price for the preference shares was around 6 % up on the previous year, with growth of around 4 % recorded by the DIVIDEND ordinary shares. The Board of Management and Supervisory Board will propose to the Annual General Meeting on 14 May 2014 At the start of the year both shares initially appeared that an unchanged dividend of € 12.26 per preference share relatively robust, moving in a strong upwards direction. By and € 12.00 per ordinary share be distributed. the spring, however, prices had started to fall, with ordinary shares at times dipping below the level recorded at the start EARNINGS PER SHARE of the year. Earnings per share are down on the previous year as a result of the fall in consolidated earnings. They totalled € 37.38 for Following a sideways movement over the summer months, ordinary shares, compared with € 42.48 in the previous year, both shares began to rise strongly again, with the more liquid and € 37.64 for preference shares compared with € 42.74 in preference shares even recording a new high for the year in 2012. K SB s h a r e p r i c e d evelopment in € KSB ordinary share KSB-Stammaktie KSBKSB-Vorzugsaktie preference share 600 500 400 300 January2013 Januar 2013 December Dezember 2013 2013 14 14.March März 2014 Ecologica l re s p o n s i bi l i ty KSB has developed the Amaprop low-speed submersible mixers for use in biogas production. They ensure particularly reliable and efficient gas extraction from biomass, helping to tap the potential of this growing source of energy. “Thanks to our technology, biogas plants can produce the maximum quantity of usable gas. Our low-speed Amaprop mixes extremely efficiently, marking a major advance compared with the systems used until now.” Maik Ulmschneider Head of Sales Global Projects Water / Waste Water Energy-saving mixer from the Amaprop series Efficient low-sp ee d mi xer Producing 3.2 megawatts of electricity, Blue Mountain Biogas in Beaver County / Utah is the USA’s largest biogas plant, capable of supplying 3,500 homes with energy. And it is equipped with Amaprop submersible mixers. Their horizontal, slow-moving propellers guarantee not only reliable but also high-yield production of biogas. The mixer’s large-diameter propeller is the key component, along with its blades developed using computer simulations. Optimally positioned in the basin of the biogas plant, the mixer with its specially designed hydraulic system generates a powerful thrust in the biomass, resulting in the correct contact between bacteria and substrate and thus maximum production of combustible methane gas. Compared with higher-speed mixers with small propellers, this process also uses considerably less energy to run. A plant operator from Balzheim in Baden-Württemberg, Germany, has been reaping the benefits of this technology since the implementation of a repowering measure: By using the Amaprop mixers, the operator slashed energy consumption for biogas production by 75 %. Customers can also benefit from the KSB mixer flat rate scheme, known as “Amaflat”. For a monthly lump sum, KSB will assume full liability for the mixing process in a biogas plant, covering the technical risk. This service package includes the installation of the equipment, maintenance work and repairs. Plant operators save the high investment costs they used to face. KSB is also a reliable partner in other areas of renewable energy, such as wind and solar power plants, geothermal plants and the exploitation of hydropower. 28 Etanorm The current standardised pump for industrial and water engineering applications is the result of ongoing development work to create an economic, durable and easy-to-service pump set. M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Re p o rt C o n s o l idate d fin a n cia l S tatemen ts Gen e ra l I n fo rm atio n 29 G ro up M anagement Repo rt 30 Basic Principles of the Group 34 Economic Review 44 Events after the Reporting Period 45 Report on Expected Developments 50 Opportunities and Risks Report 59 Aquisition-related Disclosures 60 Corporate Governance Statement (Section 289a of the HGB) 60 Remuneration of the Board of Management 30 G r ou p ma nagement Report Basi c P ri nc i p l e s o f t h e G r oup Group Business Model of twelve members. The Annual General Meeting of shareholders appoints six members of the Supervisory Board, The KSB Group’s mission is to supply customers around the with the remaining six being delegated by the employees world with top-quality pumps and valves as well as related under the terms of the Mitbestimmungsgesetz [German Cosystems. We also provide a wide range of service offerings to determination Act]. users of these products. Markets and locations In the year under review, 85 operative subsidiaries in 40 Within the KSB Group, centrifugal pumps account for countries were dedicated to achieving this mission. Nine around two thirds of sales revenue. These pumps, as well as Group companies exercised a holding company function. In valves, are sold to engineering contractors, OEMs and end the current financial year we plan to extend the consolidated users or, in some cases, distributed via dealers. The same Group to include two smaller companies in Spain and applies to control and monitoring systems, and to package Morocco that have not yet been consolidated. units with pumps and valves. KSB AG, Frankenthal / Pfalz, Germany, as the parent company, The best developed sales market for these products is Europe, directly or indirectly holds the shares in the companies where KSB operates its main manufacturing facilities in belonging to the Group. Besides KSB AG itself, the companies Germany and France. KSB AG’s main plant in Frankenthal is in the KSB Group with the highest sales revenue are its largest in Europe, ahead of those in Pegnitz (Bavaria) and Halle (Saxony-Anhalt) in Germany, and La Roche-Chalais in KSB S.A.S., Gennevilliers (Paris), France France. GIW Industries, Inc., Grovetown / Georgia, USA KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd., Shanghai, China The second-largest market for KSB products is the Region KSB Bombas Hidráulicas S.A., Várzea Paulista, Brazil Asia, followed by the Region Americas / Oceania and the KSB Service GmbH, Frankenthal, Germany Region Middle East / Africa. Outside Europe, KSB’s biggest KSB Pumps Limited, Pimpri (Pune), India manufacturing facilities are in Brazil, China, India and the USA. The economic and political changes that occurred in the year under review affected our business activity to some extent. KSB manufactures products and components in a total of 18 These are – where relevant to KSB – described in the countries; they are sold through the Group’s own companies following sections. However, these external influencing or agencies in more than 100 countries. With their products, factors have not affected our basic business model. the Group companies serve customers in the manufacturing sector (industry), the chemical and petrochemical industries, Organisation, management and control the energy industry and building services, transport KSB AG’s Board of Management manages and controls the equipment manufacturers and operators (e.g. ships, rail KSB Group. The strategy and instructions formulated by the vehicles), water supply and waste water utilities and mining Board of Management are implemented within an organi­ companies. The top-selling markets for our products in 2013 sation that is structured into three areas of responsibility: were the manufacturing and energy supply sectors. pumps, valves and service. At the centre of this organisation are the Business Units with their areas of focus. In order to be able to offer our products at affordable prices, we combine the Group’s purchasing requirements and source All organisational units act with the aim of ensuring affordable suppliers around the world who meet our quality sustainable, profitable growth that will secure both KSB’s standards. The focus is currently upon Asian companies. We financial independence and its mediumand long-term future. are able to maintain our market position as one of the Management is monitored by a Supervisory Board consisting leading pump and valve manufacturers through our good M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 31 Ba sic Principle s of the Grou p Group Busine ss Mode l Control S yste m and long-term relationships with our customers and We also consider the pre-tax return on sales as well as the net suppliers. Our highly trained and motivated employees as financial position for controlling the Group. The pre-tax well as the high quality of our products have also helped return on sales indicates the ratio between the earnings before cement our reputation. taxes (EBT) and the sales revenue; the balance of financial liabilities and interest-bearing financial assets (current and non-current financial instruments, interest-bearing loans, Control System cash and cash equivalents, and receivables from cash deposits) accounts for the net financial position. When specifying and Based upon our matrix organisation, we determine our key evaluating these key indicators, we are guided on the one hand financial performance indicators as follows: by developments in the market, and on the other by the performance of our key competitors. Our management decisions are made primarily on the basis of the key indicators that are determined for the Business We do not consult any other key indicators or non-financial Units Pumps, Valves and Service: order intake, sales revenue performance indicators for controlling the Group and for and earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT). For further making decisions regarding management issues. However, we information on these key indicators see the Notes to the attach great importance to matters relating to our employees, Consolidated Financial Statements, section VIII. Segment environmental protection and corporate social responsibility. Reporting. For more information see the Management and Issues 2013 section. Centrifugal pumps and shut-off valves continue to be the main product groups for the global business of the KSB Group. 32 G r ou p ma nagement Report Research and Developme nt COMPUTER SIMULATION OF STRESS CONDITIONS Many vital components in pumps and valves are produced The Research and Development department provides using cast materials which are subject to special manufac­ innovative methods, generates new products and works turing conditions. This is particularly true for corrosionand continuously towards improving existing type series. In doing wear-resistant metal alloys. Our research activities in this so, it contributes towards enhancing our competitiveness and ­domain during the year under review focused on stress and expanding our business. how it is generated when fluid metal solidifies during the casting process. It can lead to deformations and in the worst To carry out these tasks, we spent € 47 million (previous case can cause the material to crack meaning that the part year: € 45 million) on research and development in the year cannot be used for further processing. In order to cast comunder review. In relation to sales revenue we invested, as in plicated elements such as impellers with a low reject rate, our the previous year, around 2 % in this area. The activities material experts in Pegnitz have been developing a computer financed in this way focus primarily on hydraulics, materials simulation since 2013 that predicts such stress conditions on technology and the automation of our products. Around the an atomic basis. These virtual results are compared with world 531 (previous year: 440) of our employees worked in ­experimental material tests to verify practical feasibility. We research and development. Staff costs accounted for around will use the findings to reduce production and development half of the budget as was the case in the previous year. costs and to ensure the quality of our products. TECHNICAL DEVELOPMENT OF STANDARDISED AND NEW GENERATION OF AUTOMATION AND DRIVE SYSTEMS CLOSE-COUPLED PUMPS For many years pumps combined with electronics have been Our greatest expenditure in 2013 was made in order to considered state of the art. Intelligent control systems are technically optimise the Etabloc, Etanorm SYT, Etabloc SYT, used to make pump operation economical and resourceEtaline-Z, HPK-L as well as the Magnochem and efficient. Thanks to precise interaction of the pump, motor Magnochem-Bloc type series. Along with Etanorm and and control system, the pump set offers high overall MegaCPK, which we modernised in 2012, they form the efficiency. Energy costs can be reduced by up to 60 % for backbone of our business in industry, the process engineering systems with fluctuating flow rate requirements. The new sector and building services. “More performance per pump” generation of our PumpDrive that we will introduce – this describes the substantial progress made during the year successively from August 2014 onwards offers our customers under review. Quite a few calculations, simulations and tests a flexible variable speed system . A basic model will be were necessary to turn hydraulically improved designs into available for building services and a more complex variant practical solutions. Once the type series had been re­ for industry. The latter is characterised by a broad range of developed, the next task was to integrate them into our communication interfaces that enable smooth integration EasySelect product configurator software. into the different bus systems commonly used in industry. Our customers can use EasySelect to select the pumps or 95 % of all pumps have an electric drive. Our highly efficient valves that are appropriate for their applications and offer KSB SuPremeE motor sets new standards in the area of the greatest energy-saving potential. An inter-disciplinary standard drives. A frequency inverter is always required to team of specialists has developed a new version of this operate the motor as it cannot start directly on the mains software that combines our product, process and control supply system. But as this device is very useful for applicaknow-how. It proposes a pump, for example, taking into tions involving varying rates of flow in any case, it does not consideration criteria like price, efficiency and energy costs. really represent an “extra” investment. However there also Users can quickly and easily obtain individual solutions for applications where a pump transports a constant volume their projects that are appropriate at both a technical and a flow rate. In order to make the energy-efficient motor commercial level. ­technology cost-effective for such applications, we are M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 33 Ba sic Principle s of the Grou p Re se a rch and D e ve lopme nt KSB developers use model testing to complement computer-aided flow simulation results. ­ eveloping hybrid motors with rotors that have a squirrel d magnetic forces to travel better from the stator coils to the cage as well as magnets. On these types of drives, the cage is rotor. In the year under review we have started to research used to set the rotor into rotation during start-up. Thanks to whether the use of these fluids in the motor compartment can the installed magnets it runs synchronously with the frequency cost-effectively increase the level of efficiency. We will provided by the power supply system. This means that it continue these tests in the current year. ­operates at a low loss and low energy consumption rate, as the initial prototypes have proven. We assess all our research and development activities in ­accordance with their value for enhancing the competitiveDepending on the design, there is also a range of pump types ness of KSB as well as in terms of protecting resources and for which special drives are used. Submersible borehole the environment. To achieve the best possible results we pumps , for example, have electric motors that are very slim channel the individual competencies of our Group companies and are filled with water. Due to the slender, cylindrical in shared development tasks. We also involve research institutes design of these pumps we cannot use the same technology and universities in our activities or work with other companies that we use in our KSB SuPremE motor. There is always a on collaborative projects. gap between the rotor and the stator, which is necessary to enable free rotary movement. As the magnetic field lines become weaker in water, this gap reduces the motor’s efficiency. In order to fill this gap we are experimenting with ferrofluids . These are fluids that react to magnetic fields without solidifying or lumping together. This enables the 34 G r ou p ma nagement Report Ec onom i c Rev i e w Macroeconomic Environme nt and product of around 5 % in real terms. The economy of the Sector View Republic of South Africa also continued to develop despite the ongoing social unrest and the depreciation of its currency. After a slow start, the global economy in 2013 continued to grow; global gross domestic product increased by 3 %. Gross The market situation in Asia was largely affected by the slow domestic product in industrialised countries rose by development in China, where the economy in 2013 only grew approximately 1.3 % despite a predominantly restrictive in the single-digit percentage range by + 7.7 %. Besides poor financial policy. The emerging countries demonstrated a demand from abroad, restrictive monetary policy measures comparatively stronger growth rate of +4.7 %, however the dampened the economic expansion of the People’s Republic overall economic development in this group of countries was where we are represented by five subsidiaries. The situation again weaker than in the previous year. Economic and in India was still weighed on by unresolved structural structural reasons were major contributors towards the low problems and uncertainty about the political future. The growth rate. The depreciation of the currencies in Australia, outflow of capital to the USA caused financing constraints. Brazil, India, Indonesia, Pakistan, South Africa and Turkey, The economic performance of South-East Asian emerging primarily as a result of capital flowing back around the nations, where we have had strong exposure for some years, middle of the year from emerging markets to the USA, was a was mixed, with scenarios ranging from one of renewed financial burden on these economies. buoyant expansion in Indonesia to a recessionary trend in Thailand. In Japan, where we only serve a niche market, the KEY GROWTH AREAS OUTSIDE EUROPE growth-oriented fiscal policy boosted investment. In Europe, which is still the most important market for KSB’s business, the demand situation made a slow recovery in World Mark et of Centrifugal Pump s and Valv es 2013. This was mainly due to exports to non-European countries; there was only a slight increase in domestic Middle East / Africa 11.3 % demand. The gross domestic product in the euro zone fell by 0.4 % in real terms. However, Germany and Austria Asia 35.6 % demonstrated an inverse trend with figures that were slightly Europe 28.8 % higher compared with the previous year. Outside the Euro­ pean Monetary Union, the economies of Great Britain and some Eastern European countries in particular, experienced Americas / Oceania 24.3 % slight growth. Economic development in Russia, where the KSB business has expanded significantly over the last few Source: KSB estimates, EIF 2013 years, fell short of expectations however. This is down not least to falling commodity prices. Contrary to other emerging countries, the volume of capital investments in Russia In the Americas region, the USA cut public budgets and along declined. with Canada achieved moderate growth. Brazil’s economic recovery was slow due to falling commodity prices and In 2013 market development was again weak in the countries domestic political difficulties. Nevertheless, the country of the Middle East and North Africa, some of which are continued to develop new oil and gas reserves. Chile, where affected by political turmoil. The region’s gross domestic KSB sales revenue has grown considerably in recent years, product only rose by 2 % with development in the different remained an attractive sales market despite depressed copper countries varying enormously. Saudi Arabia and the United prices. Arab Emirates were rays of hope. The countries in subSaharan Africa were able to maintain the growth rate of the previous year; they achieved an increase in gross domestic M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 35 E conomic Re vie w Macroe conomic E nvironme n t an d S e c to r Vi e w New offshore projects off the Brazilian coast offer new order opportunities for process engineering pumps and valves. ONLY SLIGHT UPSWING IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING MARKET SLOW DEMAND FOR PUMPS AND VALVES Germany was again one of the world’s largest machinery KSB continued to be one of the world’s leading manufacturers exporters in 2013, together with the USA and China. The of centrifugal pumps in 2013. The market for these products growth in sales for these products slowed down compared again developed inconsistently during the year under review: with the previous year, however, and growth in global sales While demand for standard pumps for industry and building revenue for machinery, including pumps and valves, fell from services was satisfactory, there were insufficient project order 2 % to 1 %. volumes to utilise the capacities of the manufacturers of pump sets designed for specific orders. The price pressure for According to the German Engineering Federation (VDMA), large pumps continued. the backdrop to this was underutilisation of production capacities in many countries limiting the need for investments In many European countries, no notable expansion invest­ in new plants. In this respect, customers primarily ordered ments were made as a result of the realignment in energy new machinery in the form of replacement investments. policy regarding power plants. As a result, the demand for pumps for energy applications was restricted to replacement In 2013 China presumably was once again the country with pump sets. However, new buildings incorporating highly the highest growth in machinery production, even though the efficient equipment in Asia as well as the construction of gasrate of increase was lower than in previous years. In the USA, fired power plants in the USA represented individual sales the process of re-industrialisation and investments in the oil opportunities for suppliers of power plant pumps. Manufac­ and gas industry provided for above-average growth. turers of pumps also had opportunities to get involved in large projects in the refinery and petrochemical sector, though Deviating from the upward trend of these global competitors, the competition was fierce. the sales revenue for the German mechanical engineering sector fell by 1 % in the year under review. According to the Collectively the German pump companies recorded a 2 % estimates of the VDMA, the order intake was 2 % lower year increase in sales revenue in 2013, according to the VDMA . on year. 36 G r ou p ma nagement Report KSB remained among the ten companies with the highest offshore projects for oil and gas production are setting up sales revenue in the market for shut-off valves. During the local production facilities. International pump and valve year under review, development in this area was as weak as companies also increasingly invested in service facilities in the in the pump sector. The VDMA reported only a 1 % increase growth markets. in sales revenue in real terms for the industrial valves sector, which includes most of the globe, gate and butterfly valves In China domestic high-pressure pump manufacturers manufactured by KSB. increasingly targeted the power plant market, while Chinese and Korean pump suppliers pushed their way into foreign Demand developed well in the oil and gas sector, partially markets that had previously not been served by them. served by KSB. Buoyant business activity was reported specifically in the equipping of liquefied gas tankers and The KSB Group and its competitors in the market were terminals for which we provide cryogenic valves. In contrast, essentially faced with the same opportunities and risks. the manufacturers of power plant valves were still faced with However, due to the continued reluctance of customers in the an overall weak market. project business to invest, there was greater pressure upon suppliers who operate partially or fully within this sector In the sectors where customers postponed investments, there than upon those who exclusively operate a general business. was increased demand for service offerings to maintain and modernise equipment. The companies providing services relating to pumps and valves also benefited from this Business De velopment development. In 2013 the order situation for the project business was once COMPETITORS ARE INVESTING IN BRIC COUNTRIES again challenging. This was due to weak demand in the The process of company acquisitions did not continue in the power plant market, but also deferrals of larger projects for pumps and valves industry, except for a few takeovers in the water supply and waste water treatment. The correspon­dingly USA and India. On the one hand, the number of interesting high pressure on prices in the project business made it in target businesses was reduced through earlier acquisitions, some cases less attractive to accept fiercely contested orders. and on the other hand their prices rose. Furthermore, the uncertainties in the energy industry prevented the pump and In contrast, the general business for standard pumps valve manufacturers in this area from expanding through performed well overall. Our initiatives to expand this business acquisitions. business segment for KSB showed initial signs of success in Europe. In several Asian countries and Brazil, the order Various pump companies have taken steps, however, to intake for standard pumps for use in industry and building expand their activities in the water and waste water sectors services was higher. through acquisitions. This relates to the processes for filtration and water treatment, for example. SLIGHT DECLINE IN ORDER INTAKE In 2013 the volume of the Group’s new incoming orders was Similarly to KSB, other pump and valve manufacturers also 0.7 % lower than in the previous year, amounting to increased their presence in the BRIC countries as well as € 2,241.2 million. Alongside the difficult project business, other attractive markets. This is the case in Brazil for negative currency effects amounting to € 70.4 million example, where competitors who want to participate in the represented a determining factor behind this development. M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 37 E conomic Re vie w Macroe conomic E nvironme n t an d S e c to r Vi e w Busine ss D e ve lopme nt The order intake also includes eight operative companies industry and general industry sectors in Europe, where we consolidated for the first time; these companies recorded have launched new shut-off gate valves onto the market for € 27.2 million. price-sensitive applications. Demand for power plant valves was weak however. The order intake for valves was € 387.0 S a l e s r e v e n ue b y s egme nt million, down 1.3 % from the previous year. The Business Unit Service reported strong growth in its order Service 18 % intake including the companies that were first consolidated in 2013. The value of incoming orders for service and spare parts increased by 7.1 % to € 400.9 million. The business Valves 17 % Pumps 65 % unit profited from the expansion of service centres in the Asian and American mining regions, where mining operations that use pumps for solids transport, have a high application-related demand for spare parts and repairs. Thanks to the new local facilities we were able to better The order intake in the Business Unit Pumps was € 1,453.3 position ourselves to meet this demand. Power plant service million, 2.5 % less than in the previous year. One of the main in France and service activities for industry in Italy developed causes besides the changes in exchange rate, was the weak positively. We reported a decline in orders in the German business in the water and waste water industry as well as the power plant business. As part of the change in energy policy, mining sector. Order intake for high-pressure pumps for the need for our service personnel in traditional operating power plants was also unsatisfactory. areas in this sector decreased. On the other hand, the pump business in industry continued MORE OR LESS STABLE ORDERS IN EUROPE AND ASIA to grow. The introduction of technically improved Our companies in Europe recorded incoming orders of standardised pump type series manufactured identically by € 1,338.4 million, which was 0.5 % below the previous year’s our companies at several locations around the world has level, as development was slower in Russia where OOO contributed towards this. In addition we recorded growth for “KSB” did not achieve the strong order intake recorded over refinery pumps in South Korean plant engineering which is of the previous two years. Most of the companies based in international importance. Business for our energy-efficient Southern Europe experienced a persistently low development circulators developed well, despite the continued domination within the market. Our French company KSB S.A.S. of two large competitors. Due to the increasing energy and performed well however. Its incoming orders grew, which cost awareness of many customers, the order intake for was primarily due to higher demand for butterfly valves that automation products and energy-efficient drives grew. are used by customers to shut off liquefied gases. The order intake for KSB AG was up slightly at € 807.8 million Business performance in the Business Unit Valves improved (+ 0.8 %), supported by the strong demand for our standard for our cryogenic valves for the oil and gas industry, which pumps in the chemical and processing engineering sectors. are primarily supplied for equipping liquefied gas tankers. The expansion of our product range by triple-offset highperformance butterfly valves contributed towards this improvement. Our valves were also successful in the chemical 38 G r ou p ma nagement Report Our four Group companies in the Region Middle East / due to the situation in the power plant market; the Africa reported strong growth in orders. They succeeded in companies in Indonesia and Thailand posted significant increasing their order intake by 9.7 % to € 129.8 million. improvements. More orders for standard products were received in the Region, in particular for our technically improved standardised water Incoming orders at our companies in the Region Americas / and chemical pumps. However, in the project business our Oceania totalled € 417.4 million, down 4.4 % on the previous customers lacked the funds to some extent to realise new year. A key reason for this was a marked drop in orders at projects. Companies in Saudi Arabia and the United Arab our Brazilian firm KSB Bombas Hidráulicas S.A. This was Emirates proved to be exceptions and placed an increasing mainly due to the devaluation of the national currency, the number of orders for our products for the building services, real, against our Group currency, the euro. Our business in water and energy sectors. Brazil also suffered as a result of the deferral of larger projects in industry, the energy sector and the water and In Asia order volumes at our Group companies totalled waste water business. The decline was almost counter­ € 355.6 million. The year-on-year difference was – 0.5 %, so balanced by improved business in standard pumps and the trend in the Region was more or less stable, as in Europe. orders to kit out new deep-sea drilling platforms, measured Despite the challenging economic environment, KSB Pumps in the national currency. Thanks to a growing distribution Limited in India increased its order intake. Our largest network and local warehouses, we continued to expand our Chinese firm, KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd., only achieved general business with standard products outside Brazil in marginal growth in the volume of incoming orders. Our other South American companies. This includes KSB Chile valve companies in China and India reported falling orders S.A., which saw a significant increase in its order intake, partly due to service activities in the mining sector. Employees in La Roche-Chalais conduct tests in liquid nitrogen to see whether valves for liquefied gases still function reliably at temperatures of – 196 °C. M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 39 E conomic Re vie w Busine ss D e ve lopme nt In the North American market where our companies operate million was due to expansion initiatives as well as structural a niche business, the project business in the waste water changes within the Group. engineering sector and in mining was also restricted by a lower number of orders being placed. We received a large GROWTH IN SALES REVENUE ONLY IN THE REGION MIDDLE order for water supply to the oil sands industry in Canada. EAST / AFRICA After two financial years where sales revenue increased in all The recession in Australia impacted upon the order situation four Regions, in 2013 the companies in the Region Middle for pumps and valves. The new construction and expansion East / Africa were the only ones to post growth (+ 4.3 %). The of mines slowed down, reducing the order volumes for slurry Group companies in Europe (– 0.8 %), Asia (– 1.9 %) and pumps. Americas / Oceania (– 1.8 %) reported a decline. Currency influences played a decisive role in this in the latter two CONSOLIDATED SALES REVENUE IMPACTED BY CURRENCY Regions. INFLUENCES Our two Business Units (Pumps and Service) with the The European companies achieved sales revenue of € 1,358.4 strongest sales revenue developed positively in 2013. million in the year under review, equating to just under Nevertheless, the total sales revenue of the KSB companies of 60.5 % of the overall volume for the Group. KSB AG € 2,247.3 million fell 0.9 % short of the prior-year value. remained the company with the highest sales revenue by far, This was a result of reconciliation effects from the also due to a 3.4 % increase (in accordance with HGB measurement of construction contracts in accordance with [German Commercial Code]) to € 856.0 million. RussiaIAS 11. Similarly to the order intake, the sales revenue also based OOO “KSB” posted an outstanding increase due to the suffered from negative currency influences amounting to invoicing of several large orders in the energy sector. € 68.4 million. The companies newly consolidated in the year under review accounted for € 27.1 million of Group sales The Region Middle East / Africa benefited especially from the revenue. good performance of KSB Middle East FZE in Dubai. Collectively, the four consolidated operative companies in the At € 1,526.2 million, the sales revenue in the Business Unit Region recorded a sales revenue of € 117.5 million. Pumps was slightly (+ 0.6 %) up on the previous year. Singlestage pumps continued to be the strongest product group. In Asia the sales revenue development of two Indian The sales revenue for this product group remained stable, companies contributed considerably to the decline in the while business with multistage pumps as well as automation Region. In contrast, our Chinese business KSB Shanghai equipment and drives grew considerably. By contrast, the sale Pump Co. Ltd. reported a marked increase in sales revenue. of submersible pumps was down compared with the previous Overall, our Asian subsidiaries reached a volume of € 352.7 year, due to a lack of project orders from the waste water million. sector. The company in the Region Americas / Oceania with the The Business Unit Valves reported a 3.4 % drop to € 372.5 highest sales revenue in 2013 was again our slurry pump million, due primarily to the subdued development of the manufacturer GIW Industries, Inc., which continued to grow. general business in Europe as well as weak sales for power In contrast, however, two companies in Brazil and Australia plant valves in Asia. In the previous year, the Business Unit reported a marked decline in sales revenue. With a sales Valves had shown the strongest growth by comparison. revenue of € 418.7 million, the companies in the Region therefore did not match the prior-year level. The Business Unit Service reported a markedly positive development in sales revenue. The 9.2 % growth to € 402.3 40 G r ou p ma nagement Report Results of Operations, Financial Position Total output of operations and Net Assets The above-mentioned decline in sales revenue as well as the considerable reduction in work in progress and inventories of We did not fully meet our previous year’s expectations due to finished goods resulted in a lower total output of operations, the economic conditions. Contrary to our forecasts, the order which amounted to € 2,223.9 million, 3.0 % below the 2012 intake only rose in the Business Unit Service, as described in figure (€ 2,293.8 million). the Business Development section. Our Business Units Pumps and Valves suffered declines caused to some extent by currency Income and expenses translation. Therefore our order intake for the entire Group Other income remained more or less constant, rising from was slightly lower (– 0.7 % to € 2,241.2 million). Sales € 44.3 million to € 44.6 million. The slightly higher contri­ revenue did not reflect our expectations (moderate growth) butions from the reversal of provisions no longer required either, it experienced a 0.9 % decline across the Group. compensated for declined earnings from the current assets. Alongside negative reconciliation effects from measuring construction contracts in accordance with IAS 11, the trans­ The cost of materials fell by 9.4 %. As a percentage of total lation of currency into euro also had a negative impact. output of operations, the cost of materials (€ 892.3 million) Compared with the previous year, the Business Unit Service dropped from 42.9 % in the previous year to 40.1 % in the improved considerably and the Business Unit Pumps mode­ year under review. More favourable market conditions on the rately, whereas the Business Unit Valves recorded a slight procurement side together with price optimisation initiatives decline. As a result of the unexpectedly difficult market in purchasing led to this improvement. environ­ment combined with the continued price pressure in the project business, the moderate increase that was expected Staff costs rose by 3.9 % to € 787.6 million in absolute terms. failed to materialise. Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) In relation to total output of operations, this meant an fell by € 14.2 million to € 136.2 million. The Business Units increase of 2.3 percentage points. This was caused by the Valves and Service experienced a decline, while the Business collectively agreed salary increases and the higher number of Unit Pumps improved earnings. Earnings before taxes for the employees. Compared with 2012, the number of employees Group were 10.1 % below the previous year’s level; accordingly rose by 339, taking the total figure at the end of the year we also failed to meet our target for pre-tax return on sales. under review to 16,546. This growth of 2.1 % is due Contrary to initial expectations, we did not increase our exclusively to the first-time consolidation of nine smaller investment volumes. In fact, we held off making new invest­ subsidiaries in Europe and India. 365 employees joined the ments due to the economic situation. Accordingly, the net Group as a result. Therefore, the KSB Group employed on financial position also developed better than planned twelve average 369 more people than in the previous year. Due to months previously. the lower total output of operations, the average output per employee fell from € 141 thousand to € 134 thousand It should be borne in mind in the following explanations that compared with the previous financial year. the prior-year figures presented include the effects resulting from the revision of IAS 19 Employee Benefits. For more The ratio of other expenses to total output of operations rose information, see the Notes to the Consolidated Financial from 16.5 % to 17.2 %. In absolute terms, they changed little, Statements. and now total € 383.4 million compared with € 377.7 million in the previous year. R E S U LTS OF OP E RATIONS The difficult economic situation at large – in particular for the project business that continues to be affected by high pressure on prices – resulted in a decline in earnings within the Group. M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 41 E conomic Re vie w Re sults of Ope ra tions, Fina n c i al Po si ti o n an d Ne t A sse ts Financial income / expense improved by € 1.2 million. This Equity is above all attributable to higher income from investments The KSB Group’s equity amounts to € 844.5 million accounted for using the equity method (€ +3.5 million), (previous year: € 832.2 million). This includes KSB AG’s which more than compensated for the decline in financial subscribed capital of € 44.8 million as in the previous year. income (€ – 2.4 million). The capital reserve remains unchanged at € 66.7 million. Revenue reserves total € 618.8 million (previous year: Earnings € 596.4 million), including the proportion of earnings after The KSB Group achieved earnings before interest and taxes taxes attributable to shareholders of KSB AG of € 65.7 (EBIT) of € 136.2 million (previous year: € 150.4 million). million (previous year: € 74.6 million). € 114.2 million The Business Unit Pumps reported EBIT of € 105.2 million (previous year: € 124.3 million) is attributable to non(previous year: € 91.3 million), the Business Unit Valves € 7.3 controlling interest. Due to the € 36.5 million (1.7 %) decline million (previous year: € 8.8 million) and the Business Unit in total equity and liabilities, the equity ratio has improved Service € 42.7 million (previous year: € 50.7 million). The (39.3 %; previous year: 38.0 %). reconciliation effect from the measurement of construction contracts in accordance with IAS 11 changed by € – 18.7 Non-controlling interest mainly relates to the following million year on year. companies: KSB Pumps Limited, India (€ 36.2 million), KSB America Corporation, USA (€ 17.3 million), GIW Industries, The earnings before taxes (EBT) amounted to € 119.4 Inc., USA (€ 13.5 million), KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd., China million, following € 132.8 million in 2012. This means we (€ 12.7 million) and PAB GmbH, Germany (€ 8.2 million). achieved a pre-tax return on sales of 5.3 % (previous year: 5.9 %). The income tax rate increased by 1.1 percentage Liabilities points, up from 32.0 % in 2012 to 33.1 %. As a result, the The largest item under liabilities continues to be provisions 11.5 % fall in earnings after taxes to € 79.9 million (previous for employee benefits, including, also as the largest item, year: € 90.3 million) was thus somewhat more pronounced pension provisions. Due to an amendment to the applicable than the decline in earnings before taxes (EBT) (– 10.1 %). accounting standard IAS 19 Employee Benefits, it is no longer possible to manage actuarial gains and losses in a corridor Earnings attributable to non-controlling interest fell by a outside the balance sheet and spread them over the remaining similar percentage from € 15.6 million to € 14.2 million. period of service of the employees. They now form part of They remained virtually constant relative to earnings after the provision. Changes in the actuarial assumptions have a taxes (17.8 % compared with 17.3 % in the previous year). direct impact on the Group’s equity. We have adjusted the previous year’s figures in accordance with the accounting The earnings attributable to shareholders of KSG AG (€ 65.7 principles. On the basis of this new initial figure, the million) were € 8.9 million lower than in the previous year provision as at the reporting date was reduced by 0.6 % to (€ 74.6 million). € 398.1 million. A large number of the pension plans currently in use in the KSB Group are defined benefit models. Earnings per ordinary share were € 37.38, compared with We will be reducing the associated risks, such as demographic € 42.48 in the previous year, and € 37.64 per preference changes, inflation and salary increases, for example by share, compared with € 42.74 in 2012. introducing defined contribution plans for new staff. FINANCIAL POSITION Our obligations for current pensioners and vested benefits of The financial position of the KSB Group improved slightly. employees who have left the company account for just over The net financial position in particular developed positively half of the amount recognised in the balance sheet. The rest as a result of a restrictive investment policy and our relates to defined benefit obligations for our current systematic working capital management. employees. 42 G r ou p ma nagement Report The remaining provisions for employee benefits, which, in 2009 stood at € 6 million, which we will pay back in 2014, contrast to pension provisions, are predominantly current, thus reporting them now as current. Inversely, other fell slightly from € 126.9 million to € 124.1 million. liabilities fell from € 223.8 million to € 188.7 million as a result of declining advances from customers. Trade payables Compared with the previous year, the other provisions fell were practically unchanged at € 204.8 million (previous primarily as a result of lower provisions for taxes. They year: € 204.0 million). Taking into account the decline in include non-current components of € 14.4 million (previous total equity and liabilities, the share of current liabilities in year: € 16.2 million) for warranty obligations. The excess total equity decreased to 22.3 % (previous year: 23.1 %). relates to provisions for mainly current uncertain liabilities. Investments Non-current other liabilities remained more or less un­ As in the previous year, the additions to intangible assets changed at € 205.0 million, following € 208.0 million at the amounting to € 4.2 million (previous year: € 9.8 million) end of 2012. As in the previous year, they include liabilities primarily concerned the sale of licences. from a loan against borrower’s note of € 175 million, which we placed in December 2012 due to the favourable capital Investments in property, plant and equipment in the year market conditions. It is divided into repayment tranches of under review amounted to € 52.8 million, considerably 3 to 10 years. Current other liabilities fell overall by € 27.7 below the figure of € 81.5 million for the previous year. The million (€ 455.3 million compared with € 483.0 million at highest additions at € 21.6 million (previous year: € 23.1 year end 2012). The financial liabilities included in this million) relate to technical equipment and machinery. The increased by € 6.6 million. At the end of 2013, the remaining focus of our investment activities remained Europe, commitments from the loan against borrower’s note placed in predominantly Germany and France. Outside Europe, the E xpe n s e s i n S tateme n t of Compr eh ensive Inc ome (in %) 2013 18.1 2.8 37.1 42.0 2012* 17.3 2.7 34.8 45.2 Other expenses Depreciation and amortisation expense Staff costs Cost of materials Bal an c e s h eet s t ru c tur e Assets (in %) 0.1 2013 5.2 20.6 1.7 1.8 19.7 29.9 21.0 2012* 4.7 21.0 1.8 1.8 20.9 31.5 18.3 0.0 Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment Non-current financial assets Deferred tax assets Inventories Receivables and other current assets Cash and cash equivalents Assets held for sale Equity and liabilities (in %) 2013 39.3 30.1 30.6 2012* 38.0 30.0 32.0 Equity Non-current liabilities Current liabilities * Adjustment to reflect the retroactive amendment to IAS 19 M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 43 E conomic Re vie w Re sults of Ope ra tions, Fina n c i al Po si ti o n an d Ne t A sse ts highest additions were again made at our plants in the USA the section on Risk Reporting on the Utilisation of Financial as well as India, China and Brazil. We maintained our Instruments elsewhere in this group management report. policies for measuring depreciation and amortisation in the year under review. Contingencies and commitments The KSB Group’s off-balance sheet contingent liabilities Net financial position totalled € 11.1 million as at the reporting date (previous The net financial position of the KSB Group has improved year: € 14.1 million). These arise mainly from collateral and considerably from € 141.2 million to € 189.6 million. One of performance guarantees. the contributing factors was the considerably decreased expenditure on financial assets. There are no other extraordinary obligations and commitments beyond the reporting date. Other financial Liquidity obligations arise only within the normal scope of long-term Cash flows from operating activities amounted to € 135.3 rental, lease and service agreements (in particular IT and million, a year-on-year increase of € 41.3 million. As well as telecommunications) necessary for business operations and a decline in receivables, the freeing up of resources from from purchase commitments amounting to € 12.5 million inventories had a positive impact on cash flows. This (previous year: € 11.8 million). contrasted with more funds released from advances received from customers and the lower earnings. NET ASSETS Our total assets fell by 1.7 % to € 2,151.5 million. Declines In the year under review, we reduced our investment activities in non-current assets (in particular for property, plant and primarily in property, plant and equipment. Accordingly, cash equipment) for inventories and receivables as well as other flows from investment activities decreased markedly to current assets contrasted with the higher cash and cash € – 60.7 million (previous year: € – 99.4 million). equivalents. Cash flows from financing activities changed from € + 102.9 Around 28 % is attributable to fixed assets, as in the previous million to € – 22.3 million as a result of the new loan against year. Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment borrower’s note raised in the previous year. with a historical cost of € 1,168.7 million (previous year: € 1,155.5 million) have carrying amounts of € 554.2 million The KSB Group’s cash and cash equivalents from all cash (previous year: € 563.2 million). Above all the first-time flows together increased from € 401.0 million to € 451.4 consolidations of older KSB companies in the year under million (including € 18.0 million of cash used to secure credit review resulted in changes in goodwill of € +10.9 million. As balances for partial retirement obligations and – for the first investments in property, plant and equipment in the year time in the year under review – credit balances for long-time under review were below the figure for the previous year as working hours accounts, which is available for immediate use well as the figure for write-downs (€ 54.7 million following at any time, compared with € 14.8 million the previous year). € 52.1 million in 2012), this balance sheet item changed by Exchange rate effects amounting to € – 5.0 million (previous € – 17.7 million. Taking into account the opposing effects of year € – 2.8 million) played a role in this. the first-time consolidations, the carrying amount of financial assets fell by € 1.8 million to € 37.0 million. We assume that, in future, we will continue to be able to meet our outgoing payments largely from operating cash flow. The inventories decreased by 7.3 % to € 423.8 million From the current perspective our financial management is because of the project business which continued to be meeting the goal of ensuring liquidity at all times without any challenging. They tied up around 20 % of our resources significant additional external financing measures. For more (previous year: 21 %). information on liquidity management (such as credit lines) see 44 G r ou p ma nagement Report As a result of the decreased sales revenue, trade receivables The order intake for the Business Unit Valves also fell slightly were € 4.7 million below the figure at the end of the previous by € 5.0 million to € 387.0 million compared with the previous year. The difficult situation in the project business was also year. Sales revenue decreased as well from € 385.6 million to reflected in the development of receivables for customer € 372.5 million. Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) fell orders, measured according to the percentage-of-completion by € 1.5 million to € 7.3 million. method. Besides a reduction in advances received from customers for these orders, the associated value also The order intake and sales revenue in the Business Unit decreased by € 58.0 million. As a result, receivables and other Service developed positively. The volume of incoming orders current assets made up around 30 % of total assets (previous increased by 7.1 % to € 400.9 million, while sales revenue year: around 32 %), taking into account the change in total rose from € 368.2 million to € 402.3 million. However, due assets. to one-time costs incurred earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) fell by € 8.0 million to € 42.7 million. Cash and cash equivalents account for around 21 % of assets (previous year: approx. 18 %). Improved cash flows from As a result of stagnating business development along with a ­operating activities along with reduced investments contri­ fall in earnings, the pre-tax return on sales, at 5.3 %, buted to this change. remained below the comparative figure for 2012 (5.9 %). Due to our systematic working capital management as well Inflation and exchange rate effects as modest investment activity, we nevertheless considerably There were no consolidated companies within the Group improved our net financial position. whose financial statements were required to be adjusted for the effects of inflation. At the end of 2013, the economic situation of the KSB Group was therefore stable at a high level. We consider this a good The translation of financial statements of consolidated basis for achieving continued success in the coming years. companies that are not prepared in euro gave rise to a difference of € – 53.5 million (previous year € – 13.9 million). This was taken directly to equity. Event s a ft er t h e Re port ing S UMM ARY Pe r iod Despite the difficult market situation faced predominantly by No significant events occurred after the balance sheet date the project business, Management considers the KSB Group that would have a material effect on the company’s results of to be in good economic shape overall in comparison with the operations, financial position and net assets. previous year. Our three Business Units – Pumps, Valves and Service – contributed as follows: The Business Unit Pumps achieved order intake amounting to € 1,453.3 million, which represents a decline of 2.5 % compared with 2012. In contrast, the sales revenue and earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) developed positively; we increased sales revenue by € 9.1 million to € 1,526.2 million; EBIT rose by € 14.0 million to € 105.2 million. M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 45 E conomic Re vie w Re sults of Ope ra tions, Fina n c i al Po si ti o n a nd Ne t A sse ts E ve nts a fte r the Re porting Pe ri o d Re port on Expe cte d D e ve lopm e n ts Re port on E x p e c t e d Dev e l opme nt s According to the forecasts made by the International To further increase our volume in the general business, we Monetary Fund (IMF), the global economy is expected to are targeting this sales area more closely with the support of grow by 3.7 % in 2014. Taking the IMF’s estimates into the sales organisation that was introduced at the start of the consideration, we have assumed in our planning that the current year. In doing so, we shall focus upon countries industrialised countries will see slightly accelerated growth of where we have been successful in particular in the project 2 % in the current financial year. It is also assumed that the business in the past. Activities to encourage the sale of euro zone will once again come out of recession and grow by standard pumps and valves include production engineering 1 %; for the German economy, the forecast for gross and logistics projects, for example in countries such as China. domestic product is +1.6 %. Provided that the global economy continues to recover, it is estimated that the To prepare for the expected growth in the mining sector, we emerging countries will achieve economic growth of 5.1 %. will expand our foundry capacities at our US subsidiary GIW However, the political development in Russia and Ukraine Industries, Inc. This will enable us to manufacture and must be taken into account. machine larger and heavier pump parts. Through technical developments and by expanding our product range, such as The information provided by the German Engineering by adding cyclone separators, we want to tap into the mining Federation (VDMA) suggests that demand in our sector will engineering market and provide greater added value. improve around the world. It estimates that global sales revenue for machinery will increase by 5 % in real terms. It is The order situation for our multistage high-pressure pumps, expected that the sales revenue for German manufacturers of as used primarily by customers in power plant engineering, pumps, systems and industrial valves will increase by just will at best see a slight improvement during the current 1 %, although this is considerably lower than the overall financial year. forecast published in December 2013. We will be in a position to benefit from the continuing trend We are planning significant business growth during the towards greater energy efficiency for pumps and motors. To current financial year under these economic conditions. A exploit this to our best advantage, in 2014 we are higher order intake in the general business for standard introducing the improved KSB SuPremE high-efficiency pumps and valves will, along with more service orders, result motor to our customers, along with the new-generation in a short-term increase in sales revenue. On the other hand, PumpDrive variable speed system, for which we procure vital we assume that a potential improvement in the order components from our Italian subsidiary REEL s.r.l. situation for our project business will not be reflected in sales revenue before 2015, as he delivery dates for pumps and Due to technical similarities with our pumps, we are also valves for larger projects in the plant engineering sector are producing mixers that are used in biogas plants, for example. one to several years in the future. We have entered new ground in 2013 with a “flat rate” for mixers. In return for a monthly fee, we assume technical Pumps functional accountability including servicing and main­ We will continue to develop our business for pumps and tenance. We anticipate increasing demand for this customer-­ related automation products during the current financial friendly solution that enables owners / operators to save year. Other activities include trying to increase the volume of ­investment costs. orders from the chemical and petrochemical industries. A contributing factor will be the introduction of several pump In view of these prospects, we expect overall moderate ranges, including technically optimised magnetic coupling growth for the order intake and sales revenue in the Business pumps and canned motor pumps. Unit Pumps. 46 G r ou p ma nagement Report Valves sales employees. They offer customers the services provided In the valves market we anticipate that the order situation for by our stationary repair centres and mobile units for KSB our power plant globe and gate valves will continue to be products as well as other manufacturers’ products. challenging due to low demand. There are good prospects for cryogenic valves for shutting off liquefied gas. Asia continues As well as the classic tasks of servicing, repair and spare part to be our most important market in this area, and is served supply, our consultancy services are also becoming by our South Korean subsidiary KSB Seil Co., Ltd. increasingly important. These include showing interested customers how we can help them save energy by retrofitting Our sales realignment will make it easier for us to expand the their pumps or by installing energy-saving control systems. general business for standard valves in 2014. We expect to see a significant increase in demand especially in Europe and The modernisation of pumps and valves in existing systems is Asia that we will serve through our sales units, field sales and one way of avoiding or delaying new investments. These distributors. We will be able to quickly supply our customers retrofit activities are currently a major focus within our with the products they need through our production facilities offering. in Europe, Asia and the Americas. We see prospects for increasing service sales revenue Additional opportunities will be tapped with the new ANSI primarily outside of Europe. The above-mentioned trend globe and gate valves as well as an extended range of control towards professional service will attract new customers, valves for different applications. In collaboration with a especially in Asia. There are good business prospects for German manufacturer of special valves, we also want to mining in Asia and the Americas, where there is a high develop our control valve business in Asia. demand for repairs and spare parts for installed pumps. We wish to retain our prominent market position in the For the Business Unit Valves, we expect that we will be able European service market, where we have been the leading to expand our business overall for globe, gate, butterfly and supplier for many years. ball valves. We aim to achieve order intake and sales revenue growth in the medium single-digit percentage range. In 2014 we anticipate a higher single-digit percentage increase in both order intake and sales revenue of the Service Business Unit Service. We aim to expand our service business considerably during the current financial year. The starting point for this initiative OUTLOOK FOR THE GROUP AND THE REGIONS is the aftermarket project that we referred to in the previous We are aiming for moderate to considerable growth in Annual Report. The aim of the project is to strengthen our business volumes in all four Regions during the current position in all Regions through greater presence as well as a financial year. The eventualities and contingencies outlined in comprehensive offering of service and spare parts. This the subsequent opportunities and risks report must be taken enables us to benefit from the appreciation of many system into account however. They can lead to developments of a operators who realise that high-quality service “pays off” general nature and also within individual Regions that may over time through shorter downtimes and lower energy costs. have a greater influence on business development than We will increasingly market our service portfolio, which expected. extends beyond pumps and valves, through specialist field M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 47 Re port on Expe cte d D e ve lopm e n ts G r o s s d o me s t i c p roduc t gr ow t h Our new sales organisation and e-commerce facility will enable us to serve our customers better. To this end, we have World 2014 3.7 % (Forecast) added new functionality to our online sales portal aimed at 2013 3.0 % customers in building services as well as a greater number of customers in industry and in the water engineering sector. North America 2014 2.6 % (Forecast) 2013 1.5 % Middle East / Africa In the Region Middle East / Africa we expect economic Latin America 2014 3.0 % (Forecast) growth during the current financial year. This will be shaped 2013 2.6 % especially through financially strong countries such as Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates as well as some European Union 2014 1.3 % (Forecast) countries, such as Iraq, where the infrastructure is in great 2013 0.0 % need of being updated. We do not expect to see positive business development in the North African countries that are Asia (excl. Japan) 2014 6.5 % (Forecast) faced with political upheaval. In contrast, in sub-Saharan 2013 6.4 % Africa we anticipate an increase in our order intake, based on the demand in the mining and water sectors. Source: International Monetary Fund 2014 From the current perspective, our Group companies in the Region will be able to grow their business overall. Noticeable Europe growth is expected for the service and spare parts business; Our companies in the European market are aiming to achieve the expansion of our service centre in Abu Dhabi will be a moderate growth overall. This is based on the continued contributing factor. expansion of the general business as well as our initiatives to encourage the sale of service and spare parts. Backed up by Asia these initiatives, we will face stable demand in the Central In the Region Asia, demand will increase in the current European countries and a trend towards growing demand in financial year, although we do not anticipate it to match the Northern and Eastern Europe. According to our estimates, growth rates achieved in earlier years. The general slowdown the market situation in most countries within Southern in economic growth in China, stagnating investments in India Europe will not change materially compared with 2013. and weaker business development in South Korea and Indonesia are responsible for the “drag effect”. We envisage higher order potential in the European market, above all in the general industry sector as well as in chemical We see good sales opportunities in individual sectors however, and process engineering. We aim to achieve above-average such as industry and the energy sector in China, the South growth in these sales areas and thus grow our market share. Korean power plant and shipbuilding sectors as well as the We expect a revival of the project business through exports water and waste water industries in Malaysia, Singapore, from Europe. Furthermore some of the projects that were Vietnam and the Philippines. Following the parliamentary delayed in previous years in the energy, water and waste elections in India in May 2014 there is a possibility that the water sectors may be awarded. willingness to invest will increase and that the economy will pick up again. 48 G r ou p ma nagement Report Aiming to better harness the opportunities in the Asian expansion in this sector, we do anticipate comparatively market, we are setting up new sales companies, modernising significant growth in orders for our products and service parts of our product range and establishing a tighter service offerings there in the current year. network. In competition with national manufacturers of pumps and valves, we draw on our capacity for cost-effective Gross domestic p roduct growth in the BRIC countries local manufacture of products and components. We anticipate overall growth for our Asian Group companies. Brazil 2014 2.3 % (Forecast) 2013 2.3 % Americas / Oceania As a result of the development in the price of commodities, Russia 2014 2.0 % (Forecast) the mining companies in North America have not planned to 2013 1.5 % make any notable new investments. This also applies to the development of further oil sand resources in Canada. India 2014 5.1 % (Forecast) Business at our US subsidiary GIW Industries, Inc. is 2013 3.8 % therefore focused primarily upon the secondary market for service and spare parts at a local level. Its offering includes China 2014 7.5 % (Forecast) retrofitting in order to enhance the productivity of its 2013 7.7 % customers’ systems. The power station market in the USA is also not sending out any signals of notable investments in Source: International Monetary Fund 2014 new fossil-fuelled or nuclear large-scale plants. Opportunities exist where smaller combined gas and steam cycle power plants are being built as a result of lower natural gas prices. SUMMARY OF EXPECTED DEVELOPMENT Despite economic uncertainties we see good opportunities to In 2014, in South America, we will continue to expand the improve our volume figures during the 2014 financial year in general business with pumps and values as well as the service all three Business Units. In the Business Unit Pumps we are and spare parts business. Both have good growth potential in expecting a considerable increase in order intake and a slight our view. Opportunities for orders are presented through increase in sales revenue compared with the figures for 2013. projects in the mining sector as well as the oil and gas sector It is anticipated that earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) where our projects include the equipping of offshore drilling will fall slightly short of the prior-year figures as a result of platforms. The outlook for the water and waste water market the difficult sales revenue situation that still prevails in the is also expected to be better than in 2013. We are setting up project business. Compared with the previous year, we our own company in Colombia during the current financial envisage marked growth in the order intake for the Business year, in addition to our businesses in Brazil, Argentina, Chile Unit Valves, a slight increase in sales revenue and a and Peru. substantial improvement in EBIT. In the Business Unit Service we are aiming for significant growth for all three key Mining remains the driver of the Australian economy. Even if indicators. commodity prices are not expected to produce any notable M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 49 Re port on Expe cte d D e ve lopm e n ts For the Group as a whole we estimate considerable growth in Forward-looking Statements order intake and moderate growth in sales revenue compared This report contains forward-looking statements and with 2013. Earnings before taxes (EBT) are also expected to information that are based upon the assumptions of increase moderately, so that the pre-tax return on sales for Management. They express our current forecasts and 2014 will increase in a similar manner. The net financial expectations with regard to future events. As a result, these position is expected to improve to around € 200 million. forward-looking statements and information are exposed to risks and uncertainties that lie outside the Management’s In order to increase the operative income level of KSB AG, in sphere of influence. We wish to point out that actual events 2014 we will consequently pursue the measures that were or results may differ materially from the forward-looking initiated at the end of 2013 to improve earnings. As well as statements and information mentioned, if one or more of the continuing our cautious investment policy and keeping a following opportunities or risks, or other opportunities, risks sharp focus on the development of structural costs, we will and uncertainties should materialise, or if the assumptions reduce our workforce by approx. 250 employees through a underlying the statements prove to be inaccurate. socially responsible early retirement programme. The forecast horizon for the above-mentioned information and statements is the 2014 financial year. We are not aware of other important influences that extend beyond this period. The order intake and sales revenue for service and spare parts are expected to grow markedly in 2014. 50 G r ou p ma nagement Report Opport u ni ti e s a n d R i s k s Report As an organisation that operates throughout the world, the selecting the persons responsible. In doing so, Controlling, KSB Group is exposed to both global and regional risks. Our Finance and Accounting as well as Internal Audits perform risk policy is designed to enable us to grow sustainably and important monitoring tasks. Accounting also produces the profitably. We aim to reduce the risks associated with our annual and consolidated financial statements. business and where possible avoid them completely. At the same time our global alignment and our extensive product Risk management system range offer a wealth of opportunities. This includes in KSB has implemented a Group-wide risk management system particular any opportunities that arise on the basis of our for identifying and assessing relevant risks and reporting research and development activities, as well as any that are these to Group headquarters. This process and the linked to the quality and cost effectiveness of our products. responsibilities of Management are documented in our Risk Our competitive position for the awarding of orders is also Management Manual. Managers are encouraged to take improved by the expansion of our worldwide sales and timely action to prevent or limit damage that may result from production network. We always review opportunities to the occurrence of risk events. All Business Units, central expand our global presence and are able to achieve this corporate departments and Group companies, including through start-ups on the one hand and acquisition projects Group companies that are not consolidated, are included in on the other. this risk management system. The responsible managers are required to supply their relevant key business and financial In order to manage the varied opportunities and risks indicators each month. As well as creating quarterly forecasts professionally and efficiently, we align our actions on business trends, they also report recognised risks to Group accordingly and focus upon the respective situation when headquarters twice a year. A distinction is made between high R i s k Ma n ag eme n t S ys tem of t h e KSB Gr oup Audit Committee & Supervisory Board Board of Management Accounting Controlling Finance Chief Compliance KSB Group KSB Group KSB Group Officer Internal Audits Monitoring Function Auditors Business Central Group Companies Units ­F unctions M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 51 Opportunitie s and Risk s Re po rt (> 70 %), medium (30 % to 70 %) and low (< 30 %) Information obtained by Internal Audits on both the probability of occurrence for the risk areas of recognised risks and the countermeasures introduced in markets / competition, projects / products, finance / liquidity, response forms an integral part of the reporting to the Board procurement, technology / research and development as well of Management and the Audit Committee of the Supervisory as environment, human resources and other risks. According Board. to their potential economic impact, we categorise risks as high, medium and low. This approach gives us the necessary Our risk management system is regularly reviewed and transparency to identify risks in their entirety and to manage promptly updated where necessary, for example, in the event them effectively, professionally and in an economically of relevant legal or organisational changes. It is also reviewed responsible manner. Furthermore, Finance and Accounting as by our auditor as part of the audit of the annual financial well as Controlling review all reported risks in terms of their statements. relevance for the preparation of the financial statements and as such ensure a systematic link with the Group accounting INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM AND RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM process. The Board of Management and the Supervisory WITH REGARD TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTING PROCESS Board’s Audit Committee receive at least two risk reports The accounting-related internal control system (ICS) based upon this information per financial year. These reports contributes towards ensuring proper financial reporting. The include all the risks that are categorised as high or medium aim is to ensure that the consolidated financial statements that exceed pre-defined threshold values individually or and group management report comply with all relevant collectively, not considering any action that has been taken. regulations. Key elements of the ICS are – as well as the risk Particularly critical topics are reported on an ad-hoc basis by management system described above – guidelines and the managers in charge. In contrast, opportunities are not regulations which include standard accounting policies. They taken into account in this system, but are examined must be applied to the full extent by all our Group separately in consultation with Business Unit Managers and companies. Functional separation and the principle of dual Regional Managers. control are observed; this is ensured by the audits carried out by our Internal Audits department. With regard to financial risks we also make use of additional risk identification, assessment, management and communi­ The Accounting department carries out regular analytical cation. The central Finance department is responsible for this plausibility checks of time series analyses and actual / budget task which is described in further detail later in this section. variance analyses. This enables us to identify significant changes early on, which we then examine for accounting Compliance risks are dealt with by the Chief Compliance and measurement discrepancies. The resulting findings are Officer, who is assigned to the Legal and Compliance staff discussed at management level. function. The Chief Compliance Officer is supported by the members of the Compliance Committee and the Compliance The responsibility for Group accounting lies with the Managers of the individual companies. employees in the central Accounting KSB Group department. We employ the services of qualified external reviewers for The Internal Audits department is integrated into the risk certain calculations as part of financial reporting (such as the management system as part of our internal control system. calculation of complex pension obligations using actuarial When planning audits, it prioritises areas according to assumptions). potential risks and is provided with all the necessary information. The auditors ensure that all audited units adhere to the applicable guidelines, actively participate in the risk management system, and control or avoid their risks. 52 G r ou p ma nagement Report Binding schedules and guidelines apply to accounting within OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS CATEGORIES the KSB Group and to accounting at each individual The categories outlined below indicate risk areas that can subsidiary. The accounting methods that must be applied to have a major negative impact on our results of operations, compile the consolidated financial statements are defined in financial position and net assets, as well as our reputation. writing in a manual that we update and revise on a continual The risks and the important opportunities for business basis. This also includes the guidelines for posting intradevelopment are listed within these categories. Economic group transactions. We continually analyse new accounting development has the greatest level of influence, whereas all principles and other official announcements with regard to other opportunities and risks are rated as subordinate. their relevance and impact on the consolidated financial statements. To this end we maintain regular contact with our Markets / Competition auditors. We adapt our guidelines and manual where Our business is affected by changes in the economic and necessary and communicate any changes immediately to our political environment. This includes uncertainties within the companies. Accounting KSB Group monitors compliance global economy and current economic developments such as with these regulations. This enables us to reduce the risk of the high level of public sector debt in the USA and certain compiling inappropriate financial statements or failing to European countries. They harbour the risk of a recession publish them by the defined deadlines. which would have a negative impact upon the demand for our products. We automatically process the financial statement information for all Group companies using certified and tested standard In the project business, we are dependent on sectors with consolidation software. Systematic checks are implemented long investment cycles. This can cause customers to delay to help us validate the data. Employees in Accounting placing orders. Because of the ongoing overcapacity on the KSB Group verify any warning signals that arise before using supply side, the pressure on our products’ selling prices also the data. The sequence of the processing steps is strictly continues. Asian competitors in particular are entering the specified through the use of the consolidation monitor within global market with their products. We manage the risk of our IT system. This ensures that data we process is always fluctuations in the economy and in demand by remaining accurate. active in several market sectors and industries with different economic cycles. Furthermore we are monitoring the To enable a seamless and accurate accounting process, we development of the economic environment for our market only assign employees to this task who have the appropriate sectors. If necessary, we adapt our capacities and implement specialist know-how. These employees are trained on a cost-cutting measures. regular basis to make sure that their expert knowledge remains up to date. If the investment climate were to improve faster than expected, boosting the economy accordingly, this would We have defined access authorisations for the accountingencourage demand for our products in the project business. related IT system. This protects the data against unauthorised access as well as improper usage and modification. The data The success of our pumps, valves and service business in is checked at many stages, helping to ensure the processing power plant engineering depends on global energy demand as quality. Alongside regular system reviews by the auditors, well as the regulations introduced as part of energy and these checks contribute to limiting operational risks. M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 53 Opportunitie s and Risk s Re po rt environmental policies in our customers’ countries. In currencies weaken in countries that are of importance to us, Germany in particular the power plant market is still this can have a negative effect in particular on our exports undergoing a transformation due to the change in energy from Europe. At the same time there is an opportunity for policy initiated by the Federal Government. As we offered our production facilities in countries with weak currencies to our products and service range on a large scale to the benefit from such a development and increase exports in the owners / operators of large power stations including nuclear medium term. They could contribute increasingly towards plants, we have lost business volumes. We must compensate global growth within the Group. this through a growth in sales revenue in other countries and areas of application for pumps and valves. To the extent that We will get more involved in some South American and Asian this substitution involves an unexpectedly high expenditure, countries where economic and political stability has this can result in a considerably higher burden upon the improved and where the need for infrastructure is high. This results of operations than initially planned. Greater focus by development makes additional markets available to our our clients on operating reliability and low life cycle costs, as products in the medium term. offered by our products, can open up additional business opportunities. Overall, our projects aim to increase the number of potential opportunities for sustained profitable growth. However, If energy suppliers outside of Europe decide to build new market and technical requirements might change during the power plants earlier than anticipated, this will increase our period in which we are carrying out our projects, meaning opportunities in the project business. that individual opportunities must be reassessed. Therefore we do not expect all of our projects to lead to success as Realisation of many major projects is pending in the markets planned. If necessary we will adapt our goals and measures of the Middle East as well as North Africa. The background to new circumstances. Changing market conditions usually to this is the continuing instability in several countries. The also represent further success potential. current lower number of new orders entails high price and delivery time pressure, to which we are adapting. We see Additionally, an improved product range increases our opportunities in some countries such as Saudi Arabia, Kuwait market opportunities. We see good business opportunities in and Oman as well as in the sub-Saharan region, where we areas including building services where we have launched offer our pumps and valves for infrastructure projects for new circulator pumps. Improved products also enhance our water and energy supply as well as for improved waste water opportunities in the oil and gas industry as well as the mining treatment. We are also ramping up our activities in the mining sector. We aim to increase customer value and improve our business in certain resource-rich countries. The imposition market penetration across all our businesses through more of export restrictions relating to some countries in the region efficient electrical drives. can in principle put both our orders in hand and order opportunities at risk. Projects / Products Large-scale projects with longer-term agreements are also In growth markets such as the BRIC countries there is a always associated with risks. There may be cost overruns, risk that competitors with new production capacities will staff shortages, technical difficulties or quality problems – make competition tougher and delay our planned growth. If including possible penalties – that reduce our margins. We 54 G r ou p ma nagement Report therefore train our employees in project management and time schedules and costs or insufficient order volumes at the enable them to identify risks associated with longer-term time of completion. To minimise these risks and safeguard contracts at an early stage. Our project managers are our opportunities in the best possible manner, all investments provided with appropriate management tools. Decisions are run through a step-by-step approval process. made in conjunction with clearly structured authorisation processes. We set aside suitable provisions for warranty and Finances / Liquidity penalty risks. These amounted to € 43 million in the annual Acquisitions generally result in an increase in intangible financial statements for 2013 compared with € 49 million in assets. Adverse changes in the market environment or the previous year; beyond which there is no other major delayed integration of our acquisitions may affect the residual risk (net risk). commercial and financial development of a new unit. This may lead to reduction of goodwill. Therefore we monitor Orders including newly designed products involve both very closely the course that the businesses of our acquired technical and financial risks. We limit technical risks to the companies take (post-merger phase). extent that we define intermediate steps for development work and subject partial solutions to assessments. This also In the project business we see risks for our margins and applies to pumps that we provide within the framework of a liquidity. As well as the continued pressure on our selling major contract running over a number of years for the prices, which is reducing our profit margins, these include construction of a new type of power plant in China. We unfavourable contract conditions such as reduced advances minimise financial risks by using appropriate contractual and tougher contractual penalties. We counter this risk by clauses, and ensure that advances cover the costs incurred. paying careful attention to the approval processes in the tender phase, and constantly monitoring our net financial Technical developments essentially support us in opening up position. In this way we are able to recognise and avoid new attractive areas of application and improving customer liquidity shortages. Where necessary, we secure sufficient value. liquidity by agreeing corresponding credit lines early on. Acquiring companies or establishing joint ventures enables us Persistent recessions can aggravate the financial situation of to strengthen our product portfolio. Such steps inevitably our customers. Delayed payments and credit losses as a result involve risks as we have to integrate new employees, of this can place a burden upon our results of operations. harmonise processes and add products to an existing The same effect might occur if the foreign exchange regulaprogramme. We evaluate these projects by applying tions become stricter for individual countries. appropriate analysis methods to closely weigh up the opportunities and risks. Litigation and regulatory proceedings can also affect our business. The political demands to develop energy-saving, environ­ mentally friendly products and the resulting demand from We use foreign exchange hedges to reduce risks from trans­ customers open up further opportunities for growth through actions involving different currencies. These are generally new and efficient products. currency forwards, which we use both for transactions that have already been recognised and for future cash flows from By stepping up our capacities at certain locations, we are orders still to be processed. By strengthening our production increasing our opportunities to respond quickly to the sites worldwide, we can realise natural currency hedging in increasing demand of our customers and to provide larger currency markets that continue to be volatile. quantities. There are also investment risks such as exceeding M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 55 Opportunitie s and Risk s Re po rt Our global production network also offers us the oppor­ To avoid any negative impact on earnings, it is important to tunity to benefit from currency effects and to use this where recognise the market-related or technical risks early on. To appropriate in competition with other manufacturers. this end, we are constantly updating our development process, which incorporates various control levels. As sales The most important currency for the KSB Group after the employees are regularly included in this process, risks arising euro is the US dollar. If the exchange rate deviates from our from changes in markets or applications can be taken into assumptions, this would have positive or negative effects account in good time in the evaluation. This close integration upon our business volumes and our earnings. also enables us to respond to new market trends more quickly than our competitors. To prevent the loss of receivables, we have established a strict credit management system and use trade credit insurance. Changing technical processes offer scope for new products. This includes, for example, ways in which energy can be used Procurement more efficiently, water can be treated more effectively and Commodity prices and procurement times are subject to natural resources can be obtained at a lower cost. Our increasingly stronger fluctuations due to market volatility. network with technology partners, customers and suppliers Where we are unable to offset cost increases or pass them on as well as representatives from science and politics enables us to our customers, this can have a negative impact on our to identify such developments at an early stage and to adapt earnings. Shortages or delays in our supply chain for raw our product range accordingly. materials and components can also lead to the impairment of our business activities. If we do not benefit promptly from Environment declining procurement prices, the persistent pressure on the Our production activities in particular are subject to selling price of our products can have a negative effect on our numerous environmental protection laws and regulations. earnings. There is a risk that losses will result from environmental damage not covered by insurance. Therefore, at all company Therefore, we are actively seeking to identify alternative and sites officers monitor compliance with laws and regulations better value supply sources, especially in Asia. In this context, as well as with internal KSB rules, which in some cases we want to integrate our purchasing activities more closely exceed the prescribed environmental standards. and continue pooling our requirements. Depending on the subsequent procurement volumes, the price benefits could be As part of acquisition projects, we examine existing greater then initially planned. However, we also pay attention properties for possible contamination before purchase. If we to preventing dependencies caused by focusing upon just a discover any contamination, we set aside provisions to pay few suppliers, as this could constitute significantly higher risk for the necessary clean-up work. potential. Technology / Research and Development It is essential to our future success that we have a product and service range that is suited to the market in terms of technology, price and delivery time. The changing needs of our customers and new standards and regulations require that we continuously develop and improve our products and services. Research and development for innovations consumes significant financial and human resources, and the resulting products cannot always be successful. 56 G r ou p ma nagement Report In markets where environmental regulations are becoming Other Opportunities and Risks more stringent, there is a risk that our products and own or The manipulation and loss of electronic data can lead to purchased services may cause infringements that lead to us serious commercial disadvantages. We minimise this risk losing our market authorisation and which damage our through suitable access procedures and backup systems. By reputation. A change in rules on liability in environmental centralising the IT systems of our various operating units, we protection can also increase the risks for our business success. implement high security standards and thus reduce the risk of As a member of national and international professional data loss or corruption. associations we become aware of imminent changes in environmental law early on. We also continually update the Other potential risks that might be associated with the legal frameworks that are in place in our Operational Units, activities of our employees include dishonest conduct or enabling us to ensure that our employees always abide by the violations of laws, which could damage the image of KSB. applicable law. This is also monitored by external auditors as We counter these risks and safeguard our reputation among part of the management certifications. our customers by organising regular compliance training and through individual initiatives in critical regions. Through our environmental management system that conforms with international standards as well as our IMPORTANT OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS BY SEGMENT membership in the UN Global Compact , we meet the The opportunities and risks for the Business Units Pumps, requirements of many customers who expect their suppliers Valves and Service are most influenced by economic to operate in an ecological manner. Therefore our development. Furthermore, the uncertainty surrounding the environmental protection initiatives and sustainable business future development of the power plant business is of great practices help us to maintain and enhance our order importance to the Business Unit Pumps and to a lesser degree opportunities. to the Business Units Service and Valves. In many countries the question as to how the energy sector will cover the Human Resources upcoming demand for power remains unanswered. Future To achieve our growth and profitability targets, we need political decisions may have a greater impact than currently qualified employees at all our locations, including technical assumed on the development of sales of our products for specialists. Due to the demographic change in some countries, systems used in conventional or renewable energy supply. An the competition for these and other highly skilled unexpectedly high commitment of some countries to expand professionals is increasing, and will intensify if economic nuclear power plant capacities would potentially have a recovery sets in. positive impact on our business. We counter this risk with demand-oriented measures, We expect the risk assessment to remain more or less systematic human resources planning and international unchanged for economic development, which is the greatest recruitment processes. influential factor for us. In this respect we expect initial impulses and therefore better opportunities for our project Changing market conditions can have a negative impact on business. Furthermore the European and American national the funded status of our pension obligations. We are debt crises also offer opportunities and risks for all Business currently looking at alternative models. Units. Where there is increasing pressure from competitors, M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 57 Opportunitie s and Risk s Re po rt this influences the profit quality for new orders, especially in RISK REPORT ON THE UTILISATION OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS the USA and countries in Southern Europe. Our customers Central financial management in the KSB Group performs its are also often affected by recessions and more intense duties within the framework of the guidelines laid down by competition, which can have a negative impact upon their the Board of Management. We base the nature and scope of ability to pay in individual cases. all financial transactions exclusively on the requirements of our business. The aim is to ensure liquidity at all times and to Weaker currencies in growth countries can threaten our finance our activities under optimal conditions. With respect exports, in particular those from our European plants. At the to our export business, we hedge foreign exchange and credit same time, there is an opportunity for our production risks to the greatest extent possible. We continuously improve facilities in the countries affected to benefit from such our receivables management methods with the goal of developments and to increase their export volumes. settling our outstanding amounts by their due dates. Cavitation testing and other test series in our research and development facilities enhance the reliability of our products and their market opportunities. 58 G r ou p ma nagement Report We are exposed to the following financial risks as a For more information on the three risk areas and the impact consequence of our business activities: on the balance sheet, see the Notes, section VI. Additional Disclosures on Financial Instruments. On the one hand, we are exposed to credit risk. We define credit risk as potential default or delays in the receipt of SUMMARY OF THE OPPORTUNITY AND RISK SITUATION contractually agreed payments. We are also exposed to The opportunities and risks for the KSB Group are mainly liquidity risk, which is the risk that an entity will be unable derived from macroeconomic influencing factors and their to meet its financial obligations, or will be unable to meet effects on the global mechanical engineering markets and the them in full. In addition, we are exposed to market price risk. competition. Exchange rate or interest rate changes may adversely affect the economic position of the Group. Risks from fluctuations Overall, we assume there will be moderate economic recovery in the prices of financial instruments are not material for us. over the next year. However, an economic slowdown in the growth markets as well as negative developments that could We use foreign exchange hedges to reduce the risks from result from the national debt crises in Europe and America transactions involving different currencies. These are present risks. New politico-economic consolidations and generally currency forwards, which we use both for uncertainties with regard to the future realignment in energy transactions that have already been recognised and for future policy can be a greater burden on the project business than cash flows from orders still to be processed. At year end, the expected. This would have a negative effect on our business notional volume of currency forwards used to hedge volumes as well as the planned earnings. exchange rate risks was € 211.9 million (previous year: € 196.5 million). Foreign currency items denominated in USD In this environment, the KSB Group continues to rely on its account for the major volume hedged by forwards. By ability to match capacities and resources to the changing strengthening our production sites worldwide, we can realise market conditions. natural currency hedging in currency markets that continue to be volatile. Considering all known issues and circumstances, no developments have as yet been identified that would threaten To minimise interest rate risks, we concluded interest rate the progress of the Group and the individual companies. swaps to hedge cash flows from underlyings amounting to € 70.7 million (previous year: € 75.1 million). Underlyings and hedge transactions share the same floating interest rates and maturities (2 to 4 years). We limit all these risks through an appropriate risk management system, defining how these risks are addressed through guidelines and work instructions. In addition, we monitor the current risk characteristics and continuously provide the information obtained in this way to the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board in the form of standardised reports and individual analyses. M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 59 Opportunitie s and Risk s Re po rt A cquisition-re la te d D isclos u re s ACQUISITION R E LAT E D DISCLOSU RES A summary of the acquisition-related disclosures required by Supervisory Board, excluding shareholders’ subscription section 315(4) of the HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch – German rights, if the shares are sold for cash and at a price that is not Commercial Code] is given below and explanatory materially lower than the market price for company shares of information is provided pursuant to sections 175(2) and the same type and with the same features at the time of the 176(1) of the AktG [Aktiengesetz – German Public sale. This authorisation is limited to the sale of shares which Companies Act]. Information is disclosed only to the extent overall represent no more than 10 % of the existing share that it applies to KSB AG. capital on the date on which such authorisation becomes effective or, if the amount is lower, the date this authorisation KSB AG’s share capital amounts to € 44.8 million, of which is used. The 10 % limit shall include the proportional amount € 22.7 million is represented by 886,615 no-par value for shares issued within the scope of a capital increase during ordinary shares and € 22.1 million by 864,712 no-par value the term of the authorisation excluding subscription rights or preference shares. Each no-par value share represents an for the maximum number of shares that can be issued for the equal notional amount of the share capital. All shares are purpose of servicing warrants and convertible bonds; (3) Sell bearer shares. They are listed for trading on the regulated the shares with the consent of the Supervisory Board, market and are traded in the General Standard segment of excluding shareholders’ subscription rights, to third parties the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. for the purpose of acquiring companies, parts thereof and/or financial interests in companies as well as within the scope of Each ordinary share entitles the holder to one vote at KSB corporate mergers or (4) Redeem the shares. KSB AG has not AG’s Annual General Meeting. Klein Pumpen GmbH, yet made use of this authorisation to purchase treasury Frankenthal, holds approximately 80 % of the ordinary shares. shares; the KSB Stiftung [KSB Foundation], Stuttgart, holds the majority of the shares of Klein Pumpen GmbH. The There are no resolutions by the Annual General Meeting preference shares carry separate cumulative preferred authorising the company’s Board of Management to increase dividend rights and progressive additional dividend rights. the share capital (authorised capital). Detailed information on the share capital and shareholders holding an interest of more than 10 % is provided in the KSB AG is managed by a Board of Management that, in Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Holders of accordance with its Articles of Association, must consist of at preference shares are entitled to voting rights only in the least two persons and in the year under review comprised cases prescribed by law. The issue of additional ordinary three persons. The Supervisory Board decides on the shares does not require the consent of the preference appointment and termination of the mandate of members of shareholders. Similarly, the issue of additional preference the Board of Management in accordance with the statutory shares does not require the consent of the preference provisions. shareholders provided that the subscription rights do not exclude newly issued senior or pari passu preference shares. Amendments to the company’s Articles of Association are resolved by the Annual General Meeting. If the amendments The company is authorised by a resolution passed at the only affect the wording of the Articles of Association, they Annual General Meeting on 19 May 2010 to purchase can be made by the Supervisory Board, which operates and is company shares totalling up to € 4,477,196 of the registered formed in accordance with the regulations of the German share capital by 18 May 2015. The Board of Management Co-determination Act. shall be entitled to: (1) Sell company shares purchased on the basis of this authorisation either on the stock exchange or by another means that safeguards the rule of equal treatment of all shareholders; (2) Sell the shares with the consent of the 60 G r ou p ma nagement Report CORPORAT E GOV E RNANCE REMU NERATION OF TH E BOARD OF STAT E M E NT ( Sec ti o n 2 8 9 a HGB) MANAGEMENT (REMU NERATION REPORT ) The updated Corporate Governance Statement pursuant to The Remuneration Report summarises the principles applied section 289a of the HGB will be made accessible to the when determining the remuneration arrangements for the public from 27 March 2014 at www.ksb.com > Investor Board of Management of KSB Aktiengesellschaft. It is Relations > Corporate Governance > Corporate Governance prepared in accordance with the recommendations of the Statement. German Corporate Governance Code (item 4.2.5) and explains the remuneration system in place for Board of In addition to the Corporate Governance Report (including Management members. This system is geared towards the Statement of Compliance in accordance with section 161 sustainable corporate development. It is adopted by the of the German Public Companies Act), the Corporate Supervisory Board plenary session based on the Governance Statement includes relevant information on recommendation of the Personnel Committee and reviewed corporate governance practices applied at KSB AG that go at regular intervals. The same applies to individual Board of beyond statutory requirements. Also described are the Management compensation amounts. working methods of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board, and the composition and working The remuneration arrangements for the Board of methods of the committees of the Supervisory Board. Management are structured as clearly and transparently as possible. The total amount of remuneration for the individual Board of Management members is determined based on various parameters. Criteria for assessing the appropriateness of the remuneration include the responsibilities of the individual Board of Management members, their personal performance, the economic situation, the company’s results and prospects as well as customary remuneration amounts when taking peer companies and the remuneration structure used elsewhere within the company into consideration. The remuneration of the Board of Management consists of fixed and variable components. Fixed components are ­granted regardless of performance and consist of a fixed sum plus benefits, as well as pension commitments (retirement, disability, widow’s or orphan’s pension). The fixed sum makes up 60 % of the maximum annual salary and is paid out as a monthly basic remuneration. All Board of Management members are equally entitled to the accompanying fringe benefits which include the private use of a company car, payment of insurance premiums and any payments ­associated with a post-contractual non-competition clause. No loans or advance payments were granted to members of the Board of Management in the year under review. To ensure the sustainability of the nature of the remuneration, the variable remuneration component consists mainly of components determined on the basis of a multi-year ­assessment. They are partly based (60 %) on the degree of M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 61 Corpora te Gove rna nce S tate m e n t Re mune ra tion of the Board o f Man age m e n t implementation of the corporate strategy and its actual work on the Board of Management were made in the amount ­market success, and partly (20 %) on the return on investof € 1,566 thousand (previous year: € 2,133 thousand). ment measured according to the “economic value added” € 30,103 thousand (previous year: € 30,270 thousand) has method based on a past average value over a medium-term been provided for pension obligations to former members of horizon. The remaining short-term share (20 %) is based on the Board of Management and their surviving dependants; the development of the net financial position in the respective total benefits paid to these persons amounted to € 1,699 financial year as compared with the planned development. thousand in the year under review (previous year: € 1,770 The total amount of the variable remuneration components is thousand). No stock options or other share-based payment limited in order to take extraordinary, unforeseen developarrangements are granted to members of the Board of ments into account. Management. The weighting factors above do not reflect the additional The short-term benefits (total remuneration) paid to members possibility of a bonus, to be paid out in individual cases at of the Supervisory Board amounted to € 1,219 thousand for the discretion of the Supervisory Board, of no more than the 2013 financial year (previous year: € 1,409 thousand). three monthly salary payments per financial year in Information on the structure of the remuneration recognition of any special performance of individual arrangements for the Supervisory Board is provided in the members of the Board of Management. Such decisions are Corporate Governance Statement pursuant to section 289a of only made on an irregular basis, meaning that they do not the HGB. The updated Statement will be made accessible to necessarily have to be made annually. the public from 27 March 2014 at www.ksb.com > Investor Relations > Corporate Governance > Corporate Governance Furthermore, when Board of Management contracts are Statement. concluded it is agreed that payments made to a Board of Management member in the event of his or her Board of Management tenure being terminated prematurely without good reason shall not exceed the value of two years’ remuneration including fringe benefits (settlement cap in accordance with item 4.2.3 of the German Corporate Governance Code). No other payments have been promised to any Board of Management members in the event of termination of service; similarly no compensation will be paid in the event of a takeover offer. If the employment contract is terminated for good reason for which the Board of Management Member is responsible, the company shall not make any severance payments. On 19 May 2010 – using a legally permissible option – the Annual General Meeting again resolved not to disclose the details of the compensation for individual members of the Board of Management for a period of five years. Overall, the short-term benefits (total remuneration) paid to the members of the Board of Management for their activities in the 2013 financial year amounted to € 1,890 thousand (previous year: € 2,620 thousand). Payments for benefits after termination of So cial resp onsibility A young person’s career prospects should not be determined by his or her social environment growing up. Through a specially tailored training programme, KSB is offering young people in ­Brazil with limited educational opportunities access to the world of employment. “Through our programme we are making a very targeted investment in vocational training for young people, so that, despite a difficult start in life, they can find their place in the modern-day working world.” Roque Zanatta Head of Operations Region Americas A KSB support programme gives young people in Brazil an insight into business and technology. F utur e o pport unit ie s t hrou g h t r a i n i n g Every morning Lucas Felippe dos Santos arrives punctually at the KSB site ready for his sixhour day. After two years of daily training he will have learned all the skills he needs to find a good job. Evening classes are also provided to help him catch up with any basic schooling. Forty young people like Lucas are being given the chance to make a success of their lives in this way, taking part in training schemes at one of four KSB Brazil sites. Most of them come from a social background that would otherwise offer little in the way of career prospects. Some live in the very poor favelas of Brazil. “We at KSB have been working with an association in Brazil for ten years now, giving young people from poorer families the chance of a better future,” explains Roque Zanatta, one of the people responsible for designing the 24-month programme. Lucas Felippe and his classmates are taught how to use a PC, learn manual crafts, work on improving their communication skills and attend classes in mathematics and sports. There is even time and space for a game of football during their lunch break. The young people also benefit from free travel, lunch and dental care, and are provided with baskets of basic foods. On completing the programme, some of the young people even progress to university. And it doesn’t stop with Lucas Felippe and his peers. KSB is also demonstrating its sense of social responsibility in other regions too. In Asia, the KSB CARE aid fund provides money to enable young people to attend school. In Germany, the Group is committed through the Wissensfabrik [Knowledge Factory] to educational projects in the field of natural science and technology in kindergartens and schools. 66 SISTO valve SISTO diaphragm valves are designed to be easy to clean, simple to automate and exceptionally robust. They are mainly used in the pharmaceutical sector, in process engineering and in water treatment processes. M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group m anagem ent Rep o rt C o n s o l idate d f in a n cia l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l I n f o rm atio n 67 C o n s o l idate d f in a n cia l S tate m e n ts Co nsolidated Fi n ancial Stat em ents 68 Balance Sheet 69 Statement of Comprehensive Income 70 Statement of Changes in Equity 72 Statement of Cash Flows 73 Notes 131 List of Shareholdings 135 Supervisory Board 136 Board of Management 137 Proposal on the Appropriation of the Net Retained Earnings of KSB AG 68 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements Bal ance S h e e t Asse t s (€ thousands) Notes 31 Dec. 2013 31 Dec. 2012* 1 Jan. 2012* Non-current assets Intangible assets 1 111,302 102,624 91,697 Property, plant and equipment 1 442,861 460,595 428,756 Non-current financial assets 1 10,432 38,820 40,073 Investments accounted for using the equity method 1 26,617 – – Deferred tax assets 2 39,633 39,750* 25,166* 630,845 641,789* 585,692* Current assets Inventories 3 423,848 457,208 425,056 Receivables and other current assets 4 644,144 687,960 658,394 Current financial instruments 5 – – 11 Cash and cash equivalents 5 451,438 401,031 305,707 Assets held for sale 1 1,185 – – 1,520,615 1,546,199 1,389,168 2,151,460 2,187,988* 1,974,860* E qui t y a n d l i a b i l i t i e s (€ thousands) Notes 31 Dec. 2013 31 Dec. 2012* 1 Jan. 2012* Equity 6 Subscribed capital 44,772 44,772 44,772 Capital reserve 66,663 66,663 66,663 Revenue reserves 618,819 596,495* 628,085* Equity attributable to shareholders of KSB AG 730,254 707,930* 739,520* Non-controlling interest 114,240 124,316* 114,093* 844,494 832,246* 853,613* Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 7 15,499 13,641* 32,047* Provisions for employee benefits 8 412,870 418,297* 301,443* Other provisions 8 15,402 17,205 17,409 Other liabilities 9 204,982 208,041 61,743 648,753 657,184* 412,642* Current liabilities Provisions for employee benefits 8 109,285 109,109* 111,908* Provisions for taxes 8 4,799 11,438 12,110 Other provisions 8 65,211 72,989 75,070 Tax liabilities 9 23,645 22,047 19,947 Other liabilities 9 455,273 482,975 489,570 658,213 698,558* 708,605* 2,151,460 2,187,988* 1,974,860* * Adjustment to reflect retroactive amendment to IAS 19 M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 69 B al an c e S h e e t S tate m e n t o f C o m pre h e n si v e I n c o m e S tat e m e n t o f C o m p r e h e n sive Inc ome INCOME S TATEMENT (€ thousands) Notes 2013 2012* Sales revenue 10 2,247,331 2,268,211 Changes in inventories – 24,931 23,871 Work performed and capitalised 1,530 1,755 Total output of operations 2,223,930 2,293,837 Other income 11 44,568 44,316 Cost of materials 12 – 892,304 – 985,171 Staff costs 13 – 787,552 – 758,285* Depreciation and amortisation expense 1 – 60,163 – 58,647 Other expenses 14 – 383,410 – 377,712 Other taxes – 12,573 – 11,260 132,496 147,078* Financial income 15 6,840 9,212 Financial expense 15 – 23,380 – 23,519 Income / expense from investments accounted for using the equity method 15 3,459 – – 13,081 – 14,307 Earnings before income taxes 119,415 132,771* Taxes on income 16 – 39,550 – 42,502* Earnings after income taxes 79,865 90,269* Attributable to: Non-controlling interest 17 14,183 15,649 Attributable to: Shareholders of KSB AG 65,682 74,620* Diluted and basic earnings per ordinary share (€) 19 37.38 42.48* Diluted and basic earnings per preference share (€) 19 37.64 42.74* S TATEMENT O F INCOME AND EXPENSE RECOGNISED in eq uity* * (€ thousands) Notes 2013 2012* Earnings after income taxes 79,865 90,269* Expense and income recognised directly in equity and not reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods 13,056 – 75,162* Actuarial gains / losses under IAS 19 8 18,991 – 107,193* Taxes on income – 5,935 32,031* Expense and income recognised directly in equity and reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods – 50,596 – 10,398 Currency translation differences – 53,452 – 13,891 Measurement of financial instruments 4,212 4,918 Taxes on income – 1,356 – 1,425 Other comprehensive income – 37,540 – 85,560* Total comprehensive income 42,325 4,709* Attributable to: Non-controlling interest 4,889 12,227* Attributable to: Shareholders of KSB AG 37,436 – 7,518* Also see the relevant explanations in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. * Adjustment to reflect retroactive amendment to IAS 19 ** Presentation adjusted to reflect first-time application of amended IAS 1 70 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements Stat e m e nt o f C h a n g e s i n E q u it y Subscribed capital Capital reserve (€ thousands) of KSB AG of KSB AG 1 Jan. 2012 44,772 66,663 Change in accounting policies in accordance with IAS 19 (Notes No. 8) – – 1 Jan. 2012 (adjusted) 44,772 66,663 Other comprehensive income – – Earnings after income taxes – – Total comprehensive income – – Dividends paid (Notes No. 6) – – Capital increases / decreases (Notes No. 6) – – Change in consolidated Group / Step acquisitions – – Other – – 31 Dec. 2012 (adjusted) 44,772 66,663 Subscribed capital Capital reserve (€ thousands) of KSB AG of KSB AG 1 Jan. 2013 44,772 66,663 Change in accounting policies in accordance with IAS 19 (Notes No. 8) – – 1 Jan. 2013 (adjusted) 44,772 66,663 Other comprehensive income – – Earnings after income taxes – – Total comprehensive income – – Dividends paid (Notes No. 6) – – Capital increases / decreases (Notes No. 6) – – Change in consolidated Group / Step acquisitions – – Other – – 31 Dec. 2013 44,772 66,663 Equity attributable to shareholders of Non-controlling Total Accumulated currency translation differences (€ thousands) KSB AG interest equity Balance at 1 Jan. 2012 – 25,554 – 17,089 – 42,643 Change in 2012 – 10,196 – 3,695 – 13,891 Balance at 31 Dec. 2012 / 1 Jan. 2013 – 35,750 – 20,784 – 56,534 Change in 2013 – 43,447 – 10,005 – 53,452 Balance at 31 Dec. 2013 – 79,197 – 30,789 – 109,986 M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 71 S tate m e n t o f C h an ge s i n Equ i ty Revenue reserves Equity Other Currency Measurement Actuarial attributable to revenue translation of financial gains / losses shareholders Non-controlling Total reserves differences instruments under IAS 19 of KSB AG interest equity 670,203 – 25,554 – 2,574 – 753,510 115,614 869,124 268 – – – 14,258 – 13,990 – 1,521 – 15,511 670,471 – 25,554 – 2,574 – 14,258 739,520 114,093 853,613 – – 10,196 3,250 – 75,192 – 82,138 – 3,422 – 85,560 74,620 – – – 74,620 15,649 90,269 74,620 – 10,196 3,250 – 75,192 – 7,518 12,227 4,709 – 21,240 – – – – 21,240 – 1,858 – 23,098 – – – – – – – – 2,567 – – – – 2,567 – 155 – 2,722 – 265 – – – – 265 9 – 256 721,019 – 35,750 676 – 89,450 707,930 124,316 832,246 Revenue reserves Equity Other Currency Measurement Actuarial attributable to revenue translation of financial gains / losses shareholders Non-controlling Total reserves differences instruments under IAS 19 of KSB AG interest equity 720,801 – 35,750 676 – 797,162 125,807 922,969 218 – – – 89,450 – 89,232 – 1,491 – 90,723 721,019 – 35,750 676 – 89,450 707,930 124,316 832,246 – – 43,330 2,785 12,299 – 28,246 – 9,294 – 37,540 65,682 – – – 65,682 14,183 79,865 65,682 – 43,330 2,785 12,299 37,436 4,889 42,325 – 21,240 – – – – 21,240 – 12,735 – 33,975 – – – – – – – 7,023 – 117 – – 119 6,787 – 2,497 4,290 – 659 – – – – 659 267 – 392 771,825 – 79,197 3,461 – 77,270 730,254 114,240 844,494 Also see the relevant explanations in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 72 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements Stat e m e nt o f C a s h F l ow s (€ thousands) 2013 2012* Earnings after income taxes 79,865 90,269* Depreciation and amortisation expense / Write-ups 60,291 59,141 Increase in non-current provisions 7,554 6,268* Loss on disposal of fixed assets – 834 – 2,010 Other non-cash expenses / income – 4,528 3,259 Cash flow 142,348 156,927* Decrease / Increase in inventories 8,168 – 27,435 Decrease / Increase in trade receivables and other assets 30,490 – 18,656* Decrease in current provisions – 11,541 – 6,537 Decrease in advances received from customers – 40,692 – 8,402 Increase / Decrease in liabilities (excluding financial liabilities) 6,575 – 1,832 Other non-cash expenses / income (operating) – – – 7,000 – 62,862* Cash flows from operating activities 135,348 94,065* Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 25 198 Payments to acquire intangible assets – 1,719 – 8,043 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 1,990 4,829 Payments to acquire property, plant and equipment – 53,954 – 80,232 Proceeds from disposal of non-current financial assets 80 18 Payments to acquire non-current financial assets – 3,972 – 9,788 Net cash flows from the acquisition and sale of consolidated companies and other business units – 3,161 – 6,408 Other non-cash expenses / income (investing) – – Cash flows from investing activities – 60,711 – 99,426 Proceeds from additions to equity / Payments related to capital decreases (Notes No. 6) – – Dividends paid for prior year (including non-controlling interest) (Notes No. 6) – 33,975 – 23,098 Net cash flows from financial liabilities 11,359 127,512 Payments resulting from financial receivables 286 – 1,555 Other non-cash expenses / income (financing) – – Cash flows from financing activities – 22,330 102,859 Net change in cash and cash equivalents 52,307 97,498 Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents – 5,039 – 2,828 Effects of changes in consolidated Group 3,139 654 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of reporting period 401,031 305,707 Cash and cash equivalents at end of reporting period 451,438 401,031 Thereof term deposits to hedge credit balances for partial retirement arrangements and long-term working hours accounts 17,962 14,800 * Adjustment to reflect retroactive amendment to IAS 19 See also Section VII. Statement of Cash Flows in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 73 S tate m e n t o f C ash F l o ws No te s N ot e s I. GENERAL INFORMATION ON THE GROUP KSB Aktiengesellschaft, Frankenthal / Pfalz, Germany (hereinafter referred to as KSB AG), is a public limited company [Aktiengesellschaft] under the law of the Federal Republic of Germany. The company is registered with the Handelsregister [Commercial Register] of the Amtsgericht [Local Court] Ludwigshafen am Rhein, registration No. HRB 21016, and has its ­registered office in Frankenthal / Pfalz, Germany. The KSB Group is a global supplier of high-quality pumps, valves and related systems and also provides a wide range of services to users of these products. The Group’s operations are divided into three segments: Pumps, Valves and Service. Basis of preparation of the consolidated financial statements The accompanying consolidated financial statements of KSB AG were prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European ­Union (EU) and the additional requirements of German commercial law under section 315a(1) of the HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch – German Commercial Code]. We applied the Framework, as well as all Standards and the Interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee in force at the reporting date. For the purposes of this document, the term IFRSs includes ­applicable International Accounting Standards (IASs). The consolidated financial statements of KSB AG therefore meet the requirements of IFRS. The consolidated financial statements were prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with IAS 1.25. They were prepared using the historical cost convention, with the exception of measurement at market value for available-for-sale financial assets and measurement at fair value through profit and loss for financial assets and liabilities (including derivatives). Our investments in associates are measured using the equity method. The financial year of the companies consolidated is the calendar year. The income statement has been prepared using the nature of expense method. All material items of the balance sheet and the income statement are presented separately and explained in these Notes. The main accounting policies used to prepare the consolidated financial statements are ­presented below. The policies described were applied consistently for the reporting periods presented unless stated otherwise. The consolidated financial statements and the group management report, as well as the annual financial statements and management report of the Group’s parent company, are submitted to and published in the Bundesanzeiger [German Federal Gazette]. 74 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements The accompanying consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Management on 14 March 2014 and are expected to be approved by the Supervisory Board on 25 March 2014. New accounting principles a) Accounting principles applied for the first time in financial year 2013 The following new and revised Standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) were required to be applied for the first time in financial year 2013: Publication in EU First-time appliIFRS announcement Adoption Official Journal cation in the EU IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements 16 June 2011 5 June 2012 1 July 2012 IAS 12 Income Taxes 20 Dec. 2010 29 Dec. 2012 1 Jan. 2013 IAS 19 Employee Benefits 16 June 2011 5 June 2012 1 Jan. 2013 IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards – Hyperinflation and Removal of Fixed Dates 20 Dec. 2010 29 Dec. 2012 1 Jan. 2013 IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards – Government Loans 13 Mar. 2012 4 Mar. 2013 1 Jan. 2013 IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures 16 Dec. 2011 13 Dec. 2012 1 Jan. 2013 IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement 12 May 2011 11. Dec. 2012 1 Jan. 2013 Improvements to the International Financial Reporting Standards (2009 to 2011) 17 May 2012 27 Mar. 2013 1 Jan. 2013 IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine 19 Oct. 2011 11 Dec. 2012 1 Jan. 2013 The amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements requires a breakdown in other comprehensive income into items that in subsequent periods are reclassified in the ­income statement (recycled to profit or loss) and those that are not reclassified. In addition, the related tax effects for these two categories are to be presented separately. As far as the KSB Group is concerned, the only impact is on the presentation of the statement of comprehensive income.  The revised version of IAS 19 Employee Benefits includes new provisions on the recognition, measurement and presentation of the cost of defined benefit pension plans and of benefits relating to the termination of employment (top-up amounts relating to partial retirement schemes are recorded on a pro rata basis as “Other long-term employee benefits” over their term and are no longer carried as liabilities in their full amount as “termination benefits” upon the signing of the contract). The expected return on plan assets may no longer be applied as interest rate. Instead, the discount rate applied to the liability is used (net interest M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 75 No te s method). As a result of the elimination of the corridor method, actuarial gains and losses (experience adjustments and impact of changes to actuarial and demographic ­assumptions) are now immediately recognised directly in equity in other comprehensive ­income, taking into account the relevant tax effect. In accordance with the transitional pro­visions, the firsttime application of the revised IAS 19 is retroactive. Thus, the prior-­period figures presented have been calculated as though the new regulations had already been applied last year. Actuarial gains and losses which to date have been accounted for outside the balance sheet in line with the corridor method have been adjusted within equity as at 31 December 2012 by direct recognition of € 91 million, with € 11 million in deferred tax assets and € 28 million in deferred tax liabilities being taken into account. The effects on provisions as at 31 December 2012 amounted to € 130 million. The impact in the income statement of past service cost is insignificant. This similarly applies to the individual effects resulting from the new accounting rules on top-up amounts in conjunction with partial retirement schemes. The provisions of IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of IFRS relate to serious hyperinflation and the removal of fixed dates for first-time adopters of IFRS, as well as to government loans. These are not relevant to the KSB Group. Similarly, the changes to IAS 12 Income Taxes concerning the measurement of deferred taxes for investment properties are not relevant. The amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures cover extended disclosure requirements for the offsetting of recognised financial assets and liabilities pursuant to IAS 32.42. This has no impact on KSB’s consolidated financial statements. IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement to be applied prospectively as from 1 January 2013 provides a single framework across standards for measuring fair value, and requires additional disclosures in the Notes. Fair value is the price that independent market participants would, under standard market conditions, receive when selling an asset or pay when transferring a liability at the measurement date. The first-time application did not result in any material deviations when measuring fair values.  IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine relates exclusively to costs incurred for the removal of mine tailings and waste in the production phase of a mine and is of no relevance to the KSB Group. 76 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements b) Accounting principles that have been published but that are not yet mandatory The following new Interpretations, Standards and revised Standards were not yet mandatory and were not applied in the 2013 financial year: Publication in EU First-time appliIFRS announcement Adoption Official Journal cation in the EU Application in financial year 2014 IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 12 May 2011 11 Dec. 2012 1 Jan. 2014 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 12 May 2011 11 Dec. 2012 1 Jan. 2014 IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 12 May 2011 11 Dec. 2012 1 Jan. 2014 IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements 12 May 2011 11 Dec. 2012 1 Jan. 2014 IAS 28 Associates and Joint Ventures 12 May 2011 11 Dec. 2012 1 Jan. 2014 IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation 16 Dec. 2011 13 Dec. 2012 1 Jan. 2014 IAS 36 Impairment of Assets 29 May 2013 20 Dec. 2013 1 Jan. 2014 IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement 27 June 2013 20 Dec. 2013 1 Jan. 2014 Transition guidance (Changes to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12) 28 June 2012 4 Apr. 2013 1 Jan. 2014 Investment companies (Changes to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27) 31 Oct. 2012 20 Nov. 2013 1 Jan. 2014  IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements replaces the guidelines in IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements on control and consolidation, and changes the definition of “control” to the extent that the same criteria are applied to all companies for the purposes of determining whether a control relationship exists or not. Control requires exposure to variable returns and the ability to affect these returns through power over an investee.  IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements affects companies involved in joint ventures or joint operations and supersedes IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures. The previously permitted pro rata consolidation method may no longer be used for joint ventures, which must now exclusively be accounted for in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method.  IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities pools all of the required disclosures in the Notes in relation to subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associate companies, and also nonconsolidated structured companies, in one single standard. The disclosure requirements previously set out in IAS 27, 28 and 31 have thus been replaced and additional disclosure requirements have been added. Consequently, we expect the application of IFRS 12 to result in more comprehensive disclosures in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 77 No te s The addition to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation clarifies the conditions for the offsetting of financial assets and liabilities in the balance sheet. The aim of the amendment to IAS 36 Impairment of Assets is to eliminate the undesired consequences with regard to disclosure obligations resulting from the introduction of IFRS 13. The amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement means that, subject to certain conditions, hedge accounting may be continued in cases where derivatives designated as hedging instruments have been transferred to a central clearing agent to comply with statutory provisions or regulatory rules. The changes to IFRS 10 and 11 and to IAS 27, 28, 32, 36 and 39 are not expected to have any (material) effect on the KSB Group’s net assets, financial position and results of operations or on its disclosures in the Notes. Expected First-time appliIFRS announcement Adoption publication in EU cation in the EU Application likely in financial year 2014 or later 2 Nov. 2009 / IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 16 Dec. 2011 Open Open IAS 19 Employee Benefits 21 Nov. 2013 Q3/2014 1 July 2014 Improvements to the International Financial Reporting Standards (2010 to 2012) 12 Dec. 2013 Q3/2014 1 July 2014 Improvements to the International Financial Reporting Standards (2011 to 2013) 12 Dec. 2013 Q3/2014 1 July 2014 IFRIC 21 Levies 20 May 2013 Q2/2014 1 Jan. 2014 I FRS 9 Financial Instruments sets out the classification and measurement requirements for financial assets and liabilities. The new provisions have not yet been incorporated into European law. The impact on the KSB Group is being reviewed. The other new or amended IFRS standards in the above list are not relevant or have no material relevance to the KSB Group based on a current assessment of the situation. As a matter of principle, we have not voluntarily applied the above-mentioned new or revised Standards and Interpretations prior to their effective dates. 78 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements II. BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION Consolidated Group In addition to KSB AG, 10 German and 83 foreign companies (previous year: 10 German and 75 foreign companies) were fully consolidated. We hold a majority interest in the voting ­power of these subsidiaries, either directly or indirectly. The Thai company KSB Pumps Co. Ltd., Bangkok, and the Indian company KSB Pumps Limited, Pimpri (Pune) are included in the group of fully consolidated affiliates despite the fact that we hold less than 50 % of the voting rights. We do, however, have the power to appoint the majority of the members of these companies’ management and/or to govern their financial and operating policies (de-­ facto control). The following affiliates were fully consolidated in our consolidated financial statements for the first time with effect from 1 January 2013: K SB, Bombas e Válvulas, SA, Albarraque, Portugal K SB Service EITB-SITELEC S.A.S., Montfavet, France Metis Levage S.A.S., Villefranche sur Saône, France K SB SERVICE ETC S.A.S., Chalon-sur-Saône, France K SB SERVICE MEDIATEC S.A.S., Chalon-sur-Saône, France Société de travaux et Ingénierie Industrielle (ST II), Déville lès Rouen, France M D Invest, Déville lès Rouen, France V RS Industries SA, Feluy, Belgium K SB Tech Pvt. Ltd., Pimpri (Pune), India These affiliates that were consolidated for the first time were acquired or established in previous years. They contributed around € 2.6 million to earnings after income taxes and in addition had the following impact on the consolidated financial statements: (€ thousands) 2013 Non-current assets 8,384 Current assets 13,058 Assets 21,442 Equity 7,067 Non-current liabilities 990 Current liabilities 13,385 Equity and liabilities 21,442 M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 79 No te s The following associate companies were included in the consolidated financial statements for the first time with effect from 1 January 2013 and were accounted for using the equity method:  Nikkiso-KSB GmbH, Bruchköbel, Germany  KSB Atlantic Pump & Valve Service S.L., Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, Spain  KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd., Riyadh, Saudi Arabia  KSB Service LLC, Abu Dhabi, U.A.E.  Motori Sommersi Riavvolgibili S.r.l., Cedegolo, Italy  Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China  WM Teknikk AS, Ski, Norway Associate companies are accounted for using the equity method. Companies are classed as ­associates if the Group is capable of exerting a significant influence through its involvement in the company’s financial and operating policies but does not have control. A significant ­influence is generally deemed to exist if the Group holds between 20 % and 50 % of the voting rights. Furthermore, both in Finland and in France a relatively small company that had not previously been consolidated was merged with a company included in the group of consolidated companies, and two companies in France that were already consolidated were merged with one another. A full list of the shareholdings held by the KSB Group is provided at the end of these Notes. Consolidation methods For the purposes of consolidation, the effects of any intercompany transactions are elimi­nated in full. Any receivables and liabilities between the consolidated companies are offset against each other, and any unrealised gains and losses recognised in fixed assets and in­ventories are eliminated. Any revenues from intercompany sales are offset against the corresponding expenses. Capital consolidation uses the purchase method of accounting, under which the acquisition cost of the parent’s shares in the subsidiaries is eliminated against the equity attributable to the parent at the date of acquisition. Any goodwill arising from initial consolidation is accounted for in accordance with IFRS 3 in conjunction with IASs 36 and 38. It is measured at the relevant current closing rate, presented in intangible assets and tested for impairment at least once a year. An impairment loss is recognised if any impairment is identified. Any excess of our interest in the fair values of net assets acquired over cost remaining after reassessment is recognised in profit or loss. Those shares of subsidiaries’ equity not attributable to KSB AG are reported as non-controlling interest. 80 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements The financial statements of all material companies or those required to be audited under local law have been audited by auditors. This audit also extended to the correct reconciliation of the financial statements prepared under local GAAP to the uniform Group IFRS accounting policies. Currency translation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in euros (€). Amounts in this report are presented in thousands of euros (€ thousands) using standard commercial rounding rules. Currency translation is effected on the basis of the functional currency of the consolidated companies. As in the previous year, the functional currency is exclusively the local currency of the company consolidated, as it operates as a financially, economically and organisationally independent entity. Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the individual companies at the rate prevailing when the transaction is initially recognised. Monetary assets and liabilities are subsequently measured at the closing rate. Currency translation gains and losses are ­recognised in profit or loss. When translating financial statements of consolidated companies that are not prepared in euro, assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate; the income statement accounts are translated at average exchange rates. The resulting effects are reported within equity. Gains and losses from the translation of items of assets and liabilities compared with their translation in the previous year are taken directly to equity. The exchange rates of our most important currencies to one euro are: Closing rate Average rate 31 Dec. 2013 31 Dec. 2012 2013 2012 US dollar 1.3791 1.3194 1.3281 1.2857 Brazilian real 3.2576 2.7036 2.8670 2.5099 Indian rupee 85.3660 72.5600 77.8711 68.6370 Chinese yuan 8.3491 8.2207 8.1655 8.1099 III. ACCOUNTING POLICIES Acquisition cost In addition to the purchase price, acquisition cost includes attributable incidental costs (except for costs associated with the acquisition of a company) and subsequent expenditure. Purchase price reductions are deducted from cost. Should borrowing costs pursuant to IAS 23 arise, these will be capitalised from 2009 onwards. As in the previous year, no borrowing costs were incurred in the financial year. M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 81 No te s Production cost In addition to direct material and labour costs, production cost includes production-related administrative expenses. General administrative expenses and selling expenses are not capitalised. Should borrowing costs pursuant to IAS 23 arise, these will be capitalised from 2009 onwards. As in the previous year, no borrowing costs were incurred in the financial year. Fair value Fair value is the price that independent market participants would, under standard market conditions, receive when selling an asset or pay when transferring a liability at the measurement date. This applies irrespectively of whether the price is directly observable or has been estimated using a measurement method. For the purposes of calculating value, we make use wherever possible of estimates from market participants or estimates derived from these. In the absence of any market estimates, we make use of experience-based assumptions of Management. In a first step we review the extent to which there are current prices on active markets for identical transactions. If no quoted market prices are available, our preference is to use market price-oriented processes (deriving the fair value from the market or transaction prices of comparable assets, for example multipliers) or capital value-based processes (calculation of fair value as a future value by discounting future cash surpluses). Based upon the input factors used in the measurement methods, fair values are assigned to different levels of the fair value hierarchy. Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) on active markets for identical assets and liabilities. Level 2: Measurement parameters that are not the quoted prices taken into account for level 1, but that are observable for the asset or the liability either directly as a price or indirectly derived from prices. Level 3: Measurement parameters for assets or liabilities that are not based on observable market data. If input factors categorised into different levels are included in the fair value measurement, the measurement must be categorised in its entirety in the level of the lowest level input factor that is significant to the entire measurement. We record reclassifications between different levels in the fair value hierarchy at the end of the reporting period during which the change has occurred. There were no reclassifications carried out in the year under review. 82 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements Financial instruments A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to both a financial asset of one enterprise and a financial liability or equity instrument of another enterprise. Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the consolidated balance sheet at the time when KSB becomes a party to a financial instrument. When the contractual right to payments from financial assets expires, these are derecognised. Financial liabilities are derecognised at the time when the contractual obligations are settled or cancelled or have expired. Regular way purchases and sales of financial instruments are recognised at their value at the settlement date; only derivatives are recognised at their value at the trade date. This applies to so-called primary financial instruments such as trade receivables and monetary receivables, as well as to trade payables and financial liabilities (from or to third parties as well as affiliates and equity investments). a) Primary financial instruments Within the KBS Group, primary financial instruments are allocated to the following categories as financial assets or liabilities: Loans and receivables (LaR) Loans and financial assets not quoted in an active market Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (FLAC) Liabilities that are not quoted in an active market, such as trade payables Available-for-sale (AfS) financial assets Non-derivative financial instruments that are not allocated to any other measurement category, such as investments in non-consolidated affiliates or securities None of our financial instruments are classified as “held-to-maturity investments”. Financial instruments are measured at fair value on initial recognition. Subsequent measurement is generally based on fair value. Subsequent measurement of loans and receivables is based on amortised cost using the effective interest method. We do not currently make use of the fair value option. The fair values of the current and non-current financial instruments are based on prices quoted in active markets on the reporting date. Changes in the fair value of “available-for-sale financial instruments” are recognised directly in equity. They are recognised in profit or loss when the assets are sold or deemed to be other-­ than-temporarily impaired. M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 83 No te s As in the previous year, we did not make any reclassifications between the individual measurement categories. b) Derivative financial instruments Within the KBS Group, derivative financial instruments are allocated to the following categories as financial assets or liabilities: Financial assets held for trading (FAHfT) – Financial assets held for trading and measured at fair value through profit or loss (derivatives not included in hedging relationships) Financial liabilities held for trading (FLHfT) – Financial liabilities held for trading and measured at fair value through profit or loss (derivatives not included in hedging relationships) We only use derivatives for hedging purposes. We hedge both existing recognised underlyings (fair value hedges) and future cash flows (cash flow hedges) against foreign currency and interest rate risks. The hedging instruments used are exclusively highly effective currency forwards, currency options and interest rate derivatives entered into with prime-rated banks. We hedge currency risks primarily for items in US dollars (USD). Interest rate risks are minimised through long-term borrowings at floating rates of interest. Group guidelines govern the use of these instruments. These transactions are also subject to continuous risk monitoring. In the case of cash flow hedges, changes in the fair value of currency derivatives are taken ­directly to equity until the related hedged item is recognised. Fair value changes of interest rate derivatives used to hedge against interest rate risks in liabilities are recognised directly in equity. The carrying amounts equal fair value and are determined on the basis of input factors observable either directly (as a price) or indirectly (derived from prices). Fair values may be posi­tive or negative. Fair value is the amount that we would receive or have to pay at the reporting date to settle the financial instrument. This amount is determined using the relevant exchange rates, interest rates and counterparty credit ratings at the reporting date. All our information is obtained from recognised external sources. Derivatives are reported under other receivables and other current assets, and under miscellaneous other liabilities. The maturities of the currency derivatives used are mostly between one and two years, and those of interest rate derivatives are between three and ten years. The maturities of the hedging instruments are matched to the period in which the forecasted transactions are expected to occur. In the year under review, almost all hedged forecasted transactions occurred as expected. 84 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements Intangible assets Intangible assets are generally carried at (acquisition or production) cost and reduced by straight-line amortisation. The underlying useful lives are two to five years. An impairment loss is recognised if the recoverable amount – the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use – is lower than the carrying amount. If the reasons for an impairment loss in a previous period no longer apply, it is reversed (write-up) up to a maximum of amortised cost. If the recoverable amount is calculated as the fair value less costs to sell, the costs to sell are set at a maximum of 2 % of the fair value. For the purposes of calculating value, we make use wherever possible of estimates from market participants (Level 1) or estimates derived from these (Level 2). In the absence of any market estimates, we make use of experiencebased ­assumptions of the management (Level 3). In a first step we review the extent to which there are current prices on active markets for identical transactions. If no quoted market prices are available, our preference is to use market price-oriented processes (deriving the fair value from the market or transaction prices of comparable assets, for example multipliers) or capital value-based processes (calculation of fair value as a future value by discounting future cash surpluses). We amortised goodwill originating between 1 January 1995 and 30 March 2004 over a maximum of 15 years. In accordance with IFRS 3, the resulting cumulative amortisation was eliminated against historical cost with effect from 1 January 2005. Goodwill has been tested for impairment at least once a year since 2005; it is not amortised any longer. A review is also conducted as soon as circumstances or events occur that indicate the carrying amount cannot be recovered. The impairment test relates to the “cash-generating units”, which at KSB are the legal entities. Occasionally a group of cash-generating units may also serve as the basis, provided these units reflect the lowest level on which we monitor goodwill. If the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying amount, the goodwill must be reduced by the difference in value (reported in the income statement as a component of the write-downs on intangible assets and property, plant and equipment). Reversal of an impairment loss from an earlier period is not possible. Goodwill originating up to and including 1994 has been deducted from revenue reserves. Any excess of our interest in the fair values of net assets acquired over cost originating until 30 March 2004 was eliminated against revenue reserves directly in equity. Any excess of our interest in the fair values of net assets acquired over cost arising after 30 March 2004 is, after reassessment, immediately recognised in profit or loss. M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 85 No te s When acquiring companies we apply purchase price allocations and determine the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired. In addition to the assets and liabilities already recognised by the selling party, we also assess marketing-related aspects (primarily brands or trademarks and competitive restrictions), customer-related aspects (primarily customer lists, customer relations and orders on hand), contract-related aspects (mainly particularly advantageous service, work, purchasing and employment contracts) as well as technology-related aspects (primarily patents, know-how and databases). To determine values we primarily apply the residual value method, the excess earnings method and cost-oriented procedures. Development costs are capitalised as internally generated intangible assets at cost and reduced by straight-line amortisation where the criteria described in IAS 38 are met. Research costs are expensed as incurred. Where research and development costs cannot be reliably distinguished within a project, no costs are capitalised. Property, plant and equipment In accordance with IAS 16, property, plant and equipment is carried at cost and reduced by straight-line depreciation. No tax-motivated depreciation is recognised. Write-downs are charged for impairment if the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying amount. If the reasons for an impairment loss charged in a previous period no longer apply, the impairment loss is reversed (write-up) up to a maximum of amortised cost. Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are transferred to an adjustment item on the liabilities side. This adjustment item is reversed over a defined utilisation period. As far as government grants recognised which are to be held for specific periods of time are concerned, we expect that these periods will be complied with. Maintenance expenses are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred, unless they lead to the expansion or material improvement of the asset concerned. The following useful lives are applied: USEFUL LIVE S OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Buildings 10 to 50 years Plant and machinery 5 to 25 years Other equipment, operating and office equipment 3 to 25 years 86 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements Leases IAS 17 defines a lease as an arrangement under which a lessor provides a lessee with the right to use an asset for an agreed period of time in exchange for a payment. A lease is classified as a finance lease if it transfers substantially all the risks and rewards incident to ownership to the lessee. Otherwise, such transactions are classified as operating leases. Lease payments that are payable under operating leases are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred. In the case of finance leases, the leased asset is recognised at the time of inception of the lease at the lower of fair value and the present value of future minimum lease payments. A liability is recognised in the same amount for the future lease payment. The asset’s carrying amount is reduced by depreciation over its useful life or the shorter lease term. Non-current financial assets Equity investments are carried at fair value. Non-current financial assets are measured at cost if their fair value cannot be reliably determined because they are not traded in an active market. Interest-bearing loans are recognised at amortised cost. Investments accounted for using the equity method are companies with regard to which there is the possibility of exerting a significant influence on business or financial policy. This typically applies when KSB holds a share of between 20 and 50 % of the voting rights. These assets are recognised at cost at the time of acquisition. If the share of the net assets exceeds these costs of acquisition, adjustments are made on the basis of the fair value (pro rata hidden reserves and liabilities). The remaining amount is recorded as goodwill. It forms part of the carrying amount of the associate and is not amortised. For subsequent measurement, the carrying amounts are increased / reduced annually by the pro-rata earnings, distributed dividends or other changes in equity of the associate. Where necessary, we make adjustments to the IFRS standards used. The share of profits is reported in the consolidated income statement in a separate line (income from investments accounted for using the equity method), with changes such as currency translation effects being taken directly to Group equity. If the losses correspond to the company’s carrying amount, no further loss is realised. Intercompany gains and losses from transactions between Group companies and investments accounted for using the equity method are offset against the carrying amount in profit or loss. At each reporting date we review whether there are any objective indications of impairment, and calculate the amount of such impairment if required. If the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount of an investment, it is written down to the recoverable amount. Any impairments or reversals of impairments are reported in the consolidated income statement under income from investments accounted for using the equity method. M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 87 No te s Inventories Pursuant to IAS 2, inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is measured using the weighted average method. Write-downs to the net realisable value take account of the inventory risks resulting from slow-moving goods or impaired marketability. This also applies if the selling price is lower than production cost plus costs still to be incurred. If the reasons for an impairment loss charged in a previous period no longer apply, the impairment loss is reversed (write-up). Advance payments made on inventories are also presented here because of the correlation and expected realisation of these advances (through conversion into inventories) within the normal business cycle. Advances received from customers are recognised as current liabilities. Construction contracts under IAS 11 The percentage of completion (PoC) method is applied to construction contracts defined under IAS 11. According to this method, a production order is a contract for the customerspecific production of individual items or a number of items that, in terms of their design, technology and function or with regard to their use, are linked to one another or dependent on each other. If the earnings from a production order can be reliably estimated, we recognise the revenue based on the percentage of completion method. The stage of completion of contracts is determined on the basis of the proportion that contract costs (excluding indirect material costs) incurred for work performed up to the reporting date bear to the estimated total contract costs (excluding indirect material costs) at the reporting date. Contract revenue consists of all contractually agreed revenues, as well as additional claims and incentive payments that are likely to result in revenue and are capable of being reliably measured. Contract revenue may vary from one period to the next, for instance because of cost escalation clauses, variations or penalties. It is measured at the fair value received or receivable. If the earnings from a production order cannot be reliably estimated, revenue will only be recognised in the amount of the contract costs incurred that are likely to be covered and the contract costs recognised as an expense for the period in which they are incurred. The percentage contract revenue less the related advances received from customers is reported – depending on the balance – in receivables and other current assets or in current liabilities. Effects in the period are recognised in the income statement as part of sales revenue. The gross amount due to customers for contract work is included in other provisions. Receivables and other current assets Receivables and other current assets are subsequently carried at amortised cost. Low-interest or non-interest-bearing receivables are discounted. In addition, we take account of identifiable risks by charging specific write-downs and experience-based write-downs using allowance accounts. If the reasons for an impairment loss charged in a previous period no longer apply, the impairment loss is reversed (write-up). 88 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements We hedge part of the credit risk exposure of our receivables (further explanations are provided in the Financial Risks – Credit Risk section). The prepaid expenses reported relate to accrued expenditure prior to the reporting date that will only be classified as an expense after the reporting date. Current financial instruments Financial instruments are carried at their fair values at the reporting date. Cash and cash equivalents Cash (cash and sight deposits) and cash equivalents (short-term, highly liquid financial investments that are readily convertible to defined amounts of cash, and that are subject to only immaterial fluctuations in terms of their value) are recognised at amortised cost. Assets held for sale Pursuant to IFRS 5, a non-current asset is classified as held for sale if its carrying amount will be realised primarily by a sales transaction and not through continued use of that asset. Assets held for sale are no longer written down but are recognised at the lower of the carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. If the fair value less costs to sell subsequently increases, the value is written up again. The amount of this write-up is limited to the previous write-down in value. Assets held for sale are presented separately in the balance sheet. Deferred taxes We account for deferred taxes in accordance with IAS 12 using the balance sheet liability method on the basis of the enacted or substantively enacted local tax rates. This means that deferred tax assets and liabilities generally arise when the tax base of assets and liabilities differs from their carrying amount in the IFRS financial statements, and this leads to future tax expense or income. We also recognise deferred tax assets from tax loss carryforwards in those cases where it is more likely than not that there will be sufficient taxable profit available in the near future against which these tax loss carryforwards can be utilised. Deferred taxes are also recognised for consolidation adjustments. Deferred taxes are not discounted. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are always offset where they relate to the same tax authority. Changes to deferred taxes in the consolidated balance sheet generally result in deferred tax expense or income. If, however, a direct entry is made in equity, the change in deferred taxes is also included in equity. Provisions a) Provisions for pensions and similar obligations Provisions for pensions and similar obligations pursuant to IAS 19 are calculated on the basis of actuarial reports. They are based on defined benefit pension plans. The reports are prepared using the projected unit credit method. M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 89 No te s Actuarial gains and losses are taken directly to equity. The actuarial demographic assumptions and the definition of compensation and pension trends, as well as of the discount rate (based on senior, fixed-income bonds), are best estimates. The past service cost for pensions and similar commitments is expensed within the operating income /expense. The interest portion of pension costs is included as interest expense in financial income /expense in the consolidated income statement. KSB companies that use a defined contribution pension plan do not recognise provisions. The premium payments are recognised directly in the income statement as pension costs in the staff costs. Other than an obligation to pay premiums, these companies have no further obligations. Consequently, the insurance risk remains with the insured parties. b) Other provisions Provisions are recognised if a past event results in a present legal or constructive external obligation that the company has no realistic alternative to settling, where settlement of this obligation is expected to result in an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits, and the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably. The amount of the provision corresponds to the best estimate of the settlement amount of the current obligation on the reporting date. Any recourse or reimbursement claims are recognised separately and are not deducted from the provisions concerned. Provisions for restructurings are recognised only if the criteria set out in IAS 37 are met. Non-current provisions are discounted if the effects are material. Liabilities Liabilities classified as financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (FLAC) are recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Contingent liabilities (contingencies and commitments) Contingent liabilities, which are not recognised, are possible obligations that arise from past events and whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of uncertain future events. Contingent liabilities may also be present obligations that arise from past events where it is possible but not probable that there will be an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits. Contingent liabilities correspond to the extent of liability at the reporting date. Income and expenses Sales revenue consists of charges for deliveries and services billed to customers, and licence income. Sales allowances reduce sales revenue. Sales revenue is recognised pursuant to IAS 18 90 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements when the deliveries have been effected or the services have been rendered and the significant risks of ownership have thus been transferred to the buyer. Sales revenue from services is recognised as soon as the service has been performed. No sales revenue is recognised if there are material risks with regard to receipt of the consideration or if it is possible that the goods will be returned. The proportionate realisation of revenue resulting from application of the percentage of completion method in accordance with IAS 11 is also recognised in the sales revenue. Expenses are recognised when they are incurred or when the services are utilised. Estimates and assumptions The preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with the IFRSs as adopted by the EU requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the accounting policies to be applied. When implementing such accounting policies, estimates and assumptions affect the assets, liabilities, income and expenses recognised in the consolidated financial statements, and their presentation. These estimates and assumptions are based on past experience and a variety of other factors deemed appropriate under the circumstances. Actual amounts may differ from these estimates and assumptions. We continuously review the estimates and assumptions that we apply. If more recent information and additional knowledge are available, recognised amounts are adjusted to reflect the new circumstances. Any changes in estimates and assumptions that result in material differences are explained separately. Impairment tests for goodwill which are conducted at least once per year, require an estimate of the recoverable amounts for each cash-generating unit. These correspond to the higher amount from the fair value less costs to sell and value in use. The earnings forecast on the basis of these estimates are affected by various factors, which may include exchange rate fluctuations, progress in Group integration or the expectations for the economic development of these units. Although management believes that the assumptions used to calculate the recoverable amount are appropriate, any unforeseen changes in these assumptions could lead to an impairment loss. Estimates and assumptions must also be made to review the value of assets. For each asset it must be verified to what extent there are indications of an impairment. When determining the recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment, the decision on the relevant useful life may, for example, be subject to uncertainties. The measurement of doubtful receivables is based on forecasts about the creditworthiness of customers. A material change in the assumptions or circumstances can lead in future to additional impairment losses or reversals. M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 91 No te s For Construction contracts with clients in the project business we recognise sales revenue according to the percentage of completion method. This requires estimates regarding the total contract costs and revenue, contract risks as well as other relevant factors. These estimates are reviewed regularly by the business units with operative responsibility and adjusted where necessary. Provisions for employee benefits, especially pensions and similar obligations, are determined according to actuarial principles which are based on statistical and other factors so as to anticipate future events. Main factors are the reported market discount rates, salary and pension trends as well as life expectancy. The actuarial assumptions made may differ from actual developments as a result of changing market and economic conditions, and this can have material effects on the amount of provisions and thus on the company’s overall net assets, financial position and results of operations. Other provisions are reported based on the best possible estimate of the probability of future outflows. The later, actual outflow can, however, deviate from the estimate as a result of changed economic, political or legal conditions. This will be reflected in Additional expenses or Income from reversals. The global scope of our activities must be taken into account in relation to Taxes on income. Based on our operative activities in numerous countries with varying tax laws and administrative interpretation, differentiated assessment is required for determining our tax obligations. Uncertainty may arise due to different interpretations by taxable entities on the one hand and local finance authorities on the other. Although we believe we have made a reason­able estimate regarding any tax uncertainties, it is possible that the actual tax obligation will differ from our original estimate. With regard to future tax benefits, we assess their realisability as of every reporting date. For this reason, we only recognise deferred tax assets if sufficient taxable income is available in future. In assessing this future taxable income it must be taken into account that expected future business developments are subject to uncertainties and are in some cases excluded from control by company management (for example changes to applicable tax legislation). If we come to the conclusion that previously reported deferred tax assets cannot be realised because of changed assumptions, then the assets will be written down by the appropriate amount. Maturities Maturities of up to one year are classified as current. Assets that can only be realised after more than 12 months, as well as liabilities that only become due after more than 12 months, are also classified as current if they are attributable to the operating cycle defined in IAS 1. Assets and liabilities not classified as current are non-current. 92 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements IV. BALANCE SHEET DISCLOSURES 1 Fixed assets STATEMENT OF CHANGE S IN INTANGIBLE ASSETS Concessions, industrial property and similar rights and assets, as well as licences in such rights Intangible assets (€ thousands) and assets Goodwill Advance payments Total Historical cost 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Balance at 1 January 58,658 52,014 89,287 79,977 1,187 1,035 149,132 133,026 Changes in consolidated Group 19 222 12,677 6,528 – – 12,696 6,750 Currency translation adjustments – 1,938 – 410 – 1,645 1,403 – – – 3,583 993 Other 47 – 31 – – – – 47 – 31 Additions 1,583 7,328 13 – 2,636 649 4,232 7,977 Additions from business combinations – 479 – 1,379 – – – 1,858 Disposals 3,467 1,438 547 – – – 4,014 1,438 Reclassifications 1,144 494 – – – 1,090 – 497 54 –3 Balance at 31 December 56,046 58,658 99,785 89,287 2,733 1,187 158,564 149,132 Accumulated depreciation and amortisation 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Balance at 1 January 42,635 37,794 3,873 3,535 – – 46,508 41,329 Currency translation adjustments – 727 – 107 –7 – – – – 734 – 107 Other 23 – – – – – 23 – Additions 5,300 6,188 154 338 – – 5,454 6,526 Disposals 3,442 1,240 547 – – – 3,989 1,240 Reclassifications – – – – – – – – Balance at 31 December 43,789 42,635 3,473 3,873 – – 47,262 46,508 Carrying amount at 31 December 12,257 16,023 96,312 85,414 2,733 1,187 111,302 102,624 As in the previous year, we did not capitalise any development costs in the year under review ­because not all of the comprehensive recognition criteria defined in IAS 38 were met. The item “Concessions, industrial property and similar rights and assets, as well as licences in such rights and assets” includes € 10.3 million (previous year: € 12.6 million) of software including software licences valid for a limited period. M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 93 No te s We conduct our impairment tests once a year. If an additional impairment test is deemed to be required because there is an indication that an asset may be impaired (trigger event), the test is performed promptly. As in the previous year, this proved unnecessary in the year under review. We apply the discounted cash flow model to determine the recoverable amount (value in use). The future earnings (EBIT in accordance with IFRS) applied were taken from a multi-year financial plan (generally covering a maximum of five years), the basis of which was adopted in December taking into account the medium-term strategy approved by management for the respective cash-generating unit. We carried out this planning based on certain assumptions which were drawn from both forecasts from external sources, e.g. current German Engineering Federation (VDMA) publications, and our own experience-based knowledge of markets and competitors. In our calculations we consistently extrapolated the result of the last plan year as a constant, considering that level to be achievable in the long term. We derived growth rates taking account of the rate of inflation and estimates with regard to regional and segment-specific circumstances. We applied growth rates of between 0.75 % and 1.25 %. The carrying amounts of cash-generating units do not contain any items related to taxes or financing activities. To determine the discount rate, the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) method is applied in conjunction with the capital asset pricing model (CAPM), taking into account a peer group. Under this method, first the cost of equity is determined using CAPM and the borrowing costs are defined, and then the individual capital components are weighted in accordance with the capital structure. The interest rate for risk-free 30-year Bunds was used as a base rate. This rate was 2.8 % in the year under review (previous year: 2.2 %). The market risk premium was set at 5.75 % (previous year: 5.50 %), with a beta factor of 1.0 (previous year: 1.0). In addition, country-specific tax rates and country risk premiums are taken into account individually for each CGU. DISCOUNT RATE S (AFTER TA X ES) in % 2013 2012 Germany 7.9 7.3 The Netherlands 8.0 7.3 Italy 10.8 9.9 USA 7.8 7.1 South Africa 10.5 9.5 South Korea 9.0 8.3 Other European countries 8.0 – 11.7 7.3 – 11.0 94 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements GOODWILL (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2013 31 Dec. 2012 KSB Seil Co., Ltd., South Korea 24,001 24,763 DP industries B.V., The Netherlands 18,285 18,285 REEL s.r.l., Italy 9,681 9,681 KSB Italia S.p.A., Italy 3,710 3,710 Dynamik-Pumpen GmbH, Germany 3,150 3,150 Uder Elektromechanik GmbH, Germany 2,980 2,980 KSB Service Centre-Est S.A.S., France 2,609 2,609 KSB Pumps (S.A.) (Pty) Ltd., South Africa 2,043 2,664 KSB Finland Oy, Finland 1,764 1,764 KSB Service Est S.A.S., France 1,550 1,550 69,773 71,156 Companies consolidated for the first time in 2013: Société de travaux et Ingénierie Industrielle ( ST II ), France 5,689 – KSB SERVICE MEDIATEC S.A.S., France 3,179 – KSB Service EITB SITELEC S.A.S., France 1,944 – KSB SERVICE ETC S.A.S., France 1,412 – Metis Levage S.A.S., France 453 – 12,677 – Other 19 (previous year: 20) companies 13,862 14,258 Total 96,312 85,414 Impairment testing with regard to the cash-generating unit KSB Singapore (Asia Pacific) Pte Ltd resulted in an impairment loss of € 154 thousand due to ongoing economic difficulties facing a business line of the Business Unit Pumps in Malaysia. A 5 % increase in the relevant discount factor, this being viewed as a realistic change to a key underlying assumption, on which we have based determination of the unit’s recoverable amount, would result in a write-down requirement of around € 1.9 million, of which € 1.0 million relates to KSB Italia S.p.A. (Business Unit Pumps) and € 0.8 million to KSB ITUR Spain (Business Unit Pumps). Write-downs of around € 1.2 million would have been recorded in the previous year. M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 95 No te s DETAILED INF ORMATION ON KEY GOODWILL ITEM S Carrying amount of Percentage Method for assessing goodwill of total Discount rate Underlying assumptions, the value of the Cash-generating unit Method (€ million) goodwill after taxes corporate planning underlying assumption KSB Seil Co., Ltd. Fair value less 24.0 25 % 9.0 % Improved business cycle Consideration of macro-­ costs to sell expectations in shipbuildeconomic key data and (costs to sell ing (liquefied gas tankers) external market research. set at 1%) Little change in exchange rates DP industries B.V. Value in use 18.3 19 % 8.0 % Greater customer focus Consideration of macro-­ Moderate market economic key data and growth rates internal estimates of the ­relevant purchasing and sales departments. REEL s.r.l. Value in use 9.7 10 % 10.8 % Moderate market Consideration of external growth rates market data and macro-­  Greater customer focus economic environment.  Improved energy ­efficiency The business performance of KSB Seil Co., Ltd. is closely linked to the economic development of the long-cycle shipbuilding industry. This is also documented in the market development studies from external sources we used, which contain forecasts for the next seven years. Correspondingly, we have selected a monitoring period of seven years instead of our commonly used five-year period for impairment testing of this cash-generating unit. For the purposes of calculating the fair value less costs to sell, the South Korean KSB Seil Co., Ltd. is classed as Level 2 pursuant to IFRS 13. The input factors used for the discounted cash flow method are largely based on observable market data (base interest rate) or freely accessible information (for example sovereign risk classification, tax rates, procurement prices, sales prices, market studies). As in the previous year, we did not recognise any impairment losses on other intangible assets in the year under review. 96 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements S tat e me n t o f c h a n g e s in pr opert y, pla nt a nd equ ipme nt Advance Other equipment, payments and Property, plant Land and Plant and operating and office assets under and equipment (€ thousands) buildings machinery equipment construction Total Historical cost 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Balance at 1 January 312,089 283,346 483,766 458,337 191,201 182,340 19,337 19,623 1,006,393 943,646 Changes in consolidated Group 5,181 4,496 729 2,487 412 1,285 – 134 6,322 8,402 Currency translation adjustments – 11,153 – 2,005 – 14,963 – 6,070 – 7,853 – 2,488 – 1,082 – 499 – 35,051 – 11,062 Other 16 – 460 191 – 679 50 – – – 257 – 1,139 Additions 5,091 17,816 21,611 23,149 18,515 21,224 7,631 18,976 52,848 81,165 Additions from business combinations – 3,539 – 4,536 – 696 – 2 – 8,773 Disposals 1,052 508 7,868 7,466 10,260 13,434 121 1,987 19,301 23,395 Reclassifications 4,503 5,865 11,045 9,472 1,171 1,578 – 16,773 – 16,912 – 54 3 Reclassification as assets held for sale – 1,315 – – – – – – – – 1,315 – Balance at 31 December 313,360 312,089 494,511 483,766 193,236 191,201 8,992 19,337 1,010,099 1,006,393 Accumulated depreciation and amortisation 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Balance at 1 January 121,355 114,261 299,512 280,366 124,931 120,263 – – 545,798 514,890 Currency translation adjustments – 2,200 – 721 – 7,919 – 3,120 – 5,150 – 1,697 – – – 15,269 – 5,538 Other 16 – 119 213 – 679 46 – – – 275 – 798 Additions 7,660 7,098 27,610 25,977 19,439 19,046 – – 54,709 52,121 Additions from business combinations – 1,250 – 4,031 – 422 – – – 5,703 Disposals 1,018 437 7,470 7,145 9,657 12,998 – – 18,145 20,580 Reclassifications 11 23 –7 82 –4 – 105 – – – – Reclassification as assets held for sale – 130 – – – – – – – – 130 – Balance at 31 December 125,694 121,355 311,939 299,512 129,605 124,931 – – 567,238 545,798 Carrying amount at 31 December 187,666 190,734 182,572 184,254 63,631 66,270 8,992 19,337 442,861 460,595 Assets resulting from finance leases are recognised as fixed assets in accordance with IAS 17, and corresponding financial liabilities are recognised. The carrying amount of these capitalised assets amounts to € 3,016 thousand (previous year: € 3,524 thousand), of which € 1,437 thousand (previous year: € 1,948 thousand) relate to land and buildings, € 319 thousand (previous year: € 433 thousand) to plant and machinery and € 1,260 thousand (previous year: € 1,143 thousand) to other equipment, operating and office equipment. During the year under review it was decided to close down a relatively small production site of the Business Unit Valves in Germany. The real estate there is planned to be sold off in 2014 and, for this reason, it is reported pursuant to IFRS 5 in a separate balance sheet item within current assets (assets held for sale). Property, plant and equipment in the amount of € 5,491 thousand (previous year: € 5,917 thousand) have been pledged as security for bank loans and other liabilities on the basis of standard terms and conditions. Information on the purchase obligation is provided in Section IX. Other Disclosures of these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Disposals of items of property, plant and equipment resulted in book gains of € 1,487 thousand (previous year: € 2,371 thousand) and book losses of € 653 thousand (previous year: € 361 thousand). The book gains and losses are reported in the income statement under other income and other expenses. As in the previous year, we did not recognise any impairment losses on property, plant and equipment. M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 97 No te s S TATEMENT O F CHANGE S IN NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS Investments Non-current Non-current Other accounted for using financial financial assets (€ thousands) investments the equity method instruments Loans Total Acquisition cost 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Balance at 1 January 24,324 50,659 22,531 – 784 764 140 2,097 47,779 53,520 Changes in consolidated Group – 15,319 – 12,881 2,716 – – – 53 – 1,985 – 12,550 – 14,866 Currency translation adjustments – 77 12 – 601 – –4 – – 482 – – 1,164 12 Other 1,793 – – – – – – – 1,793 – Additions 578 9,722 3,885 – – 35 2,976 31 7,439 9,788 Disposals 384 657 1,914 – 35 15 44 3 2,377 675 Reclassifications – – – – – – – – – – Balance at 31 December 10,915 46,855 26,617 – 745 784 2,643 140 40,920 47,779 Accumulated impairment losses 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Balance at 1 January 8,642 12,837 245 – 72 100 – 510 8,959 13,447 Changes in consolidated Group – 4,587 – 3,819 – 245 – – – – – 510 – 4,832 – 4,329 Currency translation adjustments – – – – – – – – – – Other – – – – – – – – – – Additions 90 740 – – 23 1 15 – 128 741 Disposals 384 657 – – – – – – 384 657 Reclassifications – – – – – – – – – – Reversal (write-up) – 214 – – – 29 – – – 243 Balance at 31 December 3,761 8,887 – – 95 72 15 – 3,871 8,959 Carrying amount at 31 December 7,154 37,968 26,617 – 650 712 2,628 140 37,049 38,820 Other investments reported under non-current financial assets declined considerably due to first-time consolidations. The additions mainly comprise a capital increase for the scheduled financing of the expansion of business activities at our sales company in Peru, which has not yet been consolidated because this would not have had a material impact. The companies that were reported as investments accounted for using the equity method in the year under review were insignificant in the past. In 2013, however, the business spectrum expanded considerably, above all at Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd., Shanghai (China), with the result that the lack of significance – due to the time and technology limitations of its operations – no longer applies. This company was established in 2008 to produce suitable auxiliary pumps (secondary coolant circuits) for older reactor types. However, in the wake of the Fukushima reactor accident in 2011 China considerably slowed down or did not start construction of new nuclear reactors of the old type. In the course of 98 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements 2013, it was also decided to build only nuclear power stations meeting substantially higher safety standards. These will need to be equipped with, among other things, more modern reactor coolant pumps (primary cooling circuits) that comply with the new safety requirements. Responding to the changed market requirements, the company will now offer different, state-of-the-art KSB products. To this end, first agreements were made with government bodies in mid-2013. This development has prompted us to reassess our investment; we now consider it to be of material significance for the KSB Group. As well as this company, which has the largest value within this item, our Group company in Saudi Arabia (KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd., Riyadh) has also gained significance. This is attributable to the expansion of its activities in the energy market. Within the scope of reassessing the two above-mentioned companies, which have the highest value, we included all other associates in the consolidated Group; they were accounted for using the equity method. Overall, the first-time consolidation of investments in associates resulted in an effect on earnings of € 3.0 million. We currently have no plans for the sale of equity investments. As in the previous year, none of the loans are loans to equity investments. The effect of currency translation adjustments taken directly to equity on fixed assets was a loss of € 23,795 thousand (previous year: loss of € 4,412 thousand). The list of shareholdings is included at the end of these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 2 Deferred tax assets Explanations on deferred tax assets are presented under “Taxes on income”. 3 Inventories (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2013 31 Dec. 2012 Raw materials and production supplies 153,715 161,594 Work in progress 147,009 168,172 Finished goods and goods purchased and held for resale 105,152 105,136 Advance payments 17,972 22,306 423,848 457,208 € 70,785 thousand (previous year: € 62,191 thousand) of the inventories is carried at net realisable value. The impairment losses recognised as an expense in the period under review amount to € 6,667 thousand (previous year: € 2,561 thousand). Due to changed estimates, we reversed write-downs totalling € 696 thousand (previous year: € 1,364 thousand) where the current net realisable value was higher than the prior-period value. Inventories amounting to € 917,235 thousand (previous year: € 961,300 thousand) were recognised as expenses in the period under review. M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 99 No te s 4 Receivables and other current assets (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2013 31 Dec. 2012 Trade receivables 474,717 481,900 Receivables from other investments and associates 18,489 16,937 Receivables recognised by PoC 85,934 130,737 Receivables recognised by PoC (excl. advances received from customers PoC) 172,574 230,546 Advances received from customers (PoC) – 86,640 – 99,809 Other receivables and other current assets 65,004 58,386 644,144 687,960 Receivables from other investments include loans at the usual interest amounting to € 1,791 thousand (previous year: € 2,690 thousand). Impairment losses on receivables from other investments amount to € 3,052 thousand (previous year: € 6,374 thousand) and on receivables from associates to € 345 thousand (previous year: € 765 thousand). Construction contracts under IAS 11 include recognised earnings of € 34,041 thousand (previous year: € 45,034 thousand) and costs of € 138,533 thousand (previous year: € 185,512 thousand). Sales revenue in accordance with IAS 11 amounted to € 523,638 thousand (previous year: € 535,221 thousand). The other receivables and other current assets include receivables from employees and deferred interest. They also include recoverable taxes (primarily from VAT) in the amount of € 25,037 thousand (previous year: € 22,909 thousand) and other financial assets from currency forwards in accordance with IAS 39 in the amount of € 6,557 thousand (previous year: € 3,409 thousand). Receivables relating to interest rate derivatives totalled € 115 thousand (previous year: zero). At the reporting date, the notional volume of all currency forwards was € 211,920 thousand (previous year: € 196,506 thousand), and the notional volume of all interest rate derivatives was € 70,740 thousand (previous year: € 75,105 thousand). The contractual maturities of payments for currency forwards and interest rate derivatives are as follows: Not iona l volu mes 2013 (€ thousands) Total Up to 1 year 1 – 5 years > 5 years Currency forwards 211,920 194,033 17,887 – Interest rate derivatives 70,740 10,000 60,740 – 282,660 204,033 78,627 – 100 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements Not iona l volu mes 2 0 12 (€ thousands) Total Up to 1 year 1 – 5 years > 5 years Currency forwards 196,506 166,886 29,499 121 Interest rate derivatives 75,105 288 72,086 2,731 271,611 167,174 101,585 2,852 € 39,861 thousand (previous year: € 30,890 thousand) of all receivables and other assets is due after more than one year. 5 Current financial instruments, cash and cash equivalents As in the previous year, there were no current financial instruments. Cash and cash equivalents are deposits with short maturities and call deposits, and also current account balances. German Group companies used € 17,962 thousand of cash and cash equivalents (previous year: € 14,800 thousand) to hedge credit balances for partial retirement arrangements and, for the first time in the year under review, also for long-term working hours accounts as required by law. They are available to us at any time due to the underlying contractual structure. 6 Equity There was no change in the share capital of KSB AG as against the previous year. In accordance with the Articles of Association, it totals € 44,771,963.82 and, as in the previous year, is composed of 886,615 ordinary shares and 864,712 preference shares. Each no-par value share represents an equal notional amount of the share capital. The preference shares carry separate cumulative preferred dividend rights and progressive additional dividend rights. All shares are no-par value bearer shares. The individual shares have no par value. The capital reserve results from the appropriation of premiums from capital increases in previous years. In addition to revenue reserves from previous years, the revenue reserves primarily include currency translation adjustments, consolidation effects and actuarial gains and losses in accordance with IAS 19 taken directly to equity. These effects resulted in deferred tax assets in the amount of € 32,367 thousand (previous year: € 38,041 thousand, of which € 37,867 thousand due to adjustment to reflect the retroactive amendment to IAS 19) and deferred tax liabilities of € 1,630 thousand (previous year: € 481 thousand). A total of € 21,240 thousand (dividend of € 12.00 per ordinary share and € 12.26 per preference share) was paid from equity by a resolution of the Annual General Meeting of the Group’s parent company KSB AG, Frankenthal, on 15 May 2013. M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 101 No te s Equity also includes changes in the fair value of derivatives used to hedge future cash flows amounting to € 3,446 thousand (previous year: € 1,008 thousand). They changed as follows: (€ thousands) 2013 2012 Opening balance at 1 January 1,008 – 3,882 Changes in consolidated Group / Currency translation adjustments / Other – 29 26 Disposals – 1,611 2,447 Additions 4,078 2,417 Closing balance at 31 December 3,446 1,008 Non-controlling interest relates primarily to PAB GmbH, Frankenthal, and the interests it holds, as well as to our companies in India and China. KSB AG holds a 51 % interest in PAB GmbH, while Klein Pumpen GmbH, Frankenthal, holds a 49 % interest. Details of the changes in equity accounts and non-controlling interest are contained in the Statement of Changes in Equity. The proposal on the appropriation of the net retained earnings of KSB AG calculated in accordance with HGB is shown at the end of these Notes. Capital Disclosures Adequate capital resources and sufficient financial independence are key requirements for sustainably increasing KSB’s enterprise value and safeguarding the company’s continued existence in the long term. Obtaining the necessary funds for ongoing business operations is also extremely important for us. In addition to order intake, sales revenue and the corresponding earnings, our key performance indicators are the return on sales before income taxes and our net financial position (the difference between interest-bearing financial assets on the one hand, and financial liabilities on the other). We regularly monitor the development of these indicators and manage them through active working capital management and by constantly optimising our financial structure, among other things. We present the development of these indicators in the Group management report. 2013 2012 Order intake € million 2,241.2 2,257.4 Sales revenue € million 2,247.3 2,268.2 Earnings before interest and taxes ( EBIT ) € million 136.2 150.4* Earnings before taxes (EBT ) € million 119.4 132.8* Return on sales before taxes on income % 5.3 5.9* Net financial position € million 189.6 141.2 * Adjustment to reflect the retroactive amendment to IAS 19 102 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements 7 Deferred tax liabilities Explanations on deferred tax liabilities are presented under “Taxes on income”. 8 Provisions The provisions disclosed in the balance sheet under current and non-current liabilities can be broken down as follows: Changes in ­consolidated Group / Utilisation / Changes (€ thousands) 1 Jan. 2013* CTA / Other Prepayments Reversal Additions 31 Dec. 2013 Employee benefits 527,406* – 2,952 – 102,426 – 20,206 120,333 522,155 Pensions and similar obligations 400,486** – 406 – 16,524 – 18,238 32,738 398,056 Other employee benefits 126,920*** – 2,546 – 85,902 – 1,968 87,595 124,099 Taxes 11,438 – 402 – 15,835 – 67 9,665 4,799 Taxes on income 10,169 – 308 – 15,172 –7 8,670 3,352 Other taxes 1,269 – 94 – 663 – 60 995 1,447 Other provisions 90,194 – 706 – 52,673 – 11,071 54,869 80,613 Warranty obligations and contractual penalties 48,540 – 263 – 28,216 – 5,730 28,838 43,169 Miscellaneous other provisions 41,654 – 443 – 24,457 – 5,341 26,031 37,444 629,038* – 4,060 – 170,934 – 31,344 184,867 607,567 * Adjustment of € 129 million to reflect the retroactive amendment to IAS 19, of which ** € 130 million relates to the elimination of the corridor method and *** € – 1 million to the new accounting rules for provisions for partial retirement schemes. CTA = currency translation adjustments Provisions for pensions and similar obligations More than 95 % of the provisions for pensions result from defined benefit plans of the German Group companies. These relate to direct commitments by the companies to their employees. The commitments are based on salary and length of service. Contributions from employees themselves are also considered. This pension provision can be broken down into purely company-financed basic provision and the top-up provision from the employer. The latter is based on the amount of own contributions and the generated return on sales before taxes on income. Both components take account of the general pension contribution (the amount of which partially depends on company performance), personal income (the relationship between pensionable income and maximum income threshold) and the annuity conversion factor (based on age). These defined benefit plans impose actuarial risks on the Group, such as the risk of longevity and interest rate risk. The payments linked to pension obligations are paid from our liquid assets, without the need for specialist investment strategies to cover pension plan obligations. There are smaller benefit plans at certain foreign Group companies. At the US companies, there are post-employment medical care obligations M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 103 No te s for employees. These are measured using comparable principles. The amounts provided for these defined benefit obligations and the annual expense for pension benefits are measured and calculated each year on the basis of actuarial reports using the projected unit credit method (IAS 19). The actuarial assumptions used at the Group companies are as follows: 31 Dec. 2013 31 Dec. 2012 in % Germany Other countries Germany Other countries Discount rate 3.5 2.0 to 9.4 3.3 2.5 to 8.2 Assumed rate of salary increase 2.7 1.0 to 8.0 2.7 1.0 to 8.0 Assumed rate of pension increase 2.0 1.0 to 3.5 2.0 1.0 to 2.0 A mean fluctuation rate (2.0 %) continues to be applied to staff turnover for the German plans. The biometric assumptions are again based on the mortality tables [2005G Richttafeln] published by Prof. Klaus Heubeck, and the retirement age used for the calculations is based on the Rentenversicherungs-Altersgrenzenanpassungsgesetz 2007 [RVAGAnpG – German Act Adapting the Standard Retirement Age for the Statutory Pension Insurance System]. Other measurement parameters (e.g. cost trends in the medical care area) are not material. CHANGE S IN DBO (PRESENT VALUE OF THE OBLIGATION) (€ thousands) 2013 2012 Opening balance at 1 January 400,486 280,151* Current service cost 13,982 8,212 Interest cost 13,221 14,623 Employee contributions 5,566 3,708 Remeasurements – / + Gain / loss from the change in demographic assumptions 1,251 – – / + Gain / loss from the change in financial assumptions – 16,308 107,204* – / + Experience-based gain / loss – 3,905 – 11* Benefit payments – 12,395 – 13,020 Past service cost (incl. effects of settlements and curtailments) 101 – Transfer of assets – – Currency translation adjustments – 779 – 158 Changes in consolidated Group / Other – 3,164 – 223* Closing balance at 31 December 398,056 400,486* * Adjustment to reflect the retroactive amendment to IAS 19 The expected contributions in the following year are anticipated to amount to € 15,614 million. 104 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements The current service cost as well as actuarial gains and losses are recognised in staff costs under pension costs, and the interest cost is recognised in financial income /expense under interest and similar expenses. Contributions totalling € 26,388 thousand (previous year: € 26,948 thousand) were paid to state pension insurance funds in the year under review. The discount factor and future mortality were identified as key actuarial assumptions. Were the discount factor to increase by 100 basis points, the DBO would fall by € 58 million. A 100 basis point reduction in the discount factor would increase the DBO by € 77 million. It should be noted that a change to the discount factor due to particular financial effects (such as compound interest) does not affect the development of the DBO on a straight-line basis. Were life expectancy to increase by 1 year, the DBO would increase by € 14 million. Additionally, the individual actuarial assumptions are mutually dependent, but these interdependencies are not taken into account in the sensitivity analysis. On 31 December 2013 the weighted average term of the DBO was 20 years (previous year: 19 years). The following table shows the pension benefit payments expected over the coming years: (€ millions) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Expected payments 13,332 14,628 15,781 16,807 17,993 Other employee benefits Provisions for other employee benefits relate primarily to profit-sharing, jubilee payments, compensated absence, partial retirement obligations and severance payments. Tax provisions and other provisions The tax liabilities shown contain amounts of tax still payable for the year under review and for previous years for which no final tax assessment has yet been received. The provisions for warranty obligations and contractual penalties cover the statutory and contractual obligations to customers. The miscellaneous other provisions include provisions for anticipated losses from uncompleted transactions and onerous contracts (primarily from construction contracts in accordance with IAS 11 with gross amounts due to customers in the amount of € 2,939 thousand for 2013 and € 1,383 thousand for 2012), customer bonuses, accruing expenses (outstanding invoices) and environmental protection measures. € 30,216 thousand of other employee benefits and other provisions is non-current (previous year: € 35,016 thousand of which € – 265 thousand resulting from the adjustment made to reflect the retroactive amendment to IAS 19). This relates mainly to provisions for jubilee payments, partial retirement and warranty obligations. As in the previous year, no compounding effects were incurred in the financial year. M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 105 No te s 9 Liabilities NON-CURRENT LIABILITIE S (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2013 31 Dec. 2012 Financial liabilities Loan against borrower’s note 174,682 180,597 Bank loans and overdrafts 28,507 24,638 Finance lease liabilities 1,374 1,352 Other 419 1,454 204,982 208,041 Total non-current liabilities 204,982 208,041 Cu r r ent lia b ilit ies (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2013 31 Dec. 2012 Financial liabilities Loan against borrower’s note 6,000 – Bank loans and overdrafts 54,325 54,060 Finance lease liabilities 533 703 Liabilities to other investments and associates 903 430 Other 12 14 61,773 55,207 Trade payables Trade payables to third parties 198,693 193,564 Trade payables to other investments and associates 6,073 10,450 204,766 204,014 Tax liabilities 23,645 22,047 Other liabilities Advances received from customers 69,625 94,054 Advances received from customers (PoC) 42,321 54,121 Social security and liabilities towards employees 27,074 20,473 Miscellaneous other liabilities 49,714 55,106 188,734 223,754 Total current liabilities 478,918 505,022 TOTAL NON-CURRENT AND CURRENT LIABILITIE S (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2013 31 Dec. 2012 Total liabilities 683,900 713,063 106 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements To safeguard liquidity in the medium term, in 2009 KSB AG took the precaution of placing a loan against borrower’s note worth € 100 million with a 3-year and 5-year maturity. This originally served to ensure the solvency of the company even in a protracted crisis situation. € 37.5 million was repaid before maturity in 2011, and € 56.5 million in 2012. Based on the favourable capital market conditions, we decided to place another loan against borrower’s note with a total volume of € 175 million in December 2012. This loan is divided into repayment tranches of 3, 5, 7 and 10 years, and the interest rate is in part fixed and in part based on variable interest rate agreements. The residual obligation at year-end 2013 of both loans against borrower’s note was thus € 181 million. As in the previous year, € 161 million of the liabilities arising from the loans against borrower’s note are classified as bank loans and € 20 million as other financial liabilities. Assets amounting to € 8,642 thousand (previous year: € 11,353 thousand) have been pledged as security in the KSB Group for bank loans and other liabilities on the basis of standard terms and conditions. Of these, € 5,491 thousand (previous year: € 5,917 thousand) relate to property, plant and equipment, € 371 thousand (previous year: € 2,091 thousand) to inventories, € 981 thousand (previous year: € 669 thousand) to receivables and € 1,799 thousand (previous year: € 2,676 thousand) to cash and cash equivalents, as well as other securities. € 9,287 thousand (previous year: € 2,906 thousand) of the liabilities were secured by land charges or similar rights in the year under review. The weighted average interest rate on bank loans and overdrafts as well as on an open-market credit (loan against borrower’s note) was 2.78 % (previous year: 2.82 %). Interest rate risk exists for the major portion of the loan against borrower’s note mentioned above. There were no covenant agreements for loans in the year under review, as was the case in the previous year too. Miscellaneous other liabilities include changes in the fair value of hedging instruments amounting to € 897 thousand (previous year: € 2,134 thousand). € 92 thousand (previous year: € 600 thousand) of this amount relates to interest rate derivatives. Deferred income amounts to € 2,843 thousand (previous year: € 1,298 thousand). This also includes investment grants and subsidies totalling € 4,666 thousand (previous year: € 4,962 thousand) received primarily for new buildings in Germany. M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 107 No te s V. INCOME STATEMENT DISCLOSURES 10 Sales revenue (€ thousands) 2013 2012 Revenue from the sale of goods and goods purchased and held for resale 2,005,969 2,047,277 Services sales revenue 241,362 220,934 2,247,331 2,268,211 The impact of the percentage of completion method pursuant to IAS 11 and the breakdown of sales revenue by product group (pumps, valves and service) is presented in the segment reporting. The companies that were fully consolidated for the first time accounted for € 27,103 thousand of the sales revenue. The sales revenue from smaller affiliates that have not yet been consolidated is not material. 11 Other income (€ thousands) 2013 2012 Gains from asset disposals and reversals of impairment losses (write-ups) 1,487 2,371 Income from current assets (basically measurement effects concerning receivables) 3,822 7,233 Currency translation gains 2,125 1,218 Income from the reversal of provisions 13,412 11,488 Miscellaneous other income 23,722 22,006 44,568 44,316 Miscellaneous other income relates primarily to commission income, rental and lease income, insurance compensation, grants and subsidies. Income from government grants for individual projects (for example, for research activities) amounted to € 3,230 thousand (previous year: € 3,386 thousand). The companies that were fully consolidated for the first time accounted for € 1,765 thousand. 12 Cost of materials (€ thousands) 2013 2012 Cost of raw materials and production supplies consumed and of goods purchased and held for resale 832,465 918,594 Cost of purchased services 59,839 66,577 892,304 985,171 The companies that were fully consolidated for the first time had no material impact on the cost of materials. 108 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements 13 Staff costs (€ thousands) 2013 2012 Wages and salaries 635,641 607,309* Social security contributions and employee assistance costs 123,742 129,668 Pension costs 28,169 21,308** 787,552 758,285* * A djustment of € 72 thousand to reflect the retroactive amendment to IAS 19, of which ** € 4 thousand relates to the elimination of the corridor method Pension costs are reduced by the interest component of provisions for pensions and similar obligations, which is reported as an interest cost in financial income / expense. € 4,531 thousand was spent on defined contribution schemes in the year under review (previous year: € 4,427 thousand). The companies that were fully consolidated for the first time accounted for € 16,171 thousand. EMPLOYEES Average for the year At reporting date 2013 2012 31 Dec. 2013 31 Dec. 2012 Wage earners 7,510 7,171 7,461 7,157 Salaried employees 8,556 8,458 8,557 8,463 16,066 15,629 16,018 15,620 Apprentices 517 585 528 587 16,583 16,214 16,546 16,207 The changes in the consolidated Group in the year under review led to an increase of 377 in the average number of employees over the year and to a rise of 365 in the total number at the reporting date. 14 Other expenses (€ thousands) 2013 2012 Losses from asset disposals 653 361 Losses from current assets (basically measurement effects concerning receivables) 5,668 10,075 Currency translation losses 3,177 1,955 Other staff costs 27,586 22,615 Repairs, maintenance, third-party services 88,474 95,869 Selling expenses 91,282 90,920 Administrative expenses 92,243 92,768 Rents and leases 27,821 27,237 Miscellaneous other expenses 46,506 35,912 383,410 377,712 M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 109 No te s Miscellaneous other expenses relate primarily to warranties, contractual penalties and additions to provisions. The companies that were fully consolidated for the first time accounted for € 7,433 thousand. 15 Financial income / expense (€ thousands) 2013 2012 Financial income 6,840 9,212 Income from equity investments 286 3,817 thereof from other investments (286) (2,027) Interest and similar income 6,387 5,088 thereof from other investments (58) (145) thereof from associates (23) (–) Write-ups of financial assets – 214 Income from the remeasurement of financial instruments – 1 Other financial income 167 92 Financial expense – 23,380 – 23,519 Interest and similar expenses – 23,169 – 22,668 thereof to other investments (–) (– 3) Write-downs of financial assets – 110 – 740 Other financial expenses – 101 – 111 Income / expense from investments accounted for using the equity method 3,459 – Financial income / expense – 13,081 – 14,307 Interest and similar expenses include the interest cost on pension provisions amounting to € 13,221 thousand (previous year: € 14,623 thousand). The improvement in financial income / expense is mainly attributable to higher interest income as a result of an increase in cash and cash equivalents as well as a decline in write-downs on financial assets. As in the previous year, the latter were mainly attributable to a smaller service company in Germany, which faced continued economic difficulties. The companies that were fully consolidated for the first time basically had no material impact on financial income / expense. 110 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements The following information on the investments accounted for using the equity method is based on the most recently published annual financial statements in each case (without being adjusted in line with the size of KSB’s investment): (€ millions) 2013 Sales revenue 82.8 Earnings after income taxes 7.6 (€ millions) 31 Dec. 2013 Non-current assets 60.6 Current assets 57.2 Assets 117.8 Equity 57.0 Non-current liabilities 18.8 Current liabilities 42.0 Equity and liabilities 117.8 The non-recorded proportionate losses from the at-equity consolidation of associates totalled € 0.1 million and arose for the first time during the year under review. 16 Taxes on income All income-related taxes of the consolidated companies and deferred taxes are reported in this item. Other taxes are reported in the income statement after other expenses. 2012 after 2012 before amendment to amendment to (€ thousands) 2013 IAS 19 IAS 19 Effective taxes 45,187 44,555 44,555 Deferred taxes – 5,637 – 2,053 – 2,031 39,550 42,502 42,524 € 719 thousand (previous year: € 1,525 thousand) of the effective taxes in the year under review related to prior-period tax refunds and € 5,741 thousand (previous year: € 278 thousand) to tax arrears. RECONCILIATION OF DEFERRED TA X ES 2012 after 2012 before amendment to amendment to (€ thousands) 2013 IAS 19 IAS 19 Change in deferred tax assets 117 – 14,584 – 4,296 Change in deferred tax liabilities 1,858 – 18,406 3,359 Change in deferred taxes recognised in balance sheet 1,975 – 32,990 – 937 Change in deferred taxes taken directly to equity – 7,295 30,617 – 1,418 Changes in consolidated Group / Currency translation adjustments / Other – 317 320 324 Deferred taxes recognised in income statement – 5,637 – 2,053 – 2,031 M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 111 No te s ALLOCATION OF DE FERRED TA X ES Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities 2012 after 2012 before 2012 after 2012 before amendment amendment amendment amendment (€ thousands) 2013 to IAS 19 to IAS 19 2013 to IAS 19 to IAS 19 Non-current assets 2,564 2,013 2,013 34,974 34,659 34,659 Current assets 50,328 60,716 60,716 53,298 73,189 73,189 Non-current liabilities 50,244 54,027 15,477 156 146 195 Current liabilities 14,686 21,031 21,014 9,534 9,254 9,254 Tax loss carryforwards 4,274 5,570 5,570 – – – Gross deferred taxes – before offsetting 122,096 143,357 104,790 97,962 117,248 117,297 Offset under IAS 12.74 – 82,463 – 103,607 – 76,061 – 82,463 – 103,607 – 76,061 Net deferred taxes – after offsetting 39,633 39,750 28,729 15,499 13,641 41,236 At the reporting date, deferred tax assets amounting to € 7,960 thousand (previous year: € 8,006 thousand, of which € 974 thousand due to adjustment to reflect the retroactive amendment to IAS 19) were recognised, whose realisation exclusively depends on the creation of future profit. Based on the planning figures available, we expect realisation to take place. The taxes included under equity can be broken down as follows: INCOME TAXES INCLUDED UNDER EQUITY 2012 after 2012 before amendment amendment (€ thousands) 2013 to IAS 19 to IAS 19 Actuarial gains / losses under IAS 19 18,991 – 107,193 – Taxes on income – 5,935 32,031 – Currency translation differences – 53,452 – 13,891 – 13,891 Taxes on income – – – Measurement of financial instruments 4,212 4,918 4,918 Taxes on income – 1,356 – 1,425 – 1,425 Other comprehensive income – 37,540 – 85,560 – 10,398 As in the previous year, the introduction of new local taxes had no effects in the year under review. Equally, changes in foreign tax rates did not have any material impact (€ 162 thousand) on the total tax expense, as was the case in the previous year. 112 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements In the case of net income from affiliates and other equity investments, withholding taxes incurred in connection with distributions and German taxes incurred are recognised as deferred taxes if these gains are expected to be subject to corresponding taxation, or there is no intention of reinvesting them in the long term. We did not recognise deferred tax assets from loss carryforwards amounting to € 39,216 thousand (previous year: € 33,243 thousand). It is unlikely that there will be sufficient taxable profit available in the near future against which these deferred tax assets can be utilised. There were no deductible temporary differences for which no deferred tax assets would have to be set up. RECONCILIATION OF INCOME TA X ES 2012 after 2012 before amendment amendment (€ thousands) 2013 to IAS 19 to IAS 19 Earnings before taxes (EBT ) 119,415 132,771 132,843 Calculated income taxes on the basis of the applicable tax rate (30 %, as in the previous year) 35,825 39,831 39,853 Differences in tax rates 1,128 320 320 Change in write-downs on deferred taxes on loss ­c arryforwards and unused tax loss carryforwards 701 863 863 Tax-exempt income / non-deductible expenses – 1,791 – 786 – 786 Prior-period taxes 5,022 – 1,247 – 1,247 Non-deductible foreign income tax 2,161 1,597 1,597 Investments accounted for using the equity method – 1,354 – – Other – 2,142 1,924 1,924 Current taxes on income 39,550 42,502 42,524 Current tax rate 33 % 32 % 32 % The unchanged applicable tax rate of 30 % is a composite rate resulting from the current German corporation tax, solidarity surcharge and trade tax rates. The first-time inclusion of fully consolidated companies had no material impact on the taxes on income. M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 113 No te s 17 Earnings after income taxes – Non-controlling interest The non-controlling interest in net profit amounts to € 14,501 thousand (previous year: € 15,802 thousand), and the non-controlling interest in net loss amounts to € 318 thousand (previous year: € 153 thousand). These relate primarily to PAB GmbH, Frankenthal, Germany, and the interests it holds, as well as to our companies in India. The companies that were fully consolidated for the first time did not have any material impact on the earnings after income taxes attributable to non-controlling interests. The amendment to IAS 19 had no impact on the non-controlling interest in the previous year. 18 Research and development costs Research and development costs in the year under review amounted to € 47,400 thousand (previous year: € 45,046 thousand). The companies that were fully consolidated for the first time did not have any impact on research and development costs. 19 Earnings per share 2013 2012 Earnings after income taxes – Attributable to KSB AG shareholders € thousands 65,682 74,620* Additional dividend – attributable to preference shareholders (€ 0.26 per preference share) € thousands – 225 – 225 € thousands 65,457 74,395* Number of ordinary shares 886,615 886,615 Number of preference shares 864,712 864,712 Total number of shares 1,751,327 1,751,327 Diluted and basic earnings per ordinary share € 37.38 42.48* Diluted and basic earnings per preference share € 37.64 42.74* * Adjustment of € – 50 thousand to reflect amendment to IAS 19 (corresponds to € – 0.03 for earnings per ordinary share and € – 0.03 for ­earnings per preference share), of which € – 3 thousand relates to the elimination of the corridor method The first-time inclusion of fully consolidated companies did not have any material impact on earnings per share. 114 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements VI. ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES ON FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The changes in the consolidated Group did not have any material impact on below ­disclosures on financial instruments. Financial instruments – Carrying amounts and fair values by measurement category: A S S ET S MeasureCarrying Carrying Balance sheet item / Class ment Initial / subsequent amount Fair value amount Fair value (€ thousands) ­c ategory measurement 31 Dec. 2013 31 Dec. 2013 31 Dec. 2012 31 Dec. 2012 Non-current assets Other  investments AfS Fair value / Historical cost 7,154 7,154 37,968 37,968 Non-current financial instruments AfS Fair value 650 650 712 712 Loans LaR Fair value / Amortised cost 2,628 2,628 140 140 Current assets Trade receivables LaR Fair value / Amortised cost 474,717 474,717 481,900 481,900  eceivables from other investments R and associates LaR Fair value / Amortised cost 18,489 18,489 16,937 16,937  eceivables recognised by PoC, net R LaR Fair value / Amortised cost 85,934 85,934 130,737 130,737 Other receivables and other current assets LaR Fair value / Amortised cost 27,138 27,138 25,740 25,740 Derivatives included in hedging ­relationships n/a Fair value 4,036 4,036 2,545 2,545 Derivatives not included in hedging ­r elationships FAHfT Fair value 2,636 2,636 864 864 Current financial instruments AfS Fair value – – – – Cash and cash equivalents LaR Fair value / Amortised cost 451,438 451,438 401,031 401,031 M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 115 No te s EQUITY AND LIABILITIES MeasureCarrying Carrying Balance sheet item / Class ment Initial / subsequent amount Fair value amount Fair value (€ thousands) ­c ategory measurement 31 Dec. 2013 31 Dec. 2013 31 Dec. 2012 31 Dec. 2012 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities excluding finance lease liabilities FLAC Fair value / Amortised cost 203,608 191,462 206,689 195,934 Finance lease liabilities n/a In accordance with IAS 17 1,374 1,374 1,352 1,352 Current liabilities Financial liabilities excluding finance lease liabilities FLAC Fair value / Amortised cost 61,240 61,240 54,504 54,504 Finance lease liabilities n/a In accordance with IAS 17 533 533 703 703 Trade payables FLAC Fair value / Amortised cost 204,766 204,766 204,014 204,014 Advances received from customers (PoC) LaR Fair value / Amortised cost 42,321 42,321 54,121 54,121 Other liabilities – Miscellaneous FLAC Fair value / Amortised cost 41,308 41,308 46,712 46,712 Derivatives included in hedging ­r elationships n/a Fair value 591 591 1,499 1,499 Derivatives not included in hedging ­r elationships FLHfT Fair value 306 306 635 635 Thereof aggregated by category in accordance with IAS 39 Loans and receivables LaR Fair value / Amortised cost 1,018,023 1,018,023 1,002,364 1,002,364 Available-for-sale financial instruments AfS Fair value 650 650 712 712 Available-for-sale financial instruments AfS Fair value / Acquisition cost 7,154 7,154 37,968 37,968 Financial assets held for trading FAHfT Fair value 2,636 2,636 864 864 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost FLAC Fair value / Amortised cost 510,922 498,776 511,919 501,164 Financial liabilities held for trading FLHfT Fair value 306 306 635 635 116 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements The fair value of the measurement category “Loans and receivables” changed by € 15,659 thousand during the reporting period (previous year: € 120,335 thousand), with the “Financial liabilities at amortised cost” category changing by € – 2,388 thousand (previous year: € 128,047 thousand). The carrying amounts and fair values of all financial assets measured at amortised cost are identical. This also applies to finance lease liabilities, trade payables and other liabilities. This is mainly due to the short maturities of these financial instruments. In the case of financial liabilities excluding finance lease liabilities, the fair values are determined as the present value of the cash flows associated with the liabilities. We apply an appropriate yield curve to arrive at this present value. The fair values of the current and non-current financial instruments presented in the table above are based on prices quoted in active markets. The fair values of derivatives included and not included in hedging relationships is determined on the basis of input factors observable either directly (as a price, level 1) or indirectly (derived from prices, level 2). Level 3 includes financial instruments whose fair value is determined on the basis of inputs not based on observable market data. Foreign exchange derivatives are measured using forward exchange rates. For interest rate swaps the fair value is determined through the discount rate of future expected cash flows based on the market interest rates and yield curves that apply to the remaining term of the contracts. The following table shows the financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, broken down into measurement categories and the previously described hierarchy levels. There were no reclassifications carried out during the year under review. PRESENTATION OF HIERARCHY LEVELS OF FAIR VALUE 2013 (€ thousands) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets recognised at fair value Other Investments – – 7,154 7,154 Financial Instruments 650 – – 650 Derivatives – 6,672 – 6,672 Financial liabilities recognised at fair value Derivatives – 897 – 897 M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 117 No te s The following table shows the reconciliation from the opening balance to the closing balance for fair values within level 3. FAIR VALUES CATEGORI SED WITHIN LEVEL 3 (€ thousands) Total Balance at 1 Jan. 2013 37,968 Disposal due to new materiality assessment of equity investments – 33,018 Additions (basically from capital increases) 578 Write-down due to impairment (financial expense) – 90 Currency translation differences (loss in other comprehensive income) – 77 Change in fair value (measurement of financial instruments in other comprehensive income) 1,793 Balance at 31 Dec. 2013 7,154 Fair values within level 1 are determined from the capital market quotations. Fair values within level 2 are determined based on a discounted cash flow method. Future cash flows from currency forwards are estimated on the basis of forward exchange rates (observable rates on the reporting date) and the contracted forward exchange rates, and are discounted with an adequate interest rate. Future cash flows from interest rate swaps are estimated on the basis of forward interest rates (observable interest structure curves on the reporting date) and the contracted interest rates, and are discounted with an adequate interest rate. A measurement model that determines the discounted cash flows of earnings before income taxes was used as the basis for determining the fair value within level 3. The weighted average cost of capital (WACC between 7.9 % and 11.3 %) is based on the interest for risk-free 30year Bunds and takes into account the market risk premium and country risk premium as well as the taxation situation of the country where the company is located. Growth rates were not estimated. Sensitivity to the weighted average cost of capital of 5 % would not lead to significantly different results. The net results from financial instruments, after taking into account the relevant tax effect, are presented in the following table: NET RE SULTS BY MEASUREMENT CATEGORY IN 2013 From subsequent measurement From interest Currency Impairment From (€ thousands) and dividends At fair value translation losses disposal Net results LaR 6,387 – – 611 – 2,913 – 2,863 AfS 303 1,775 – – 95 – 1,983 FAH f T / FLH f T – 2,106 – – – 2,106 FLAC – 9,108 – 39 – – – 9,069 – 2,418 3,881 – 572 – 3,008 – – 2,117 118 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements NET RE SULTS BY MEASUREMENT CATEGORY IN 2012 From subsequent measurement From interest Currency Impairment From (€ thousands) and dividends At fair value translation losses disposal Net results LaR 5,068 – – 290 – 1,581 – 3,197 AfS 3,837 28 – – 526 – 3,339 FAH f T / FLH f T – 1,271 – – – 1,271 FLAC – 6,649 – 161 – – – 6,488 2,256 1,299 – 129 – 2,107 – 1,319 The interest presented above is a component of financial income / expense; the other gains and losses are partly reported in other income and other expenses. The AfS measurement category resulted in a remeasurement loss of € 18 thousand (previous year: gain of € 28 thousand), which was recognised directly in equity. In the year under review, € – 5 thousand (previous year: zero) was withdrawn from equity or realised. Financial risks We are exposed to certain financial risks as a consequence of our business activities. These risks can be classified into three areas: On the one hand, we are exposed to credit risk. We define credit risk as potential default or delays in the receipt of contractually agreed payments. We are also exposed to liquidity risk, which is the risk that an entity will be unable to meet its financial obligations, or will be unable to meet them in full. Finally, we are exposed to market risk. The risk of exchange rate or interest rate changes may adversely affect the economic position of the Group. Risks from fluctuations in securities prices are not material for us. We limit all of these risks through an appropriate risk management system. We define how these risks are addressed through guidelines and work instructions. In addition, we monitor the current risk characteristics continuously and regularly provide the information obtained in this way to the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board in the form of standardised reports and individual analyses. The three risk areas are described in detail in the following. Additional information is also provided in the group management report, in particular in the Economic Review, Report on Expected Developments, Opportunities and Risks Report sections. M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 119 No te s Credit Risk The primary credit risk is that there is a delay in settling a receivable, or that it is not settled either in full or in part. We minimise this risk using a variety of measures. As a matter of principle, we run credit checks on potential and existing counterparties. We only enter into business relationships if the results of this check are positive. Additionally, our European companies in particular take out trade credit insurance policies. In exceptional cases we accept other securities (collateral) such as guarantees. The insurance policies primarily cover the risk of loss of receivables. Moreover, we also take out cover against political and commercial risks in the case of certain customers in selected countries. For both types of insurance, we have agreed deductibles, which represent significantly less than 50 % of the insured volume. As part of our receivables management system, we continuously monitor outstanding items, perform maturity analyses and establish contact with customers at an early stage if delays in payment occur. In the case of major projects, our terms and conditions provide for prepayments, guarantees and – for export transactions – letters of credit. These also mitigate risk. Impairment losses are recognised for the residual risk remaining in trade receivables. We examine regularly the extent to which individual receivables need to be written down for impairment. Indications of this are significant financial difficulties of the debtor, such as insolvency or bankruptcy. We also cover the credit risk of receivables that are past due by providing for the risk involved on the basis of historical loss experience. Receivables are derecognised if it is reasonably certain that receipt of payment cannot be expected (for example, after completion of insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings). Impairment losses on “Trade receivables” are the only material impairment losses in the KSB Group. They changed as follows: (€ thousands) 2013 2012 Opening balance at 1 January 32,232 33,513 Additions 6,305 6,988 Utilised – 4,344 – 2,802 Reversals – 2,645 – 5,419 Changes in consolidated Group / Currency translation adjustments / Other – 1,211 – 48 Closing balance at 31 December 30,337 32,232 120 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements The maturity structure of trade receivables is as follows: (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2013 31 Dec. 2012 Receivables that are neither past due nor individually impaired 372,433 371,040 Receivables that are past due but not individually impaired 1 to 30 days 43,360 48,980 31 to 90 days 28,999 29,347 91 to 180 days 12,419 15,953 >180 days 8,276 9,114 Total 93,054 103,394 Receivables individually determined to be impaired 9,230 7,466 Receivables individually determined to be impaired at their principal amount 39,567 39,698 Specific write-downs 30,337 32,232 Carrying amount (net) 474,717 481,900 With regard to the trade receivables that are neither past due nor individually impaired, there are no indications at the reporting date that our debtors will not meet their payment obligations. The same applies to all other financial instruments. The maximum default risk, excluding collateral received, corresponds to the carrying amount of the financial assets. There is no concentration of risk because the diversity of our business means that we supply a considerable number of customers in different sectors. Liquidity Risk Our liquidity management ensures that we minimise this risk in the Group and that our solvency is ensured at all times. There are no concentrations of risk because we work together with a number of credit institutions, on which we impose strict creditworthiness requirements. We generate our financial resources primarily from our operating business. We use them to finance investments in non-current assets. We also use them to cover our working capital requirements. To keep these as low as possible, we monitor changes in our receivables, inventories and liabilities regularly using a standardised Group reporting system. The reporting system additionally ensures, with the help of monthly rolling cash flow planning, that the Group’s centralised financial management is continuously informed about liquidity surpluses and requirements. This enables us to optimally meet the needs of M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 121 No te s the Group as a whole and of the individual companies. For selected companies we use a cash pooling system to ensure that available cash is deployed optimally within the Group. We also apply a worldwide receivables netting procedure within the KSB Group so as to minimise both the volume of cash flows and the associated fees. In order to be able to provide the necessary collateral in the project business, corresponding guarantee volumes are made available. Adequate proportions are confirmed for a period of more than one year. In addition, we always ensure that credit facilities are sufficient; we identify the need for these on the basis of regular liquidity plans. In this way we can react to fluctuating liquidity requirements at all times. Our approved cash loans and credit lines total approximately € 979 million (previous year: approx. € 973 million), of which € 671.2 million has not yet been utilised (previous year: € 661.7 million). The following tables present the contractual undiscounted cash flows of primary and derivative financial liabilities. Interest payments on fixed-rate liabilities are determined on the basis of the fixed rate. Floating-rate interest payments are based on the last floating interest rates fixed before 31 December. Net payments on derivatives result both from derivatives with negative fair values and from derivatives with positive fair values. Projections for future new liabilities are not included in the presentation. Based on our current state of knowledge, it is neither expected that the cash flows will take place significantly earlier, nor that the amounts will deviate significantly. CASH FLOWS OF FINANCIAL LIABILITIE S 2013 (€ thousands) Total Up to 1 year 1 – 5 years > 5 years Financial liabilities 290,068 78,149 141,630 70,289 Trade payables 204,766 204,439 327 – Other liabilities 41,308 34,525 6,783 – Derivative financial instruments 4,784 5,267 – 525 42 540,926 322,380 148,215 70,331 CASH FLOWS OF FINANCIAL LIABILITIE S 2012 (€ thousands) Total Up to 1 year 1 – 5 years > 5 years Financial liabilities 291,664 61,314 153,070 77,280 Trade payables 204,014 203,190 824 – Other liabilities 46,712 42,643 4,069 – Derivative financial instruments 423 1,307 – 883 –1 542,813 308,454 157,080 77,279 122 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements Market Price Risk Our global business activities expose us primarily to currency and interest rate risk. Any changes in market prices can affect fair values and future cash flows. We use sensitivity analyses to determine the hypothetical impact of such market price fluctuations on profit and equity. In doing so, we assume that the portfolio at the reporting date is representative for the full year. We reduce the risks resulting from changes in prices on the procurement side for orders with extended delivery dates by agreeing cost escalation clauses or, in the case of fixed-price contracts, by including the expected rate of cost increases in our sales price. Currency risk mainly affects our cash flows from operating activities. It arises when Group companies settle transactions in currencies that are not their functional currency. We minimise this risk using currency forwards and, on rare occasions, options. You will find further information on this in the “Derivative financial instruments” section of the Notes. We use micro hedges with regard to both transactions already recognised and cash flows that are expected in the future with a high degree of probability. The hedging instruments used share the essential terms and conditions with the underlying transactions, i.e. with regard to amount, term and quality. Internal guidelines govern the use of financial instruments. Such transactions are also subject to ongoing risk control measures. The hedging instruments used are exclusively highly effective currency forwards entered into with prime-rated banks. In order to measure the effectiveness of our hedges, the market values of the underlying and the hedge transactions are compared. Changes in the market values of the derivatives are offset by changes in the fair values of the cash flows from the underlyings. As a rule, we do not hedge foreign exchange risks from the translation of foreign operations into the Group currency (€). One of the most significant foreign currencies in the KSB Group is the USD. The volume of trade receivables denominated in USD is around € 41 million (previous year: approx. € 52 million). Trade payables denominated in USD total around € 15 million (previous year: € 13 million). For the currency sensitivity analysis, we simulate the effects based on the notional volume of our existing foreign currency derivatives and our foreign currency receivables and liabilities at the reporting date. For the analysis, we assume a 10 % increase (decrease) in the value of the euro versus the other currencies. At the reporting date, equity and the fair value of the derivatives would have been € 11.0 million lower (higher) in this scenario; € 9.3 million results from USD and € 1.7 million from the other currencies. At the previous year’s reporting date, equity and the fair value of the derivatives would have been € 12.4 million lower (higher); € 9.7 million would result from USD and € 2.7 million from the other currencies. M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 123 No te s The hypothetical impact on earnings in the year under review would have been a decrease (an increase) of € 3.5 million. € 1.2 million would have been attributable to USD and € 2.3 million to the other currencies. The hypothetical impact on earnings in the previous year would have been a decrease (an increase) of € 0.7 million. € – 1.0 million would have been attributable to USD and € 1.7 million to the other currencies. We regularly monitor the interest rate risks associated with our financing activities. To avoid the negative effects of interest rate fluctuations on the international capital markets, we conclude interest rate hedges (interest rate swaps) where necessary, generally for long-term loans. These are used exclusively to hedge floating rate loans against rising interest rates. As part of our interest rate sensitivity analysis, we simulate a 100 basis point increase (decrease) in market interest rates, with an interest rate of 0 % being the lower limit, however, and analyse the impact on the floating rate financial instruments. In 2013, the net interest balance would have been € 3.8 million (previous year: € 1.7 million) higher (lower). Changes in the fair value of interest rate derivatives used to hedge floating rate liabilities increase (decrease) equity by € 1.8 (1.6) million (previous year: € 2.4 (1.8) million). VII. CASH FLOW STATEMENT In the cash flow statement, cash flows are classified by operating, investing and financing activities. Effects of changes in the consolidated Group and in exchange rates are eliminated in the relevant items. The effect of exchange rate changes (based on annual average rates) and changes in the consolidated Group on cash and cash equivalents is presented separately. Cash flows from operating activities include a “cash flow” subtotal that merely comprises the net profit for the year; depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses as well as reversals of impairment losses; changes in non-current provisions; and non-cash effects, for example, of the disposal of fixed assets. This subtotal is combined with the changes in the other operating components of assets (including current financial instruments) and liabilities to determine cash flows from operating activities. Only those changes that are recognised in the income statement are taken into account. Cash flows from investing activities exclusively reflect cash-effective acquisitions and disposals of investments in intangible assets; property, plant and equipment; and non-current financial assets. In addition to cash flows resulting from equity items (capitalisation measures and dividend payments), cash flows from financing activities comprise cash flows arising from changes in financial receivables and liabilities. 124 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements The funds included in the cash flow statement correspond to the balance sheet item “Cash and cash equivalents”. If cash and cash equivalents include restricted cash, this is reported separately. Cash flows from operating activities include cash flows from interest received amounting to € 6,387 thousand (previous year: € 5,088 thousand) and cash flows from income taxes totalling € – 51,689 thousand (previous year € – 45,257 thousand). Cash flows from investing activities include cash flows from dividends received of € 286 thousand (previous year: € 3,817 thousand). Cash flows from financing activities include interest expense of € – 9,130 thousand (previous year: € – 6,674 thousand). The retroactive amendment to IAS 19 has resulted in the following adjustments within the statement of cash flows: 2012 after 2012 before amendment amendment (€ thousands) to IAS 19 to IAS 19 Earnings after income taxes 90,269 90,319 Increase in non-current provisions 6,268 6,196 Increase in trade receivables and other assets –18,656 –18,634 The adjustments did not have any impact on the cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities. This also applies to cash and cash equivalents. M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 125 No te s VIII. SEGMENT REPORTING Segment reporting corresponds to our internal organisational and management structure, as well as the reporting lines to the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board. In our matrix organisation management decisions are primarily taken on the basis of the key performance indicators – order intake, external sales revenue and earnings before income taxes (EBIT) – determined for the Pumps, Valves and Service Business Units. Reporting the relevant assets, number of employees and inter-segment sales revenue for these Business Units is not part of our internal reporting. The managers in charge of the Business Units, which are geared to product groups, have profit and loss responsibility. They identify business opportunities across markets and industries and assess our options based on current and future market requirements. They also proactively encourage the development of new products and improvements to the available range of products. In this context, they work closely with our Sales organisation and Operations. The Pumps product group covers singleand multistage pumps, submersible pumps and associated control and drive systems. Applications include process engineering, building services, water and waste water transport, energy conversion and solids transport. The Valves product group covers butterfly, globe, gate, control, diaphragm and ball valves, as well as associated actuators and control systems. Applications primarily include process engineering, building services, energy conversion and solids transport. The Service product group covers the installation, commissioning, start-up, inspection, servicing, maintenance and repair of pumps, related systems and valves; as well as modular service concepts and system analyses for complete systems. The amounts disclosed for the individual segments have been established in compliance with the accounting policies of the underlying consolidated financial statements. Transfer prices for intercompany sales are determined on an arm’s length basis. There were no discontinued operations in the year under review, as in the comparable period of the previous year. The order intake of the Business Units by segment presents order intake generated with third parties and non-consolidated Group companies. The order intake figure is reported voluntarily and does not form part of the audited consolidated financial statements. The external sales revenue of the Business Units by segment presents sales revenue generated with third parties and non-consolidated Group companies. The effects from measuring construction contracts in accordance with IAS 11 are presented separately as reconciliation effects. 126 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements The segment results show earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT), including noncontrolling interests. The effects from measuring construction contracts in accordance with IAS 11 are also presented separately as reconciliation effects. Order intake External sales revenue EBIT (€ thousands) 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Business Unit Pumps 1,453,275 1,490,898 1,526,192 1,517,097 105,220 91,268* Business Unit Valves 386,976 392,013 372,507 385,614 7,301 8,792 Business Unit Service 400,941 374,444 402,270 368,223 42,708 50,669 Reconciliation – – – 53,638 – 2,723 – 19,032 – 378 Total 2,241,192 2,257,355 2,247,331 2,268,211 136,197 150,351* * A djustment of € –72 thousand to reflect retroactive amendment to IAS 19, of which € – 4 thousand relates to the elimination of the corridor method The EBIT of the Business Unit Pumps includes impairments of € 39.0 million (previous year: € 37.2 million), the EBIT of the Business Unit Valves includes impairments of € 10.5 million (previous year: € 10.6 million) and the EBIT of the Business Unit Service includes impairments of € 10.8 million (previous year: € 11.6 million). € 599,895 thousand (previous year: € 662,056 thousand) of the sales revenue presented was generated by the companies based in Germany and € 1,647,436 thousand (previous year: € 1,606,155 thousand) by the other Group companies. There were no relationships with individual customers that accounted for a material proportion of Group sales revenue. At the reporting date, the total non-current assets of the KSB Group amounted to € 457,851 thousand (previous year: € 477,805 thousand), with € 181,386 thousand (previous year: € 190,679 thousand) being attributable to the companies based in Germany and € 276,465 thousand (previous year € 287,126 thousand) being attributable to the other Group companies. The non-current assets include intangible assets and property, plant and equipment. Goodwill, non-current financial instruments and deferred tax assets are not included. M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 127 No te s IX. OTHER DISCLOSURES The changes in the consolidated Group did not have any material impact on the other disclosures. Contingent liabilities (contingencies and commitments) Cont ingent Lia b ilities and Collateral (€ thousands) 2013 2012 Liabilities from guarantees 3,451 5,364 Liabilities from warranties 3,998 6,813 Liabilities from the granting of other security for third-party liabilities and other contingent liabilities 3,652 1,903 11,101 14,080 Other contingent liabilities include € 740 thousand for tax items. At present, there are no indications that any claims will be asserted under these obligations. OPERATIng LEASes Minimum lease payments (€ thousands) 2013 2012 Due within one year 14,955 14,984 Due between one and five years 24,648 19,936 Due after more than five years 8,597 4,285 48,200 39,205 In the year under review, € 14,984 thousand was spent. 128 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements Operating leases relate primarily to vehicles and real estate. FINANCE LEASES Minimum lease payments Present values (€ thousands) 2013 2012 2013 2012 Due within one year 567 769 533 703 Due between one and five years 1,273 1,202 1,222 1,115 Due after more than five years 165 312 152 237 2,005 2,283 1,907 2,055 Finance leases relate almost entirely to real estate. The term of the contract covers most of the useful life of the asset concerned. The annual obligations from IT services agreements amount to € 32,911 thousand (previous year: € 44,623 thousand) over a term of one to five years. As in the previous year, there are no purchase price obligations from acquisitions of companies and no payment obligations from capitalisation measures at Group companies. The aggregate purchase obligation for investments (principally items of property, plant and equipment) amounts to € 12,462 thousand (previous year: € 11,823 thousand). Almost all of the corresponding payments are due in 2014. Related party disclosures Related parties as defined in IAS 24 are natural persons and companies that can be influenced by KBS AG or that can exert an influence on KSB AG. Pursuant to section 21(1) of the WpHG [Wertpapierhandelsgesetz – German Securities Trade Act], KSB Stiftung [KSB Foundation], Stuttgart, as the top-level parent company, notified us on 21 May 2008 that its voting interest in KSB AG, Frankenthal / Pfalz exceeded the 75.00 % threshold on 5 May 2008 and amounted to 80.24 % (711,453 voting shares) on this date. 0.54 % of the voting rights (4,782 voting shares) were held directly by KSB Stiftung, Stuttgart, and 79.70 % (706,671 voting shares) were attributed to KSB Stiftung, Stuttgart, pursuant to section 22(1), sentence 1, No. 1 of the WpHG. The voting rights attributed to KSB Stiftung, Stuttgart, were held by Klein Pumpen GmbH, Frankenthal. M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 129 No te s A rental and services agreement has been entered into between KSB AG and Klein Pumpen GmbH. This resulted in the recognition of expenses of € 24 thousand (previous year: € 24 thousand) and income of € 12 thousand (previous year: € 19 thousand) at KSB AG in the year under review. Liabilities to Klein Pumpen GmbH as at 31 December 2013 amounted to € 18 thousand (previous year: € 37 thousand). All transactions are entered into on an arm’s length basis. This is also demonstrated by the dependent company report prepared in accordance with section 312 of the AktG [Aktiengesetz – German Public Companies Act]. Disclosures and information on affiliates and investments accounted for using the equity method provided in other section of these Notes refer to relations covering the supply of products and services on an arm’s length basis, unless stated otherwise. Pursuant to IAS 24, the remuneration of key management personnel of the Group must be disclosed. The following table contains the relevant figures for the KSB Group with regard to the remuneration paid to members of the Board of Management: (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2013 31 Dec. 2013 Short-term benefits (total remuneration) 1,890 2,620 Post-employment benefits 1,566 2,133 Total 3,456 4,753 Based on the relevant legal provisions, the Annual General Meeting on 19 May 2010 resolved not to disclose the remuneration of the Board of Management separately for each member and classified by components. € 30,103 thousand (previous year: € 30,270 thousand) has been provided for pension obligations to former members of the Board of Management and their surviving dependants; total benefits paid to these persons amounted to € 1,699 thousand in the year under review (previous year: € 1,770 thousand). The short-term benefits (total remuneration) paid to members of the Supervisory Board amount to € 1,219 thousand for the 2013 financial year (previous year: € 1,409 thousand). The members of the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management are listed before the presentation of the proposal on the appropriation of the net retained earnings of KSB AG. 130 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements Auditors On 15 May 2013, BDO AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, based in Hamburg with an office in Frankfurt am Main, was appointed as auditors and group auditors for the financial year 2013 by the Annual General Meeting of KSB AG. The following fees (including expenses) were recognised as expenses. (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2013 31 Dec. 2012 Audit fees 413 412 Other certification services – 4 Tax advisory services – – Other services 50 57 Total fees 463 473 The audit fees include costs for the audit of the consolidated financial statements and of the statutory annual financial statements of KSB AG and the German subsidiaries included in the consolidated financial statements. The fees for other certification services primarily include attestation services outside of the audit of the annual financial statements. The fees for other services mainly include fees for project-specific consultancy services. Use of exemption option KSB Service GmbH, Frankenthal and KSB Service GmbH, Schwedt have made partial use of the exemption provision under section 264 (3) HGB. Events after the reporting period There were no reportable events after the reporting date. German Corporate Governance Code The Board of Management and Supervisory Board of KSB AG issued the current statement of compliance with the recommendations of the Government Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code in accordance with section 161 of the AktG [Aktiengesetz – German Public Companies Act]. The statement of compliance is published on our web site (www.ksb.com) and has thus been made permanently accessible. M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 131 No te s Li st o f S h are h o l di n gs Li s t of S h a r e h o l d i n g s A FF ILIATE S ( NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL) No. Name and seat of company Country Capital share in % Held by No. National 1 B&C Pumpenvertrieb Köln GmbH, Cologne Germany 100.00 2 Dynamik-Pumpen GmbH, Stuhr Germany 100.00 3 KAGEMA Industrieausrüstungen GmbH, Pattensen Germany 100.00 4 KSB Armaturen Verwaltungsund Beteiligungs-GmbH, Frankenthal Germany 100.00 5 KSB Service GmbH, Frankenthal Germany 100.00 6 KSB Service GmbH, Schwedt Germany 100.00 7 PAB Pumpenund Armaturen-Beteiligungsges. mbH, Frankenthal Germany 51.00 8 PMS BERCHEM GmbH, Neuss Germany 100.00 9 Pumpen-Service Bentz GmbH, Reinbek Germany 100.00 10 Uder Elektromechanik GmbH, Friedrichsthal Germany 100.00 International 10.03 53 11 AMRI , Inc., Houston / Texas USA 89.97 19 12 Aplicaciones Mecánicas Válvulas Industriales, S.A. (AMVI ), Burgos Spain 100.00 29 13 Canadian Kay Pump Limited, Mississauga / Ontario Canada 100.00 14 Dalian KSB AMRI Valves Co., Ltd., Dalian China 100.00 29 15 DP industries B.V., Alphen aan den Rijn The Netherlands 100.00 28 16 FORTY FOUR ACTIVIA PARK ( PTY ) LTD , Germiston (Johannesburg) South Africa 100.00 46 17 GIW Industries, Inc., Grovetown / Georgia USA 100.00 19 18 Hydroskepi GmbH, Amaroussion (Athens) Greece 100.00 19 KSB America Corporation, Richmond / Virginia USA 100.00 7 20 KSB AMVI , S.A., Madrid Spain 100.00 29 21 KSB Australia Pty.Ltd., Tottenham (Melbourne) Australia 100.00 29 22 KSB Belgium S.A., Wavre Belgium 100.00 29 23 KSB Bombas Hidráulicas S.A., Várzea Paulista Brazil 100.00 29 24 KSB , Bombas e Válvulas, SA , Albarraque Portugal 95.00 25 KSB Chile S.A., Santiago Chile 100.00 26 KSB Compañía Sudamericana de Bombas S.A., Carapachay (Buenos Aires) Argentina 100.00 29 27 KSB de Mexico, S.A. de C.V., Querétaro Mexico 100.00 28 KSB Finance Nederland B.V., Zwanenburg The Netherlands 100.00 29 29 KSB Finanz S.A., Echternach Luxembourg 100.00 30 KSB Finland Oy, Kerava Finland 100.00 31 KSB , Inc., Richmond / Virginia USA 100.00 19 32 KSB Italia S.p.A., Milan Italy 100.00 29 33 KSB ITUR Spain S.A., Zarautz Spain 100.00 12 34 KSB Korea Ltd., Seoul South Korea 100.00 35 KSB Limited, Hong Kong China 100.00 36 KSB Limited, Loughborough United Kingdom 100.00 29 132 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements No. Name and seat of company Country Capital share in % Held by No. 37 KSB Malaysia Pumps & Valves Sdn. Bhd., Petaling Jaya Malaysia 100.00 64 38 KSB Middle East FZE , Dubai U.A.E. 100.00 29 39 KSB Mörck AB , Gothenburg Sweden 55.00 40 KSB Nederland B.V., Zwanenburg The Netherlands 100.00 28 41 KSB New Zealand Limited, Albany / Auckland New Zealand 100.00 21 42 KSB Norge AS , Ski Norway 100.00 43 KSB Österreich Gesellschaft mbH, Vienna Austria 100.00 29 44 KSB -Pompa, Armatür Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S., Ankara Turkey 99.00 29 45 KSB Pompy i Armatura Sp. z o.o., Ozarow-Mazowiecki Poland 100.00 46 KSB Pumps and Valves (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg) South Africa 84.99 51 47 KSB Pumps Co. Ltd., Bangkok Thailand 40.00 48 KSB Pumps Company Limited, Lahore Pakistan 58.89 49 KSB Pumps Inc., Mississauga / Ontario Canada 100.00 29 50 KSB Pumps Limited, Pimpri (Pune) India 40.54 13 51 KSB Pumps (S.A.) (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg) South Africa 100.00 29 52 KSB -Pumpy+Armatury s.r.o., koncern, Prague Czech Republic 100.00 53 KSB S.A.S., Gennevilliers (Paris) France 100.00 29 54 KSB Seil Co., Ltd., Busan South Korea 100.00 55 KSB Service Belgium S.A./N.V., Wavre Belgium 100.00 22 56 KSB Service Centre-Est S.A.S., Villefranche sur Saône France 100.00 53 57 KSB Service EITB SITELEC S.A.S., Montfavet France 100.00 53 58 KSB Service Est S.A.S., Algrange France 100.00 53 59 KSB SERVICE ETC S.A.S., Chalon-sur-Saône France 100.00 62 60 KSB Service Italia S.r.l., Scorzè Italy 100.00 32 61 KSB SERVICE MEDIATEC S.A.S., Chalon-sur-Saône France 100.00 62 62 KSB Service Robinetterie S.A.S., Rambervillers France 100.00 53 63 KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd., Shanghai China 80.00 29 64 KSB Singapore (Asia Pacific) Pte Ltd, Singapore Singapore 100.00 65 KSB Szivattyú és Armatura Kft., Budapest Hungary 100.00 66 KSB Taiwan Co., Ltd., New Taipei City Taiwan 100.00 67 KSB Tech Pvt. Ltd., Pimpri (Pune) India 100.00 68 KSB Valves (Changzhou) Co., Ltd., Jiangsu China 100.00 69 KSB Valves (Shanghai) Co. Ltd., Shanghai China 100.00 70 KSB Válvulas Ltda., Jundiaí Brazil 100.00 23 71 KSB VIET NAM CO ., LTD ., Long Thanh District Vietnam 100.00 64 72 KSB Zürich AG , Zurich Switzerland 100.00 73 Mäntän Pumppauspalvelu Oy, Mänttä-Vilppula Finland 100.00 30 74 MD Invest, Déville lès Rouen France 100.00 62 75 Metis Levage S.A.S., Villefranche sur Saône France 100.00 53 49.00 50 76 MIL Controls Limited, Annamanada India 51.00 77 Nederlandse Pompservice (N.P.S.) B.V., Velsen Noord The Netherlands 100.00 40 78 OOO ” KSB ”, Moscow Russia 100.00 4 79 Precision Pump and MachineKSB , Inc., Bakersfield / California USA 100.00 19 M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 133 No te s S h are h o l di n gs No. Name and seat of company Country Capital share in % Held by No. 80 PT . KSB Indonesia, Cibitung, Jawa Barat Indonesia 100.00 29 81 PUMPHUSET Sverige AB , Sollentuna Sweden 100.00 39 82 REEL s.r.l., Ponte di Nanto Italy 100.00 83 Rotary Equipment Services Limited, Loughborough United Kingdom 100.00 36 84 SISTO Armaturen S.A., Echternach Luxembourg 52.85 29 85 SMEDEGAARD AG Pumpen und Motorenbau, Beinwil am See Switzerland 100.00 90 86 Smedegaard Pumps Limited, Bridgwater United Kingdom 100.00 90 87 Société de travaux et Ingénierie Industrielle ( ST II ), Déville lès Rouen France 100.00 74 88 SPI Energie S.A.S., La Ravoire France 100.00 53 89 Standard Alloys Incorporated, Port Arthur / Texas USA 100.00 19 90 T. Smedegaard A/S, Glostrup Denmark 80.00 91 VM Pumpar AB , Västra Frölunda Sweden 100.00 90 92 VRS Industries SA , Feluy Belgium 100.00 22 93 VRS Valve Reconditioning Services B.V., Vierpolders The Netherlands 100.00 40 A SS OCIATES ( NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL) Net profit / Capital Held Equity loss for the year No. Name and seat of company Country share in % by No. € thousands € thousands National 94 Nikkiso-KSB GmbH, Bruchköbel Germany 50.00 2,885 404 • International 95 KSB Atlantic Pump & Valve Service S.L., Las Palmas de Gran Canaria Spain 47.00 5 – – 150 • 96 KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd., Ryadh Saudi Arabia 50.00 29 5,069 4,396 • 97 KSB Service LLC , Abu Dhabi U.A.E. 49.00 1,876 1,290 • 98 Motori Sommersi Riavvolgibili S.r.l., Cedegolo Italy 25.00 1,343 1,449 • 99 Shanghai ElectricKSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd., Shanghai China 45.00 14,990 91 • 100 WM Teknikk AS , Ski Norway 34.00 42 455 95 • • Preliminary financial statements for 2013 134 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements C om pa n i e s n ot c o n s o lidat ed b ec au se of immat er ia lit y – AFFILIATE S (NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL) Net profit / Capital Held Equity loss for the year No. Name and seat of company Country share in % by No. € thousands € thousands National 101 gear-tec GmbH, Eggebek Germany 51.00 999 – 173 International 102 IOOO ” KSB BEL ”, Minsk Belarus 100.00 78 279 203 103 KSB Algérie Eurl, Dar El-Beida (Algiers) Algeria 100.00 29 586 – 70 104 KSB Čerpadlá a Armatúry, s.r.o., Bratislava Slovakia 100.00 431 176 105 KSB črpalke in armature d.o.o., Ljubljana Slovenia 100.00 – 131 – 246 106 KSB Ltd., Tokyo Japan 100.00 – 1,134 – 367 107 KSB Perú S.A., San Isidro Peru 100.00 110 – 191 108 KSB POMPES ET ROBINETTERIES S.à.r.l. d'Associé unique, Casablanca Morocco 100.00 53 426 154 109 KSB Pumpe i Armature d.o.o. Beograd, Belgrad Serbia 100.00 105 58 – 83 110 KSB pumpe i armature d.o.o., Zagreb Croatia 100.00 105 – 90 – 192 111 KSB Services Ltd. Co., Al-Khobar Saudi Arabia 70.00 251 – 157 112 KSB Service Suciba, S.L.U., Sondika Spain 100.00 12 674 195 113 KSB TESMA AG , Amaroussion (Athens) Greece 59.74 18 1,483 – 10 114 KSB Viosen AG , Patras Greece 60.28 18 294 – 19 115 Techni Pompe Service Maroc (TPSM ), Casablanca Morocco 100.00 108 – 208 – 92 116 TOO ” KSB Kazakhstan”, Almaty Kazakhstan 100.00 78 36 – 96 117 TOV ” KSB Ukraine”, Kiev Ukraine 100.00 78 130 – 87 Prior-period figures M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 135 No te s S u pe rv i so ry B o ard S UPERVIS ORY BOARD Dr. Wolfgang Kühborth, Dipl.-Ing., Frankenthal René Klotz, NC Programmer, Frankenthal (Honorary Chairman of the Supervisory Board) (on the Supervisory Board since 15 May 2013) Deputy Chairman of the Frankenthal Works Council Klaus Kühborth, Dipl.-Wirtsch. Ing., Frankenthal Managing Director of Klein Pumpen GmbH Wolfgang Kormann, Hand Moulder, Pegnitz (Chairman of the Supervisory Board since 15 May 2013) (on the Supervisory Board since 15 May 2013) Member of the European Works Council, Dr. Hans-Joachim Jacob, Dipl.-Kfm., Munich Deputy Chairman of the General Works Council, (on the Supervisory Board until 15 May 2013) Chairman of the Pegnitz Works Council Auditor, Management Consultant (Chairman of the Supervisory Board until 15 May 2013) Sigrid Maurer, Insurance Trader, Neustadt / Weinstraße Trade Union Secretary of IG Metall Ludwigshafen-Frankenthal Alois Lautner, Lathe Operator, Kirchenthumbach Deputy Chairman of the Pegnitz Works Council Dr.-Ing. Hermann Nestler, Regensburg (Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board since 15 May 2013) Former Managing Director of BSH Bosch und Siemens Hausgeräte GmbH Karlheinz Leitgeb, Industrial Foreman, Pegnitz (on the Supervisory Board until 15 May 2013) Dr. Thomas Seeberg, Dipl.-Kfm., Icking 4) Former Chairman of the European Works Council, Former Managing Director of OSRAM GmbH former Deputy Chairman of the General Works Council and Chairman of the Pegnitz Works Council Volker Seidel, Electrical and Electronics Installer, Münchberg (Chairman of the Supervisory Board until 15 May 2013) 1. Delegate of IG Metall Ostoberfranken Dr. Martin Auer, Mannheim 1) Head of Corporate Legal, Compliance, Procurement and Logistic Services Mandates of KSB Supervisory Board members in the Supervisory Board / Board of Directors of other companies MVV Energie AG ¹ ) PALATINA Versicherungsvermittlungsgesellschaft mbH, Frankenthal, Germany MVV Energie CZ a.s., Prague, Czech Republic Dr.-Ing. Stephan Bross, Freinsheim Stadtwerke Ingolstadt Beteiligungs GmbH, Ingolstadt, Germany Head of Corporate Unit Pumps, KSB AG ² ) Klüber Lubrication München SE & Co. KG, Munich, Germany Klüber Lubrication India Pvt. Ltd., Bangalore, India Reiner Euler, Engineering Technician, Grünstadt FCS Holding Inc., Wilmington, USA (on the Supervisory Board until 15 May 2013) Chem-Trend Holding LP, Wilmington, USA Externa Holding S.R.L., Milan, Italy Member of the European Works Council, Chairman of the General Works Council 3) Delton AG, Bad Homburg, Germany (until 16 April 2013) and the Frankenthal Works Council Rheinbahn AG, Düsseldorf, Germany Hella KGaA Hueck & Co., Lippstadt, Germany Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung GmbH, Frankfurt am Main, Germany Dr. Jörg Matthias Großmann, Dipl.-Kfm., Großhesselohe 2) Rheinisch-Bergische Verlagsgesellschaft mbH, Düsseldorf, Germany Management / CFO Felix Schoeller Holding GmbH & Co.KG, Osnabrück, Germany Freudenberg Chemical Specialities SE & Co. KG Stihl Holding AG & Co.KG, Waiblingen, Germany 4) Alte Leipziger Lebensversicherung a.G., Oberursel (Taunus), Germany Prof. Dr. Michael Hoffmann-Becking, Lawyer, Düsseldorf 3) Hallesche Krankenversicherung a.G., Stuttgart, Germany (on the Supervisory Board since 15 May 2013) Alte Leipziger Holding AG, Oberursel (Taunus), Germany Member of the Board of Trustees of WTS-Stiftung für Altersversorgung, Munich, Germany Hengeler Mueller Partnerschaft von Rechtsanwälten 136 C o n solidat ed fina ncial Statements BOARD O F MANAGEMENT The Corporate Units, Staff Functions and Regions are assigned to the Mandates of the KSB Board of Management members members of the Board of Management as follows: in the Board of Directors of KSB companies 1) KSB Finanz S.A., Echternach, Luxembourg KSB Pumps (S.A.) (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg), South Africa Board of Management collectively: Strategy, the Regions Europe KSB Pumps and Valves (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg), South Africa ­Central (incl. Germany), Europe West (incl. France) and China Canadian Kay Pump Limited, Mississauga / Ontario, Canada KSB America Corporation, Richmond / Virginia, USA KSB Pumps Limited, Pimpri (Pune), India Dr. rer. pol. Wolfgang Schmitt (Chairman), Bad Dürkheim, Germany 1) KSB Singapore (Asia Pacific) Pte Ltd, Singapore Service, Valves, External Accounting, Communications KSB ITUR Spain S.A., Zarautz, Spain and Investor Relations 2) SISTO Armaturen S.A., Echternach, Luxembourg DP industries B.V., Alphen aan den Rijn, The Netherlands Dr.-Ing. Peter Buthmann (Human Resources Director), KSB Finanz S.A., Echternach, Luxembourg Frankenthal, Germany 2) KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd., Shanghai, China Technology, Production, Sales, Human Resources, the Regions Europe 3) GIW Industries, Inc., Grovetown / Georgia, USA (excl. Europe Central and Europe West), South Asia and North America KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd., Shanghai, China Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China Werner Stegmüller, Mering, Germany KSB Bombas Hidráulicas S.A., Várzea Paulista, Brazil (on the Board of Management since 1 Jan. 2014) Processes, Group Controlling, Regional Finance, Purchasing, IT, Legal and Compliance, Internal Audits, the Regions India, Americas South and Middle East /Africa Prof. Dr.-Ing. Dieter-Heinz Hellmann, Frankenthal , Germany3) (on the Board of Management until 31 Dec. 2013) Technology and Internal Audits M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 137 No te s B o ard o f Man age m e n t Pro po sal o n th e Appro pri ati o n o f th e Ne t R e tai n e d Earn i n gs PROPO S AL ON THE APPROPRIATION OF THE NET RETAINED EARNINGS OF KSB AG We will propose to the Annual General Meeting on 14 May 2014 that the net retained ­earnings of € 24,342,969.55 of KSB AG, containing retained earnings brought forward of € 204,605.10, be appropriated as follows: Distribution of a dividend of € 12.00 per ordinary no-par-value share € 10,639,380.00 and, in accordance with the Articles of Association, € 12.26 € per preference no-par-value share € 10,601,369.12 Appropriation to revenue reserves € 3,000,000.00 Total € 24,240,749.12 Carried forward to new account € 102,220.43 € 24,342,969.55 Frankenthal, 14 March 2014 The Board of Management The annual financial statements of KSB AG were prepared in accordance with German accounting principles. They are published in the Bundesanzeiger (German Federal Gazette). The annual financial statements can also be downloaded from our web site at www.ksb.com, or sent in print form on request. Economic responsibility Lower energy consumption, higher operating reliability, longer service life: KSB has revised its Magnochem series. The latest generation of the mag-drive pump offers industrial customers exceptional value for money. “Customers now have a range of 52 sizes of Magnochem pump to choose from. This means they can select the most energy-efficient pump for their particular field of application.” Miriam Nagler Order Management Process Engineering Pumps Magnochem mag-drive pumps can handle fluids at temperatures of up to 300 °C. Re liab le e ne rgy s av ing Chemical industrial plants consume electricity, and vast quantities of electricity at that. And because energy is expensive, their operators are permanently under huge pressure to keep costs down. Against this tough background, the new generation of Magnochem mag-drive pumps offers a particularly economic way of transporting liquids. Suitable for use in chemical plants and refineries, the pumps can be used to convey aggressive, toxic, combustible and hot substances not just extremely safely but also with a very low level of energy consumption. An improved hydraulic system, diamond-coated plain bearings and low vibration levels during operation also make the pump exceptionally reliable, avoiding expensive, unplanned downtimes. KSB engineers have not restricted this combination of energy efficiency and maximum operating reliability to the new generation of Magnochem pumps. These characteristics also apply to additional pump series launched onto the market by KSB in 2013 and developed in line with the principle of “more performance per pump”. This means that customers can now often select a smaller and thus more cost-effective pump than would have previously been possible. This is a further selling point for decision-makers who rate technical performance and economic efficiency as their top criteria. 142 PumpDrive The new generation of variable speed systems helps users exploit the maximum technically feasible savings potential of their pumps. M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Re p o rt C o n s o l idated fin a n cia l S tate m e n ts Gen e ra l I n fo rm atio n 143 Ge n eral In fo rm ation 144 Responsibility Statement 145 Auditor’s Report 147 Glossary 148 Contacts 144 G e ner a l Informat ion Res p o n s i b i l it y Stat ement To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable reporting principles, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group, and the group management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the expected development of the Group. Frankenthal, 14 March 2014 The Board of Management M a nag ement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o li date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm at i o n 145 R e spo n si bi l i ty S tate m e n t Au di to r’s R e po rt Au d i to r ’s Report We have audited the consolidated financial statements prepared by KSB Aktiengesellschaft, Frankenthal (Pfalz), comprising the balance sheet, the statement of comprehensive income, the statement of changes in equity, the statement of cash flows and the notes to the consoli­ dated financial statements, together with the group management report for the business year from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements and the group management report in accordance with IFRSs, as adopted by the EU, and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to section 315a(1) HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch – German Commercial Code] are the responsibility of the parent company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated ­financial statements and on the group management report based on our audit. We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with section 317 of the HGB and German generally accepted standards for the audit of financial state­ ments promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer [IDW – Institute of Public Auditors]. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit such that misstate­ments materially affecting the presentation of the net assets, financial position and results of operations in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework and in the group management report are detected with reasonable assurance. Knowledge of the business activities and the economic and legal environment of the Group and expectations as to possible misstatements are taken into account in the deter­mination of audit procedures. The effectiveness of the accounting-related internal control system and the evidence supporting the disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and the group management report are examined primarily on a test basis within the frame­work of the audit. The audit includes assessing the financial reporting information of those entities included in consolidation, the determination of entities to be included in consolidation, the accounting and consolidation principles used and significant estimates made by manage­ment, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements and group management report. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. Our audit has not led to any reservations. 146 G e ner a l Informat ion In our opinion, based on the findings of our audit, the consolidated financial statements comply with IFRSs, as adopted by the EU, the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to section 315a(1) of the HGB and give a true and fair view of the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the Group in accordance with these requirements. The group management report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements and as a whole provides a suitable view of the Group’s position and suitably presents the opportunities and risks of future development. Frankfurt am Main, 20 March 2014 BDO AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Dyckerhoff Dr. Rosien Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüfer M anagement a nd issues 2013 Group management Rep o rt Co n s o l i date d fi n a n ci a l S tate m e n ts G e n e ra l In fo rm ati o n 147 R e spo n si bi l i ty S tate m e n t Gl o ssary G l os s ary A b b r e v i at i o n s Key Cor p or ate and Te chnical Te rms ANSI Bus system Green electricity Retrofit American National Standards A wiring system that transfers data Synonym for electricity produced Modernisation of installed systems ­Institute between a number of technical from renewable energy sources like or components, often aimed at devices wind or solar power extending their service life, BRIC countries increasing efficiency or complying Group of emerging countries with Variable speed system Integrated Management with new legislation high economic growth. BRIC is an An electrotechnical or hydraulic System acronym of the capital letters of system that adjusts the pump KSB's Integrated Management Energy-efficient motor Brazil, Russia, India and China. speed to match the required flow System combines Quality, ­t echnology rate and discharge head Environmental, Occupational An umbrella term for various physi­ IMF Health and S­ afety, Energy and cal principles that can be used to International Monetary Fund, a Triple-offset design Sustainability Management in a reduce the power consumption of specialised agency of the United Butterfly valve design principle that harmonised structure and ensures electric motors Nations with headquarters in allows easy actuation even at high compliance with the relevant Washington D.C. operating pressures requirements. UN Global Compact A global initiative for businesses VDMA Ferrofluids KSB Care and organisations launched by the Verband Deutscher MaschinenFluids that can be magnetised as Aid fund of Asian KSB companies United Nations with the aim of und Anlagenbau e. V. [German they contain metal nanoparticles that supports educational shaping social and ecological Engineering Federation] institutions ­globalisation Frequency inverter A device that can be used to Repowering Submersible borehole pump change the available mains In biogas generation: Fitting new Pump set, predominantly used in ­frequency mixers in biomass-filled digesters wells, with an electric drive whose with the aim of improving rotor and stator are immersed in ­efficiency liquid 148 G e ner a l Informat ion Con tact s E d i tor As a signatory to the United Nations Global KSB Aktiengesellschaft Compact , KSB is committed to endorsing the Johann-Klein-Strasse 9 ten principles of the international community in 67227 Frankenthal, Germany the areas of human rights, labour standards, Tel. +49 6233 86-0 environmental protection and anti-corruption. Fax +49 6233 86-3401 O nl i ne n e w s You will find the latest news on the KSB Group at: www.ksb.com Should you need additional information, please contact: I nve s to r Rel ati o n s Ralf Pfundmaier Tel. +49 6233 86-2053 Fax +49 6233 86-3454 E-mail: investor-relations@ksb.com C om mu n i c ati o n s Ullrich Bingenheimer Tel. +49 6233 86-2138 Fax +49 6233 86-3456 E-mail: ullrich.bingenheimer@ksb.com C once p t a n d des i g n KSB Communications (CC), Frankenthal 3st kommunikation, Mainz P hoto g r a p h y Robert Kwiatek (CC), Frankenthal Getty Images (p. 35, p. 138) Maren Becker (p. 24) P ri nt i n g Ottweiler Druckerei und Verlag GmbH, Ottweiler G l o ba l P r e s e n c e KSB manufactures its products on five continents. With production and assembly sites and a close-knit global sales and service network, KSB staff are always close at hand when customers need to pump or reliably shut off fluids. KSB production / assembly sites KSB sales / service sites Eu r opE Austria Belarus G l o ba l P re s e n ce Belgium Croatia Czech Republic Denmark Finland France Germany Greece Hungary Italy Luxembourg Norway Poland Asia Portugal China Russia India Serbia Indonesia Slovak Republic Japan Slovenia Kazakhstan Spain Malaysia Sweden Pakistan Switzerland Philippines The Netherlands Singapore Turkey South Korea Ukraine Taiwan United Kingdom Thailand Vietnam Middle Ea st / Af r ic a Algeria Am ericas / Oceania Egypt Argentina Ghana Australia Kenya Brazil Libya Canada Morocco Chile Qatar Mexico Saudi Arabia New Zealand South Africa Peru United Arab Emirates USA F i nanci a l C a l e n da r 27 March 2014 Financial Press Conference 10:00, Frankenthal 1 April 2014 Invitation to Annual General Meeting 29 April 2014 Interim report January – March 2014 14 May 2014 Annual General Meeting 15:00, Frankenthal 13 August 2014 Half-year financial report January – June 2014 13 November 2014 Interim report January – September 2014 KSB Aktiengesellschaft 67225 Frankenthal (Germany) www.ksb.com
