2013 Sustainable Development and Corporate 4 Social Responsibility Report This document is an extract of the Sopra Groups' Registration Document 2013 You can download the Sopras' Registration Document on the website: www.sopra.com Message from the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer 72 1. Sopra, a model corporate citizen 73 2. Our responsibility to our employees 81 3. Our environmental responsibility commitments 90 4. Our responsibility to society 99 5. Annexe – Cross-referencing table: Sopra’s compliance with indicators of Grenelle 2 / GRI / ISO 26000 108 Report by one of the Statutory Auditors, designated as an independent third-party organisation, on workforce-related, environmental and societal information in the Management Report 113 Appendix: CSR information considered to be the most important 115 Registration Document 2013 Sopra 71 4 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer Message from the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer In the past three years, our Group has taken on a new dimension, a transformation made possible through proactive and accelerated development efforts. From 11,650 employees in 2010, Sopra has grown to more than 16,000 employees in 2013. Our size enables us to perform well on all fronts, in terms of the quality of our business lines and offerings but also in terms of client satisfaction. This performance is backed not only by our expertise but also of course by the quality of our employees and the work culture that unites the Group during its strong growth. For forty-five years, we have been building our Group’s reputation around solid and lasting fundamentals and a set of ethical principles and core values that define us. As an expression of these values, our Group is a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, which serves as the founding framework for our approach to sustainable development. Through this commitment, Sopra promotes the Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour standards, protection of the environment and anti-corruption, which are fully in line with the fundamental precepts upon which our Group was founded. Sopra is committed to encouraging compliance with these principles within its sphere of influence, helping its clients and partners to adopt responsible business practices. Our commitment to the Global Compact and the publication of our Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Report are part of our ongoing efforts to ensure transparency, fairness and loyalty in our dealings with all our stakeholders: clients, employees, shareholders, partners, suppliers and members of civil society. More than ever, with the accelerated development of Sopra in a continually changing environment, our sustainable development policy and social responsibility contribute fully to the development and cohesion of the Group. It is important for us to continue to grow, while ensuring that we share our values and our Enterprise Project with our employees and all our stakeholders. Pierre Pasquier Pascal Leroy Chairman Chief Executive Officer 72 Registration Document 2013 Sopra 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Sopra, a model corporate citizen 4 1. Sopra, a model corporate citizen 1.1. Activities and operations Supported by the Group’s management and by all the employees associated with it, Sopra’s approach to sustainable development Sopra is an independent European group that provides a is a continuous improvement process communicated each year fully-integrated IT services offering in the fields of consulting, to our stakeholders through this annual Sustainable Development technology services and software development. Sopra combines and Corporate Social Responsibility Report (1) (SD-CSR Report). This industrial-scale quality, high-performance services, added value approach aims to reconcile economic efficiency, equal employment and innovative solutions, and excels in guiding its clients through opportunities and respect for the environment. their major transformation projects. The Group is a vital business Three key principles guide our sustainable development partner of large companies and organisations that seek the best commitments: fairness, respect and transparency. uses of digital technologies in order to contribute to their growth and competitiveness. Our commitments This subject is discussed in further detail in Chapter 1, Section 3 of the 2013 Registration Document. Commitments Treating our employees fairly and respectfully through to our dignified, non discriminatory working conditions that employees provide opportunities for progress for everyone 1.2. Governance Showing respect and consideration for the Environmental environment, in compliance with the national Sopra is a société anonyme with a Board of Directors. performance and international standards in effect The Board of Directors currently consists of 10 members, of which four are independent directors, and one Advisor. Where appropriate, Treating clients, partners and suppliers its work is prepared by an Audit Committee; a Nomination, Ethics Our commitments transparently and fairly through the Group’s and Governance Committee; and a Compensation Committee. to society relationships and working methods The functions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate. Executive Management is led by the Chief Executive Officer, assisted by a Deputy CEO since January 2014. The Company’s internal organisation is based on a three-tiered operational structure headed by the Executive Committee and by 1.3.1. OUR COMMITMENTS TO OUR EMPLOYEES functional structures that report directly to Executive Management. Sopra is an employer of choice, recognised for its proactive hiring This subject is discussed in further detail in Chapter 1, Section 7 and policy in favour of young graduates. Chapter 2, Section 1 of the 2013 Registration Document. The Company pays particular attention to the employability and development of its employees, as demonstrated by its emphasis on training, reflected in the number of training days offered, and by the percentage of total payroll devoted to employee development. 1.3. Commitments Sopra believes strongly that the Company’s men and women should be managed with a view to the long term, and consistently The aim that has always successfully guided Sopra is to be able to reiterates that the Human Resources dimension is one of the take controlled risks and promote an entrepreneurial spirit. That Group’s essential assets. is what both motivates the Group’s employees, and guarantees maximum quality for its clients. As a responsible employer, Sopra makes a priority of recruiting young workers and giving them the opportunity for their first Our commitment to sustainability and our approach to corporate job and the possibility of developing their skills. For several years, social responsibility constitute a natural extension of Sopra’s values. the Company has implemented a successful strategy of hiring The concern for rigorous management and respect for these values trainees and in 2014 seeks to build on the groundwork laid for guide the Group as we conduct our activities consistently with the work-training opportunities. three pillars of sustainable development: workforce, environmental and societal concerns. Sopra is committed with regard to all current employee-related issues and has established a permanent structure to put into The key principles that guide Sopra’s action on a day-to-day basis practice the signed agreements and action plans, which go above are based on compliance with the laws and regulations in effect and beyond the legal requirements (seniors, gender equality, in the countries where the Group operates, and adherence to our disabled workers and diversity). commitments to optimally operate our businesses. (1) For the sake of simplicity, the term “SD-CSR Report” is used regularly in this Registration Document. Registration Document 2013 Sopra 73 4 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Sopra, a model corporate citizen This commitment is oriented toward the needs and well-being of on key themes related to water, will be strengthened in 2014. This both employees and civil society, notably through humanitarian social approach is completed by other actions at the Group level initiatives and responsible partnerships. As a major participant in and by local solidarity initiatives at entities in France and abroad. the local economy, Sopra has been able to create ties with other Finally, dialogue and transparency with stakeholders are an integral institutions and organisations that draw from the same labour part of the Group’s social approach. pools, and is committed on a day-to-day basis to long-standing In 2014 Sopra will continue its approach to achieving progress in partnerships (schools, universities, unemployment centres, etc.). these various areas of social action, and will progressively introduce the approach in its international entities. In a Group that has been expanding rapidly for several years and has an ambitious 1.3.2. OUR COMMITMENTS TO THE ENVIRONMENT development plan, Sopra’s social approach will contribute to the Sopra is committed to a progress plan that involves Executive, overall cohesion and engagement of teams. Central and Entity Management and all of the employees who take part in this initiative in their day-to-day operations. In 2013, monitoring the environmental impacts of the Group’s activities helped pinpoint opportunities for progress in the most 1.4. Key events relevant areas. The progress plans carried out in 2013 for the departments concerned will be reinforced in 2014. Their main aims are limiting the use of the most polluting forms of transportation 1.4.1. SOPRA for business travel, streamlining information technology resources, improving the energy efficiency of the premises Sopra manages, Continuation of the Group’s Enterprise Project continuing to implement paperless internal and external processes, The “Sopra 2016” project launched in 2012 aims to make and boosting selective sorting of waste. the Group one of the market leaders in France and Europe Since 2013, the entities outside France have been gradually for consulting, systems integration, outsourcing and developing integrated into the progress plans, taking into account the business solutions. actions and plans already initiated there, and by focusing on The positioning it has chosen within the market is that of a local the regulations in effect in each country. In 2014 the Group will player offering high added value, a leading partner for large continue developing an Environmental Management System aimed companies and organisations looking for the best use of digital at reducing its environmental impact during the performance of its daily activities. In particular, Sopra will continue its efforts to services to ensure their development and competitiveness. optimise travel and improve the energy efficiency of its sites. The aim of the plan is also to achieve high economic performance, In addition, Sopra has decided to strengthen its commitment to required to ensure the independent development of the Group in the environment by taking topics related to water more fully into the long term. To meet these goals, joint action and investment are account, and in 2014 it will step up its action regarding this key devoted primarily to: environmental issue. p increasing the Group’s presence in the software publishing business, with the key aims of: making Sopra Banking Software a European leader for banking solutions, and making the Group 1.3.3. OUR COMMITMENTS TO SOCIETY one of the leading integrator-publishers of HR solutions in Europe; Corporate social responsibility covers actions of very different kinds. p improving its leading position and added value for chosen In conducting its business, Sopra endeavours to promote ethical markets, key accounts and business sectors, by acting as a principles to combat corruption, and comply with competition and fully-integrated provider of offers based on our clients’ strategic confidentiality rules. challenges, and new service models expanding the Group’s To meet its own requirements, the Group has introduced a commitments; programme to assess the social responsibility of its main suppliers, to ensure that they apply the standards required by Sopra. In its p developing Sopra in Europe in a coherent manner, based on a reinforced Group culture; relations with them, Sopra respects the principles of transparency and equity and gives priority to the quality of the services and p increased industrialisation and optimising of operations, to products proposed, in line with the Group’s constraints regarding ensure a high level of quality, competitiveness and performance functional and economic efficiency. in the long term. The sponsorship and partnership policy is based on solidarity, The Sopra Project provides opportunities for everyone. It is education and the environment. In particular, in connection with ambitious and therefore demanding both for management and its environmental and humanitarian approach, in 2012 Sopra for all of the Group’s teams. That is why special attention and introduced sponsorship based on water issues with Green Cross efforts have been made to develop our human capital, focussing France et Territoires, the French wing of Green Cross International, on recruitment, management, careers and improving the skills of created in 1993 by Mikhail Gorbachev. This commitment, based employees. 74 Registration Document 2013 Sopra 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Sopra, a model corporate citizen 4 This must enable each person, according to their hopes and p Strengthening of Sopra’s environmental and humanitarian abilities, to progress within the Group’s entities and contribute as commitment to water issues, in partnership with Green Cross much as possible to the Group’s success. France & Territoires (GCFT), and signing of the Paris Appeal for the High Seas. Value creation as a development priority p Sopra has been included in France for the fourth consecutive year In 2013 Sopra continued its expansion strategy with two ambitious on the GAIA Index for CSR, which lists the 70 companies with acquisitions that strengthened its position in Europe and in the best CSR ratings out of a sample group of 230 companies. software publishing: HR Access and COR&FA Banking Solutions GmbH. The acquisition of HR Access in April 2013 was intended to strengthen Sopra’s position in the human resources management market. HR Access solutions meet the needs of public sector and private-sector companies in all industries. HR Access and Sopra share several strengths: quality products, a proven capacity in R&D and a deep understanding of the human resources sector. All of the p Sopra was awarded the Ecovadis Gold Level. activities of HR Access have been consolidated since 1 April 2013. Ecovadis is a platform for rating the management system put in In October 2013, Sopra introduced a plan to acquire COR&FJA place to deal with the social, environmental and ethical issues Banking Solutions GmbH in Germany (to be finalised in 2014) to facing the company concerned. enable Sopra Banking Software to further its international strategy by establishing itself in the German market. The current products of COR&FJA Banking Solutions, combined with the recognised expertise of Sopra Banking Software, will make it possible to propose a new industry-specific offering to a larger portfolio of clients. First internal challenge: Innovation Awards In 2013, Executive Management launched the first internal p Over 4,000 new employees have joined the Group. challenge, the Group’s Innovation Awards. p Launch of the disability awareness programme “Change our Digital innovation lies at the heart of all the Group’s activities. It Attitude”. This programme concerned all employees in France. offers tremendous performance and development opportunities p Distribution to all employees and externally of “Unique Attitude”, for our clients. It is promoted by the expertise of each of our the document that shares Sopra’s values and principles. employees, their creativity, and the ability of Sopra to share and exchange knowledge. p Launch of a Group Sustainable Development and CSR community in the entities outside France. The Innovation Awards are open to all Group employees in all countries, and are intended to develop creativity and promote future uses of digital technology. They have shown the richness and ability of the Group to innovate 1.5. Organisation of Sustainable for its clients and within its own organisation. Development Of the 456 teams that took part in the challenge, 14 were nominated and presented their work and prototypes to the Sopra’s Sustainable Development and CSR programme and Innovation Awards Selection Committee. In January 2014, six initiatives are spearheaded at the highest level of the Company. teams from various Group entities in France and abroad were They are under the responsibility of Executive Management, who selected as the winners of this first challenge. oversee the Group’s strategy in this area. 1.4.2. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CSR (1) 1.5.1. ORGANISATION OF SUSTAINABLE p Renewal of Sopra’s commitment with respect to the United DEVELOPMENT AT GROUP LEVEL Nations Global Compact. AND IN FRANCE p Publication of the Sopra Sustainable Development and CSR Group Sustainable Development department Report, verified by an independent third party. A dedicated department, the Sustainable Development department, was created at the end of 2010 to roll out the Sopra sustainable development policy and to coordinate the progress plan with the other departments concerned. (1) CSR: Corporate Social Responsibility, including 3 components: Workforce, Environmental and Societal. CSR is the Company’s contribution to the challenges of sustainable development. Registration Document 2013 Sopra 75 4 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Sopra, a model corporate citizen The role of Sopra’s Sustainable Development department is to 1.5.2. ORGANISATION OF SUSTAINABLE lead and coordinate all of the Group’s actions in the three areas DEVELOPMENT IN SPAIN of workforce, environmental and societal issues. It spearheads A CSR Manager, supervised by Executive Management, was and directly manages matters across all areas of the Company, in appointed in 2013. In particular, this manager is responsible particular regulatory reporting, including the annual Sustainable for implementing a solidarity and sponsorship programme. Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Report, the Workforce-related measures are managed by Sopra’s Human assessment of greenhouse gas emissions, the Corporate Social Resources Department in Spain, in coordination with the Group Responsibility assessment of suppliers and service providers, the Human Resources Department. Company’s main corporate patronage and solidarity partnerships, and actions to raise employee awareness about sustainable Environmental initiatives are managed by the Logistics Manager. development. Until 2012, its role and activities were focused in France in order to firmly structure and anchor Sopra in its approach to sustainable 1.5.3. ORGANISATION OF SUSTAINABLE development over the long term. In 2013, the Sustainable DEVELOPMENT IN INDIA Development department together with the Group’s central The Yogdaan platform, set up in India in 2009, is intended to departments introduced a programme to deploy the sustainable bring together all activities falling within the remit of sustainable development and CSR approach at its international entities. The development and corporate social responsibility for Sopra Group sustainable development and CSR community launched in 2013 India (SGI). will gradually be extended to all entities abroad. In 2012, a new recognised body was formed: Sopra Group India Yogdaan Trust. Sopra Group India Yogdaan Trust is led by members Sustainable Development Committee of SGI’s Executive Management. In 2011, a specific body, the Sustainable Development Committee, SGI’s Human Resources Department leads workforce-related was created in France to define areas for improvement with initiatives in coordination with the Group Human Resources the relevant managers and to track the development of the Department. action plans associated with these areas. This Committee brings together the managers of the key central departments involved in the Group’s approach (Sustainable Development, Human Resources, Real Estate and Purchasing, IT Resources and Security, 1.6. SD-CSR reporting Legal, Subcontracting, Corporate Communications, Financial Communications, etc.) to work in full coordination to implement their respective programmes. The Committee meets every two months and interim meetings are scheduled depending on the 1.6.1. SOPRA’S ORGANISATION (ORGANISATIONAL requirements of the action programmes. CHART OF THE GROUP’S COMPANIES) In order to coordinate sustainable development and CSR-related This subject is discussed in Chapter 1, Section 6 of the Registration issues with the entities outside France, the committee will focus Document. more specifically on these entities’ progress plans in 2014. Social Responsibility unit, Human Resources Department 1.6.2. APPROACH The workforce component of Sustainable Development is a major subject in the consulting and information technology The method of collecting the information required to draw up services businesses. A manager from the Group Human Resources this report is based on a reporting procedure introduced in 2011. Department was appointed in 2012 to head up and coordinate the This procedure is reviewed each year and includes the changes in action programme and key issues of the workforce component, the Group’s reporting approach. Based on current regulations and including disabled workers, gender equality, seniors, diversity taking into account the distinctive nature of its activities, Sopra and work-training opportunities. This manager works with the has identified 36 themes from the Grenelle Environment Forum entities outside France to ensure that the different countries’ social applicable to organising its reporting. Monitoring these themes responsibility approaches reflect that of the Group. provides a suitable measure of the Group’s progress in the three aspects of sustainable development: workforce, environmental and Environment unit societal concerns. Oversight of environmental issues is shared among the Real This SD-CSR report includes a significant amount of information Estate and Purchasing department (site management and pertaining to Article 225 of the Grenelle Environment 2 Act, responsible purchasing), the IT Resources and Security department in keeping with the general principles of the guidelines of the (management of IT purchases and energy efficiency of IT GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) and complying as closely as equipment) and the Sustainable Development department (carbon possible with the components of ISO 26000. In this regard, a footprint, carpooling, Group environmental management system, cross-referencing table is provided as an appendix to the report. eco-friendly behaviour policy). Furthermore, in accordance with paragraph 7 of Article L. 225-102.1 of the French Commercial Code, Sopra appointed Mazars, an independent third-party body, to verify the presence, truth and fairness of the information published as provided for by Article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code. 76 Registration Document 2013 Sopra 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Sopra, a model corporate citizen 4 a. List of main indicators subject to tests of details Workforce component Grenelle 2 theme Grenelle 2 sub-theme Indicator Test scope Publication scope Employment Total workforce and distribution Average age France Group of employees by gender, age of employees India International (excluding France) and geographic area on permanent Spain France contracts India Spain Average length France Group of service of India International (excluding France) employees on Spain France permanent contracts India Spain Total workforce France Group India International (excluding France) Spain France India Spain Total workforce France Group by type of contract India International (excluding France) Spain France India Spain Workforce France: Sopra, Sopra France: Sopra, in average FTE Banking Software Sopra Banking Software Proportion France Group of management-level France employees in total workforce Hires and dismissals Hires France Group India International Spain France India Spain Staff turnover rate for France Group permanent contracts India International Spain France India Spain Work organisation Absenteeism Absenteeism rate France: Sopra, France: Sopra, Sopra Banking Software Sopra Banking Software Health and safety Workplace accidents, in Frequency rate of France: Sopra, France: Sopra, particular their frequency and workplace accidents Sopra Banking Software Sopra Banking Software severity as well as occupational Severity rate of France: Sopra, France: Sopra, illnesses workplace accidents Sopra Banking Software Sopra Banking Software Training Total number of training hours Number of training France: Sopra, France: Sopra, hours provided Sopra Banking Software Sopra Banking Software during the financial India India year Spain Spain Average number France: Sopra, France: Sopra, of days of training Sopra Banking Software Sopra Banking Software per employee India India Spain Spain Equal treatment Measures taken in support Percentage of France: Sopra France: Sopra of the employment and disabled employees professional integration of the disabled Registration Document 2013 Sopra 77 4 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Sopra, a model corporate citizen Environmental component Publication Grenelle 2 theme Grenelle 2 sub-theme Indicator Test scope scope Pollution and waste Waste prevention, recycling Quantities of WEEE France France management and elimination measures India Spain Sustainable use Energy consumption and measures Number of new physical France France of resources taken to improve energy efficiency and virtual machines India India and renewable energy use installed Spain Spain “Green” paper purchases France France Spain Spain Climate change Adaptation to the consequences of Number of France Group climate change videoconferencing India France systems put in place Spain India during the financial year Spain Greenhouse gas emissions CO2 emissions from France France work-related travel India India Spain Spain Societal component Publication Grenelle 2 theme Grenelle 2 sub-theme Indicator Test scope scope Impact of the Group’s Employment and regional development Number of work-study France France business activities on matters contracts per region economic, social and Regional distribution France France territorial disparities of recruitments Spain Spain Stakeholder relations Partnership or sponsorship action Partnership or France France sponsorship action India India Spain Spain Subcontractors Significance of subcontracting and Taking into account the France France and suppliers taking into account the social and social and environmental environmental responsibility of suppliers responsibility of suppliers and subcontractors in relationships with in relationships with them them CSR assessment rate France France for tier 1 suppliers 78 Registration Document 2013 Sopra 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Sopra, a model corporate citizen 4 List of other reporting indicators Workforce component Grenelle 2 theme Grenelle 2 sub-theme Indicator Publication scope Employment Remuneration and trends Ratio of highest to lowest France: Sopra, salary Sopra Banking Software Other employment indicators published Skill management France: Sopra, (GRI and ISO 26000) Sopra Banking Software Hires and dismissals Recruitment policy France: Sopra Leavers Group France India Spain Work organisation Organisation of the work schedule Organisation of the work France: Sopra, schedule Sopra Banking Software % part-time (permanent Group contracts) France International (excluding France) Employee relations Overview of collective bargaining Overview of collective France: Sopra, agreements bargaining agreements Sopra Banking Software Organisation of dialogue between Organisation of dialogue France: Sopra, employees and management, in particular between employees and Sopra Banking Software procedures for informing and consulting management with the staff and negotiating with employees Health and safety Overview of agreements signed with labour Overview of health France: Sopra, organisations or employee representatives and safety agreements Sopra Banking Software with regard to workplace health and safety Health and safety conditions Health and safety conditions France: Sopra, Sopra Banking Software Training Policies implemented with respect to Training policies France training International (excluding France) Other training indicators published Number of employees trained France: Sopra, Sopra Banking Software Number of trainers France: Sopra, Sopra Banking Software Equal treatment Measures taken in support of the Measures in favour of the France: Sopra, employment and professional integration employment of people with Sopra Banking Software of the disabled disabilities Measures taken in favour of gender equality Gender pay gap France: Sopra, Sopra Banking Software Measures promoting gender France equality International (excluding France) Anti-discrimination policy Anti-discrimination policy France Promoting and Eliminating discrimination in respect Eliminating discrimination France complying with of employment and occupation in respect of employment the fundamental and occupation conventions of the ILO Upholding the freedom of association Upholding the freedom France and the right to collective bargaining of association and the right to collective bargaining Registration Document 2013 Sopra 79 4 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Sopra, a model corporate citizen Environmental component Grenelle 2 theme Grenelle 2 sub-theme Indicator Publication scope General environmental Training and information on protecting the Environmental information action Group policy environment offered to employees France India Spain The Company’s organisation to take environmental Organisation of Sustainable France issues into consideration, and where applicable, Development India environmental assessment or certification processes Spain Pollution and waste Measures to prevent, recycle and eliminate wastes Waste management policy France management India Spain Quantities of non-WEEE waste sorted France India Spain Waste paper recycling rate France Sustainable use Water consumption and supply according Consumption of clean water per sq.m France of resources to local requirements Energy consumption and measures taken Measures taken to optimise energy France to improve energy efficiency and renewable consumption energy use Electricity consumption per sq.m France Lifespan of IT equipment Group France India Spain Energy consumption of business Group computers (kWh) France India Spain Purchases of refilled recycled France cartridges Climate change Adaptation to the consequences of climate change General travel and commuting policy France Societal component Grenelle 2 theme Grenelle 2 sub-theme Indicator Publication scope Impact of the Group’s With regard to resident or local populations Local development action France business activities on India economic, social and Spain territorial disparities Stakeholder relations Conditions of dialogue with persons or Educational partnership policy France organisations with a stake in the Company’s Stakeholder dialogue France business Subcontractors Extent of subcontracting and communication Subcontractor CSR assessment rates France and suppliers of social and environmental responsibility Lessor CSR assessment rates France commitments in the context of relations with suppliers and subcontractors Taking into account social and environmental Responsible purchasing policy France challenges in the purchasing policy Fair operating practices Anti-corruption action Fair operating practices Group Other indicators Quality and client satisfaction: GRI (PR5) Quality and client satisfaction Group and ISO 26000 (6.6.6) France India Spain 80 Registration Document 2013 Sopra 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our responsibility to our employees 4 1.6.3. SCOPE p the SD/CSR database, which is consolidated by the Sustainable Sopra is gradually introducing reports for each country in its Development department from the collection sheets provided by Annual Report. In 2013, special attention was given to India and the various contributors. Spain each time information was available. The scope of reporting The combination of the reporting protocol, indicator sheets, and for each theme of the Grenelle Environment Forum is specified in the quantitative and qualitative data collection sheets provides the the tables shown above. The acquisitions that took place in 2013, information necessary to give a clear understanding of the tasks HR Access (HRA) and Altime, were not taken into account for and constitutes the guide for the contributor. some of the indicators. However, when data concerning these Other information on the reporting protocol is available on request acquisitions is included in the reports, this is specified if necessary. from the Sopra Sustainable Development department. The number of HRA employees included in the Group’s workforce Each year in early December, the Sustainable Development at the end of 2013 was 803, including 304 in France and 106 in department schedules a meeting to prepare the plan for the CSR Spain. Report with the managers of the various functions concerned and The number of Altime employees included in the Group’s workforce the contributors. This meeting takes place during a Sustainable at the end of 2013 was 24 in France. Development Committee meeting. Specific calculations for certain indicators In order to provide a clear understanding of the information 1.6.4. REPORTING communicated, Sopra has endeavoured to specify, whenever The three successive stages in the reporting process are as follows: necessary in the report, the definitions or calculation methods for p identifying the data and preparing to collect them; certain reported indicators. p collecting and consolidating the data, controlling for consistency Furthermore, if certain prior data have been adjusted, these in order to produce the indicators; adjustments are identified and explained to the reader. p using the indicators for publication in Sopra’s CSR Report. Exclusions The reporting tools include the following: Sopra publishes qualitative and quantitative data in its report on p the reporting protocol contains the information needed for all of the workforce-related, environmental and societal subjects contributors to collect indicators. It is primarily intended for required by the governmental decree implementing Article 225 internal communication within Sopra; of the Grenelle Environment 2 Act. However, a few indicators are p indicator definition sheets specifically describe the not addressed in this report when they are deemed not relevant characteristics of the indicators communicated as part of the to Sopra Group’s business. This information that is not addressed SD-CSR report; relates in particular to subjects touching on consumer safety and those related to land use. These exclusions are specified in the p indicator collection sheets allow contributors to supply the qualitative information and quantitative data; cross-referencing table appended to the report. 2. Our responsibility to our employees Sopra is a company that offers over 16,000 employees a dynamic structure to put into practice the signed agreements and action work environment and stimulating career prospects. These plans (for young people, seniors, gender equality, disabled workers opportunities are made possible within a Group whose businesses and diversity). The aim is to move beyond a purely legal vision involve a wide variety of professions, with operations in France of these subjects and to harmoniously integrate them into the and abroad, and a strong company culture. In addition to our corporate environment. major actions with respect to recruitment, since the Company To support our development over the long term, Sopra’s strategic was created, Sopra has always put an emphasis on retaining our orientations are examined and refined in the context of an employees. Enterprise Project. Sopra’s labour responsibility policy is in line with its continuous This Enterprise Project, updated every five years, provides the improvement process, which aims to reconcile economic efficiency Group’s strategic vision and is based on a system of shared values. with social fairness. These values are communicated on a day-to-day basis across all Sopra is committed to fostering equal opportunities with regard to levels of Sopra’s organisation, guiding the Group’s managers and current employee-related issues and has established a permanent contributing to our operational performance. Registration Document 2013 Sopra 81 4 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our responsibility to our employees 2.1. Sopra’s Corporate Culture 2.2. Employment policy Sopra’s growth is based on a policy of proactive talent recruitment and skills development for our employees. 2.1.1. SHARING OF FUNDAMENTAL PRECEPTS The Group’s system of values and fundamental precepts are shared by our entire workforce. Day-to-day support from the Company’s 2.2.1. WORKFORCE AND TRENDS managers and a comprehensive training programme organised In 2013, Sopra maintained a robust level of workforce growth by Sopra Academy, the Group’s internal training structure, help amidst an economic environment that remained strained. employees grasp and adopt the Sopra culture and fundamental A total of 3,198 new employees joined the Group’s workforce, precepts. This knowledge is shared in particular during Integration, including 1,418 new employees outside France (figures excluding Management, Sales, Methods and Behaviour seminars. acquisitions). At the same time, transactions to expand the Group’s growth from outside the company integrated over 900 new employees in France 2.1.2. INTEGRATION OF NEW EMPLOYEES and abroad. The successful integration of new employees is essential to a Group At 31 December 2013, Sopra had 16,284 employees (up 50% in which the workforce is constantly growing. compared with 2009), including 6,065 outside France (up 32% Training programmes, comprised of training milestones, compared with 2009). conversations with management, and discussions among peers, There was also a steady increase in the workforce in Spain and India help to integrate each new employee into the Group. in 2013 (up 21% in Spain and 18% in India compared with 2012). A three-day training and integration seminar is held for all new At 31 December 2013, over 98% of Sopra’s employees had employees. The purpose of the seminar is to share the history, permanent contracts (1). This high proportion of permanent plans, values and offerings of the Group as well as our fundamental contracts, which has not changed for several years, shows the precepts with regard to Sopra’s focus on service and quality. Group’s commitment to offering stable jobs. Temporary contracts (2) Sopra is mindful of integrating our new employees and does are mainly work-linked training contracts in France. These are so by bringing them together in special sessions after they have proposed to young future engineers who thereby benefit from a worked for the Company for eighteen to twenty-four months. tutorship system within the company, financing of their studies and For companies that are acquired, a dedicated integration plan recruitment opportunities. supplements the training programme. ❙ SOPRA WORKFORCE AND PROPORTION OF MANAGEMENT-LEVEL EMPLOYEES 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 France 10,219 9,386 8,920 8,223 7,742 International (excluding France) 6,065 4,917 3,690 3,426 3,094 o/w Spain 2,042 1,689 1,569 1,525 o/w India 1,181 999 932 725 TOTAL 16,284 14,303 12,610 11,649 10,836 o/w Management-level* 15,474 13,572 12,106 11,171 10,348 * The notion of management-level staff (cadres) is specific to France. The number of management-level employees of the Group’s international operations is extrapolated on the basis of the figures for France (9,747 management-level employees in France). (1) Permanent contract (CDI): full-time or part-time employment contract signed with the employee for an unlimited period. (2) Fixed-term contract (CDD): full-time or part-time employment contract signed with the employee that expires at the end of a specific period or on completion of a specific task lasting an estimated period. 82 Registration Document 2013 Sopra 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our responsibility to our employees 4 ❙ DISTRIBUTION OF THE WORKFORCE BY TYPE OF CONTRACT 2013 2012 Permanent Fixed-term Permanent Fixed-term contracts* contracts** Interns contracts* contracts** Interns France 98.4% 1.5% 0.1% 98.5% 1.3% 0.2% International (excluding France) 95.5% 1.9% 0.7% 98.1% 1.5% 0.3% o/w Spain 95.4% 4.4% 0.2% 96.4% 3.6% 0% o/w India 99.7% 0% 0.3% 99.6% 0% 0.4% TOTAL 98.1% 1.6% 0.3% 98.4% 1.3% 0.2% * Permanent contract (CDI): full-time or part-time employment contract signed with the employee for an unlimited period. ** Fixed-term contract (CDD): full-time or part-time employment contract signed with the employee that expires at the end of a specific period or on completion of a specific task lasting an estimated period. ❙ FTE WORKFORCE IN FRANCE 2013* 2012** 2011 Average FTE in France 9,460 8,932 8,257 * Excluding companies acquired in 2013. ** Excluding Adeuza and Callataÿ & Wouters France. Calculation method: total FTE workforce at each month-end of the year divided by 12 months. The number of full-time equivalent employees is calculated on the basis of their participation rate. Length of service, age and gender For the Group as a whole, the average age and length of service of employees on permanent contracts has risen noticeably since 2012. This increase is the result of the acquisitions completed during the period and a lower staff turnover rate. 2013 2012 Average length Average length of service of Average age of service of Average age employees on of employees employees on of employees permanent on permanent permanent on permanent contracts contracts contracts contracts France 7.5 35.6 7.3 35.4 International (excluding France) 5.4 35.3 5.4 35.3 o/w Spain 6.0 37.1 6.1 37 o/w India 2.7 28.6 2.7 28.6 TOTAL 6.7 35.4 6.6 35.3 In France, the average age for newly recruited staff is 27.3 years recruited staff are offered permanent employment contracts. The (Group: 28.4 years). recruitment of experienced professionals is subject to prior analysis In terms of the gender breakdown of employees, men to ensure that the requirements in question may not be covered using internal human resources, with skills and expertise developed represented 73.5% of the workforce in France (Group: 73.4%) through practical workshops and training courses. and women accounted for 26.6% in France (Group: 26.6%) at 31 December 2013. This gender breakdown is nearly stable To implement the recruitment policy defined by Executive compared to 2012 (France: 26% women, 74% men). Management, the following annual plans are established: p the recruitment plan defines staffing requirements by subsidiary, level of experience and operating entity. As part of the annual budget process, each entity evaluates its recruitment 2.2.2. JOINERS AND LEAVERS needs, in accordance with its objectives as assigned by the Group. The Group’s recruitment policy places a deliberate priority on the In preparing the year’s recruitment plan, medium-term staffing hiring of young people who have completed at least five years requirements are categorised by business line. Each entity’s of higher education, whether they are graduates of engineering recruitment plan is coordinated with its training programme and schools, business schools or universities. The vast majority of newly its practical workshops; Registration Document 2013 Sopra 83 4 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our responsibility to our employees p the communications plan includes all actions carried out to ❙ HIRES ensure CV sourcing capacities. This plan enables the selection of the best applicants, proposing targeted applications to entities 2013* 2012** 2011 corresponding to their needs. It also seeks to raise the profile and increase the attractiveness of Sopra’s employer brand; France 1,780 1,676 1,814 p the educational partnership plan intends to promote the International recruitment of graduates from preferred institutions and the (excluding France) 1,418 941 selection of promising interns (mostly those able to pre-qualify o/w Spain 458 302 for permanent positions with the Group) as well as work-study o/w India 420 254 personnel. For many years, Sopra has been nurturing partnerships with engineering schools, business schools and universities TOTAL 3,198 2,617 whose degree programmes correspond to the requirements of * Excluding companies acquired in 2013. its business lines. This plan serves as a guide for all operational ** Excluding Delta Informatique, acquired in 2011. units to engage local operational structures; p the internship and work-study plan sets quotas for the number of interns and work-study personnel to be recruited, ❙ LEAVERS organises the listing of offers and their dissemination to educational institutions. This plan is directly tied to each 2013 2012 2011* operating entity’s budget preparation process. It targets those schools, universities and training programmes where Sopra is France 1,310 1,236 1,371 interested in recruiting interns and work-study personnel. International In 2013, to serve the ambition of growing and upscaling its (excluding France) 839 664 businesses, Sopra strengthened its involvement in social and o/w Spain 224 188 workforce-related issues along three main lines: o/w India 237 182 p increasing its attractiveness with respect to employer branding; TOTAL 2,149 1,900 p developing partnerships with schools targeted by the Group; * Excluding Delta Informatique, acquired in 2011. p contributing to regional development. Dismissals represent less than 5% of separations in France. Net recruitment was well into positive figures for the Group as a whole, with almost 1,000 appointments (including over 450 in Change in the turnover of permanent contracts France, over 200 in Spain and almost 200 in India). For the Group as a whole, turnover fell by 0.5% during the year There was a 22% increase in appointments between 2012 and (1% in France). This was due to employee loyalty and the effects 2013. International appointments contributed greatly (up 50% of a quiet market. compared with 2012). Spain and India alone accounted for over 60% of international appointments. 2013 2012 2011 Sopra increased its presence on professional social networks (Work With Us on LinkedIn, Social Job Sharing on Facebook, etc.) and France 8.3% 9.2% 12% continued to be heavily involved in schools, enabling it to increase International the number of work-linked training contracts and trainees. (excluding France) 11.1% 10.6% In addition, in France Sopra was awarded the Happy Trainees o/w Spain 7.6% 8.4% label. This involves a survey of over 14,000 students, and rewards o/w India 17.8% 15.2% the most outstanding companies in terms of the conditions for TOTAL 9.4% 9.7% 12.5% welcoming students and conducting placements. In 2014 Sopra will continue its determined approach in favour of integrating young people into the world of work, in particular for its target schools. Its aim is to gradually extend its best practices regarding recruitment, help with job seeking for young people and 2.2.3. TRAINING POLICY promoting diversity to all countries and human resources teams. Sopra Academy, Sopra’s internal training organisation One of Sopra’s major objectives in the area of human resources management is to continually enhance the expertise of its employees and give them a head start on their professional development. All Sopra employees must share and know the Group’s value system and fundamentals in order to promote a common culture and Group cohesion. 84 Registration Document 2013 Sopra 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our responsibility to our employees 4 To meet its major challenges, the Group relies on its internal Regardless of their business area, manager training aims to develop training organisation, Sopra Academy, and on its Knowledge all of the necessary managerial skills (sales, production, human Management system. resources management and finance). These mechanisms support Sopra’s advancement through skills Within its programmes, in 2013 Sopra Academy conducted a development and knowledge-sharing plans. The objectives of this residential seminar for all of the Group’s managers covering the approach are to: cultural fundamentals of Sopra with respect to management. p serve the strategic vision for the development of the Group’s In 2014 the training courses will be enhanced to support the business segments outlined in the Enterprise Project; Enterprise Project, for all managers responsible for deploying it. p disseminate fundamentals and encourage employees to capitalise In particular, the aims are to continually increase the value of on best practices through the Knowledge Management system; our services for our clients, share the Group’s culture and best practices, and develop skills in all our sectors for the business lines, p facilitate the integration of new hires and acquired companies; technologies and innovation required. p foster the Group’s internationalisation; p meet employee expectations in terms of personal development; ❙ NUMBER OF TRAINING HOURS AND DAYS IN FRANCE p enhance the talents of Sopra’s employees; p implement regulatory provisions for professional training. 2013* 2012** 2011*** Through its training programmes and knowledge sharing system, Sopra Academy contributes to guaranteeing the level of excellence Number of training hours and adaptability of the Group’s employees. provided during the financial year Training offerings and Knowledge Management France 229,887 231,784 225,400 Through a broad network of over 480 trainers and speakers, Spain 33,977 Sopra Academy disseminates a comprehensive offering of India 68,066 training sessions: orientation and integration seminars, training in Number of training days (1) management, the Group’s business areas and offerings, personal provided during the development, training in methods and tools, technologies and financial year solutions, among others. France 32,841 33,112 32,200 In addition, Knowledge Management supports and supplements Spain 4,247 these training programmes. It covers the areas of the training plan, India 8,368 facilitates sharing of the Group’s fundamentals and capitalising on Average number of training best practices through its communities organised by business lines, days per person offerings and expertise. With all of the divisions and Community France 3.5 3.8 3.9 Managers, Sopra Academy coordinates the Group Knowledge Spain 2.4 Portal, a platform for knowledge sharing, available to all Group India 7.8 employees. * Excluding companies acquired in 2013. Training programme and talent development ** Excluding Adeuza and Callataÿ & Wouters France. In an effort to support the development of employee talent, Sopra *** Excluding Delta Informatique, acquired in 2011. (1) In France, one day of training = 7 hours. Academy offers training programmes by business line. In 2013, In Spain and India, one day of training = 8 hours. Sopra Academy expanded the programmes dedicated to managers and salespeople to help them acquire critical knowledge when they take on their duties. Programmes are also offered to consultants to help them grasp and adopt the Group’s internal methods and 2.2.4. TALENT DEVELOPMENT tools. Anticipating Group needs and adapting human resources are New training modules have been created to meet the challenges critical to the success of the Sopra Enterprise Project, while of upscaling with respect to technological innovation and new maintaining employee motivation at a high level. practices. Sopra’s dynamic Enterprise Project and the diversity of its business Development of managerial skills segments provides a motivating work environment conducive to The ability of Sopra’s managers to globally manage the business, the development of a variety of professional careers. motivate and develop their teams and promote a strong All new staff members joining the Group do so with the intention entrepreneurial spirit at every level is critical to Sopra’s success. of developing their skills and advancing in their chosen career. Registration Document 2013 Sopra 85 4 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our responsibility to our employees Core Competency Reference Guide ❙ RATIO OF HIGHEST TO LOWEST SALARY IN FRANCE (PERMANENT EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS) The Core Competency Reference Guide describes all of the Group’s business lines (consulting, technology services, software publishing, 2013*** 2012** application outsourcing, management, project management, sales, support functions). The Guide helps employees grasp the demands Ratio of highest to lowest gross annual of their positions as well as the possible career paths within the base salaries 13.0 13.0 different business areas. Ratio of highest to lowest annual base The Core Competency Reference Guide is an essential tool that salaries plus variable compensation 16.7 16.1 helps managers guide the professional development of their Number of employees whose gross employees based on their aptitudes, their motivations and the annual salary is less than or equal to Group’s priorities. It also provides necessary material to attract new €20,000 0 2 talent in line with Sopra’s business strategy and to make it easier Number of employees whose gross to integrate employees from acquired companies. annual salary is less than or equal to €26,000, i.e. €2,000 x 13 months 41 54 The Core Competency Reference Guide is a major tool used for employee skills assessment and development. Average gross annual base salary in € €44,243 €43,929 In order to consistently add value in support of the development * The lowest gross annual salary amounted to €19,266 in 2012 and €20,251 in 2013 and only concerned one person. of the Group’s services, the Core Competency Reference Guide is ** Excluding Adeuza and Callataÿ & Wouters France. updated on a regular basis to take into account changes in areas *** Excluding companies acquired in 2013. regardless of the business line. In 2012, the data was recalculated excluding company officers and A continuous assessment system the same workforce basis was applied for all the indicators above Employee assessment is the keystone of the human resources (employees on permanent contracts present the entire year). development programme. Sopra uses an assessment and career tracking system that enables the Group to know its staff and regularly monitor their development. This system is based on assignment reviews and annual appraisals. 2.3. Work organisation Employees actively participate in these assessments, which are All Sopra entities comply with applicable local laws as well as shared in the human resources committee meetings led jointly business sector practices in the countries in question. by management, the Human Resources Department and the In France, Sopra approves employee requests for part-time Transformation, Supply and Marketing department. work when they are compatible with the requirements of the In response to the Group’s growth and internationalisation, the departments or projects concerned. Such requests are generally role of local managers is essential for monitoring the careers of authorised for renewable terms of between six and twelve months. employees and reinforcing the advancement of their skills. For Part-time employees accounted for 6% of Sopra’s workforce in 2014, Sopra will maintain its training effort and active leadership France at 31 December 2013. of local managers. Specific work organisation mechanisms are put in place for employees under contractual commitments entered into with clients. 2.2.5. REMUNERATION AND TRENDS In order to support the Group’s growth, Sopra seeks to attract, ❙ PERCENTAGE OF SOPRA’S STAFF WORKING PART-TIME motivate and retain its employees by providing them with consistent IN FRANCE remuneration and equal treatment. Backed by the employee assessment system, the remuneration policy is individualised and is based on objective criteria. 2013 2012 2011 The process for adjusting remuneration is based, on the one hand, % part-time on the assessment system described above and, on the other hand, (permanent contracts) 6% 6% 6% on the HR cycles that are organised each year. 86 Registration Document 2013 Sopra 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our responsibility to our employees 4 ❙ ABSENTEEISM RATE IN FRANCE p an agreement regarding the profit-sharing bonus within Sopra; The absenteeism rate has increased since 2011. p an agreement in favour of jobs for young people and over-fifties, and support for the transmission of knowledge and skills relating to the cross-generational contract (contrat de génération) and 2013** 2012 2011* an agreement on gender equality at work within Sopra Banking Software. % absenteeism 2.24% 2.14% 2.08% As part of a Group-wide agreement, trade unions have the Calculation method: ratio between the number of actual calendar days of absence / option to send monthly and quarterly notices to all staff via the number of theoretical workdays required. This ratio was calculated on the basis of an average full-time equivalent, taking into account absences for illness, work accidents Sopra intranet. Similarly, under a provision of the internal rules and travel accidents. of the Sopra Group Works Council, the elected members of this * For 2011, the indicator was recalculated following the calculation rule applied in committee may issue monthly information. 2012. In 2014, Sopra Group and Sopra Banking will continue to take part ** Excluding companies acquired in 2013. in the labour-management dialogue, with a considerable number of negotiations scheduled. ❙ OVERVIEW OF COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS 2.4. Employee relations IN FRANCE The information presented in this section relates exclusively to Sopra’s operations in France (excluding HRA and Altime). 2013 2012 2011 The organisation of Sopra’s employee representative bodies is structured around a central Works Council in the context of the Number of agreements existing UES (1) with its former subsidiary Axway Software (in signed during the year 4 (Sopra) with union organisations 5 (Sopra Banking which Sopra has a 25.72% equity interest) and its wholly owned and/or the Works Council Software) 16 4 subsidiary Sopra Banking Software. 15 (Sopra) Sopra Banking Software has a Works Council, employee Number of collective 15 (Sopra representatives at 6 sites and 6 health, safety and working bargaining agreements Banking conditions committees. active Software) 20 13 Sopra has a Works Council, employee representatives at 20 sites and 16 health, safety and working conditions committees. In 2013, the central Works Council met 5 times and the Sopra Works Council was convened for 12 ordinary meetings and 6 extraordinary meetings. The health, safety and working conditions 2.5. Health and safety committees met 4 times in the year to discuss ordinary business The information presented in this section relates to Sopra’s and occasionally for extraordinary discussions relating in particular operations in France. to the layout of work areas, changes to internal regulations and In 2013, Sopra continued its rescue and first-aid training programme the IT charter. for all of its operating sites. To this end, both refresher courses and Sopra Banking Software’s Works Council and employee initial training programmes were offered. All sites are equipped representatives were named for the first time in April 2013, and the with defibrillators. health, safety and working conditions committees were named in Employees have access to a carpooling platform. Sopra pursued June 2013. Sopra Banking Software’s Works Council was convened its policy with regard to providing quality layout of its work areas. for 9 ordinary meetings and 4 extraordinary meetings. For 2014, as part of the action plan in favour of employment Mandatory annual negotiations were held with the employee for young workers and seniors and in support of the transfer of representative bodies. knowledge and skills, Sopra will implement awareness-raising In 2013 collective bargaining resulted in the signing of: sessions on topics such as “movements and postures” and p an amendment to the incentive agreement covering Sopra and “working with display screen equipment”, with the help of Sopra Banking Software; occupational health specialists. p an amendment to the profit-sharing agreement and an agreement regarding the early release of profit-sharing both within Sopra and within Sopra Banking Software; (1) UES or Unité économique et sociale (economic and social unit). Registration Document 2013 Sopra 87 4 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our responsibility to our employees ❙ RATES OF FREQUENCY AND SEVERITY OF WORKPLACE A large-scale training programme regarding disability was ACCIDENTS IN FRANCE introduced for all human resources teams. Furthermore, to meet the aim of raising the awareness of all employees, and in particular those on assignments at client premises, original and varied 2013** 2012 2011 content (viral videos, accounts by experts and employees, quizzes Frequency rate of etc.) have been featured on the company’s portal. This has had a workplace accidents 0.81 0.64 0.59 big impact on employees and led to almost 10,000 views during Severity rate of workplace the week of the event. accidents* 0.01 0.007 0.055 The awareness campaigns made it possible to encourage disabled Calculation method for frequency rate: (Number of work-related accidents with employees to apply for Recognition of Handicapped Worker leave* 1,000,000) / Total number of hours worked by total workforce over the year. Status (RQTH) and to adapt their workstation to the needs of their Calculation method for severity rate: (Number of calendar days on leave from work disability. (following a work-related accident) *1000) / Total number of hours worked by total Moreover, the partnership with UNEA (1) and improvements in the workforce over the year. process for finding special-needs employers made it possible to * Extensions of leave for work-related accidents that took place during year Y-1 are not revitalise purchasing policy within the Group. One consequence recognised. was the signing of contracts that made it possible to create 10 ** Excluding companies acquired in 2013. subcontracted positions for disabled people with special-needs employers. The AUREVI project was launched in partnership with the Ecole des OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESSES IN FRANCE Mines d’Ales engineering school and an ophthalmology school. Since 2011, no occupational illnesses have been recognised. The objective was to develop a system to increase the mobility of partially sighted people. In addition, support was maintained for the technical development of the TADEO project (services platform for hearing-impaired people). 2.6. Non-discrimination principles The employment rate of disabled people by Sopra in France was 1.23% at 31 December 2013. The improvement in the Sopra’s policy with regard to fighting discrimination is consistent employment rate is due both to the increase in the rate of direct with its proactive approach to promoting diversity. employment of disabled people, and the increase in subcontracting To support these commitments, Sopra has a dedicated structure to special-needs employers. aimed at spearheading and guiding the agreements and action plans relating to corporate social responsibility. These initiatives ❙ PERCENTAGE OF DISABLED EMPLOYEES IN FRANCE include in particular the hiring of disabled employees, professional equality between women and men, the integration of young workers, and support to senior employees. Various guidelines, 2013*** 2012* 2011** objectives and policies have been defined for these areas and are specified in agreements or action plans. Percentage of disabled workers in the Company’s workforce 1.23% 0.87% 0.94% 2.6.1. DISABLED EMPLOYEES (FRANCE) Calculation method: Number of employees with disabilities recognised within the company (Disabled Worker unit) increased by 50% on the basis of rules determined The main aim of the “Handicap Mission” is to promote long-term by AGEFIPH + number of qualifying units from subcontracting to firms employing employment for disabled workers. disabled persons in specially adapted and protected work environments, divided In line with 2012 (when the Handicap Mission was launched), in by the relevant workforce. 2013 it was possible to step up the initiatives introduced in the * Excluding Adeuza and Callataÿ & Wouters France. five main areas of disability policy (recruitment, continuation in ** Excluding Delta Informatique, acquired in 2011. The workforce numbers used are calculated according to the rules defined by AGEFIPH, employment, training and awareness, relations with special-needs an organisation that promotes professional integration of the disabled. Not all people employers, support for technical development). benefiting from the employment obligation are accounted for in this calculation. Achieving our recruitment targets is partly linked to our ability to *** Excluding companies acquired in 2013 and Sopra Banking Software. innovate and offer high quality meetings in a friendly setting. For that purpose, specific recruitment days were organised in seven In 2014, Sopra will continue working to achieve all its targets large catchment areas. These events made it possible firstly to related to the 2012-2014 triennial company-wide agreement, raise the awareness of managers, as well as to recruit experienced while focusing on social commitments and innovative projects. candidates and young graduates who are disabled, unemployed or seeking vocational retraining. These young people were offered a programme of specific training courses suited to our businesses. (1) UNEA: Union Nationale des Entreprises Adaptées, a French association that represents disabled workers and adapted companies. 88 Registration Document 2013 Sopra 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our responsibility to our employees 4 2.6.2. GENDER EQUALITY pursue initiatives to anticipate requirements for career development With regard to professional equality between women and men, and provide information to employees affected by end-of-career the Group remains committed to three priority areas: promoting adjustments and the transition from working life to retirement. gender diversity in scientific career paths, attracting more female employees from engineering schools and being mindful of ❙ PROPORTION OF OLDER EMPLOYEES IN FRANCE non-discrimination in women’s careers. In 2013, in connection with the EDHEC Boat Cup, sponsorship of 2013 2012 2011 all-female crews was renewed for EDHEC and Centrale Paris. A pilot project was also launched with a local association in the RhôneNumber of seniors Alpes region to promote IT careers among female schoolchildren (45 years and older) 1,828 1,590 1,445 and secondary school students through accounts by female Percentage of employed employees at Sopra. Furthermore, for International Women’s seniors (45 years and older) Day an awareness campaign was organised by involving a female in relation to the workforce co-option campaign. at 31 December 17.9% 16.9% 16.6% In terms of training and career management, the proportion of Number of seniors women and men trained is consistent with the gender breakdown (55 years and older) 450 386 326 of the workforce. The same is true for promotions. Percentage of employed seniors (55 years and older) Sopra offers identical starting salaries to both male and female in relation to the workforce applicants with identical qualifications, degrees, skills and at 31 December 4.4% 4.1% 3.8% experience. In 2013, the differences in remuneration reported by employee category between women and men remained within a 3% range. These differences are carefully analysed during salary assessment and job review cycles. In addition, Sopra ensures that people who have taken maternity 2.6.4. YOUTH DIVERSITY AND ASSISTING YOUNG or adoption leave benefit from the same conditions for salary WORKERS SEEKING EMPLOYMENT (FRANCE) increases as all company employees. A parenting guide is available Access to education for all and integrating young graduates into to all staff members on the employee intranet. the world of work is central to the Sopra CSR policy. In 2014, the Group will launch an overall review of the issue of In 2013, campaigns were carried out among engineering and female leadership in order to understand and remove any possible university students to promote social diversity (regarding disability, obstacles linked to the promotion of women. gender equality etc.). As a result, Sopra renewed its commitment Lastly, the Group will maintain its internal awareness-raising to the association “Nos Quartiers ont des Talents”. A dozen initiatives and expand its operations promoting the engineering young graduates from problem areas are sponsored by volunteer profession among female high school students to other regions employees of the company to help them find a job. Furthermore, to in France. favour integration into the world of work of young graduates from The International Human Resources community’s goal is to share sectors other than IT, an IT Careers Open Day was organised for the and enrich best practices and experiences with regard to this issue. first time and proved a real success, resulting in new appointments. In addition, the Group helped disabled students choose the right sector and financed the adapting of equipment to the 2.6.3. SENIORS requirements of their disability in an educational environment. In 2013, Sopra promoted the transfer of knowledge and skills, It also promoted an original programme of educational support which is a major component of our policy in favour of older for young disabled secondary school students (the Sopra Group employees for the success of intergenerational management. Handitutorat programme). In 2014, Sopra intends to roll out the programmes resulting from In 2014, Sopra will continue the initiatives carried out for students its action plan in favour of employment for young workers and and strengthen its partnership with “Nos Quartiers ont des seniors and in support of the transfer of knowledge and skills. This Talents”, launching with it the first VIP Sponsors Club (to increase programme is aimed at promoting the hiring of young workers the effectiveness of job seeking support for young graduates from while retaining working seniors in jobs. The Group also plans to difficult areas). Registration Document 2013 Sopra 89 4 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our environmental responsibility commitments 2.7. Promoting and complying 2.7.1. UPHOLDING THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION As a participant in the United Nations Global Compact, Sopra is with the fundamental committed to upholding freedom of association and recognising conventions of the right to collective bargaining. The Group reaffirmed this the International Labour commitment in its Ethics Charter published in 2012. Sopra implements non-discrimination policies and procedures with Organisation (ILO) regard to employee representatives. Sopra adheres to the principles and fundamental entitlements of In countries that do not have an institutional framework governing the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations the recognition of employee representatives, Sopra makes an effort and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. to implement measures intended to improve professional relations The Group is committed to: between the company and our employees. p complying with European Community and national labour laws and the collective bargaining agreements of each country where it operates; 2.7.2. REPUDIATION OF FORCED CHILD LABOUR p respecting the exercise of trade union rights in each of the Sopra has formally committed to fight against child labour and countries in question. the exploitation of children, forced labour and all other forms of Sopra applies a social policy with the aim of safeguarding the compulsory labour, particularly through its participation in the health and safety of each of its employees and treating everyone in United Nations Global Compact. the workplace with dignity and respect. This commitment is reiterated in the Sopra Ethics Charter. Sopra remains particularly attentive at all times to ensuring compliance with principles of equality, diversity and non-discrimination, as much in relation to its recruitment practices as in the development of its employees’ careers. 3. Our environmental responsibility commitments Compared with heavy industry, Sopra’s software development, This environmental approach will gradually be extended to service and consultancy activities have a limited impact on the international entities and the companies acquired recently. environment. However, with their international locations the Group’s businesses involve travel to a considerable extent, require significant infrastructure and IT equipment, and produce many documents. In order to provide its major clients with a relevant 3.1. Taking environmental impacts local presence, the Group also has a number of sites both in France and abroad, which requires its business premises to be managed into consideration according to environmental constraints. In France, an eco-responsibility programme involving the active The need to control our environmental impact has therefore participation of each and every Sopra employee ensures that all staff become a key factor in our management and production methods, members understand the important role they play in reducing the and is covered by a continuous improvement programme involving environmental impact of our operations. At Sopra we encourage the relevant functional departments and their staff. employee initiatives in the area of environmental protection and In addition, in 2013 Sopra decided to reinforce its commitment promote the avoidance of excess consumption of non-renewable to the environment by taking more fully into account themes energy resources in our working methods. A guide to eco-friendly behaviours was published and distributed in 2009 and updated in related to water in its broadest sense: access to water, sanitation, 2013 to raise awareness and help employees in their day-to-day prevention and fight against pollution. Together with food, water activities. Staff are regularly reminded of the existence of this guide is essential for daily life. Almost a billion people do not have access as well as the full set of complementary Group initiatives under to drinking water. Over 2.6 billion people do not have access to way. Correspondents at all sites are tasked with ensuring the proper sanitation services. Lastly, water has no borders. Sharing it leads application of the relevant measures. to tension and conflicts between states. As such, in 2013 Sopra increased its support for the NGO Green Cross, which it has sponsored in France since 2012. More details regarding this point are provided in Section 4.1.4 of this report. 3.1.1. ORGANISATION TO TAKE ENVIRONMENTAL In 2014, the two main lines of the Group’s continuous improvement ISSUES INTO CONSIDERATION process are therefore to reduce the environmental impact of its As part of the Group’s Sustainable Development programme, a activities and to contribute more to improving access to and number of functional departments have adopted the Group’s protection of water. approach to environmental issues and, along with the Sustainable 90 Registration Document 2013 Sopra 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our environmental responsibility commitments 4 Development department and under the responsibility of Executive Moving to new premises or renovating existing sites always provides Management, are defining the Group’s environmental policy. This a good opportunity for revitalising our environmental policy and policy is defined each year and summarised in a memorandum rethinking eco-friendly behaviours. Offices that comply with the that covers all of the major relevant fields of action for Sopra. latest standards, where lighting, heating and air-conditioning are Each department involved in the environmental policy spearheads programmed to turn off at the weekend, bike parking facilities, its own action. The environmental programme as a whole is development of selective sorting, and new-generation coffee coordinated during meetings of the Sustainable Development machines that reduce waste from cups, all help to limit the Group’s Committee. environmental footprint. The following two departments are more particularly involved in Many employees support the Group’s environmental approach and the Group’s environmental policy and have coordinated to manage are involved in introducing local initiatives: orders for eco-friendly their plans for ongoing progress: paper, collection of used bulbs and batteries introduced at Group Real Estate and Purchasing sites and even for clients etc. The main participants directly involved in the Group’s environmental In France, the company’s environmental approach is mainly based programme are: at central level on initiatives by the Real Estate and Purchasing department, the IT Resources and Security department and the p the Director of Real Estate and Purchasing; Sustainable Development department. At the local level, the p a manager in charge of the real estate policy and choice of approach is also based on initiatives by site managements. buildings (complying with environmental standards); The initiatives in place or introduced in France in 2013 include: p an environmental coordination and monitoring manager for sites the introduction of bike courier systems between nearby sites, in France; development of car sharing, distribution of the eco-friendly p a central purchasing manager, in charge of monitoring the Sopra behaviour guide and printing and PC charters, improvement of Responsible Purchasing policy in France; selective sorting of paper by providing special containers in each office at several sites, reducing printing by default printing on both p a travel management officer for each entity/country; sides. p a purchasing manager for office supplies and computer consumables for each entity/country; An environmental programme has been progressively introduced in France since 2011. It groups together the specific initiatives p site managers (excluding France, under the authority of country introduced by the departments involved in reducing the Group’s management). environmental impact. In 2014 the creation of an Environmental IT Resources and Security Management System (EMS) will be continued in France to reinforce our action in favour of the environment. The IT Resources and Security department manages all the Group’s IT resources. In 2013 an initiative to obtain ISO 14001 certification was introduced at one of the sites in the Aquitaine region (Colomiers). The main participants involved in the Group’s environmental Other certification procedures for sites will be studied in 2014 programme are: based on this pilot project. p the Director of IT Resources and Security; In Spain, Sopra introduced a continuous improvement programme p an environmental coordination manager for ITR&S. It also in 2013 involving the functional departments concerned as well as handles relations with the Real Estate and Purchasing department all of the employees. (computer rooms, site extensions and renovation); The CSR Manager, supervised by Executive Management, defines p a workstations services manager, who is responsible for: an environmental policy in coordination with the Real Estate and • the equipment policy (PCs, printers, photocopiers, among Purchasing department, the IT Resources and Security department others), and the Communications department. • management of the equipment inventory, This continuous improvement programme is based on an • handling of WEEE . (1) Environmental Management System (EMS) drawn up in accordance with UNE-EN ISO 14001. The main aims of the EMS concern: Regarding deployment in different countries, and for aspects such as selective sorting except for WEEE, management of travel and p training of employees in connection with energy efficiency purchasing, management is carried out by the local entities. measures; In India and Spain, an SD-CSR manager for each country coordinates p better waste management by introducing a system of selective the environmental initiatives of the entities concerned. sorting; p involvement of suppliers in the Group’s environmental approach. As a result, Sopra Group Spain has ISO 14001 certification for two 3.1.2. INITIATIVES IN FAVOUR OF THE ENVIRONMENT sites: Seville and part of the Manoteras site. Throughout the Group, initiatives in favour of the environment are As a responsible company, Sopra Group India (SGI) which has on the increase. over 1,200 employees in India (Noida and Bangalore) introduced (1) WEEE: Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment. Registration Document 2013 Sopra 91 4 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our environmental responsibility commitments a programme of initiatives for better environmental management Work to build a Group Environmental Management System is set several years ago. This programme managed by Yogdaan (the to continue in 2014. The priority focus will be on France, gradually approved body Sopra Group India Yogdaan Trust) concerns: extending to international entities in line with progress on their p managing IT resources: this point is explained in Section 3.3.1; own programmes (Spain). p raising awareness and the involvement of employees in environmental issues and eco-friendly behaviours; p introduction of selective sorting of paper. 3.2. Waste management One of the initiatives introduced by SGI in 2013 was to support Two types of waste are mainly sorted and processed by specialised an association that manufactures and sells products using recycled companies: materials. p waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE); p other waste, which covers paper, used ink cartridges and 3.1.3. TRAINING AND INFORMATION ON PROTECTING batteries. THE ENVIRONMENT OFFERED TO EMPLOYEES At several sites, cans are also recycled but the quantities concerned In 2013, Sopra organised an awareness programme for all are not recognised in the tables presented in this document. employees in France, Spain and India on managing the Group’s environmental impact. The Group’s employees take part in the company’s approach to 3.2.1. WEEE MANAGEMENT eco-responsibility. An informative guide to eco-friendly behaviours France is regularly published and distributed to all employees in France, Spain and India to raise awareness of the major environmental In 2013, Sopra worked with two specialised companies to challenges in the Group’s various business lines. Sopra uses all handle the Group’s waste electrical and electronic equipment: its internal communication tools (Group newsletter, intranet) and ATF Gaia for the Group’s sites in the French provinces and Tricycle on-site communications to promote this awareness campaign. Each Environnement for its sites in the Paris region and in Tours. country has put in place its own information and awareness-raising ATF Gaia organises the collection of a major portion of the waste arrangements via memos, the intranet and dedicated newsletters. electrical and electronic equipment from Annecy, where the Group For example, in France, a dedicated e-mail address enables stores its computer equipment. The company employs disabled employees to send their questions and suggestions to the Sustainable workers. Development department, which passes on the information to the This WEEE management organisation in two regions enables the relevant departments. Group to limit the transport of inoperable or obsolete equipment. Information on Sopra’s environmental programme is disseminated The two service providers organise the collection of waste electrical through the eco-friendly behaviour guide as well as the orientation and electronic equipment and ensure a high degree of traceability guide and information given to all new employees who join the for IT-related waste, offering several types of recycling: Group in France. p full recycling of equipment; In 2014, induction seminars for new recruits in France will include p recycling of spare parts; an awareness-raising component. p recycling of computer components; Finally, all employees are made aware of environmental issues p secure data destruction of disks and magnetic cartridges. through partnership and humanitarian activities carried out by the entities to which they belong. Spain In France, Sopra sponsors Green Cross France et Territoires (GCFT) In 2013, Sopra worked with Cuadrado to handle its IT-related and works with this international environmental association on waste. Cuadrado offers the same level of traceability and recycling water-related issues. as the providers used in France. In 2013, the Group began a programme to raise awareness within India key international entities by targeting the relevant business unit heads, with the aim of gradually rolling out to the entire Group the Sopra Group India launched the “Go green” initiative to improve environmental approach initiated in France. the sustainability of its IT infrastructure and the efficiency of its equipment. In 2013, SGI worked with New Delhi-based company The main progress targets for 2014 relate to the Group-wide Greenscape to handle its IT-related waste (particularly PCs). distribution of materials on sustainable development and awareness Meanwhile, used but reusable IT equipment was donated to of environmental issues relating to the Group’s activities. Access to associations and schools. Group tools and employee awareness-raising will be delivered through the Corporate Collaborative Network and, at country level, through induction seminars. 92 Registration Document 2013 Sopra 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our environmental responsibility commitments 4 For 2014, the Group’s main objective is to continue its IT-related In 2013, a policy of in-office selective sorting of paper waste was waste management programme. introduced at a number of sites in France. This policy, which should To ensure that the handling of IT-related waste for the Group’s significantly increase the volume of paper waste collected, will be various entities is managed effectively, the programme is managed rolled out to more sites in 2014. and coordinated centrally in conjunction with entities in each The 2014 progress plan aims to accurately monitor sorted country. quantities and extend the system of in-office selective sorting to more sites in the Paris region and the provinces. To this end, Sopra has a policy of directly managing selective sorting by working with ❙ QUANTITIES OF WEEE specialist companies who ensure better traceability by providing waste tracking documents. (in kg) 2013 2012 2011 India France 11,809 4,510 n.a. As part of its approach to corporate social responsibility, Sopra Spain 653 n.a. (1) n.a. Group India has introduced an aggressive policy of recycling India 368 n.a. n.a. paper waste. Eighty-five percent of the company’s paper waste is recycled, representing almost two tonnes of paper in 2013. (1) n.a.: not available. France: excluding companies acquired in 2013. In 2013, SGI worked with New Delhi-based company Green O Tech Spain: including HRA. to handle its paper waste. For the sake of clarity, figures have been rounded to the nearest unit. The policy will continue to apply under the 2014 progress plan. For India, the figure stated in this table relates to PCs. WEEE volumes may vary substantially from one year to the next depending on whether Spain IT hardware within acquired companies is replaced. For example, in 2013, almost six tonnes of WEEE were collected from the Tours site (belonging to Delta Informatique, For the management of its paper waste, Sopra Group Spain which was acquired in 2012). works with specialist provider DCD (Destrucción Confidencial de Documentación). Bins for used paper are installed close to printers. Empty printer and toner cartridges are also recycled by specialist provider Grupo Colombia. Organic waste, plastic and packaging is 3.2.2. MANAGEMENT OF PAPER WASTE also sorted and processed by local councils. AND CONSUMABLES Progress will focus on two areas in 2014: France p an internal communication campaign on selective sorting (including posters in canteens and the distribution of a recycling Selective sorting at most sites in France is handled in two ways: guide); p by specialist companies managed directly by the Group, which p gradual introduction of selective sorting in all offices. closely monitor quantities disposed of; p by local councils or service providers not managed by the Group (for multi-tenant properties). ❙ WASTE QUANTITIES EXCLUDING WEEE (PAPER, USED CARTRIDGES, BATTERIES, ETC.) 2013 2012 2011 (in kg) Paper Cartridges Batteries Paper Cartridges Batteries Paper Cartridges Batteries France 27,001 4,112 89 19,920 4,403 181 18,090 4,089 15 Spain 11,090 170 n.a. 20,490 145 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. India 1,982 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. France: excluding companies acquired in 2013 For the sake of clarity, figures have been rounded to the nearest unit. The data for France only concerns data provided by service providers directly managed by the Group. In 2012, the quantities for France only concerned the Paris region. In 2013, the data concerned the Paris region and the rest of France. In Spain, moving to the Manoteras site enabled a large quantity of old papers to be sorted. Registration Document 2013 Sopra 93 4 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our environmental responsibility commitments 3.3. Sustainable use of resources The aims of this approach are reflected in: p an increase in processing capacity by reducing the number of physical machines and thereby energy consumption; p the acquisition of more compact machines using less energy; 3.3.1. MANAGEMENT OF IT RESOURCES p significant space savings in IT centres by limiting the need to IT resources are managed centrally by the IT Resources and Security build extensions; Department. This ensures that hardware is standardised and shared, leading to energy savings. p extensions to the life cycles of IT equipment. In 2014, the Group will maintain its server virtualisation policy in all By virtue of its activity of developing software and managing the countries where it operates, which helps reduce the impact of IT projects on behalf of its clients, Sopra has a large number its businesses on the environment. of servers. These servers account for a large proportion of the company’s environmental footprint (in terms of materials, energy Management of the installed base of IT equipment consumption and air-conditioning requirements). With the aim of Sopra manages its installed base of IT equipment in application controlling economic and ecological costs, Sopra has for a long of very precise guidelines with a view to controlling costs and time tightly managed its stock of servers by pooling hardware protecting the environment. and implementing solutions for reducing the amount of energy consumed by workstations. All IT equipment used by Sopra is listed in a database managed using HP’s AssetCenter product. Technical, financial and usage Management of energy consumption information is continually updated over the equipment’s life cycle, For several years, Sopra has relied on an optimised energy allowing the Group both to optimise equipment lifespans and to management model and standardised its IT equipment in favour ensure proper recycling when equipment reaches its end of life. of more energy-efficient models. A number of initiatives have also The quality of information collected ensures effective management been taken, such as programming monitors to switch off after of Sopra’s installed base of equipment, and enables the identification fifteen minutes and activating hibernation mode. This programme and replacement of equipment that becomes obsolete or whose has been renewed by the Group and deployed to all subsidiaries. use no longer corresponds to Sopra’s business standards. It limits Sopra’s energy consumption when employees are not Even once an item of equipment has been removed and recycled, using their computers for extended periods during the day. The Sopra maintains information relating to its final destination in Group also raises awareness on a regular basis via the intranet to its database. In order to ensure that electrical and electronic encourage employees to shut down their computers or activate equipment reaching the end of its useful life is managed in an sleep mode when not using their computers for long periods. ecologically friendly manner, Sopra sells most of its equipment to In addition, the desktop computers, laptops and servers selected by a certified organisation. In addition, 15% of PCs coming to the Sopra comply with manufacturer standards (Energy Star 5.0) and end of their useful lives are donated to educational institutions or favour low energy consumption. Laptops are also equipped with charitable associations. three-cell batteries, which recharge quickly. Lifespan of IT equipment With regard to photocopiers and printers, Sopra has developed a process to streamline the number of devices and promote Since 2009, Sopra has replaced a major portion of its business sensible use of consumable supplies. In this regard, networking computer equipment in favour of more energy-efficient models. is considered as a way of reducing the number of devices, since Manufacturers continue to develop their offerings, featuring photocopiers can also function as both printers and scanners (scan computer product ranges with enhanced environmental to email). In 2013, nearly 90% of the Group’s photocopiers were performance, which gives the Group further room for progress the networked and offered double-sided printing. next time it replaces its equipment. The year 2014 will witness the implementation of a plan for better At the same time, one of the key principles implemented over the printing management, notably featuring black-and-white, doublelast several years has been to extend the life of the equipment as sided printing by default. much as possible while taking into consideration the technology required to carry out our businesses. Virtualisation of IT infrastructure Consequently, regularly replacing the IT equipment with more For several years, Sopra has opted for the virtualisation of its energy-efficient computers and a policy of extending the life of this IT infrastructure. This technology allows IT centres to pool and equipment help to significantly reduce the Group’s environmental optimise the use of their equipment resources. impact. IT equipment is inventoried on a regular basis both physically by the Group’s technical teams and remotely by data collection from the network, ensuring the company’s ability to track the equipment. 94 Registration Document 2013 Sopra 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our environmental responsibility commitments 4 The objective for 2014 is to switch to a range of Hewlett❙ ANNUAL ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION Packard laptop models equipped with more energy-efficient OF BUSINESS COMPUTERS new generation Intel processors. These models meet the Energy Star 5.2 standard. Plans are also in place to complete the mass 2013 2012 2011 migration of desktop and laptop computers from Windows XP, for which support is to be withdrawn, to Windows 7, which has (in kWh) LPT PC LPT PC LPT PC more efficient power management functionality. This migration will entail the replacement of part of the PC portfolio, thus helping France 54 152 57 178 reduce its average age. Spain 54 152 India n.a. n.a. ❙ LIFESPAN OF IT EQUIPMENT Group France and Spain: including companies acquired in 2013. LPT: laptop computer. 2013 2012 2011 PC: desktop personal computer. (number of years) The annual consumption of business computers (both laptops and desktops) did not LPT PC LPT PC LPT PC change compared to 2012 since the range of computers was not changed in 2013. France 2.37 3.38 2.89 3.82 4.25 Spain 2.15 2.95 n.a. n.a. India 2.05 3.35 n.a. n.a. Group 2.29 3.27 2.91 3.83 n.a. France and Spain: including companies acquired in 2013. LPT: laptop computer. PC: desktop personal computer. The gradual replacement of material as part of the migration toward Windows 7 explains the renewal of the Group’s desktop and laptop computers observed in 2013. ❙ NUMBER OF PHYSICAL AND VIRTUAL SERVERS INSTALLED 2013 2012 2011 Physical Virtual Physical Virtual Physical Virtual (number of servers) servers servers servers servers servers servers France New servers 143 1,101 144 916 204 562 Spain New servers 4 21 n.a. n.a. India New servers 7 46 n.a. n.a. France and Spain: Excluding companies acquired in 2013 for physical servers. The servers accounted for are those installed on the Group’s premises. 3.3.2. PAPERLESS PROCESSES In France, new projects in this area were rolled out in 2013, including offering paperless pay statements and expense accounts. The Group implements concrete measures to encourage the use of paperless processes and raises awareness among employees to Regarding pay statements, employees who wish to receive a reduce the use of paper and the energy consumed by printing. In paperless version of their pay statements may do so via a secure addition, paperless processes help to limit the physical delivery of Digiposte digital lockbox managed in partnership with the French documents. Last but not least, less paper used for printing means postal service. less waste to be processed. Concerning the management of expenses claims, the Expense The Group’s paperless processes involve the various internal application has been rolled out to all employees in France. Given newsletters published by Sopra (Group newsletter and newsletters the size of the Group in France, this new application, accessed via of the functional and operational divisions distributed via the the intranet, generates substantial savings on the costs incurred by intranet), monthly activity reports produced by each employee; the printing expense claims, transferring documents between Group management of paid leave and absences, IT requests, purchases sites in France and archiving documents. and travel invoices. Registration Document 2013 Sopra 95 4 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our environmental responsibility commitments The Group plans to extend this paperless expense claims process to Consequently, several years ago the Group introduced an initiative other countries in 2014. to reduce the amount of travel and its environmental impact by Sopra has also begun to introduce e-invoicing in France for certain adopting the use of a videoconferencing system and promoting the clients. Following a successful pilot project with a major client, this most environmentally-friendly means of transport (train) whenever approach will gradually be extended to other clients from 2014 possible. onwards. In this regard, and in order to reduce the amount of travel, Sopra implemented an action plan on several fronts: p limiting travel for internal and external meetings through the use 3.3.3. MANAGEMENT OF COMMUTER JOURNEYS of videoconferencing equipment at the majority of the Group’s AND BUSINESS TRAVEL sites; Travel and commuting policy p encouraging the use of the most eco-friendly means of transport whenever possible, particularly for trips in France or daily Sopra has locations both in France and abroad. In France, the commutes to client locations. Group has many sites located throughout the country. Its clients In 2013, Executive Management renewed the guidelines for are themselves located all over France and abroad. Sopra has also business travel with management for the whole Group. developed offshore Service Centres in Spain, Morocco and India, and managing their businesses requires travel. These locations thus generate business travel by air, train and automobile, which have an impact on the environment. ❙ NUMBER OF NEW VIDEOCONFERENCING SYSTEMS IN PLACE 2013 2012 2011 (number of videoconferences) New All New All New All France 6 40 7 34 7 27 Spain 1 6 0 5 1 5 India 0 9 5 9 1 4 Group 9 74 16 65 10 49 Excluding companies acquired in 2013. For 2014, the aim is to have at least one videoconferencing system The use of personal vehicles for long-distance business travel in at each of the Group’s French sites. France is limited to the requirements of the department and when In Spain, plans are in place to install a new videoconferencing train and air travel are not appropriate. system at the Madrid Manoteras site. With respect to work-related travel over short distances, the used In India, two new videoconferencing systems are planned for the of taxis and personal vehicles is discouraged when public transport second Noida site. is easily accessible. Group guidelines for work-related travel are disseminated via the Monitoring the Group’s carbon footprint from business Group intranet and apply to all staff. travel In order to identify areas in need of improvement, for over three Spain years Sopra has been monitoring its carbon footprint from employee In Spain, trips by air and by rail are managed by a single travel commuting and business travel by air, train and automobile. This agency. carbon footprint assessment helps to identify ways the Group can limit the use of means of transport that cause the most pollution. India This is particularly relevant in France, where train travel to the Business trips only concern air travel. They are managed by three Group’s multiple sites can help to reduce CO2 emissions. travel agencies. The carbon footprint related to business travel, notably by air In 2014, the Group will continue its policy of limiting business travel and train, will be gradually integrated into each Group country’s and will make an effort to optimise the use of videoconferencing monitoring system. systems by all entities in France and abroad. Centralised travel management France To better manage and centralise the Group’s business travel, most business trips in France are managed by two service providers: a travel agency for air and train travel, and a car rental company. 96 Registration Document 2013 Sopra 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our environmental responsibility commitments 4 ❙ CO2 EMISSIONS FROM WORK-RELATED TRAVEL 2013 2012 Passenger Passenger (in metric tons of CO2 equivalent) Air and rail and hire cars Air and rail and hire cars France 6,487 2,272 5,629 2,251 Spain 332 94 n.a. India 961 (air travel) n.a. n.a. France: Excluding companies acquired in 2013. For the sake of clarity, figures have been rounded to the nearest unit. CO2 emissions from passenger cars only concerned business travel. Company cars are not taken into account in the calculations. 3.3.4. MANAGEMENT OF BUSINESS PREMISES In 2013, Sopra began construction on a new building in At all of its sites in France and, depending on national regulations, Colomiers near Toulouse. The site, covering almost 4,000 square for its operations outside France, Sopra favours the application of metres, will be able to house around 400 workers. It is measures for the protection of the environment: scheduled to open in the fourth quarter of 2014. The site meets p furnishing of premises with ergonomic workstations enhancing the new RT 2012 (2012 thermal regulations) standards and will the quality of working conditions for its staff; be certified HQE® (high environmental quality), with regulatory energy consumption 30% below the maximum level stipulated p installation of energy-efficient and environmentally friendly heating and air-conditioning systems whenever these systems in the RT 2012 regulations. require replacement; p preventive maintenance of installations to conserve energy; Water consumption p use of non-toxic and non-hazardous products by the cleaning With regard to water consumption, Sopra only uses water from services; the municipal water system and mainly for sanitary use. The precise assessment of water consumption for all of the Group’s operations p installation of water fountains, directly connected to the drinking water distribution network, with the aim of reducing plastic is difficult to obtain, since it depends on the utility management bottle use; system readings made available by the Group’s various lessors. However, Sopra intends to step up its efforts to obtain this p efforts to raise the awareness of employees as to the importance information. of applying the best practices contained in the Group’s guide to eco-friendly behaviours; ❙ ANNUAL CONSUMPTION OF CLEAN WATER p commitment by site managers to observe and encourage respect PER SQ.M IN FRANCE for the environment and best practices on a day-to-day basis. In assuming direct day-to-day responsibility for waste separation at sites, these managers promote best practices and communicate (in cubic meters per sq.m) 2013 2012 2011 information to staff members as necessary. They also verify the gradual installation of low-energy devices as equipment is France 0.30 0.29 n.a. replaced. Average water consumption calculated on the basis of five sites representative With regard to Sopra’s strategies concerning new business premises, of the Group’s business in France. the company’s policy is to favour buildings eligible for the new RT 2012 (2012 thermal regulations), BBC (low energyconsumption Energy consumption and action taken buildings) and HQE® (high environmental quality) standards. These As regards the sensible use of resources in France more generally, choices are made first and foremost to remain consistent with the action is regularly taken to raise employee awareness via the criteria for advancing the quality of Sopra’s work environment. guide to eco-friendly behaviours and Group communication tools. New sites built to new environmental standards Campaigns will continue in 2014 to encourage employees to limit energy consumption in the course of their day-to-day activities. In June 2013, Sopra opened its new Rhône-Alpes regional headquarters in Limonest near Lyon. The site, covering more Actions were taken in 2013 to optimise operations at Sopra’s than 8,000 square metres, can house more than 800 workers, locations in Spain: and brings together all Group employees in the Lyon region. p installation of water fountains, directly connected to the drinking It was designed with a desire to provide employees with a water distribution network, with the aim of reducing plastic high-quality working environment meeting the most stringent bottle use; environmental standards. It is certified both BBC (low energy p installation of faucets equipped with motion sensors in order to consumption) and HQE® (high environmental quality). avoid wasting water at the Madrid Manoteras site; p installation of automatic, fast-drying hand dryers at the Madrid Alcalá site. Registration Document 2013 Sopra 97 4 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our environmental responsibility commitments ❙ ANNUAL ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION PER SQ.M IN FRANCE The Group’s entities in France and Spain use “green” paper with the following eco-labels: (in kWh per sq.m) 2013 2012 2011 p SFI (Sustainable Forestry Initiative), PEFC (Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification) and FSC (Forest Stewardship France 167.6 178.23 170 Council): certified paper produced from sustainably managed forests; Breakdown of actual consumption at 23 out of a total of 38 sites in France. p Blue Angel label: paper produced using environmentally friendly processes; p ISO 14001 paper (chlorine-free). 3.3.5. RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING AND THE ENVIRONMENT ❙ CERTIFIED “GREEN” PAPER PURCHASES France From 2011, Sopra began to use SFI-certified photocopy paper (in kg) 2013 2012 2011 across all its French sites. In 2012, purchases of paper were supplemented by other FSC/PEFC/Blue Angel-certified paper. France 60,716 61,187 70,167 Since 2012, all paper used within the company in France is certified Spain 4,378 5,401 n.a. paper produced from sustainably managed forests. France and Spain: Excluding companies acquired in 2013. In 2013, regular awareness campaigns to limit printing combined For the sake of clarity, figures have been rounded to the nearest unit. with the gradual shift toward double-sided printing at sites enabled the Group to continue its reduction of paper consumption begun Number of refilled recycled cartridges purchased in the in 2011. year As regards used printer cartridges, for several years the Company Spain has opted to purchase recycled cartridges for its operations in Since 2012, Sopra Group Spain has operated an environmentally France. This policy continued to apply in 2013. Purchases of friendly paper purchasing policy. Under this policy, Sopra uses refilled recycled cartridges were down in 2013, due to the gradual “green” paper produced using environmentally friendly processes replacement of printers (which use this type of recycled cartridge) (compliant with ISO 14001). In 2013, Sopra supplemented its with networked multi-function photocopiers, for which the ink range of “green” paper, adding a new paper with the European cartridges are handled directly by the service provider. “Blauer Engel” (Blue Angel) eco-label. India ❙ PURCHASES OF REFILLED RECYCLED CARTRIDGES Sopra Group India is considering the possibility of using “green” IN FRANCE paper for printing. Sopra Group India uses recycled paper for nonprinting purposes. (number of cartridges) 2013 2012 2011 For 2014, SGI is looking into the possibility of using “green” printer paper compatible with its hardware. France 1,366 1,674 1,541 Excluding companies acquired in 2013. 98 Registration Document 2013 Sopra 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our responsibility to society 4 4. Our responsibility to society 4.1. Territorial, economic and ❙ NUMBER OF WORK-STUDY PERSONNEL RECRUITED PER REGION: PROFESSIONALISATION CONTRACTS social impact of the activity 164 recruitments in 2013, same as in 2012 2 2 Aquitaine Auvergne 4.1.1. EMPLOYMENT AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT IN FRANCE 8 3 Sopra continued to be a major driver of growth in regional Rhône-Alpes Bretagne employment in 2013, recruiting 1,780 new employees in France, 1 with nearly 70% of these in the provinces. Poitou-Charente 14 Centre Sopra has 10,219 employees in France, two thirds of whom are based at the company’s provincial sites. 25 Pays de Loire To serve its clients and meet their needs as effectively as possible, Sopra has developed regional service centres and boosted its 6 workforce at its regional sites. This policy has led to the creation of Paca 56 Île-de-France a large number of new positions and the recruitment of significant numbers of new staff into the Group’s regional entities. 38 Nord Pas-de-Calais ❙ NUMBER OF WORK-STUDY PERSONNEL RECRUITED PER REGION: APPRENTICESHIPS 8 1 Midi-Pyrénées Languedoc-Roussillon 57 recruits in 2013 1 2 Alsace/Lorraine Aquitaine ❙ PERCENTAGE OF RECRUITMENTS PER REGION: 2 CONVERSION OF INTERNSHIPS 10 Auvergne Rhône-Alpes 5 3.05% 2.74% Alsace/Lorraine Aquitaine 1 Bretagne Poitou-Charente 1 14.02% 2.44% Auvergne Haute-Normandie Rhône-Alpes 3 Pays de Loire 5.49% 2.13% Bretagne 6 15 Poitou-Charente Paca Île-de-France 8.54% Centre 7.62% 11 Pays de Loire 0.91% Haute-Normandie Midi-Pyrénées 6.10% Paca 7.93% 29.88% Nord Pas-de-Calais Île-de-France 6.71% Midi-Pyrénées 2.44% Languedoc-Roussillon Registration Document 2013 Sopra 99 4 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our responsibility to society ❙ PERCENTAGE OF RECRUITMENTS PER REGION: PERMANENT 4.1.3. RELATIONS WITH LOCAL POPULATIONS CONTRACTS Sopra’s efforts to help local populations in geographical areas in which the Group is established are guided by two key aims: 3% p to promote education and employment for young people; Aquitaine p to support humanitarian activities and encourage employee 2% 2% involvement. Alsace/Lorraine Auvergne Promoting education and employment for young people 12% 3% Bretagne Sopra and its employees have organised a wide range of activities Rhône-Alpes to promote employment for young people. 5% In France, Sopra has continued its partnership with the association 2% Centre “Nos Quartiers ont des Talents” (“Our neighbourhoods have Poitou-Charente 0% talent”), through which young graduates from underprivileged 8% Haute-Normandie neighbourhoods are sponsored by employees as they seek Pays de Loire employment. IT careers days held in 2013 in conjunction with universities and other higher education institutions in France, 7% India and Spain enabled Sopra to present career opportunities to Paca 30% students in disciplines other than IT. Île-de-France 12% Sopra Group Spain also organised a conference on how to prepare Nord Pas-de-Calais for recruitment interviews as part of the 3U Employment Forum organised by Complutense University of Madrid, the Technical 11% 1% University of Madrid and the National University of Distance Midi-Pyrénées Languedoc-Roussillon Education. As a responsible company, Sopra Group India, which employs more than 1,200 people in India (in Noida and Bangalore), has for several years been running aid programmes for underprivileged populations and people with disabilities. In 2012, a new recognised 4.1.2. EMPLOYMENT AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT body was formed: Sopra Group India Yogdaan Trust. This body, IN SPAIN which is funded via monthly contributions from more than Sopra is strengthening its positioning as a major provider of 900 SGI employees, with support from the company, is responsible regional employment in Spain. Recruitment across the country, for implementing all of SGI’s CSR-related activities. already high in 2012, increased significantly in 2013 (up 51% year on year). Recruitment is strong in struggling regions such as Andalusia and the Valencian Community, areas where unemployment has reached record levels within the European Union, especially among under25s (more than 50% of whom are unemployed). SGI is involved in an initiative run by NASSCOM (National Association of Software and Services Companies) intended to bridge the gap ❙ PERCENTAGE OF RECRUITMENTS PER REGION: PERMANENT between industry and academia. Employee volunteers gave lectures CONTRACTS on technical and behavioural skills to dozens of students at the IPEC and ITS universities. 1% In 2014, Sopra is keen to consolidate and expand its training Andalusia and employment activities, and particularly those aimed at young 15% people, by focusing on the following: 2% Basque Autonomous Community Catalonia p working more closely with public agencies managing job seekers (the equivalent of the “Pôle Emploi” job centres in France); 14% p helping young graduates seeking employment (by offering Valencian simulated recruitment interviews in Spain, and continuing to Community sponsor the association “Nos Quartiers ont des Talents” and forming the first VIP sponsors’ club in France); p strengthening the internship and work-study programmes offered by the Group. 68% Community of Madrid 100 Registration Document 2013 Sopra 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our responsibility to society 4 Supporting humanitarian activities In 2014, Sopra is keen to continue these humanitarian activities Sopra’s policy in support of humanitarian activities also covers involving employees and promote humanitarian initiatives across employees who take part in activities initiated by the Group or who all Group sites. initiate such activities themselves. In India, some fifty employees belonging to Sopra Group India’s 4.1.4. PARTNERSHIP AND SPONSORSHIP ACTIVITIES Yogdaan team voluntarily took part in SGI’s humanitarian initiatives in 2013. France Giving blood In France, Sopra has put in place sponsorship activities focused more specifically on solidarity, humanitarian initiatives and the One particular focus of humanitarian activity has been one-off environment. and recurring blood donation drives at some Sopra sites. Blood donation drives provide an opportunity to raise awareness among Planète Urgence employees and encourage them to be involved in humanitarian activities. Blood donation drives have been held at the Group’s French sites for a number of years. In 2013, a number of such drives were held at the Colomiers, Annecy, Albi, Nantes and Rodez sites. Sopra Group Spain and Sopra Group India also held blood donation drives at their sites. Collection of food and first aid products The Group’s partnership with Planète Urgence continued in 2013, In November 2013, Sopra Group Spain encouraged all its with eight initiatives carried out by Group employees in France. employees to take part in the first “Operation Kilo”, during which Planète Urgence supports “capacity-building” activities for adults; food was collected at the Manoteras and Alcalá sites for the Sopra has chosen to focus its activities in this area. The aim is Madrid food bank. All products collected were given to people not to duplicate the work done by local organisations. It is these in difficulty (people with physical and mental disabilities, elderly local organisations that define the needs and goals towards which people, disadvantaged children, marginalised families, former drug Planète Urgence and its partners work via the “Congé Solidaire” addicts, etc.). programme, under which volunteer employees use paid leave to provide assistance in various developing countries. In January 2013, Sopra Group India organised a winter clothing Projects undertaken by Group employees under the “Congé collection. Woollen blankets and clothes were donated to the Solidaire” programme have mainly involved delivering training in Gyan Shakti Vidyalaya school for underprivileged children. Sopra the use of office IT applications and implementing management Group India also carried out humanitarian activities to support the systems. The programme covers countries in Africa (Cameroon, population of Uttarakhand, a mountainous state in northern India Madagascar, etc.) and Asia (Indonesia, India, Nepal, etc.), as well hit by flooding. In June 2013, heavy rain caused devastating floods as Haiti. and landslides in this state, damaging homes, pilgrimage sites and Planète Urgence operates in stable countries where there are no standing plantations. Thousands of people were displaced and lost conflicts or ongoing crises. These developing countries are not loved ones. Sopra Group India organised a collection to raise funds faced with immediate emergencies but rather with an ongoing and supply first aid equipment to the Goonj and Uday foundations, need to manage shortages that place severe constraints on their which work in the affected areas. populations. Through its teams in France and in the field, and Promoting recycling thanks to its network of national and international contacts, the association monitors political, institutional and security-related In 2013, Sopra Group India supported the non-government developments in the countries in which it operates. It adjusts its organisation Trash to Cash, which employs people with disabilities operations in line with any change or credible threat of change in to make products from environmental waste. Sales of products a given situation. made by the association from recycled materials were organised However, Sopra decided to temporarily call a halt to its activities at Sopra Group India’s premises. Similarly, in France, laptop in two destinations that are very popular with volunteers, computers refurbished by the Group were donated to schools in Madagascar and Benin, in response to geopolitical events (elections the Albi area in 2013. in Madagascar and instability in countries bordering on Benin). Although Planète Urgence believed the associated risks to be very Humanitarian activities in support of people with disabilities limited, Sopra opted to temporarily suspend its “Congé Solidaire” Finally, some Sopra entities have undertaken humanitarian activities programme in these two regions and wait for all alerts, however aimed at establishing links with people with disabilities. In 2013, minor, to be lifted. This led to a reduction in the number of Sopra Group India sponsored one of the Indian Association for “Congé Solidaire” projects completed in 2013. Both destinations the Blind’s football teams. Similarly, Sopra Group Spain sponsored are now once again open to Group employees, and applications the Rangers Club of Valencia, which brings together a team of are expected to return to a more sustained pace in 2014: across wheelchair basketball players. The club’s chairman is a reduced the Group’s various French entities, 20 employees will have an mobility employee of Sopra in Valencia. opportunity to take part in the programme. Registration Document 2013 Sopra 101 4 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our responsibility to society Communication activities will be rolled out to reinforce the “Congé economic partners and networks to open negotiations with the aim Solidaire” programme, including in particular stories from Group of concluding an ambitious agreement at the General Assembly of volunteers and a campaign to raise awareness among new recruits. the United Nations in 2014. Furthermore, Sopra organised a lecture at the Musée de la Marine Green Cross France & Territoires (marine museum) on 26 November 2013 to raise awareness of water-related issues among clients. Leaders from Green Cross set out the world’s key water-related challenges, focusing on three areas: oceans, the poles and cross-border geopolitical tensions. Finally, Paris will host the 21st Conference of the Parties on the climate in December 2015. This essential milestone will provide an opportunity not only to determine the post-2015 action plan for adapting to climate change but also to streamline the approach to challenges relating to the climate, water, energy, biodiversity and human development. This action plan requires a coordinated effort by civil society. As such, Sopra will support GCFT in its water-related advocacy and awareness-raising activities ahead of the 2015 World Under the banner of its environmental and humanitarian activities, Water Forum in Korea. In particular, this will include working on in 2012 Sopra became a sponsor of Green Cross France et Territoires a booklet titled “Water: key actions” to raise awareness among (GCFT), the French arm of Green Cross International, established in opinion leaders and decision-makers. In 2014, Sopra will help draft 1993 by Mikhail Gorbachev. Since its formation, Green Cross has this booklet, focusing on the “Challenges” section. been committed to water rights, a key area on which Sopra has decided to focus. The aim is to encourage greater awareness of Team Jolokia water-related issues in the broadest sense (access, drainage and the Team Jolokia is the first sailing team consisting of both able-bodied prevention and reduction of pollution). Along with food, water is and disabled sportspeople to hold an oceanic record, having sailed one of the basic essentials of life. Almost a billion people have no from Lorient to Mauritius in just over 68 days. access to drinking water. Sopra’s support takes 2 forms: a financial donation to the Association to help it expand its activities and skills Part of the mostly volunteer crew is replaced each year via a sponsorship in support of water-related GCFT projects. demanding recruitment process based on a combination of In 2013, Sopra supported GCFT in connection with a project aimed sporting performance and diversity. The crew includes able-bodied at reducing the proliferation of green algae in Brittany. The project and disabled men and women of various nationalities and all ages, involves putting in place a prototype designed to demonstrate the from all social backgrounds. economic viability of sustainable pig breeding under conditions Sopra decided to support the human adventure that is Team that protect groundwater. Jolokia by becoming a sponsor of the association for at least two Seven Sopra employees (including a senior consultant and a years, starting at the beginning of 2013. As well as including director) got involved in this project with GCFT. For 2014, Sopra financial support, this sponsorship programme provides senior has decided to confirm its commitment to CGFT by stepping up crew members with opportunities to give talks to students on the its financial support and continuing with its skills sponsorship theme of diversity as a catalyst for performance. programme. Sopra has opted to make this a long-term partnership In 2013, students had the opportunity to sail on board Team by positioning itself as a major sponsor of the association. Jolokia’s yacht (a VOR 60, well known to the public) and thus share Sopra also signed the Appel pour la Haute Mer (Appeal for the High in the association’s adventure at the Course Croisière Edhec race. Seas) in June 2013. Rallye Aicha des Gazelles The open sea belongs to no one. Today, it has in some areas Sopra’s Aeroline and Sopra Banking Software divisions sponsored a become a lawless place. But there are solutions. The open sea must team during the 2013 Rallye Aicha des Gazelles. This ten-day rally be managed in the general interest, as a “common good”. Players from civil society and nations are beginning to take action. The across the Moroccan desert is open exclusively to women, who international conference of the Appeal for the High Seas, held on must complete the shortest distance between checkpoints using 11 April at the Conseil Économique, Social et Environnemental in only a compass and maps. Paris, resulted in the drafting of the Paris Appeal for the High Seas, One Sopra employee travelled more than 2,500 kilometres across which marks a new turning point in the campaign to take action. the desert to the city of Essaouira, the finish line of this mythical The appeal, which was signed by a number of politicians and race. The crew flew the flag of the association Les Enfants de la economists as well as companies and major organisations, aims to Terre, which supports large numbers of children, and distributed mobilise stakeholders from across civil society to lobby governments, medical equipment in villages along the rally route. 102 Registration Document 2013 Sopra 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our responsibility to society 4 India Finally, drawing on the Group’s approach in France, Sopra Group In 2013, Sopra Group India (SGI) partnered with and sponsored Spain established contact with Green Cross Spain, which it hopes a number of associations and non-governmental organisations, to sponsor in 2014. This sponsorship programme would aim to including the OM Foundation, the Ramakrishna Vivekananda strengthen the company’s environmental commitment with regard Mission, Crèches Nomades and Inde Alphabétisation. to water-related issues. Two key areas of cooperation have been identified for inclusion in OM Foundation the sponsorship programme: OM Foundation is a registered charity that works to improve living p sponsorship of a water-related event: an international discussion conditions for the underprivileged through activities in support of titled “Water rights as an instrument for peace and development”; education and employment. The foundation, established in 2002, seeks to open up opportunities for disadvantaged sections of the p organisation of debates on sustainable development under the banner “Sopra Environmental Forum”, involving current and population by providing them with free, high-quality education, potential Sopra clients and key figures from the environmental food and health services. sector. The OM Foundation’s school – the flagship initiative of its education programme – opened with only 20 pupils from the disadvantaged class; it now has more than 300 pupils from remote regions. In conjunction with the OM Foundation school, Sopra Group India 4.2. Responsible purchasing thus launched a project named “Encouraging education through charter and supplier regular volunteering”. In 2013, volunteers from Sopra Group India regularly tutored OM Foundation pupils in activities as wideCSR assessment ranging as public speaking, dance, and arts and crafts. Ramakrishna Vivekananda Mission 4.2.1. RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING CHARTER Sopra Group India funded work to renovate the mission’s living areas and employed a teacher/tutor to help children and students As part of its Sustainable Development approach, Sopra is complete their homework and prepare for monthly and yearly particularly attentive to the issue of responsible purchasing. In exams. Volunteers from Sopra Group India also gave IT lessons to 2011, the Group therefore launched a supplier and service provider pupils from the mission. selection policy in France that fully complies with the principles laid down by the United Nations Global Compact, of which Sopra Crèches Nomades is a signatory. A responsible purchasing charter based on the key Sopra Group India partners with Crèches Nomades, an NGO that principles found in the Global Compact was gradually deployed to runs day nurseries for children from marginalised and nomadic the Group’s main suppliers in France. populations, mostly consisting of construction workers. Starting in 2014, this charter will be gradually deployed to entities outside France. Inde Alphabétisation The responsible purchasing charter sets out fundamental principles SGI worked with Inde Alphabétisation to supply solar lanterns to of fair and transparent purchasing and establishes the roles and a village in the Indian state of Haryana. The lanterns were sourced responsibilities of the purchasing network. by Sway Techno Solutions and given to families with no access to This charter will be disseminated as an annex to contracts with electricity in their villages. regular suppliers to gain their buy-in (both new and renewed In 2014, Sopra Group India will continue to support the contracts). OM Foundation, the Ramakrishna Vivekananda Mission and Crèches Nomades. SGI also plans to step up its involvement with NGOs working in areas related to education, the environment and local development. 4.2.2. CSR ASSESSMENT OF SUPPLIERS In 2013, Sopra continued work assessing its suppliers based on Spain the process developed in 2012. Sopra’s responsible purchasing In 2013, Sopra Group Spain adopted a new social responsibility charter and CSR assessment questionnaire were sent to French approach that includes humanitarian activities. A number of areas tier 1 suppliers of the Real Estate and Purchasing department and were identified for inclusion in a partnership and sponsorship the IT Resources and Security department. A tier 1 supplier is a plan. The first concrete action was to form a partnership with supplier that transacts a certain volume of sales with Sopra and/ Fundtrafic, an association that provides help to accident victims. or undertakes sensitive activities in the areas of human resources This association is registered with the Spanish Ministry of Health, (e.g. temporary recruitment) or the environment (e.g. premises Social Services and Equality. At the same time, under the banner of maintenance). The CSR assessment questionnaire measures tier 1 “preventing workplace risks”, an initial awareness-raising session suppliers’ level of commitment in three areas: human resources, on the prevention of road risks took place at the end of 2013. the environment and society. A scoring system ranks each supplier’s answers on a scale of values. This programme is led by the Group’s Sustainable Development department. Registration Document 2013 Sopra 103 4 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our responsibility to society ❙ SUPPLIER CSR ASSESSMENT RATES IN FRANCE 2013 2012 (number and % of suppliers) Purchasing ITR&S Logistics Total Purchasing ITR&S Logistics Total Tier 1 suppliers (number) 15 8 26 49 13 8 26 47 Tier 1 suppliers assessed (number) 12 8 22 42 8 8 19 35 Tier 1 suppliers assessed (%) 80% 100% 85% 86% 62% 100% 73% 74% At 31 December 2013, 86% of all tier 1 suppliers had been In particular, Sopra’s Ethics Charter aims to lay down ethical assessed by Sopra. This represents two thirds of revenue generated principles that will help the Group pursue fair and transparent with all regular suppliers. economic growth with its clients, partners and suppliers, both in At the same time, an awareness-raising campaign was launched its relationships and in its working practices. for low-CSR suppliers. This initiative was accompanied by the Sopra does not tolerate any form of corruption or abuse intended implementation of a personalised monitoring system. to derive a commercial advantage. In 2014, the Group’s target is to maintain a high proportion of In carrying on its business, Sopra is committed to ensuring that the assessed tier 1 suppliers. Group and its employees: p work to prevent all forms of active or passive corruption, whether direct or indirect; 4.2.3. CSR ASSESSMENT OF SUBCONTRACTORS p abide by competition rules; (PROJECTS) AND LESSORS p maintain the confidentiality of information to which employees As regards subcontracting, a pilot CSR assessment project was have access in the course of their duties and activities within the launched among a panel of French subcontractors in late 2012. In Group. 2013, the results obtained enabled the Group to more effectively Sopra is also committed to avoiding personal conflicts of interest screen tier 1 contractors and adjust assessment procedures for that are contrary to the Group’s best interests. these types of suppliers. Plans are in place to extend the CSR approach to contracting to the entire Group in 2014. The Ethics Charter is supported by Sopra management, which is responsible for ensuring that these rules are observed. The charter An assessment process for lessors was introduced in 2013, drawing applies to all Group employees to ensure that they perform their on the Energy Performance Diagnostic analysis associated with duties effectively. premises leased to Sopra. In 2013, this charter was deployed to Group entities outside France, which organised its dissemination. ❙ PROPORTION OF LESSORS IN FRANCE HAVING COMPLETED An awareness-raising and training programme is slated for 2014 CSR ASSESSMENT in order to ensure that the Group’s rules regarding business ethics and anti-corruption measures are integrated into daily operations (number and % of lessors) 2013 at all company levels. Lessors (number) 40 Lessors assessed (number) 11 Lessors assessed (%) 28% 4.4. Quality and client satisfaction Client satisfaction is closely linked to both the quality of the products and services provided by Sopra and the use and continuous improvement of a quality management system. 4.3. Fair operating practices The quality policy is backed by a high level of commitment from Sopra’s Executive Committee, with the main focus being Sopra’s main priority in carrying on its day-to-day activities has on meeting clients’ requirements while continuing to deliver always been to observe business ethics. This requirement is the strong performance that ensures that the Group retains the formalised in Sopra’s Ethics Charter, which is aligned with the freedom it needs to offer appropriate solutions to its clients. Group’s aim of behaving transparently, equitably and fairly towards Sopra’s Quality System is the embodiment of this quality policy. Its all its stakeholders: clients, employees, shareholders, partners, end goal is not only to correct compliance defects or problems as suppliers and players within civil society. they arise, but to safeguard against such defects and problems and This charter is founded on compliance with legislation and to continuously improve Sopra’s processes so that they are always regulations in all countries in which the Group operates, and on efficient, competitive and relevant to clients’ expectations. the Group’s commitments to carry on its business as efficiently and effectively as possible. 104 Registration Document 2013 Sopra 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our responsibility to society 4 4.4.1. CLIENT INVOLVEMENT IN PROCESSES 4.4.4. ATTENTIVENESS TO CLIENTS’ NEEDS AND In the context of projects, Sopra’s teams share with clients their MEASUREMENT OF CLIENT SATISFACTION approach to production, the resources and organisation necessary All information channels are used to ensure client satisfaction: to ensure the quality of services or deliverables. Shared indicators p staff in the Group’s departments that handle offerings and may also be put in place, allowing for the measurement of innovation keep a constant watch on market developments and satisfaction in accordance with mutually agreed requirements help prepare and improve the Group’s range of service offerings; and/or satisfaction as perceived by the various client and Sopra stakeholders. p management and/or sales teams meet regularly with clients involved with Sopra in projects or for whom the Group supplies industry-specific personnel to assist at the local level; 4.4.2. QUALITY CERTIFICATION p project steering committees usually meet once monthly to assess client satisfaction against any indicators established for each All Sopra entities (in Europe and India) have been certified to project; ISO 9001 by accredited organisations. This certification demonstrates the Group’s desire to increase client satisfaction by p reports written up by team members at the end of projects are taking into account changes in the Group’s operating environment also used to refine this assessment system. and continuously improving Group processes. Quality teams within the various divisions are responsible for the implementation of measures or supplementary indicators at the local level depending on their specific context. 4.4.3. DEVELOPING THE QUALITY SYSTEM Sopra updated its multi-location production model in 2012 to better reflect clients’ expectations and challenges. The criteria used 4.5. Relations with persons or to apportion work between more than one production site take into account not only project type, project life cycle and financial organisations having interests considerations, but also skills availability and risks. in the Company’s activities Some project activities may be carried out in service centres in France, in Europe or outside Europe. The main goal of a service centre is to optimise projects and the 4.5.1. EDUCATIONAL PARTNERSHIP POLICY quality of delivery. Such a centre is characterised by a striving for excellence in production and industrialisation. Given its recruitment objectives, according to which 70% of the targeted population consists of either engineers or managers taking Overall quality control within a multi-location production on their first position of this type or those with less than two years environment remains subject to the Group’s standard governance of managerial experience, Sopra maintains strong partnerships with rules. educational institutions both in the Paris region and in the French In 2013, Sopra continued its transformation of the Group Quality provinces. This policy, pursued under the Group’s Educational System with the aim of achieving consistent international coverage Partnership plan, is grounded in local action. Its main aims are to: and overhauled its Quality System linked to packaged software p raise the profile of Sopra, its professions and its values; vending to reflect changes in the software vending industry. The Group also responded to its clients’ growing concerns about p improve the sourcing of interns, work-study personnel and security by setting out confidentiality rules and best practice applicants for permanent positions; applicable to production. p facilitate the recruitment of young graduates. Finally, project teams stepped up their efforts to obtain feedback on The Educational Partnership policy allows Sopra to take an active client satisfaction at steering committee meetings. part in major events in the life of these educational institutions at For 2014, the Group aims to roll out the Quality System across all all levels: business areas and regions, ensure consistency of certification so p administration (board of directors or trustees, participation in as to be able to offer a single overall management system, and foundations, juries, class mentoring, etc.); improve the coverage of programmes and project portfolios by the p teachers (company-sponsored chairs, courses, feedback, Quality System. To achieve these objectives, the Group will focus business-related projects, etc.); on the following: p students (sharing of experiences, round tables, conferences, p continuing with the international rollout of the Quality System simulated interviews, graduation ceremonies, forums, company across all teams, using a range of standardised tools; visits, sponsoring of associations, etc.). p adjusting the Quality System in response to developments in the In this context, Sopra has put in place an organisational structure consulting industry; between the Human Resources Department and the company’s p achieving consistency with collaborative tools currently being operating units that is designed to help them work together rolled out; more closely and share out activities. In 2013, Sopra undertook p improving information-sharing when preparing client proposals more than 400 activities in France with around 130 partner by rolling out the new Business tool. schools and universities, 70% of which were in the provinces. Registration Document 2013 Sopra 105 4 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our responsibility to society This strong presence was crowned with success, with more than An independent third-party body was appointed by Sopra to check 530 graduating interns who completed their internships with that all information required under Article 225 of the “Grenelle Sopra and 90 new work-study personnel (only apprenticeships or 2” Act (as listed in Article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial “professionalisation” contracts leading to a degree) having started Code) was included, and to verify this entire report. Its verification their cycle in 2013. can be found on pages 119 and 120 of this report. Sopra partners with the 45th EDHEC Cruising Race Clients For the seventh consecutive year, Sopra sponsored the leading To provide the best possible service to its clients, all of the Group’s European sports event for students: the EDHEC Cruising Race, activities are driven by a desire to achieve excellence, deliver held in April 2013 in Brest. progress and ensure long-term success. Sopra’s businesses are at the intersection of its clients’ technologies and industries; as such, the Group must demonstrate proven Examples of new activities undertaken with schools in expertise, curiosity and professionalism at every level. 2013: To meet the challenges of increasingly complex projects and the p Sponsorship of a footrace organised on 11 April 2013 by explosion in new uses of technology, the Group’s guiding principle Cheer Up Centrale Lille to raise money for the cancer is to listen to its clients while relying on robust mass processing association, which helps young people with cancer achieve capability. their personal goals. For many years, Sopra has succeeded in building lasting relationships p Sponsorship of Les Enfoiros, an association at the INSA with its clients to support them in their major transformation Toulouse engineering school to raise money for les Restos programmes. In order to achieve this, the Group has developed a du Cœur. set of values backed by a code of professional ethics and relies on established fundamentals that govern the Group’s operations and In order to serve Sopra’s growth and value ambitions, in 2014 the service activities on an ongoing basis. Recruitment department will maintain the momentum in France This approach to managing client relationships and responsibilities already built up through the school relations policy by: has enabled Sopra to achieve preferred partner status with a number of major organisations that have trusted the Group to help p strengthening the school stakeholder scheme, particularly with the most prestigious schools in the Paris region, supported them grow for a number of years and continue to do so. by the appointment of nearly 20 sponsors from the Group’s Sopra aims to keep its clients informed of its commitments in the management in November 2013; area of corporate social responsibility by communicating frequently about progress made through improvement measures put in place. p placing the priority on content-based activities that provide opportunities to explain the Group’s business to students. Employees Sopra will also continue developing its policy in favour of workFor a number of years, the Group has had a strong internal study contracts to support changes in this area at the Group’s communications plan to keep employees informed, keep them partner schools and universities. engaged and promote exchanges within the Group. This plan These progress targets are included in the annual action plan includes a set of communication tools and regular meeting points that underpins Sopra’s school relations policy. For the 2013-2014 at the entity or Group level, or targeted to specific employee academic year, Sopra plans to undertake more than 450 activities positions. In particular, these arrangements rely on the Group’s with around 140 partner schools and universities. highly structured system of dialogue and management, with special This educational partnership policy was gradually shared with attention paid to disseminating the Group’s values, which are firmly entities outside France to develop it into a Group-wide approach. focused around individual and collective behaviours, and ensuring that those values are observed. Key internal communications activities in 2013 included analysing and understanding the results of the employee perception survey undertaken in late 2012 and 4.5.2. STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE designing a Group collaborative portal. Naturally, as a responsible company, Sopra’s commitment to the The employee satisfaction survey carried out in late 2012 identified United Nations Global Compact is aligned with the Group’s aim two key areas for improvement: adapting tools and resources to the of behaving transparently, equitably and fairly towards all its Group’s development and sharing the Group’s Enterprise Project. stakeholders: clients, employees, shareholders, subcontractors, These two points led to significant work to overhaul the Group’s suppliers, partners, etc. dialogue and information arrangements (by creating a new Group It is in this spirit of dialogue and transparency that Sopra has collaborative portal) and to mobilise managers to communicate incorporated the sustainable development and corporate social and explain the Group Enterprise Project to their staff. responsibility dimensions into its relationships with its stakeholders. The Group plans to carry out another employee perception survey This report was designed to meet this demand for transparency in late 2014. and information in the Group’s dealings with its stakeholders. The report, which had historically focused on the Group’s French businesses, has been expanded this year to include reporting information about the Group’s entities in Spain and India. 106 Registration Document 2013 Sopra 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our responsibility to society 4 Given the fast pace of growth in the Group and its workforce, development issues. Details can be found in Section 4.2 of driven by an ambitious transformation plan, the decision was this chapter, “Responsible purchasing charter and supplier CSR made to create a powerful collaborative tool designed to cope with assessment”. current challenges. With this in mind, work to build a new Group collaborative portal began in 2013. Subcontractors This portal, which will act as the single entry point for accessing Sopra’s expertise covers consulting, technology services and Group information and applications, has two objectives: to software vending on the one hand, and associated services facilitate access to all Group information, from fundamentals to (training, organisation, support and maintenance) on the other corporate and business line-specific information; and to accelerate hand. the acquisition of know-how and expertise. To this end, the portal Sopra may make use of subcontractors in cases where its will offer powerful tools for sharing and leveraging knowledge and commitments cover activities or services that fall outside its usual foster more fruitful communication between employees. scope of activity, or where specific expertise is needed within a The new Group collaborative portal will be made available to all given project. employees during the first half of 2014. A procedure within the Quality Procedures Guide describes in detail how Sopra draws up subcontractor requirements, chooses Shareholders subcontractors, enters into subcontracting agreements, manages Sopra shares have been listed on Compartment B of NYSE Euronext services delivered by subcontractors, monitors the quality of those Paris since 1990. services and accepts them. A report on the work performed by This Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility subcontractors is then prepared. Report is published within the management report in order to Where external skills are used, any subcontractors to whom work share information about the Group’s sustainable development is entrusted remain under the responsibility of Sopra. Their services and corporate social responsibility approach and its improvement are subject to the same level of monitoring and control as services efforts in France. In accordance with French legislation, Sopra delivered by other members of the Sopra team. is committed to communicating its progress and the relevant performance indicators every year in the three areas in question: Partnerships human resources, the environment and society. Sopra’s partnership strategy is first and foremost based on the Sopra is constantly working to maintain a relationship of trust expectations of its clients, with the aim of providing them with the and transparency with its shareholders; as such, it regularly highest possible level of service across all of the Group’s businesses. issues communications to shareholders, institutional investors and By building close, lasting relationships with major software vendors financial analysts. These communications include both financial such as Microsoft, IBM Software, SAP and Oracle, Sopra is working and non-financial information about the Group. every day to provide its clients with innovative and proven solutions In accordance with the Group’s obligations, recommendations tailored to their specific needs. issued by stock exchange authorities and market best practice, Sopra is constantly monitoring its strategic partners to ensure that the Group’s communications with the financial community are their expertise combined with that offered by the Group supports punctuated by the release of quarterly, interim and full-year clients in transforming their businesses and information systems financial information. and adopting new practices. As such, Sopra is able to add value Sopra has for many years held various types of meetings to share to its clients by bringing market-leading solutions and technologies its strategy, financial performance and outlook with this audience. into their specific environments. Such meetings include the following: Furthermore, powerful research and development programmes p Shareholders’ General Meetings; drawing on the best of its partners’ technologies help the Group p full-year and interim results announcements. develop its expertise and strengthen its innovation programme. Through these programmes, the Group’s consultants gain Sopra has also developed a Group finance site (www.finance.sopra. operational expertise and improve their ability to deliver valuable com) in French and English to facilitate access to published market advice to clients. information. Solutions based on strategic partnerships are taken into consideration Dialogue is also encouraged via a dedicated e-mail address, in the Group’s training and knowledge management programmes, investors@sopra.com. and play a role in project methodology and management, so as to Trade accounts payable ensure a high level of service. The departments in charge of purchasing for the Group must verify The Group’s relationship with its partners involves all levels of that their suppliers and service providers share Sopra’s values in the Group management and sales functions, and permeates its area of corporate social responsibility. To achieve this, throughout consulting, integration and software vending businesses in every the selection process and even once the business relationship has country in which the Group operates. been established, this department monitors risk exposure on an The Group’s governance structure contains a supervisory level ongoing basis. managed by an Advocate, who is a member of the Executive In France, the Group has launched a specific assessment programme Committee, and a steering level managed by an Alliance Manager, to ensure that its suppliers take into account sustainable who is responsible for day-to-day coordination of all aspects of the Registration Document 2013 Sopra 107 4 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Annex – Cross-referencing table: Sopra’s compliance with indicators of Grenelle 2 / GRI / ISO 26000 Group’s relations with the partner, as part of the Key Clients and In India, Sopra Group India has for several years been heavily involved Partnerships Department. in NASSCOM, an organisation that represents IT professionals. For In addition to its four strategic partnerships, Sopra enters into example, through the involvement of its management and staff, specialised, industry-specific and technology partnerships, Sopra Group India is taking part in a NASSCOM initiative aimed at implemented for specific markets and offerings. bridging the gap between industry and academia. In Spain, Sopra is a member of the Association of Consulting Civil society Companies (AEC), which brings together Spain’s leading consulting Sopra has been working for many years with organisations linked companies and IT firms. The AEC was established in 1977 and is to its activities. the benchmark organisation in the sector in Spain. Sopra is actively In France, a member of the Group Executive Committee was elected involved with the AEC, with a particular focus on promoting the to the Board of Directors of the Syntec Numérique digital sector image of the consulting and systems integration industries by trade union in 2013. strengthening standards of professionalism, ethics and quality, developing the use of information technologies and fostering This person’s role is to represent Sopra and bring its influence and dialogue between companies in the sector. experience to bear within Syntec Numérique’s various committees and commissions so as to promote and defend the interests of Sopra is also involved in a number of committees, including members to government authorities. working relationships and public sector committees. This person is also joint chair of the international commission, Finally, the Group has entered into a number of partnerships with whose purpose is to help Syntec Numérique’s members with their schools, universities and non-governmental organisations in recent international development and expand the organisation’s influence years with the aim of providing its expertise to disadvantaged outside France. individuals and populations and working on environmental initiatives. This approach will be stepped up and rolled out to all Syntec Numérique is the leading representative of professionals Group entities from 2014. from the digital industry in their dealings with institutional organisations and French and European public authorities. It has 1,200 members representing 80% of total revenue in the sector. 5. Annex – Cross-referencing table: Sopra’s compliance with indicators of Grenelle 2 / GRI / ISO 26000 Grenelle 2 Sopra 2013 SD-CSR Report GRI 4 ISO 26000 WORKFORCE COMPONENT Actions led and guidelines followed by 2.1 Sopra Culture 6.2 Organisational governance the company to take into account the 4.5.2 Stakeholder dialogue 6.4 Labour practices social consequences of its activity a) Employment W Total workforce 2.2.1 Workforce and trends LA1 Total number and 6.4 Labour practices W Breakdown of employees by gender, 2.2.1 but NA for geographic percentage of new employees 6.4.3 Employment and age and geographic region region hired and staff turnover by age, employment relationships gender and geographic area W Hirings and dismissals 2.2.2 Recruitment and separation of employees W Remuneration and trends 2.2.5 Remuneration 2.2.3 Training policy LA11 Percentage of employees 2.2.4 Talent development who complete periodic assessment and career development meetings by gender and employee category 108 Registration Document 2013 Sopra 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Annex – Cross-referencing table: Sopra’s compliance with indicators of Grenelle 2 / GRI / ISO 26000 4 Grenelle 2 Sopra 2013 SD-CSR Report GRI 4 ISO 26000 b) Work organisation W Organisation of the work schedule 2.3 Work organisation 6.4 Labour practices W Absenteeism 2.3 Work organisation LA6 Rates and types of 6.4.7 Health and safety at work workplace accidents, occupational illnesses, absenteeism, proportion of work days lost and total number of work-related fatalities, by geographic area and gender c) Employee relations W Organisation of dialogue between 2.4 Employee relations 6.4 Labour practices employees and management, in 6.4.5 Social dialogue particular procedures for informing and consulting with the staff and negotiating with employees W Overview of collective bargaining 2.4 Employee relations agreements d) Health and safety W Workplace health and safety 2.5 Health and safety LA5 Percentage of total 6.4 Labour practices conditions workforce represented in joint 6.4.7 Workplace health and occupational health and safety safety committees with the aim of monitoring and giving advice W Overview of agreements signed with No agreements on this LA8 Health and safety issues labour organisations or employee subject have been signed covered by formal agreements representatives with regard to with trade unions workplace health and safety W Workplace accidents, particularly 2.5 Health and safety LA6 Rates and types of their frequency and severity, and workplace accidents, occupational illnesses occupational illnesses, W Occupational illnesses absenteeism, proportion of work days lost and total number of work-related fatalities, by geographic area and gender e) Training W Policies implemented with respect to 2.2.3 Training policy LA10 Skills development and 6.4 Labour practices training lifelong learning programmes to 6.4.3 Employment and ensure employees’ employability employment relationships and help them manage the end of their careers W Total number of training hours 2.2.3 Training policy LA9 Average hours of training per year, per employee by gender and employee category f) Equal treatment W Measures taken in favour of gender 2.6 Non-discrimination LA13 Ratio of women’s to men’s 6.3.7 Discrimination and equality principles base salaries and remunerations, vulnerable groups by employee category and 6.3.10 Fundamental principles significant locations of operation and rights at work W Measures taken in support of the 2.6 Non-discrimination employment and professional principles integration of the disabled W Anti-discrimination policy 2.6 Non-discrimination HR3 Total number of principles discrimination incidents and corrective action taken Registration Document 2013 Sopra 109 4 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Annex – Cross-referencing table: Sopra’s compliance with indicators of Grenelle 2 / GRI / ISO 26000 Grenelle 2 Sopra 2013 SD-CSR Report GRI 4 ISO 26000 g) Promoting and complying with the fundamental conventions of the ILO W Upholding the freedom of 2.7 Promoting and complying HR4 Sites and suppliers association and the right to collective with the fundamental identified which may not uphold bargaining conventions of the ILO the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining or where these rights are at risk, and measures taken to uphold these rights W Eliminating discrimination in respect 2.7 Promoting and complying HR3 Total number of of employment and occupation with the fundamental discrimination incidents and conventions of the ILO corrective action taken W Eliminating forced or compulsory 2.7 Promoting and complying labour with the fundamental conventions of the ILO W Effective abolition of child labour 2.7 Promoting and complying with the fundamental conventions of the ILO Grenelle 2 Sopra 2013 SD-CSR Report GRI ISO 26000 ENVIRONMENTAL COMPONENT a) General environmental policy W The Company’s organisation to 3.1.1 Organisation to take 6.2 Organisational governance take environmental issues into environmental issues into consideration, and where applicable, consideration environmental assessment or 3.1.2 Initiatives to protect the certification processes environment W Training and information on 3.1.2 Training and protecting the environment offered information on protecting to employees the environment offered to employees W Resources dedicated to preventing This subject does not relate to environmental risks and pollution Sopra’s activities W Amount of provisions and coverage This subject does not relate to for environmental risks, provided Sopra’s activities that such information is not liable to seriously harm the company in any ongoing litigation b) Pollution and waste management W Measures to prevent, reduce or This subject does not relate to remedy waste in the air, water Sopra’s activities and soil that seriously affect the environment W Waste prevention, recycling and 3.1 Initiatives to protect the EN23 Total weight of waste by 6.5.3 Prevention of pollution elimination measures environment type and disposal method 3.2 Waste management W Taking into consideration noise 3.1 Initiatives to protect the EN23 Total weight of waste by 6.5.3 Prevention of pollution pollution and any other form of environment type and disposal method pollution specific to an activity 3.2 Waste management EN15 Direct greenhouse gas 6.5.3 Prevention of pollution 3.3 Sustainable use of emissions (scope 1) resources 110 Registration Document 2013 Sopra 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Annex – Cross-referencing table: Sopra’s compliance with indicators of Grenelle 2 / GRI / ISO 26000 4 Grenelle 2 Sopra 2013 SD-CSR Report GRI ISO 26000 c) Sustainable resource use W Water consumption and supply 3.3.4 Management of EN8 Total water withdrawal by 6.5.4 Sustainable resource use according to local requirements business premises source W Consumption of raw materials and 3.3 Sustainable use of EN3 Energy consumption within measures taken to improve efficient resources the organisation use of these resources EN6 Reducing energy W Energy consumption, measures consumption taken to improve energy efficiency EN10 Percentage and total and use of renewable energies volume of water recycled and reused W Soil use This subject does not relate to Sopra’s activities d) Climate change W Greenhouse gas emissions 3.3.3 Management of travel EN15 Direct greenhouse gas 6.5.5 Climate change emissions (scope 1) mitigation and adaptation W Adapting to the consequences of 3.3 Sustainable use of EN19 Reducing greenhouse gas climate change resources emissions EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation EN6 Reducing energy consumption EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused e) Protection of biodiversity W Measures taken to protect or develop This subject does not relate to biodiversity Sopra’s activities Grenelle 2 Sopra 2013 SD-CSR Report GRI ISO 26000 SOCIETAL COMPONENT a) Territorial, economic and social impact of the activity W Employment and regional 4.1.1 Employment and EC7 Development and impact of 6.8 Community involvement development matters regional development infrastructure investments and and development W With regard to resident and local 4.1.2 Relations with local support for services populations populations EC8 Substantial indirect economic impacts, including the significance of these impacts b) Relations with persons or organisations having interests in the Company’s activities W Conditions of the dialogue with 4.5 Relations with persons or these persons or organisations organisations having interests in the Company’s activities 4.4 Quality and client PR5 Results of surveys measuring 6.7 Consumer issues satisfaction client satisfaction W Partnership and sponsorship 4.1.3 Partnership and activities sponsorship activities Registration Document 2013 Sopra 111 4 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Annex – Cross-referencing table: Sopra’s compliance with indicators of Grenelle 2 / GRI / ISO 26000 Grenelle 2 Sopra 2013 SD-CSR Report GRI ISO 26000 c) Subcontracting and suppliers W Taking into account social and 4.2 Responsible purchasing EC9 Proportion of spending environmental challenges in the charter and supplier CSR on locally based suppliers at purchasing policy assessment significant locations of operation W Extent of subcontracting and EN32 Percentage of new 6.6.6 Promoting social communication of social and suppliers checked using responsibility in the value chain environmental responsibility environmental criteria commitments in the context of relations with suppliers and subcontractors d) Fair operating practices W Anti-corruption actions 4.3 Fair operating practices SO4 Communication and 6.6 Fair operating practices training related to anticorruption policies and procedures W Measures taken to promote This subject does not relate to consumer health and safety Sopra’s activities e) Other action taken in favour of human rights 4.1.3 Partnership and sponsorship activities (as part of the partnership with Green Cross, which works for universal access to clean water) 112 Registration Document 2013 Sopra 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Report by one of the Statutory Auditors, designated as an independent third-party organisation, on workforce-related, environmental and societal information in the Management Report 4 Report by one of the Statutory Auditors, designated as an independent third-party organisation, on workforce-related, environmental and societal information in the Management Report To the Shareholders, We conducted the work described below in accordance with In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of Sopra Group and designated the professional standards applicable in France, the Order of independent third-party organisation, for which the admissibility of 13 May 2013 setting the conditions under which an independent the application for accreditation has been accepted by COFRAC, third-party organisation should conduct its mission, and, with regard to the Substantiated opinion on the CSR Information’s we hereby present our report on Sopra Group’s consolidated truth and fairness, in accordance with the international standard workforce-related, environmental and societal information for ISAE 3000 (1). the financial year ended 31 December 2013, as presented in the Management Report (hereafter referred to as the “CSR 1. Attestation of presentation of CSR Information Information”), pursuant to the provisions of Article L. 225-102-1 On the basis of interviews conducted with the management of of the French Commercial Code. the departments concerned, we observed the presentation of the Company’s sustainable development strategy, which is based on the workforce-related and environmental consequences of the RESPONSIBILITY OF THE COMPANY Company’s activities and its social commitments, as well as, where It is the responsibility of the Board of Directors to establish a applicable, any resulting actions or programmes. Management Report including the CSR Information referred to in We compared the CSR Information presented in the Management Article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code, in accordance Report with the list specified in Article R. 225-105-1 of the French with the reporting criteria used by Sopra, (hereafter referred to as Commercial Code. the “Guidelines”), which are available on request from the Group’s In the absence of certain information, we verified that explanations Sustainable Development department. were provided in accordance with the provisions of Article R. 225-105-1 paragraph 3 of the French Commercial Code. We verified that the CSR Information covered Sopra Group’s scope INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY CONTROL of consolidation, namely the Company and its subsidiaries within Our independence is defined by regulatory requirements, the Code the meaning of Article L. 233-1 and its controlled companies within of Ethics of our profession and the provisions of Article L. 822-11 the meaning of Article L. 233-3 of the French Commercial Code, within the limits specified in paragraph 1.6.4 of the Management of the French Commercial Code. In addition, we have implemented Report. a quality control system, including documented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with ethical standards, On the basis of our assessment, we hereby certify that the required professional standards and applicable laws and regulations. CSR Information is presented in the Management Report. 2. Substantiated opinion on the CSR Information’s truth and fairness RESPONSIBILITY OF THE STATUTORY AUDITOR Nature and scope of work Based on our work, our responsibility is: We undertook approximately ten interviews with the people p to attest whether the required CSR Information is presented responsible for preparing the CSR Information at the departments in the Management Report or, if not presented, whether an in charge of the data collection process and, where applicable, appropriate explanation is given in accordance with the third the people responsible for internal control and risk management paragraph of Article R. 225-105 of the French Commercial Code procedures, in order to: (Attestation of presentation of CSR Information); p assess the suitability of the Guidelines, in relation to their relevance, p to provide a moderate assurance conclusion on whether the other completeness, reliability, neutrality, and understandability, taking CSR Information as a whole is fairly presented, in all material into consideration, where applicable, industry best practices; respects, in accordance with the Guidelines (Substantiated p verify the implementation of a process for collecting, compiling, opinion on the CSR Information’s truth and fairness). processing and verifying the CSR Information for completeness Our work was undertaken by a team of three people over a period and consistency; and to identify the procedures for internal stretching from 4 November 2013 to 24 February 2014. We called control and risk management related to the preparation of the upon our CSR experts to assist us in carrying out our work. CSR Information. (1) ISAE 3000 – Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information. Registration Document 2013 Sopra 113 4 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Report by one of the Statutory Auditors, designated as an independent third-party organisation, on workforce-related, environmental and societal information in the Management Report We determined the nature and extent of our tests and verifications Finally, we assessed the relevance of the explanations provided, based on the nature and importance of the CSR Information, in where applicable, in response to the partial or complete absence relation to the characteristics of the Company, the potential social of certain information. and environmental impact of its activities, its strategy with regard We consider that the sampling methods and sample sizes that we to sustainable development, and industry best practices. applied using our professional judgment allow us to formulate For the CSR Information which we considered to be the most a moderate assurance conclusion; an assurance of a higher level important (1): would have required more extensive verification work. Due to the p at the level of the consolidated entity, we consulted documentary application of sampling techniques and other limitations inherent sources and conducted interviews to corroborate the qualitative in the functioning of any information and internal control system, information (organisation, policies, actions, etc.), we applied the risk of non-detection of a significant misstatement in the CSR analytical procedures to the quantitative information and verified, Information cannot be entirely eliminated. on a sample basis, the calculations and the consolidation of the information, and verified their consistency and cross-referencing with the other information presented in the Management CONCLUSION Report; Based on the work we performed, we have not identified any p at the level of the representative sample of countries that we material misstatement likely to call into question the fact that selected (2) based on their activity, their contributions, their the CSR Information, as a whole, has been presented fairly in location and a risk analysis, we undertook interviews to verify accordance with the Guidelines. the correct application of the procedures and carried out tests Paris, 24 April 2014 of details on the basis of samples, which involved verifying One of the Statutory Auditors, the calculations made and comparing data with supporting documentation. The sample selected represented an average Mazars of 83% of the workforce and between 78% and 100% of the Christine Dubus Emmanuelle Rigaudias quantitative environmental information. Partner Partner, Environment For the other consolidated CSR information, we assessed its and Sustainable Development consistency in relation to our knowledge of the Company. Department (1) The related quantitative and qualitative information is presented in the appendix to this report. (2) The countries selected are France, Spain and India. 114 Registration Document 2013 Sopra 2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Appendix: CSR information considered to be the most important 4 Appendix: CSR information considered to be the most important Information verified Test scope Workforce-related Total workforce by age and type of employment contract France, Spain and India Average workforce (FTE) Average age of employees on permanent contracts Average length of service of employees on permanent contracts Hires Staff turnover rate for permanent contracts Proportion of management-level employees in total workforce France Absence rate France: Sopra and Rates of frequency and severity of workplace accidents Sopra Banking Software Number of training hours Average number of days of training per employee Percentage of disabled employees France: Sopra Environmental Quantity of WEEE waste France Number of physical and virtual machines installed during the year France, India and Spain Number of new videoconferencing systems put in place during the year “Green” paper purchases Total CO2 emissions for all business travel Societal Regional distribution of recruitments France and Spain Partnership and sponsorship activities France, Spain and India Supplier assessment system France Supplier CSR assessment rates Registration Document 2013 Sopra 115
