可持续发展报告 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 可持续发展报告 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 目录 开篇 001 可持续发展战略 015 可持续发展实践 021 可持续发展能力建设 087 未来展望 105 CONTENTS 领导致辞 003 我们的理念 017 繁荣：为经济发展注入活力 023 客户服务 089 Future Prospects 105 公司治理 009 我们的目标 018 幸福：携手共建美好生活 047 员工成长 095 利益相关方参与 011 我们的方法 019 美丽：共建绿色低碳家园 067 资金筹集 099 关键数据表 013 专题：支持新型城镇化建设 083 风险管控 101 附录 109 运营管理 103 Appendixes 109 Prologue 001 Sustainable 015 Sustainable 021 Sustainable 087 Messages from the leadership 003 Development Development Development Corporate governance Strategy in Action Capacity Building 009 Prosperity: inject renewed Customer service 089 Stakeholder engagement 011 Our philosophy 017 023 vigor into economic Employee growth 095 Key data 013 Our objectives 018 development Our solutions 019 Fund-raising 099 Happiness: hand-in-hand in 047 Risk management 101 building a better life Operation and management 103 Beautiful home: joint 067 operation for a green and lowcarbon home Special topics: new type of 083 urbanization 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 开篇 行稳致远：蹄疾步稳，任重道远 2013 年，我们坚持依托国家信用、服务国家战略、 Prologue 资金运用保本微利的开发性金融理念和方法，沉着 应对各种复杂形势和挑战，主动发挥中长期投融资 的优势和作用，大力支持国家重点项目建设，创新 推动新型城镇化建设，倾情关注社会民生，积极参 领导致辞 公司治理 利益相关方参与 关键数据表 与国际经济合作，在服务国家战略、推动经济社会 Messages from the Corporate governance Participation of stakeholders Key data 可持续发展的同时，实现自身的可持续稳健发展。 leadership “ 作为一家银行，发展的关键不在于跑多快，而在于跑多远 The key to a bank’s development lies not in how fast it develops but in how far it can reach. ” ——国家开发银行董事长 胡怀邦 ——Hu Huaibang, board chairman of the China Development Bank Smooth and steady steps sustain long journey: It is imperative to take quick but steady steps in development because the tasks are arduous and the road is long. In 2013, by adhering to the principles and methods of taking advantage of the state creditability, serving the national strategy and achieving the economic result of “break-even with thin profits” characteristic of a developmental finance, we cool-headedly coped with all kinds of complicated situations and challenges, displayed our advantages and roles in the mediumand long-term investment and financing in supporting key state construction projects, made innovations in the new-type of urbanization, devoted itself to the social development and people’s livelihood, took an active part in international economic cooperation and realized its own sustainable and steady development while serving the national strategy and stimulating the sustainable economic and social development. national strategies and boosting economic and social sustainability. 01 / 02 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 “ 社会可持续发展的新篇章。 创造一个繁荣、美丽的未来，谱写开发性金融促进经济 Opening a new chapter of development finance and promoting sustainable economic and social development. ” 董事长致辞 Message from the At a time when the world is undergoing new changes We have, in line with the principle of “strategic necessity Chairman and facing great challenges in sustainable development, the world economy is in for period of deepening of projects, general financial balanacability, and sustainability in organizational development”, achieved restructuring, and China is wrought with multiple positive results in supporting key state construction contradictions in its development and is heavily projects, promoting a healthy development of the new当前，全球可持续发展正面临新的变化和挑战，世 建设生态文明、促进环境保护等方面取得积极成效； burdened with the tasks of deepening reform in an alltype of urbanization, stimulating economic restructuring 界经济深度调整，中国发展面临多重矛盾，全面深 我也欣喜地看到，开发性金融的成功经验通过国际 round manner, the China Development Bank (CDB) and the transformation of development pattern, securing 化改革任务繁重，国家开发银行也承载着更大的责 合作在更多的地方开花结果，为当地民众带来了更 has to carry greater responsibilities and manage higher and improving the people’s well-being, building 任和更多的期待。 多的福祉。 expectations. ecological civilization and protecting the environment. I am pleased to see our successful experiences in 2013 年，我们继续秉承“增强国力、改善民生”的 下一步，我们将继续以服务国家战略为己任，以建 In 2013, by performing our mission of “enhancing development finance bearing fruits in more places to the national power and improving people’s livelihood” benefit of the local people. 使命，坚持开发性金融的定位和发展方向，根据经 设国际一流的开发性金融机构为目标，不断赋予开 and by adhering to the positioning and development 济社会发展面临的新形势新任务，不断探索以市场 发性金融新的时代内涵，找准自身的作用空间，补 orientation in development finance, we continued In the next step, we shall continue serving the national 化方式服务国家战略的新思路、新方法、新模式， 齐经济社会发展短板，努力提升服务国家全面深化 exploring new ideas, new methods and new modes strategy and strive to make our bank an internationally 为促进经济、社会、环境协调发展提供有力支持。 改革的水平和自身的可持续发展能力，与利益相关 of serving the national strategy through the market first-class development finance institution. We shall 方携手创造一个繁荣、幸福、美丽的未来。 and providing an effective support to the coordinated renew the portfolio of development finance to make 我们坚持稳中求进的总基调，扎实推进改革创新， economic, social and environment development of the it measure up to the requirements of the new era and 与时俱进地调整发展战略和经营思路，不断增强开 country. identify the place where we can bring our role into 行发展的适应性、稳定性、协调性和可持续性。一 full play, make up for the shortest “wooden bars” in By firmly following the basic general line of seeking socioeconomic development, make great efforts to 年来，开行业务发展稳中有为，经营质效稳中有升， progress in the course of steady development, we have elevate the level of serving the state’s efforts to deepen 服务国家战略、管控风险和经营管理能力稳步提升， taken solid steps in reform and innovation and timely reform in an all-round way and our own abilities of 开发性金融机构的价值更加凸显。 adjusted the development strategy and operational sustainable development and work hand in hand with pattern to enhance the adaptability, stability, level of stakeholders in building a prosperous, happy and 我们以“项目自身的战略必要性、整体业务的财务 coordination and sustainability in our development. beautiful future. 可平衡性和机构发展的可持续性”为原则，在支持 Over the past year, our bank has made steady progress, 胡怀邦 董事长 with the quality and efficiency rising, and our abilities 国家重点项目建设，促进新型城镇化健康发展，推 Hu Huaibang of serving the national strategy, controlling risks and 进经济结构调整和发展方式转变，保障和改善民生， Chairman of the Board of Directors managing and operating our businesses upgraded. 03 / 04 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 “ 服务国家战略、助力国家改革。 Serve national strategy and promote national reform. ” 2013 witnessed a low recovery of the world economy to pioneered new businesses, provided student loans, 行长致辞 and a period in which three stages (the gear-changing and aided the “poverty reduction by development” Message from the President stage of growth speed, the “birth pang” stage of schemes in a bid to promote social equity and improve restructuring and the stage of digesting the incentive the livelihood of the people. By the end of 2013, policies in the previous period) of development we had extended a total of 623.5 billion yuan loans 2013 年，世界经济缓慢复苏，国内经济处于增长速 融资绿色，建设美丽低碳家园。全面实施绿色信贷， overlapping in China’s economy. In such circumstances, to government-secured low-cost housing projects, 度换挡期、结构调整阵痛期、前期刺激政策消化期 支持能源结构优化，推进资源合理利用与生态保护， our development bank remained committed to reform benefiting about 25.74 million people. The balance 的“三期”叠加阶段。在这样的形势下，开行坚持 助力绿色环保产业发展，建设美丽中国。截至 2013 and innovation to enhance our abilities of sustainable of loans to small and micro enterprises came to 936.7 development while serving the national strategy. By the billion yuan, sustaining some 80,000 small and micro 改革创新，在服务国家战略、助力国家改革的同时， 年末，开行绿色信贷项目贷款余额 11,910 亿元，相 end of the year, our total assets had reached 8.19 trillion businesses and creating 210,000 jobs. 自身可持续发展能力进一步增强。截至年末，资产 当于节约标准煤 6,580 万吨，减排 CO217,447 万吨。 yuan and the ratio of non-performing loans had been 规模 8.19 万亿元，不良贷款率 0.48%，连续 35 个 controlled at 0.48%. We have succeeded in controlling In financing green projects to build low-carbon homes, 季度控制在 1% 以内。 改革创新，提升自身发展能力。推进管理创新，加 the index within 1% for 35 consecutive quarters. we have provided loans to all green projects, such as 强精细化管理，发挥人才、资金和综合金融优势， optimization of energy consumption structure, rational 注入活力，支持经济繁荣发展。支持铁路、公路、 强化客户服务、员工成长、资金筹集、风险防控和 We have injected renewed vigor into the prosperity of utilization of resources and ecology protection, and 水利、电力等基础设施建设，为经济发展打牢基础； 绿色运营，增强可持续发展能力。 our economy. We have supported such infrastructure supported environment-friendly industries so as to make projects as railways, highways, water resources the country clean and beautiful. By the end of 2013, 优化信贷投向，促进区域协调发展，推进经济结构 and power in order to consolidate the foundation the balance of CDB loans to green projects had reached 调整和产业转型升级；参与国际经济合作，支持合 for economic development. We have optimized the 1.191 trillion yuan, amounting to saving 65.8 million 作国经济发展。 orientation of lending, aimed at bringing about a tons of standard coal and reducing 174.47 million tons coordinated regional development. We have pushed of CO2 emissions. 汇聚力量，共建幸福美好生活。发展普惠金融，支 restructuring and industrial transition and upgrading. 持“三农”、棚户区改造、就业创业、助学贷款、 We have participated in international cooperation and In reform and innovation to boost our capacity of 扶贫开发等，促进社会公平和民生改善。截至 2013 supported the cooperation partners in their economic self-development. we have carried out innovations in 年末，累计发放保障性安居工程贷款 6235 亿元， development. management, strengthened precision management to 郑之杰 行长 give full scope to our advantages in personnel, funds 惠及约 2,574 万人；小微企业贷款余额 9367 亿元， Zheng Zhijie By gathering all possible strength to build a happy and and integrated finance. We have remained committed to 支持 8 万户小微企业，创造 21 万个就业岗位。 President beautiful life, we have developed inclusive financial better customer service and employee growth, intensify service initiatives to support agriculture, the rural areas fundraising, manage and control risks, strive for green and farmers, financed the rebuilding of shantytowns operations and build up sustainable development and increased employment and individual initiatives capacity. 05 / 06 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 “ 增强国力，改善民生。 Enhance national power and improve people’s livelihood. ” 监事长致辞 Message from the Chairman of the Supervisory Board 健全的风险管理体系，是金融业持续稳健发展的生 未来，我们将持续完善符合开发性金融特点的风险管 A sound risk management system is the lifeline of a and the nation get well off, is it possible for CDB and 命线。打造强大高效的风险管理系统，是开行安身 理体系，以风险管理打牢开行可持续发展的根基；继 sustainable and steady development of the financial every CDB member to become well off” – this is our 立命的根本，也是更好服务国家战略的前提。开行 承和弘扬开行独特的文化和价值理念，用文化引领开 industry. To create a powerful and highly efficient risk aspirations for the home and the country. “Responsibility, management system is fundamental to CDB’s existence devotion and innovation” is our core values. 的风险管理立足于对中国经济长期发展趋势的预判 行前进方向、汇聚改革发展的正能量，不断增强服务 and survival and the precondition for serving the 研判，立足于中长期投融资开发性金融机构的特点， 国家战略，推动经济社会持续健康发展的能力。 national strategy. CDB’s risk management rests on the In the future, we shall remain committed to improving 重点从风险架构、风险管理、责任机制和风险文化 pre-judgment, research and identification. It is based on the risk management system required of development 四个方面入手，将风险管理覆盖到每一个业务环节， the characteristics of a development financial institution finance. We shall do well in risk management so as to 渗透到每一位利益相关方，实现风险管理与发展速 in the mediumand long-term investment and financing, lay a solid foundation for a sustainable development. 度、经济效益相统一。 with emphasis put on risk framework, risk management, We shall carry over and forward the culture and values responsibility mechanism and risk culture. By doing unique of CDB and use culture to chart the course of so, we have extended the risk management coverage to advance and muster all possible positive energy derived 文化是现代企业的软实力，也是可持续发展的基石。 every link of the business and to every stakeholder, thus from reform and development to boost the capabilities 开行在服务国家战略，推动经济社会发展的实践中， achieving the unity of risk management, development of serving the national strategy and stimulating 形成了独具特色的开发性金融文化和价值理念： “增 speed and economic efficiency. a sustainable and healthy economic and social 强国力，改善民生”是我们永恒的奋斗目标；“以 development. 国为家，为国奉献”是我们坚守的精神追求；“国 Culture is the soft power of a modern enterprise and also 家好、民族好、开行好、每一个开行人才会好”是 the cornerstone of sustainability. CDB has established a 刘梅生 监事长 我们坚定的家国情怀；“责任、奉献、创新”是我 culture and values with its own distinct features in the Liu Meisheng 们的核心价值理念。 Chairman of the Supervisory Board course of serving the national strategy and contributing to economic and social development. “To enhance national power and improve the people’s livelihood” is the eternal goal we have been fighting for; “To make the country the home and contribute our shares” is the spirit we have stubbornly pursued; “Only when the country 07 / 08 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 公司治理 Corporate governance 我们深知企业长期稳定的发展离不开规范的公司治 有关规定和年龄原因辞任。2014 年 1 月，监事会 We are deeply aware that corporate governance is Management Committee. On December 24, 2013, the 理。我们按照建立现代金融企业制度的要求，建立 2014 年第一次会议选举刘梅生担任监事长。此外， essential for a long-term steady development of an former CSO Yao Zhongmin resigned as required by “三会一层”治理结构，严格履行公司章程和相关 董事会还选举赵晓宇、张旭光担任副行长，选举杨 enterprise. We must, according to the requirements for relevant regulations and on age reasons. In January a modern financial institution, set up a “three-meetings 2014, the Board of Supervisors held its first meeting, 议事规则，各司其职、规范运作，形成科学的战略 文岐担任首席风险官，进一步充实高管层人员力量。 and one management team” governance structure, that electing Liu Meisheng the CSO. Besides, the Board of 决策、管理运营和监督评价机制。我们遵循现代公 is, the general shareholders meeting, the meeting of Directors elected Zhao Xiaoyu and Zhang Xuguang 司治理原则，完善公司治理制度体系建设，研究关 推动可持续发展。董事会高度重视可持续发展重大 the board of directors and the meeting of the board Vice Presidents, and Yang Wenqi as the Chief Risk 联交易管理办法、高管层经营业绩考核办法等规章 议题，在重大决策中注重加强与利益相关方的沟通 of supervisors and the management team. We shall Management Officer (CRO). The bank has thus added 制度，提高公司治理规范性。 交流，充分酝酿审议，确保科学审慎决策。董、监 strictly abide by the corporate articles of association new blood to its senior management. 事通过多种途径对全行改革发展和经营管理提出意 and related rules of procedure, with each performing its 顺利实现各治理层领导成员的平稳过渡。2013 年 4 见建议，指导推进可持续发展工作。 duties according to standard operations so as to form a Commitment to sustainable development. The scientific strategic policy decision taking, management Board of Directors pays high attention to the major 月，陈元辞任董事长，董事会选举胡怀邦担任董事 and operational, oversight and assessment mechanisms. issue of sustainable development. It has strengthened 长、执行董事，并担任战略发展与投资管理委员会 We shall, according to the principles of modern communications and exchange with stakeholders in 主席。2013 年 12 月 24 日，原监事长姚中民根据 corporate governance, improve the corporate governing taking major policy decisions, making sure that the systems, study associate trading management methods decisions are fully deliberated and discussed to ensure and the assessment of the performances of senior that the decisions are prudent and scientific. The management to standardize the corporate governance. Board of Directors and the Board of Supervisors have, through multiple channels, voiced their proposals and 国家开发银行公司治理结构 Governance Structure of CDB 股东大会 Smooth leadership changeover at all levels of suggestions on CDB reform, development, operation General Shareholders' Meeting governance. In April 2013, Chen Yuan resigned as and management and provide their guidance to the work the board chairman and Hu Huaibang was elected the of sustainable development. board chairman, an executive director and chairman 战略发展与投资管理委员会 董事会 监事会 of the Strategic Development and Investment Strategy and Investment Committee Board of Directors Board of Supervisors 审计委员会 高级管理层 Audit Committee Executive Management 履职尽职监督委员会 风险管理委员会 Performance of Fiduciary Duties Risk Management Committee Supervision Committee 财务与内部控制监督委员会 关联交易控制委员会 Finance and Internal Control Related Party Transactions Committee Supervision Committee 人事与薪酬委员会 Personnel and Remuneration Committee 09 / 010 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 利益相关方参与 Participation of stakeholders 利益相关方 期望与要求 2013 年我们的回应 推进绿色金融，坚持绿色运营，保护生态 推进绿色信贷，支持能源结构调整、环境 Stakeholders Expectations and Demands Our responses in 2013 环境 污染防治和环保产业发展；建立信贷项目 Promote green finance and persist in green 的节能环保效益测算体系，量化贷款项目 依法合规经营，按照监管要求稳健运行， 强化宏观形势分析和风险预研预判； operation, protect the ecology and environment 的环境效益 有效防范风险 加强风险文化建设 Provided loans to green projects, Comply with laws and regulations and operate Intensified macro-economic pre-judgment 监管机构 环境 Prevented and controlled environmental pollution Regulation proactively according to the requirements by and research to identify risks,strengthened the Environment and developed environment-friendly industries, regulatory authorities and effectively guard building of risk culture built a system for calculating the efficiency of against risks energy conservation and environmental protection of loan products and quantified the environmental efficiency of loan projects 服务实体经济，加大对重点领域与薄弱环 以市场化方式服务国家战略，支持新型城 节的支持力度 镇化建设 Serve the real economy, provide greater support Served the national strategy through the market 政府 保障合法权益，搭建良好的发展平台，实 公平招聘，创设“管理人才培养计划”， Government to key areas and weak links means and supported new urbanization projects 现共同成长 开展分类分级培训 Protect the legitimate rights and interests of Fairly recruit, initiated management talents 员工 employees, provide a sound platform for the training project, conducted training programs as Employees common development of the business and its most appropriate and effective for different staff 完善公司治理，及时准确全面的信息披露， 健全公司治理制度体系，实现董事会、高 employees categories 确保国有资产保值增值 管层平稳过渡，经营业绩稳步提升 Improve corporate governance, disclose Made the corporate governance system sound and 股东 information timely and in full, and ensure state perfect, realized smooth leadership changeover Shareholders 坚持诚信、互利、平等原则，形成长期良 与地方政府和重大客户签订合作协议；搭 assets preserve and increase value of the Board of Directors and the senior management, and steadily improved the operation 好合作关系 建合作平台，提供融资融智融商服务 and performances 合作伙伴 Uphold the principles of integrity, mutual benefit Signed cooperation agreements with local Partners and equality and establish a long-term relationship governments and VIP clients, built a cooperation of good cooperation platform to provide financial, expert and business 提供优质、多样化的投资产品，合理、稳 完善债券发行方式，提供差异化投资服务， services. 定的投资收益，及时准确的信息披露，良 按时还本付息 好的服务 Improve bond issuance to provide differentiated 投资人 services for investors, repay principle and interest 提高金融服务可获得性与质量水平，维护 举办中国开发性金融大讲堂 Investors Provide high-quality and diversified investment products with rational and stable returns,disclose on time 公众利益 Organized lectures on China’s development information in a full and timely manner, offer Raise the reachability and quality levels of finance 公众 fairly good services General Public financial services and safeguard the interests of the general public 完善服务机制，创新服务产品，提升满意 完善服务体系，创新投融资模式，提供“债 度水平 贷结合”、“投贷结合”等综合服务 Improve the service mechanism, renovate service Made the customer service system sound and 构建和谐社区关系，促进社区发展 支持社区公共事业发展，捐赠灾区、应急 products, and raise customer satisfaction perfect, created new investment and financing 客户 modes, and provided such integrated services as Build a harmonious relationship with communities 救援 Clients to promote community development Supported local communities in developing public securities plus loans and investment plus loans 社区 Community utilities, donated to disaster areas and provided emergency rescue and relief 011 / 012 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 关键数据表 Key data 项目 Items 2013 2012 2011 项目 Items 2013 2012 2011 经济类指标 Economic indicators 环境类指标 Envionmental indicators 总资产 贷款项目环评率（%） 8,188.0 7,520.3 6,252.3 100 100 100 Total assets Percentage of projects completing environmental impact assessment 贷款余额 环保及节能减排贷款发放额 7,148.3 6,417.6 5,525.9 Outstanding loans Loans to environmental protection, energy conservation and emissions reduction 196.2 249.1 228.1 projects 不良贷款率（%） 0.48 0.30 0.40 Non-performing loan ratio (%) 其中： 流域、城市环境综合治理 Of which: loans to comprehensive control of river valleys and urban 66.4 89.2 72.0 贷款拨备率（%） 3.05 2.82 2.22 environment pollution control Loan loss reserve (%) 工业污染治理和资源综合利用 发行债券余额 Loans to industrial pollution control and comprehensive resource 28.8 50.2 34.8 5,840.6 5,302.2 4,476.4 utilization projects Bond balance 清洁能源和十大节能工程 资本充足率（%） 101.0 109.7 121.3 11.28 10.92 10.78 Loans to clean energy and 10 major energy-efficient projects Capital adequacy (%) 总行人均用电（度 / 人） 18,312 9,257 8,098 净利润 79.9 63.1 45.6 Per capita electricity consumption at head office (kwh/person) Net profit 总行人均用纸（千克 / 人） 30.0 26.4 27.5 股东权益 Per capita paper consumption at head office (kg/person) 562.0 498.6 445.3 Shareholders’ equity 总行人均用水（立方米 / 人）1 60.22 32.2 33.7 Per capita water consumption at head office (cubic meter/person) ROA (%) 1.02 0.92 0.80 项目 Items 2013 2012 2011 ROE(%) 15.07 13.37 10.76 社会类指标 Social development indicators “两基一支”贷款发放额（人民币贷款） 1,484.3 1,328.8 1,393 保障性安居工程贷款发放额 RMB loans to infrastructure projects and basic and pillar industries 162.8 148.1 130.2 Loans to government-guaranteed affordable housing projects 中西部贷款发放额（人民币贷款） 714.9 667.5 668.4 累计保障性安居工程贷款惠及人数（万人） RMB loans to the middle and western regions Cumulative beneficiaries of loans to government-guaranteed affordable housing 2,574 2,100 1,715 外币贷款余额（亿美元） projects (unit: in 10,000) 2,505 2,245 1,873 Outstanding foreign currency loans (units: $100 million) 助学贷款覆盖人数（万人） 995 774 561 Student loan coverage (unit: in 10,000) 外币贷款不良率（%） 0.89 0.33 0.33 Bad foreign currency loans (%) 员工总人数（人） 8,468 8,038 7,626 Employee (person) 新农村贷款发放额 160.5 135.0 143.2 Loans to new countryside construction projects 女性员工比例（%） 39.8 39.5 38.9 Female employees (%) 中低收入家庭住房贷款发放额 174.9 161.2 145.8 Housing loans to lowand middle-income households 客户满意度（%） 96 94 93 Customer satisfaction (%) 助学贷款发放额 12.5 12.0 10.4 Student loans 公益捐赠（万元） 4,180 3,817 3,550 Public welfare donation (in 10,000 yuan) 医疗卫生贷款发放额 1.9 3.7 4.3 Loans to medical service and public heath 除特别说明外，单位为人民币 10 亿元 Unit in 1 billion yuan, unless otherwise specified. 1 应急贷款发放额 因业务需要，2013 年总行增设办公场所一处，故人均用电、用纸、用水量有所增加。数据不覆盖物业、文秘等外包人员。 8.0 6.3 3.6 The per-capita electricity, paper and water consumption increased in 2013 because the head office added one more office venue. The Emergency loans figures do not include people in property management and secretaries and other outsourcing personnel. 013 / 014 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 可持续发展战略 经济发展、社会进步和环境保护的协调统一是实现可持续发展的基本要求。 我们认为实现经济社会可持续发展需要建立完善的金融生态，需要长期有 Sustainable 效的金融支持。通过多年的探索和实践，我们形成了中国特色的开发性金 Development Strategy 融理念和方法，在构建多元化的金融生态、促进可持续发展方面发挥了独 特作用。 2013 年，我们遵循可持续发展理念和要求，坚持稳健运营，推进开发性金 融创新。我们编制发布了首份可持续发展报告，制定了《国家开发银行社 我们的理念 我们的目标 我们的方法 会责任专项规划》，可持续发展战略和目标更加明确，可持续发展的方法 Our philosophy Our objectives Our solutions 和手段更加丰富，社会责任管理更加稳健有序。 The coordinated economic development, social progress and environmental protection are the basic requirements for realizing sustainable development. In order to realize the goal, it is necessary, we hold, to establish a sound financial ecology and a longterm effective financial support. Through years of exploration and practice, we have established the development finance principles and methods with Chinese characteristics and they have displayed their unique role in building a diversified financial ecology and promoting sustainable development. In 2013, following such principles and requirements, we persisted in steady operation and carried out innovations in development finance. In the year, we compiled and released the first sustainable development report and formulated the “CDB Program of Action on Social Responsibility”, which clarified our sustainable development strategy and its goals and made our development finance methods more scientific, thus facilitating the orderly performance of our social responsibilities. 015 / 016 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 我们的理念 我们的目标 Our philosophy Our objectives 我们坚持开发性金融的理念和方法，以“服务战略、 We serve the national strategy by way of development 我们以促进可持续稳健发展为导向，更加关注发展 Firmly committed to sustainable and steady development, 管控风险、合理盈利”为经营方针，以“项目自身 finance, with “serving the national strategy, managing 的质量和长期、综合效益。我们坚持改革创新，发 we have focused more on quality and long-term integrated 的战略必要性、整体业务的财务可平衡性与机构发 risks and making this profits” as our operational 挥中长期投融资的优势和作用，以市场化方式服务 efficiency. We have remained committed to reform and policy and “strategic necessity of projects, financial innovations, striving to give full scope to the advantages 展的可持续性”为原则服务国家战略，不断增强自 国民经济重大中长期发展战略，不断提升服务国家 balancability of the whole business and sustainability of and role of longand medium-term investment and 身服务战略能力、业务创新能力和稳健发展能力， 战略的综合能力和自身的可持续发展能力。 organizational development” as our principle. We have financing. We have served major longand medium-term 服务实体经济发展、促进社会公平和谐、提升绿色 constantly enhanced our capacities of serving strategy, strategy for developing the national economy through the 发展能力，努力推动经济可持续、社会可持续和环 made operational innovations and steady development, 2013 年，我们围绕实现“中国梦”的宏伟蓝图，在 market means and constantly raised the integrated capacity 境可持续的有机统一。 served the real economy, promoted social equity and 国家战略、股东利益、监管规则、客户需求、员工 of serving the national strategy and our own sustainable harmony, lifted the capacity of green development, 期盼等多重约束下，努力寻找规模、质量、效益的 development capacity. striving to achieve the organic unity of economic, social 最佳平衡点，有效发挥金融促进共同发展的作用， and environmental sustainability. In 2013, serving the purpose of realizing the “China 推动自身价值与经济发展、社会进步、环境保护目 Dream” and under the multiple constraints, including 标的同步实现。 the national strategy, shareholders interests, regulatory rules, customer demand and employees expectations, we made great efforts to see the optimal balance point among operational scale, quality and efficiency and effectively displayed the role of finance in promoting common development, striving for a synchronized realization of our 国家开发银行可持续发展战略模型 国家开发银行可持续发展目标 own values and the objectives in economic development, CDB's Sustainable Development Strategy Model CDB's Sustainable Development Objectives social progress and environmental protection. 过去的问题 发展 不平衡 不协调 不可持续 previous problems: imbalanced, uncoordinated and unsustainable development 可持续发展目标 经济 Economy Sustainable Development Objectives 战略定位 Strategic Positioning 就业 开行角色 ● 开发性金融 ● development finance Employment 支持经济社会 ● 中长期投融资 ● Long& Medium-term 经济发展 ● 基础设施基础产业 社会进步 ● 粮食 环境保护 ● 气候 Development 开发性金 可持续发展的 ● 债券银行 ● 支柱产业 ● 就业 ● 生态 ● Bond issue banking 转型升级 国际合作 民生普惠 住房 绿色低碳 清洁能源 融支持可 开发性金融机 人才 业务领域 Business Scope ● ● ● 贫穷 构 Talents ...... ● 教育医疗 ...... 持续发展 ● 基础设施基础产业 ● Infrastructure & Basic industries 全球可持续发展议题 Poverty Support Role of the China ● Livelihood-oriented finance ...... 资金 ● 民生金融 Development Global issues on sustainable Bank Fund ● 环境保护 ● Environment protection Economic ● Infrastructure & basic Social Progress ● Grain production Environmental ● Climate sustainable development 教育 development A development ● 国际合作 ● International cooperation Development industries All-inclusive ● Employment Protection ● Ecology through Pillar industries Housing Clean energy Education finance bank 技术 Transition, ● services for ● Green, low● development 能力建设 Capacity Building International Medical care ...... Upgrading the benefit of carbon living ● ● finance committed Technology cooperation & education ● Customer service to economic ● 客户服务 ...... all people ...... ● Employee development and social ● 员工发展 ● Fundraising sustainability ● 资金筹集 ● Risk management 健康 development ● 风险管控 ● Efficient green operation Health ● 高效绿色运营 自身成长——国际一流的开发性金融机构（是支撑经济、社会、环境可持续发展的基础，最终实现共同发展） 气候 Growth target——To become the world’s first-class development finance institution(to provide the foundation for sustaining Climate economic, social and environmental sustainable development and ultimately achieve common development) 未来的发展 经济可持续 社会可持续 环境可持续 Future development Economic sustainability Social sustainability Environment sustainability 017 / 018 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 我们的方法 Our solutions 我们发挥开发性金融在政府与市场之间的桥梁纽带 2013 年，我们继续坚持“规划先行、融资推动、政 Acting as a bridge between the government and the society and the common people are concerned, we 作用，把政府的组织优势和开行的融资优势结合起 府信用、市场建设”的投融资模式，紧紧围绕政府、 market, we have integrated the organizational advantages came out with a development program that takes 来，主动开展市场建设、信用建设、制度建设等金 社会、百姓关注的热点难点问题，立足当前又着眼 of the government with CDB’s financing advantage in both the present situation and long-term development engaging in such financial infrastructure as the building into consideration and exploits and relies on the state 融基础设施建设，使空白、缺失的市场逐渐发育、 长远做好发展规划，主动运用和依托国家信用，建 of the market, creditability, and organizational setup, creditability in constructing and cultivating medium成熟，为市场在资源配置中起决定性作用和更好发 设和培育中长期投融资市场和体制，整合政府的组 thus filling in the market gaps and bringing deficient and long-term investment and financing markets 挥政府作用创造条件。 织协调、市场的资源配置、开行的融资、企业的主 market to maturity, thus paving the way for the market and systems, integrated the government’s abilities of 体和平台、社会的监督等各方资源和优势，形成合 to display its decisive role in resource allocation and for organization and coordination with market allocation of 力，打通经济社会发展中的瓶颈领域和薄弱环节， the government to better display its role. resources, making CDB’s financing as the main player 促进共同发展。 and platform and integrated social supervision and the In 2013, we continued with the investment and resources and advantages of all quarters so as to form financing mode of “planning ahead, moving on with a synergy to remove the bottlenecks and weak links in financing, relying on government creditability and socio-economic progress, thus bringing about common building the market”. Closely centering round the hot development. and difficult problems about which the government, 019 / 020 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 可持续发展实践 Sustainable 繁荣 幸福 美丽 专题 Development in Action 为经济发展注入活力支持 Prosperity: inject renewed vigor 携手共建美好生活 Happiness: hand-in共建绿色低碳家园 Beautiful home: joint 支持新型城镇化建设 Special topics: new type into economic development hand in building a operation for a green and of urbanization better life low-carbon home 2013 年，我们坚持开发性金融定位，扎实推进改革创新，稳步推 进可持续发展实践，努力为经济发展、社会民生改善以及环境保护 贡献力量。我们将国内实践积累的成功经验应用到国际合作中，努 力在促进全球经济复苏和可持续发展中发挥更大作用。 In 2013, we persisted in the positioning as a development finance organization, took solid steps in reform and innovation, and put into action the idea of sustainable development in a bid to contribute to economic development, to the improvement in the people’s well-being and environmental protection. We applied the successful experience in international cooperation, striving to display a greater role in stimulating the global economic recovery and sustainable development. 021 / 022 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 “ 为了实现共同繁荣， 我们一直在努力。 繁荣 我们发挥中长期投融资的优势和作用，支持国家深 为经济发展 化经济体制改革；担当调控经济的重要杠杆和工具， We have been making persistent efforts 注入活力 toward common prosperity. ” 发挥逆周期调节作用，服务稳增长、调结构、促改革， 推动经济发展稳中有升。 Prosperity 通过金融支持带动经济发展，是我们着力支持的重 Inject renewed vigor into economic development 点。每天都有众多企业和个人受益于我们的开发性 金融服务，享受完善的基础设施带来的便利，分享 经济发展带来的成果。 2013 年 我们的成效 Achievements in 2013 By exploiting our advantages in mediumand longterm investment and financing, we helped deepen 阅读完整的 China’s economic reforms, supported macro-economic 繁荣为经济发展注入活力 adjustment, stabilized the Chinese economy by making 请扫描 支持建设公路覆盖中 proper counter-cyclical adjustments and contributed to Scan QR for further 制定 27 项重点区域系 国 31 个省市（不含港 information the steady expansion of the Chinese economy. 澳台地区），累计里程 37 146 统性融资规划，37 个 行业规划 146 万公里 Supported road construction One of our priorities is to spur economic development Formulated systemic projects that cover 1.46 financing programs for 27 key through financial leverage. An increasing number of areas and programs for 37 million kilometers in 31 industries provinces and municipalities enterprises and individuals are benefiting from our (not including Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan) development finance services every day, not just from better infrastructure facilities but also the achievements of economic growth. 为北京、石家庄、沈 阳等 21 个城市轨道 发放战略性新兴产业贷款 21 交通项目承诺贷款 2,417 亿元，文化产业贷款 2,417 Committed loans to rail 444 亿元 transit projects in 21 Issued 241.7 billion yuan loans to cities including Beijing, strategically emerging industries Shijiazhuang and and 44.4 billion yuan loans to the Shenyang cultural industry 国际合作业务覆盖 支持 8 万家小微企业 114 8 114 个国家和地区 发展 Conducted cooperation Financed the development with 114 countries and of 80,000 small and micro regions enterprises 023 / 024 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 基础设施 Infrastructure 让更多的人拥有良好的基础设施，是我们多年来一 我们支持建设的公路、铁路、水利等基础设施遍布 It is the direction of our years’ consistent pursuit The road, railway and water conservancy and other 贯的追求和努力方向。2013 年，我们新增贷款中 中国的城市和农村，同时也让非洲、南美、中亚等 and work to enable more people to access to good infrastructure projects we financed can be seen 80% 以上投向公路、铁路、电力、城市公共基础设 地区的人们享受良好的基础设施带来的便利，实现 infrastructure facilities. In 2013, we devoted over 80% everywhere in the country, both in cities or in the rural of the increased loans, or 2.0141 trillion yuan, to the areas. At the same time, we have also enabled the people 施等八大领域建设，承诺贷款 20,141 亿元，占“两 当地基础设施建设与经济发展的良性互动。 construction of eight major infrastructure projects, such in Africa, South America and Mid-Asia to enjoy the 基一支”贷款的 90.8%。 as roads, railways, power and public transit systems in conveniences brought by the good infrastructure, thus cities, accounting for 90.8% of the loans to the whole of realizing the interactive growth of infrastructure and the infrastructure and basic and pillar industries. economic development. 公路 铁路 水利 电力 城市轨道 Road Railway Water conservancy Power Urban rail public transit system 截至年末累计发放贷款 18,803 2013 年发放贷款 1,139 亿元 累计发放水利建设贷款 4,060 2013 年发放贷款 1,267 亿元 2013 年发放 512 亿元 我们的举措 亿元，贷款余额 12,382 亿元， 国际业务中交通运输方面的贷 亿元，2013 年新增表内外发 贷款余额 7,505 亿元 Our measures 同业占比超过 30% 款余额 137 亿元 放 837 亿元 Issued 51.2 billion yuan loans Issued 126.7 billion yuan in the year Issued accumulative 1.8803 Issued a total of 113.9 billion Issued accumulative loans loans in 2013, with the loan trillion yuan loans by 2013 yuan loans in 2013, with the of 406 billion yuan, with balance at the end of the and the balance of loans at loan balance in international the added loans in and out year standing at 750.5 billion the end of the year stood at business standing at 13.7 of balance sheet in 2013 yuan 1.2382 trillion yuan, with the billion yuan at the end of the reaching 83.7 billion yuan proportion in the interbank year loans exceeding 30 percent 累计支持建设的公路里程 146 累计支持国内铁路 6 万公里 , 累计支持水利项目 2,515 个， 累计支持建成电力装机容量 累计为中国 31 个城市近 200 影响与实效 万公里，其中高速公路 7.5 万 约占全国铁路里程的 50% 覆盖全国所有省、市、自治区， 6.5 亿千瓦 个轨道交通项目提供融资支持 Impact and 公里，占全国通车高速公路里 涉及农田水利、水源工程、河 results 程的比例超过 70% Financed the construction of 流综合治理等方面 The accumulative loans to Accumulatively provided 60,000 km of railways, about power projects amounting financing to nearly 200 rail We financed the road half of China’s total railway Financed 2,515 water to 650 million kw in installed transit projects in 31 Chinese construction of 1.46 million mileage conservancy projects, capacity cities km, including 75,000 km of covering irrigation projects, expressways, accounting for water source projects and over 70% of the total mileage river control projects in all open to traffic provinces, municipalities and autonomous regions 025 / 026 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 支持水利与水运事业发展 Water conservancy and shipping industry 水利兴农业兴，水利畅百姓旺。我们的水利贷款 Our water conservancy loan service has covered all 业务已覆盖全国所有省、市、自治区，贷款投向 provinces, municipalities and autonomous regions and 涵盖了河流综合治理、水资源配置等类型。截至 projects financed include comprehensive river taming and water source projects. By the end of 2013, the total 年末，累计发放水利建设贷款 4,060 亿元，贷款 accumulative loans to 2,515 projects in this area reached 余额 2,569 亿元，支持项目 2,515 个。 406 billion yuan, with the loan balance reaching 256.9 billion yuan at the end of the year. 关键词 新疆—牧民定居饲草料基地水利工程 Water conservancy project at a settlement and Key Word forage center in Xinjiang 新疆 2013 年，新疆分行提供 4,800 万元支持阿勒泰青河 XinJiang CDB (Xinjiang) provided 48 million yuan loans in 2013 提供 4,800 万元支持牧民 县开展此项目，并实施灌区定居点住房、道路、医 to the Qinghe County of Altay Prefecture for building the 4,500 户 院等基础设施建设，让 4,500 户定居牧民实现“定 project, including such infrastructure facilities as housing, Offered 48 million yuan to 居兴牧”、“安居富民”。 roads and hospitals, enabling 4,500 households to settle help 4,500 households down. 关键词 Key Word 浙江—水运航道开发工程 Waterway development project in Zhejiang Province 水运航道建设，对于沿海、沿江地区的经济发展具 Waterway development is of vital importance to the 贷款：30 亿元 economic development of the regions along coasts and 浙江 有重要作用。浙江地区杭平申线航道改造和钱塘江 Loan：3 billion yuan ZheJiang waterways. The navigation course transformation of 中上游衢江航运开发工程项目，是长三角地区东西 the Hangzhou-Pinghu-Shanghai line and the shipping 向运输大通道，项目建设三级航道里程 116 公里， development project on the Qujiang River on the middle 浙江分行提供贷款 30 亿元。 and upper reaches of the Qiantang River are the eastwest shipping thoroughfare in the Yangtze River Delta area. The projects included 116 kilometers of Class 3 navigation courses. CDB (Zhejiang) provided a loan of 3 新疆牧民定居饲草料基地水利工程 Xinjiang water conservancy at a settlement and billion yuan. forage center 027 / 028 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 卡塔尔多哈新港建成效果图 The new Doha port in Qatar 广西高铁线路 A high-speed railway in Guangxi 广西迈入高铁时代 High-speed railway in Guangxi 现代化海港——卡塔尔多哈新港 New Modern Port in Doha, Qatar 高铁建设像阵阵春雷，唤醒沉睡的八桂大地。广西 CDB (Guangxi) cooperated with railway enterprises 在美丽的波斯湾之滨，将建成雄伟壮丽的现代化海 The magnificent modern port in the Persian Gulf is a in providing a consortium loan to the project. It also key project of Qatar for hosting the 2022 World Cup. 分行与铁路企业合作，以银团贷款等方式提供融资 港——卡塔尔多哈新港，这是卡塔尔承办 2022 年多 committed earmarked loans to the China Railway The China Harbor Engineering Company contracted for 支持，并通过中国铁路总公司统借统还的形式引入 哈世界杯的重点筹建项目，由中国港湾承建。截至 Corporation. By the end of the year, the total loans added the project. By the end of 2013, we issued a total of 35 铁路专项贷款资金。截至年末，累计提供信贷资金 up to 28.2 billion yuan, including 2 billion yuan raised 年末，我们发放贷款 3,500 万美元，支持项目建设， million dollars loans to support the construction of the 282 亿元，通过债券承销募资 20 亿元。2013 年最后 by underwriting bonds. On the last day of 2013, the five 提高当地基础设施条件。 port, improving local infrastructure facilities. 一天，广西 5 条高速铁路启用，通车里程 1,081 公里， high-speed railways totaling 1,081 kilometers were put into operation in Guangxi. It was the first such railway 是全国首个开通高铁的少数民族自治区。 leading to a minority-inhabited autonomous region. 029 / 030 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 产业结构 支持产业发展方式调整 Industrial structure Support the adjustment in the pattern of industrial development 尊重经济规律，实现有质量、有效益、可持续的发展， 经济持续健康发展，要求转变经济发展方式，优化 打造中国造船业升级版 支持吉利沃尔沃升级换代国际银团贷款项目 关键是深化产业结构的战略性调整。作为长期支持 产业结构。2013 年，我们重点支持企业技术改造、 我们支持高技术高附加值船舶、海洋工程装备等 2013 年 11 月 22 日，我们与沃尔沃汽车集团签署 “两基一支”的银行，我们对产业发展有独到的见解， 兼并重组，推动过剩产能化解，钢铁、船舶等五大 项目，促进船企技术创新、产品升级。2013 年， 沃尔沃 90 系列汽车升级换代项目 8 亿美元银团贷 坚持以信贷结构调整促进经济结构协调和生产力布 过剩行业人民币贷款余额占比继续下降。同时，加 支持中船工业和中船重工的贷款余额 257.12 亿 款协议，贷款余额 3.72 亿美元。这是我们在瑞典 局优化，在支持产业发展方面积累了丰富的经验。 大信贷投放力度，融资引导传统产业的结构调整和 元。通过出口信贷、融资租赁等方式，帮助船企 牵头组建的首笔国际银团贷款项目，获得了中行、 优化升级。 拓展对外发展空间。如支持大连船舶公司的海洋 工行、交行、汇丰银行、三菱东京联合银行、中 The key to deepening the strategic adjustment of 工程装备出口，为其钻井平台项目承诺贷款 3.1 国信托商银行（台湾）等一批中外资主力银行的 industrial structure lies in the respect for the law 我们协助装备制造、水电等重点行业企业挖掘优势， 亿美元。 超额认购，为加快推动我国汽车产业转型升级带 governing economic development and a sustainable 推进国际化发展，帮助它们将业务拓展到欧洲、美 动产业结构调整和技术升级提供有力支持。 development of superior quality and efficiency. As a 洲、非洲等地区，并在当地的经济与社会发展中发 Upgrading China’s ship-building industry bank long backing the infrastructure and basic and pillar 挥积极作用。 We supported the shipbuilding, marine engineering industries, CDB has a unique insight and a wealth of International consortium loan to Geely Volvo’s experience in this area and has brought about a harmony equipment and other such projects with high product upgrading project A sustained and healthy growth requires the change technology and high added values to encourage in economic structure and the optimization of the In November 22, 2013, we signed with Volvo in the pattern of economic development and the them in technical innovation and product upgrading. distribution of productivity through the adjustment of Auto Group an 800 million dollar consortium loan optimization of industrial structure. In 2013, we In 2013, the outstanding loans to the China State credit structure. agreement on Volve’s 90 Series replacement project, Shipbuilding Corporation and the China Shipbuilding gave priority support to the technical transformation with the balance of loans standing at 372 million Industry Corporation totaled 25.712 billion yuan. of enterprises, acquisition and recapitalization and dollars at the end of the year. This was the first We also helped shipbuilders to reach out to foreign reduction of surplus production capacity. We provided CDB-led international consortium loan and it was countries through export credits and financial leasing. fewer loans to the five industries, including iron and oversubscribed by a number of heavyweight players A case in point is the export of marine engineering steel and shipbuilding, which had surplus capacity. such as the Bank of China, Industrial and Commercial equipment by the Dalian Shipbuilding Company. We In contrast, we committed more loans to traditional Bank of China, Bank of Communications, Hong Kong committed a 310 million US dollar loan to its drilling rig and Shanghai Banking Corporation, the Bank of industries in their restructuring, optimization and project. Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ and the China Trust Commercial upgrading. Bank in Taiwan. This was an effective support to China’s auto industry in its industrial structure We assisted equipment manufacturers, hydropower adjustment and technical upgrading. plants and other key industries in tapping their potentials for internationalizing their operations. We helped them reach out to Europe, the Americas and Africa, enabling them to display a positive role in the local economic and social development. 大连船舶建造的新型钻井平台 New Type of Drilling Rig of the Dalian Shipbuilding Industry Co., Ltd. 031 / 032 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 促进战略性新兴产业发展 Support to strategically emerging industries 我们重点支持信息技术、生物等战略性新兴产业发 We gave priority in our support to such strategically 展，为经济注入新的力量。2013 年，我们与发改委 emerging industries as information technology and 等部门合作，推动在安徽、江苏、广东、湖北、深 biology in order to give a shot in the arms of the national economy. In 2013, cooperating with the State 圳等 4 省 1 市开展战略性新兴产业区域集聚发展试 Development and Reform Commission and other central 点；携手国内外企业，搭建产业联盟，完善产业链 government departments, we carried out experiments 条，推动全球发展。截至 2013 年末，国内战略性 in the regional cluster development of strategically 新兴产业贷款余额 5,800 亿元。 emerging industries in the provinces of Anhui, Jiangsu, Guangdong, Hubei and the city of Shenzhen. We established an industry alliance with Chinese and foreign enterprises to improve the industrial chains and enable them to reach out to other parts of the world. By the end of 2013, the loan balance in this area amounted to 580 billion yuan. 安徽东旭光电车间 Dongxu Optoelectronics in Anhui 汇聚力量培育成长型企业 Concentrate efforts on cultivating growth enterprises 2013 年，我们完善对战略性新兴产业中成长型企 In 2013, we put in place a mechanism that offered a full spectrum services to strategically emerging growth 业的挖掘、推荐、认定、培育等全流程服务机制， enterprises, covering potential tapping, recommendation, 加强调研推动和现场服务。培育三安光电、东旭 acknowledgement and cultivation. We also strengthened 光电等 66 家成长型客户，新增授信 664 亿元。 investigations and on-site services. We cultivated 66 such enterprises, including the San’an Optoelectronics and Dongxu Phtoelectronics and increased the credit line by 66.4 billion yuan. 厦门三安光电车间 San’an Optoelectronics in Xiamen 033 / 034 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 助力京东方 8.5 代线项目 采用氧化物 TFT 技术的显示产品在实现大尺寸、 超高清方面，优势更加明显。安徽分行提供 18.5 亿美元，支持京东方第 8.5 代线氧化物 TFT-LCD （薄膜晶体管液晶显示器件）生产线。2013 年 12 月 28 日，国内首条氧化物面板生产线正式投产， 带动上下游产业投资 200 多亿元，上缴税收约 30 亿元，新增就业机会 2 万余个，形成一个产值近 千亿元的半导体产业集聚群。 New production line of BOE Technology Group CDB (Anhui) provided 1.85 billion dollars loan to BOE for putting up its 8.5 generation of IFT-LCD production line. The production line, the first of its kind in China, was put into operation on December 28, 2013. It gave an impetus to new investment in the upand downstream industries, which amounted to more than 20 billion yuan. The amount of tax it delivered to the state was about 3 billion yuan. In addition, it created more than 20,000 jobs. It gave rise to a semiconductor industrial cluster, with an annual output value nearing 100 billion yuan. 京东方办公大楼 The office building of BOE Technology Group 支持遥感小卫星项目 Small satellite for remote sensing project 北京二十一世纪科技发展有限公司是科技创新的 CDB (Beijing) devised a financing plan of consortium loans by way of issuing bonds to finance the small 排头兵之一。2013 年，该公司启动遥感小卫星项 satellite for remote sensing launched by the Beijing 21st 目。北京分行为其提供融资方案设计，建议其采 Century Science and Technology Development Co., 取组建银团、发行债券等方式多渠道筹集资金。 Ltd., a leading technological innovator in the country. In 最终协助该公司发行债券 8,000 万元，提供承诺 the end, the company issued 80 million yuan bonds and 贷款 29,000 万元。 CDB (Beijing) committed a loan of 290 million yuan. 遥感小卫星模型图 Model of small satellite for remote sensing 035 / 036 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 文化旅游产业 Cultural and tourism industry 文化产业不仅为人们的生活添加色彩，更是推动经 数字电视丰富非洲人民文化生活 Digital TV Project in Africa 大明宫遗址保护 济繁荣发展的生力军。多年来，我们支持非物质文 坦桑尼亚达累斯萨拉姆市的四达数字电视营业厅 At the Startimes Digital TV Service in Dar es Salaam, 唐大明宫，被誉为丝绸之路的东方圣殿。陕西分 化遗产的保护传承，协助文化企业拓展国际市场， Tanzania, a customer by the name of Mwambulukutu 里，姆万布卢库图女士赞不绝口：“四达数字电 行支持的国内首个大遗址保护项目——大明宫遗 was full of praises, saying, “ The Startimes digital TV 促进国际文化交流。截至 2013 年末，文化产业贷 视很方便，还便宜，你能看到任何想看的节目。” 址公园，获得文化部优秀文化金融合作创新奖。 is cheap and very easy to operate. You can see any 款余额 1,568 亿元，旅游行业累计承诺贷款 1,242.7 program you want.” 截至年末，承诺的 60 亿元贷款已发放 55.6 亿元。 2011 年，由开行和中非发展基金支持成立四达时 亿元。 The Startimes Sino-African Digital TV and Media Co. 如今，大明宫已成为西安未来城市发展的生态基 代中非数字电视传媒有限公司。截至年末，该公 司已在非洲 11 个国家开展运营，用户超过 300 万， Ltd. was founded in 2011, with the support of CDB 础和最重要的人文象征。 The cultural industry does not only enrich the people’s and the China-Africa Development Fund. By the end 覆盖非洲 45 个大中城市 4.5 多亿人口。丰富当地 life but also constitutes a vital force behind the of the very year, the company had operated in 11 人民生活的同时，传递先进的数字电视节目制作、 African countries, with a customer base exceeding 3 prosperous economy. For years, we have been active in aiding the protection and inheritance of non-material 传输等技术和运营服务理念，为当地培养电视文 million, covering 45 large and medium-sized cities with 化人才，员工本土化率逾 94%。 a combined population of more than 450 million. With cultural heritage and assisted cultural enterprises in local employees making up 94%, the company has reaching out to the international market for cultural been active in passing on the skills of digital TV program exchanges. By the end of 2013, the total amount of loan production and transmission and the principles for balance to the cultural industry reached 156.8 billion operation and services. yuan. The committed loans for the tourism industry added up to 124.27 billion yuan. 大明宫遗址公园鸟瞰图 A bird’s eye view of Daming Palace Ruins Park Protection of Daming Palace ruins Daming Palace of the Tang Dynasty used to be reputed as a majestic oriental palace on the Silk Road. The Daming Palace Ruins Park was the first major cultural relics protection project with the financing from CDB (Shaanxi). It has won the award for innovation and cooperation between outstanding cultural undertakings and financial institution. By the end of the year, 5.56 billion of the 6 billion committed loans had been imbursed. Now, the Daming Palace has become an ecological base for future development of the city of Xi’an and the most important humanistic symbol. 坦桑尼亚四达数字电视营业厅 Startimes Digital TV Service Center in Tanzania 037 / 038 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 区域协调 新疆、西藏及四省藏区 中西部地区 东北地区 东部地区 Coordinated regional development Xinjiang, Tibet and Tibetan-inhabited areas in four provinces Middle and western regions Northeast region Eastern region 我们的举措 发放贷款 773 亿元，连续三年稳增长 贷款余额分别为 13,221 亿元 16,736 亿元 贷款余额 15,721 亿元 贷款余额 24,501 亿元 Our efforts Loans of 77.3 billion yuan, and Loan balance of 1.3221 trillion yuan Loan balance of 1.5721 trillion yuan Loan balance of 2.4501 trillion yuan 我们积极配合国家推进丝绸之路经济带、长江经济 the loans have increased for three and 1.6736 trillion yuan, at the end of 带建设等区域协调发展战略。我们统筹考虑东中西 consecutive years the year 部地区发展特点，先后助推一大批重点区域发展规 影响的领域 配合沿边城市开发开放 公路、电力等基础设施完善 支持产业升级、能源结构优化 支持上海自贸区建设 划上升为国家战略，为推动形成合理的区域发展格 Impact Offered cooperation in the development Helped improve roads, power and Supported industrial upgrading and Supported the construction of Shanghai and opening-up of cities along borders other infrastructure facilities optimized energy structure Free Trade Zone 局做出了积极贡献。 支持特色农牧业 支持景区基础、配套设施建设促进就业 配合建设开放型经济体系 Supported specialty farming and Supported the construction of Support the development of open 2013 年，我们编制《国家开发银行支持区域发展政 animal husbandry infrastructure and supportive facilities economy in tourism attractions to increase 策手册》，针对中国地区和城市特色进行政策倾斜； employment 与四川、吉林等 18 个省市签署合作备忘录，支持 中国各区域发展。 We have offered close cooperation to the state in its implementation of the coordinated regional development strategy, such as the Silk Road economic belt and the Yangtze River economic belt. We have, according to the characteristics of the eastern, western and middle 拉萨—林芝公路建成效果图 武汉东湖示范区光谷广场 天津滨海塘沽区新貌 Effect chart of the Lhasa-Nyingchi Highway when completed the Optical Valley Square of the Donghu Tianjin Tanggu District regions of the country, assisted a number of key regional Demonstrative Zone development programs that have been elevated to part of the national development strategy, thus contributing our 西部—畅通经济发展道路 中部—产城融合带动城市发展 东部—建设滨海新区 shares to shaping up the rational regional development 2013 年，西藏分行承诺贷款 45 亿元，支持建设 318 湖北分行提出“基础设施—产业园区—龙头企业— 天津分行与市政府签订《关于滨海新区基础设施建 pattern. 线国道拉萨—林芝公路段，至此我们的公路行业贷 成长型企业”梯级合作路径，累计向东湖示范区提 设贷款的开发性金融合作框架协议》，支持滨海新 款对中国各省市实现全覆盖。这条 399 公里的公路， 供融资 286 亿元，助其实现“产城融合”发展，吸 区基础设施建设，提高城市载体功能。截至年末， In 2013, we compiled the “Manual on the CDB Policies 贯穿西藏东南地区，是藏中、藏东的主要通道，为 引了 50 多家世界 500 强企业入驻。 累计支持该区基础设施建设项目 10 个，发放贷款 for Supporting Regional Development”, which biases 沿线少数民族地区的经济社会发展带来生机。 226.84 亿元。 toward cities with their particular features. CDB signed MOU with Sichuan, Jilin and 16 other provinces and cities on regional development. Smoothing up road networks for economic Middle Region ---Melting of industries into cities to Eastern Region—Building coastal new area development boost urban development CDB (Tianjin) signed with the Tianjin Municipal In 2013, CDB (Tibet) committed a 4.5 billion yuan loan CDB (Hubei) designed a cascade cooperation pattern Government a “Development Finance Cooperation to finance the Lhasa-Nyingchi State Highway 318. Up covering “infrastructure, industrial parks and zones, Framework Agreement on Providing Loans to to that time, CDB had provided loans to all provinces, flagship enterprises and growth enterprises” and Infrastructure Projects in the Coastal New Area”. By the autonomous regions and municipalities for road provided a total of 28.6 billion yuan loans to the Donghu end of 2013, The amount of loans added up to 22.684 construction. The 399 km long highway runs through the Demonstrative Zone, helping it realize the integration of billion yuan, financing 10 projects. southwestern part of Tibet. It is the main thoroughfare city and industries. The zone has attracted more than 50 in the middle and eastern part of the autonomous of the world top 500. region. It has helped energize the economic and social development in the areas inhabited by minority people. 039 / 040 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 全球经济 Global economy 作为全球最大的开发性金融机构和中国最大的对外 As the world’s largest development finance institution 我们以规划促合作，在开展国家规划咨询合作、双 We have carried out cooperation in national planning 投融资银行，我们将开发性金融经验广泛应用到国 and China’s biggest foreign investment and financing 边经贸规划及跨国规划编制的基础上 ,2013 年受商 and consultation, bilateral economic and trade planning 际合作中，从规划合作入手，与各国金融机构建立 bank, CDB has applied its successful experience in its 务部委托，整体承担并完成对非 45 国及尼泊尔援 and trans-national planning. In 2013, entrusted by the international cooperation. Starting from planning, it Ministry of Commerce, CDB undertook and completed 双、多边合作机制，分享专业知识和经验。截至 外规划编制工作，为合作国的经济社会发展建言献 has established bilateral and multilateral cooperation the compilation of foreign aid programs for 45 African 2013 年末，累计与 81 个国家签订了 243 个合作协 策，增进了中国与合作国人民的共同福祉。 mechanisms with foreign financial institutions to share countries and Nepal to contribute our advice to 议，支持合作国基础设施、中小企业、农业等领域 professional know-how and experience. By the end of economic and social development to the benefit of the 的发展。 2013, CDB had signed 243 cooperation agreements people of both China and cooperative countries. with 81 countries to support them in constructing infrastructure facilities, and developing medium-sized and small enterprises and agriculture. 欧亚地区 Eurasia 非洲地区 Africa ● 贷款余额 543 亿美元 欧非地区 Loan balance: 54.3 billion U.S. dollars Eurafrica ● 贷款余额 163 亿美元 ● 基础设施项目合作 Loan balance: 16.3 billion U.S. dollars. ● 贷款余额 189 亿美元 Cooperated in infrastructure projects Loan balance: 18.9 billion U.S. dollars ● 在电信、公路建设、电力等基础设施、 ● 推动装备制造品牌合作、银行授信合作 亚太地区 民生领域合作 Shoved ahead cooperation in branding ● 双边贸易合作 Asia-Pacific Cooperated in telecom, road in equipment manufacturing and in Bilateral trade cooperation construction, power generation and extending credit lines 美洲地区 other infrastructure facilities as well as ● 在制造业、银行领域合作 The Americas ● 贷款余额 673 亿美元 in areas concerning people’s livelihood Cooperation in manufacturing and Loan balance: 67.3 billion U.S. dollars. banking ● 支持中小企业发展，带动就业 ● 贷款余额 587 亿美元 Supported SMEs, and created ● 支持周边地区互联互通建设 Loan balance: 58.7 billion U.S. dollars Supported interconnection projects employment opportunities among neighboring areas ● 支持机场、铁路等基础设施建设 Financed airports, railways and other 搭建地区性融资平台 infrastructure projects ● Constructed regional financing platforms ● 我们的举措 ● 带动农业、石油天然气、制造业等行业 Measures 合作 Foster cooperation in agriculture, ● 影响的领域 petroleum, natural gas and Impacted areas manufacturing 041 / 042 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 我们以互利共赢为原则，深化与上合组织银联体、 In line with the principle of mutual benefit and win-win, 推进南非家电产业发展 Development of South Africa’s home appliances CDB has brought into depth the multilateral financial industry 中国 东盟自由贸易区、金砖国家等多边金融合作， 多年来，产业配套不足成为制约非洲家电产业发 cooperation with SCO, Sino-ASEAN Free Trade Zone For years, the inadequate supporting industries had 推进重大周边互联互通基础设施项目，服务开放型 展的主要因素之一。2013 年 6 月 6 日，中非发 and BRIC countries. CDB’s foreign currency loan to 114 constrained the development of the home appliances 经济体系建设。截至 2013 年末，我们的外币贷款 展基金与海信集团共同投资的南非家电产业园开 countries and regions in the five continents had reached industry in Africa. On June 6, 2013, the South African 余额 2,505 亿美元，国际合作网络遍及五大洲 114 业，计划年产 40 万台电视和 40 万台冰箱，带动 Home Appliances Industrial Park financed by the China250.5 billion US dollars by the end of 2013. 个国家和地区。 当地就业 2,500 人。通过促进技术转让，带动配 Africa Development Fund and the Hisence Group opened, with a planned annual output of 400,000 TV 套产业发展，提升了南非家电产业制造水平。 sets and 400,000 refrigerators. The project created 2,500 jobs. It gave a strong impetus to the development of supporting industries through technology transfer, thus 中葡合作基金促进互利共赢 China-Portuguese-speaking countries Cooperative raising the manufacturing levels of the country’s home Development Fund for mutual benefit and win-win appliances industry. 葡语国家跨越亚欧非三洲，在推进世界经济发展 Portuguese-speaking countries spread in Asia, Europe “ 中具有重要作用。2013 年 6 月 26 日，中葡合作 and Africa. They have a great role to play in the world 发展基金正式成立，总规模 10 亿美元。基金将采 南非将来不仅会成为全球工业原料的供应者，而且还会成为生产中心，南非家电 economy. On June 26, 2013, China-Portuguese产业园项目使得这一梦想得以早日实现。 取多种投资方式，带动金融和实业资本双向投资， speaking countries Cooperative Development Fund “South Africa will become not only a supplier of the world’s industrial raw 以贸易合作促进全球经济发展。 was founded, with a founding capital of one billion US materials, but also a production center. The South Africa Home Appliances ” dollars. The fund will adopt multiple investment modes to Industrial Park has made this dream come true at an earliest possible date.” promote two-way investment by financial and industrial capital in order to achieve global economic development ——南非经济发展部长 帕特尔 through trade cooperation. ——Ebrahim Patel, Minister of Economic Development of South Africa 中国与葡语国家企业家大会暨中葡合作基金项目对接会现场 南非海信家电园的生产车间 Venue of Meeting of Entrepreneurs of China and Portuguese speaking countries and the founding of ChinaWorkshop of Hisense Home Appliances Park in South Africa Portuguese-speaking countries Cooperative Development Fund 043 / 044 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 中小微企业 Small, Medium-sized and Micro Enterprises (SMMEs) 中小微企业为经济发展带来了巨大活力。十余年来， 支持中外中小微企业发展 我们不断完善中小微企业贷款机制体制，设立中德 融资难、融资贵一直是中小微企业发展面临的重 和非洲等中小企业发展专项贷款，加大资金投放力 要问题。经过多年探索，我们形成多种融资服务 度，创新服务方式，支持更多的国内外中小微企业 体系和模式，为小微企业发展提供动力。 发展。 Support SMMEs at home and abroad 截至 2013 年末，开行国内中小微企业贷款余额 2.08 To solve the major problem of difficulty and costliness 万亿元，融资支持了制造业、农林牧渔业等近 20 in getting financing, we have, through years of studies, 个行业。非洲中小企业发展专项贷款累计开发项目 devised a multiple financing services and models that 112 个，发放贷款 10.3 亿美元，带动就业近 5 万个； provided the motive force for their development: 中德中小企业发展专项贷款累计发放 14.5 亿欧元。 园区小企业生产车间（江西） 塔吉克斯坦中小企业车间 SMMEs have injected immense vigor into the economy. Workshop of a small enterprise( Jiangxi) Workshop of a small Tajikistani factory 河南、江西—多样化融资服务体系 Over the past 10 years, we have persistently brought 在河南，探索出促进青年创业就业的贷款模式， to perfection the loan mechanisms to these enterprises. 自 2010 年以来已累计向 1,964 个中小企业客户 We have earmarked loans to such enterprises in China, 发放贷款 68.2 亿元。同时，发放小额担保贷款 Diversified financing service systems in Henan and Germany and Africa. By increasing loans and creating 塔吉克斯坦—风险缓释模式 49.5 亿元，支持 7 万多名创业就业个人、300 多 Jiangxi new services, we have supported more and more such 新疆分行和塔吉克斯坦国家储蓄银行共同研究出 enterprises at home and abroad. 家劳动密集型小企业，创造就业岗位 14.7 万个。 In Henan, we have developed a lending model to “筛选 评审 再核准”风险缓释模式，解决了 facilitate young people to pioneer their own businesses. 在江西，建立“园区政府选择项目入口—开发性 当地中小企业量大、规模小、风险把控难的问题。 By the end of 2013, the amount of outstanding loans We have, since 2010, provided 1,964 SMMEs with 6.82 金融信用孵化—实现战略客户培育”的融资服务 billion yuan loans. At the same time, we have also issued 截至 2013 年末，发放贷款 970 万美元，惠及当地 to SMMEs amounted to 2.08 trillion yuan, financing 体系。重点支持了鄱阳、奉新等 13 个工业园区， small sum guarantee loans to 70,000 new startups and 数以千计的小企业主。 nearly 20 industries including manufacturing, 累计发放贷款 13.4 亿元，支持 500 余家企业，解 more than 300 labor-intensive small enterprises, creating agriculture, forestry, livestock breeding and fisheries. 决 1 万余人就业。 147,000 jobs. The loans earmarked for SMMEs in Africa amounted In Jiangxi, we set up a financing service system covering Risk Mitigation Model in Tajikistan to 1.03 billion US dollars in 112 projects, which created a full spectrum of projects selected by governments CDB (Xinjiang) and the State Savings Bank of nearly 50,000 jobs. The cumulative loans earmarked in industrial parks and zones, development finance the Republic of Tajikistan has jointly developed for such enterprises in China and Germany reached 1.45 credit incubation and cultivation of strategic clients. The a “screening – Evaluating – Reexamination and billion euros. cumulative amount of loans to 13 industrial parks and Approval” risk mitigation model, which helped ease zones in Poyang and Fengxin reached 1.34 billion yuan, the difficulty of large numbers of SMMEs in managing supporting more than 500 enterprises and provided jobs risks. By the end of 2013, we had issued 9.7 million for more than 10,000 people. U.S. dollar loans, benefiting thousands of SMME owners. 045 / 046 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 幸福 携手共建 我们以实现经济社会的稳定发展为前提推进改革， 努力让我们的服务延伸到广大需要帮助的基层百 “ 通过与各方的合作， 我们可以做到更多。 美好生活 姓。面对人类共同的挑战，我们加大对薄弱环节和 We would have done much more with the 瓶颈领域的支持力度，以市场化方式支持社会建设， Happiness ” cooperation from all quarters. 携手政府、企业、金融同业和其他机构，共同创造 幸福美好生活。 Hand-in-hand in building a better life 我们重视与合作伙伴建立长期稳定的关系，大力推 进市场建设、信用建设和制度建设，寻求解决民生 项目外部性大、收益性低和回收期长等问题的业务 2013 年 模式和方法，成为民生金融创新的有力推动者。通 我们的成效 过在农业、保障性住房、教育等民生领域发挥作用， Achievements in 2013 阅读完整的 幸福携手共建美好生活 让人们能够学有所教、劳有所得、病有所医、老有 请扫描 所养、住有所居，享受更好的生活。 Scan QR for further information We have forged ahead with our reform under the precondition of stable economic and social development, 全年发放境内外农业贷 我们支持中小企业、个 345 195 款 345 亿元，同比增长 体工商户和农户 195 万 striving to extend our services to the grassroots common 60% 户，创造就业超过 508 people in need. Bracing for the common challenges to the Issued 34.5 billion yuan loans 万个 to agriculture at home and Supported 1.95 million humankind, we have strengthened support to the weak abroad, a 60% year-on-year SMMEs, self-employed and links and bottleneck areas and, through the market, support growth farm households, creating 5.08 million jobs social construction and worked hand-in-hand with the government, enterprises, and counterparts in the same trade and other organizations in creating a happy and better life. 221 万名学生顺利 满足了中国 80% 以上 入学 家庭经济困难学生的贷 221 80% We have paid full attention to establishing a long-term Enabled 2.21 million 款需求 students to get Satisfied the loan demand of stable relationship with cooperation partners in building their placements in 80% of students from poor the market, creditability and institutions. By seeking the institutions of higher families learning operational models and methods that help resolve the problems of big externalities, low returns and long period of investment recoup for projects concerning the livelihood of the people, we have made great efforts to stimulate financial innovation concerning the people’s well-being. We have 发放应急贷款 80 亿 发放医疗养老领域 80 19 元，支持灾区救灾重 贷款 19 亿元，惠及 given full scope to our functions in agriculture, government 建和生产生活恢复 210 万人 secured affordable housing and education, thus enabling Issued 8 billion yuan Issued 1.9 billion yuan emergency loans to loans in the area of people to have places to learn, to get paid for labor, to have help disaster areas in medical service and olddisease treated, to enjoy support when getting old and to their reconstruction and age support, benefiting 2.1 production million people have shelters over their head and to enjoy a better life. 047 / 048 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 兴农 Energizing agriculture 发展现代农业，既能提高农业综合生产能力，又为 In 2013, we made state-class modern agricultural 创新融资模式 支持现代农业发展 Creating new financing model to support modern agriculture development 农民增加收入。2013 年，我们以推进国家级现代农 demonstrative zones as the breakthrough points in 在河南济源，河南分行采用平台统贷和政府增信 In Jiyuan, Henan Province, CDB (Henan) adopted the 业示范区建设为突破口，探索支持现代农业的模式 aiding modern agricultural projects, which cannot only 的模式构建现代农业示范区中小企业统贷模式， model of unified lending through a platform backed by 与方法；支持中低产田改造等粮食安全工程项目， raise the comprehensive production capacity but also 开展农村土地承包经营权、林权、集体建设用地 government creditability to support SMMEs in its modern 保障居民食品安全；推动粮食流通体系建设，提高 increase the income of farmers. We developed models 使用权抵押融资，开创生物性资产和浮动资产抵 agriculture demonstrative zone and offered lending 粮食生产及储运能力；推动中外企业开展境外农业 and methods for developing such agriculture. We 押融资先例，成为济源农村融资的“破冰之举”。 with the right to contracting the collective land, forest 综合开发，助力非洲、南美等地粮食增产、农民增收。 supported the food security projects by ameliorating ownership and the rights to collective use of land as 2013 年，河南分行为济源市富民农业发展有限公 collateral, thus pioneering the first such case, an “icelowand middle-yielding land. We participated in the 司提供综合授信 4 亿元。 breaking move” in Jiyuan’s rural financing. In 2013, CDB 全年发放农业贷款 345 亿元，同比增长 60%。其中， building of grain distribution systems to increase the (Henan) extended a credit line amounting to 400 million 发放农业国际合作贷款 45 亿元，支持了包括莫桑 grain production, storage and shipping capacities. We yuan for the Jiyuan City Fumin Agricultural Development 比克农业开发、利比里亚棕榈种植、赞比亚棉花进 encouraged Chinese and foreign-funded enterprises Co. Ltd. 口、泰国橡胶加工等项目在内的 30 个农业国际合 to engage in comprehensive agricultural development 作项目，项目分布在非洲、南美、东南亚等海外地区。 abroad to provide an impetus to increase grain production and farmers’ income there. We extended 34.5 billion yuan agricultural loans in 2013, up 60% from a year earlier. Of the total, 4.5 全年发放农业贷款 345 亿元，同比增 长 60% billion yuan went to 30 such international cooperation We extended 34.5 billion yuan projects as agricultural development in Mozambique, agricultural loans in 2013 palm tree plantation in Liberia, cotton import in 345 亿元 Zambia, and rubber processing in Thailand. 30 个农业国际合作项目 30 such international cooperation projects 30 个 河南济源西红柿种植基地 Tomato Growing Base of Jiyuan County, Henan Province 049 / 050 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 支持万宝莫桑比克农业园建设 安居 心系亿人安居梦 莫桑比克加扎省赛赛市气候温暖湿润，富含腐殖 Low-cost housing project 虽已是春天，但东北这几天依然春寒料峭。葫芦 质的黑土层厚达 2 米。但却因种植品种单一、技 岛张大爷家里却感觉不到一丝寒意。“据说未来 术简单，农业主粮自给率仅 50%。2013 年，中非 居者有其屋，是千百年来的社会理想。2013 年中央 几天有可能降温，不过住在这新家里，我不用担 发展基金与中国万宝粮油合作，共同出资 1.97 亿 农村工作会议提出，到 2020 年完成约 1 亿人居住 心这个了。”2013 年，国有工矿棚改工程在开行 美元，支持当地建设 30 万亩粮食种植基地和集加 的城镇棚户区和城中村改造。我们从辽宁支持棚户 支持下完工，张大爷也从低矮破旧的棚户区搬进 工、仓储为一体的农业园，提高当地农业种植水 区改造起步，不断创新融资模式，加大支持力度， 了温暖敞亮的楼房。在中国，每天都有许多像张 平和能力，建立该国粮食加工和储备体系。 以主力银行的担当，圆亿万棚户区居民的“安居梦”。 大爷这样的棚户区居民在开发性金融的助力下实 莫桑比克粮食生产基地 现自己的安居“中国梦”。 Mozambique’s grain production base Agricultural Park of Wanbao Grains and Oils in 2013 年，我们与住建部等部门和各级地方政府密切 Mozambique 合作，制定住房保障政策和资金筹措方案，加大对 Always keep at heart the housing dream of millions “ In 2013, the China-Africa Development Fund and the 棚户区改造的支持力度，推进内蒙古包头北梁、吉 of people Wanbao Grains and Oils joined hands in providing a 中莫农业合作的首例和奇迹。 Though it was springtime, the weather was still chilly 林等地区棚户区改造项目的实施。截至 2013 年末， 197 million US dollar fund for building an agricultural It is the first agricultural cooperation between in Northeast China. Yet, there was not the slightest ” China and Mozambique, a miracle. 累计发放保障性安居工程贷款 6,235 亿元，支持了 park with a 20,000-hectare grain growing base and a coldness in the home of Grandpa Zhang in the city of processing center and a storage in Xai-Xai of Gaza 1,609 个项目，总建筑面积 6.46 亿平方米，惠及 Huludao, Liaoning Province. “I heard that temperature Province, Mozambique, which, although noted for ——莫桑比克总统 835 万户、约 2,574 万人。当年新增贷款 1,628 亿元， will drop in the next few days, but I do not worry at all ——Armando Emilio Guebuz its warm and wet climate and fertile soil, and yet, 同业占比 60% 以上。 in this new home,” said Zhang. Zhang’s home is part Mozambique President constrained by its single crop variety and simple of the shantytown transformation project completed in planting technique, could hardly meet half of the local 2013 with the financing from CDB. Zhang moved into It is an age-long dream of the Chinese people to own a food needs. this bright and spacious apartment. In China, there home. The 2013 central rural work conference set the target are many people like Zhang realizing their dreams of of completing the transformation of shantytowns and city moving into new homes every day. villages for about 100 million people by 2020. CDB (Liaoning) quickly responded to the call. By creating new financing models to strengthen lending, it undertook the tasks as a main “ player, determined to make the dream of millions of people come true. 国家开发银行对保障性安居工程建设的贷款占全部金 融机构此类贷款的 60%，今后要继续发挥骨干作用。 In 2013, in close cooperation with the Ministry of Housing CDB’s lending to government secured affordable and Construction and governments at all levels, it mapped out housing projects accounts for 60% of similar loans policies and a plan for raising funds to finance shantytown provided by all financial institutions. It should ” continue displaying its backbone role in the future. transformation. It hastened the implementation of such projects in Baotou of Inner Mongolia and Jilin province. By ——中华人民共和国国务院总理 李克强 the end of 2013, the amount of loans in this area added up to 623.5 billion yuan, financing 1,609 projects, with a total floor ——Li Keqiang, Premier of the State Council, People’s Republic of China space of 646 million square meters, benefiting 25.74 million people in 8.35 million families. The additional loans provided 香港分行 1.96 亿美元支持汇源果汁完成产业链整合 in the year amounted to 162.8 billion yuan, about 60% of the Integrated industrial chain of Huiyuan Juice with the 196 million US dollar financing from CDB (Hong Kong) total in the banking industry. 051 / 052 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 关键词 Key Word 内蒙—支持包头北梁棚户区改造 Beiliang shantytown rebuilding project in Baotou City, Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region 包头市北梁棚户区占地约 13 平方公里，涉及 12.4 内蒙古 Beiliang is the largest shantytown sprawling for 13 承诺贷款：171.2 亿元 The Inner Mongolia 万居民，是内蒙古面积最大的城市棚户区。内蒙古 loan commitment of 17.12 square kilometers inhabited by 124,000 people in 分行累计承诺贷款 171.2 亿元，2013 年发放 26.2 Baotou City. CDB (Inner Mongolia) committed loans of billion yuan 亿元，从根本上改善当地居民的住房、就业、医疗、 17.12 billion yuan for the project. It issued 2.62 billion in 教育环境。 2013. The completion of the project has fundamentally improved the living, employment, medical service and education environment. 内蒙—支持工矿棚户区改造 内蒙—支持工矿棚户区改造 ---改造前 ---改造后 Beiliang Shantytown New apartment buildings on the old site of the shantytown 关键词 Key Word 陕西—支持工矿棚户区改造 Shantytown transformation project in a mining area of Shaanxi Province 国有工矿因历史遗留问题形成“百里矿区、百里棚 贷款：25.93 亿元 CDB (Shaanxi) actively supported the transformation of 陕西 户区”的现象。陕西分行通过引进社保基金、发放 2.593 billion yuan in loans a vast expanse of shantytowns left over from the stateShanXi 专项贷款等手段支持工矿棚户区建设。截至 2013 年 owned mining areas. It came out with a package of social 末，累计发放贷款 25.93 亿元，建设面积 632 万平 security scheme plus earmarked loans for the special 方米，改善了铜川、蒲白等 25 万矿区职工及家属 purpose. By the end of 2013, the amount of loans added up to 2.593 billion yuan. The construction area covered 的住房状况。 6.32 million square meters, greatly improving the living conditions of 250,000 miners in Tongchuan and Pubai. 陕西—支持工矿棚户区改造 Shantytown transformation project in a mining area of Shaanxi Province 关键词 Key Word 西藏—支持昌都地区公租房住房建设 Public housing construction in Qamdo, Tibet 西藏自治区昌都沿山间的狭长平原而建，地少人多， CDB (Tibet) issued 100 million yuan loan in support of 资金：1 亿元 building public housing in the Qamdo area, where the 住房租金一直偏高。西藏分行发放贷款 1 亿元支持 Capital: 100 million yuan housing rental used to be extremely high. The project 西藏 昌都地区公租房建设，以解决当地中低收入家庭住 XiJZang eased the difficulty of lowand middle-income families in 房难问题。 renting houses. 西藏昌都地区公租房项目建设现场 Construction site of public rental housing project in Qamdo, Tibet 053 / 054 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 乐业 Employment 就业是民生之本。我们支持的产业和项目，为众多 Employment is fundamental to people’s livelihood. The 人创造了就业机会，2013 年，我们支持中小企业、 industries and projects we have supported have created 个体工商户和农户 195 万户，创造就业岗位超过 jobs for an increasing number of people. In 2013, we provided loans to 1.95 million SMMEs, self-employed 508 万个。还为创业者提供多种模式的综合性金融 and farmers, creating job opportunities in excess of 服务，帮助他们完成创业梦想。 5.08 million. We also created multiple comprehensive financial services to people who started their own 得到创业就业机会的青海撒拉族青年 businesses. Working young man of Salar nationality 关键词 吉林分行“万民创业小额贷款”社会效益显著 Jilin Branch’s small start-up loans benefit 10,000 Key Word rural residents 吉林分行自 2007 年创新推出“万民创业小额贷款” Our bank’s Jilin Branch initiated a small start-up loan 贷款：15.24 亿元 吉林 以来，累计发放创业贷款 15.24 亿元，支持创业 7,884 program for 10,000 rural households in 2007. Since then, loans：1.524 billion yuan JinLin 户，直接和间接带动就业 12.2 万余人。特别是在辽 it has extended 1.524 billion yuan in aggregate loans, 源直接推动打造了中国最大的棉袜生产基地——吉 benefiting 7,884 individual business and creating 122,000 林辽源“袜业园”。作为第一批进入园区内的企业， direct and indirect jobs. Thanks to Jilin Branch’s support, a “sock park”, China’s largest cotton sock production “鹿人”袜业在创业贷款介入之初仅是一个拥有十 base, was developed in Liaoyuan of Jilin Province. The 几名工人、几十台设备、年收入不足 400 万元的小厂， Luren Socks, one of the first enteprise who entered the 吉林分行支持的东北袜业园纺织工人工作场景 通过吉林分行持续的贷款支持和融智服务，今天已 park, used to have only a dozen workers, tens of sets of Women at work in a sock mill in Northeast China, a project ﬁnanced by CDB (Jilin ) 发展成拥有 1500 台设备、6500 万双产能、2 亿元销 equipment and a yearly income of less than four million 售收入、670 名员工的大型知名民营企业。 yuan. Because of the capital and technical support of the Jilin Branch, it has evolved into a large well-known private enteprise, posting an annual sales revenue of 200 million yuan. It currently has 1,500 sets of equpment, 670 employees and an annual production capacity of 65 million pairs of socks. 关键词 Key Word 青海分行支持撒拉族青年和妇女创业就业 Employment of Salar youth and women in Qinghai 在青海，我们与共青团组织合作，向有一技之长、 In cooperation with the Qinghai provincial Youth League 贷款：26,700 万元 organizations, we offered small sum start-up loans to 青海 有创业梦想的撒拉族青年发放青年创业小额贷款， loans：267 million yuan QingHai help local youths of Salar nationality who dreamed to 帮助他们完成梦想，实现价值。 青海分行向青海 start their own businesses, helping them make their 伊佳民族有限公司累计发放贷款 26,700 万元，带 dreams come true and realize their own values. The 动 2,000 余名撒拉族妇女就业，人均收入增加了 amount of loans to the Qinghai Ewa Folk Products 8,000 元。 Company added up to 267 million yuan, enabling more 得到创业就业机会的青海撒拉族妇女 than 2,000 women to get jobs. Their average annual Working young women of Salar nationality income increased by 8,000 yuan. 055 / 056 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 助学 Student loans 受教育权是人的基本权利，帮助贫困学生接受高等 The access to education is a fundamental right of 助学贷款圆学子大学梦 CDB loans make students' college dream come true 教育是社会公平的重要体现。我们已连续 9 年开展 citizens. Helping students from poor families pursue 2007 年 8 月，国家生源地信用助学贷款试点工作 The state launched a national pilot student loan project studies is a major manifestation of social equity. For 大学生助学贷款业务，通过与财政部、教育部等部 in students source area of Huining county, Gansu 在甘肃省会宁县率先启动，6 年来，开行积极探 nine consecutive years, CDB has engaged in student Province, in August 2007. Over the past six years, CDB 门和高校的合作，制定助学贷款实施方案，扩大受 loan business. It helped the Ministry of Finance, 索研究长效发展机制，不仅支持了贫困生实现大 has been actively exploring and studying a long-lasting 益学生群体，有效缓释还贷风险。截至 2013 年末， the Ministry of Education and institutions of higher 学梦，而且在促进诚信教育、建设诚信社会方面 mechanism, which cannot only help students from poor 累计发放助学贷款 544.7 亿元，覆盖中国 25 个省 learning formulate plans for executing student loan 发挥了重要作用。 families to realize their dream of going on to universities （市）、1,928 个县（区）和 2,689 所院校，支持 programs, striving to help more and more students and but also display an important role in promoting education 困难学生 994.9 万人次。 effectively mitigated repayment risks. By the end of in honesty and integrity and in building a society of 2013, the cumulative amount of student loans issued 甘肃分行提出诚意、满意、爱心、耐心、责任心 honesty and integraty. by CDB reached 54.47 billion yuan, benefiting 9.949 的服务理念。截至 2013 年末，在甘肃累计发放贷 针对大学生就业难问题，我们延伸服务外沿，通过 million students from poor families in 2,689 institutions 款 41.9 亿元，惠及家庭困难学生达 36 万人，贷 CDB(Gansu) put forward the service idea of “sincerity, 联合有关部门和企业举办毕业生招聘会、提供创业 satisfaction, love, patience and sense of responsibility”. of higher learning in 1,928 counties (districts) of 25 款余额 33 亿元，成为甘肃涉及群众最多、力度最 贷款等方式帮助大学生就业创业。2013 年，在吉林、 By the end of 2013,CDB had provided a total of 4.19 provinces and municipalities. 大的惠民政策之一，被群众形象地称为民心工程、 青海等六省举办“国家开发银行助学贷款毕业生专 billion yuan to Gansu, benefiting 360,000 students 德政工程和圆梦工程。 from poor families and the loan is still 3.3 billion yuan 场招聘会”，900 家参会企业提供就业岗位 2 万个。 We have also extended services to help college graduates outstanding. It has become one of the policies that find jobs. It cooperated with departments concerned involved the largest number of people and the biggest and enterprises in organizing job fairs and providing 河南省每年考上大学的学生约 60 万人，无力承担 amount of money ever, hence the honored description business startup loans. In 2013, CDB held job fairs in 学费的学生近 10 万人。河南分行于 2013 年启动 by the local people as a “Heart-Winning Project”, a six provinces, including Jilin and Qinghai. Nine hundred 生源地助学贷款，覆盖全省 118 所高校、152 个 “Benevolent Project” and a “Dream-Realization Project”. enterprises offered 20,000 jobs at the fairs. 县区。截至年末，累计发放助学贷款 48.3 亿元， 600,000 students from Henan Province are admitted 帮助 100 万人次寒门学子圆大学梦。 to colleges every year . Among them nearly 100,000 students from poor families cannot afford tuition. CDB (Henan) started a student loan program in 2013, covering 118 universities,152 counties and districts. By 助学贷款历年发放情况 the end of the year, it had extended a total of 4.83 billion 1000 995 Student loans issuance yuan loan to one million students. “ 774 800 我拿到助学贷款啦，这下可以到学校报到了！ 累计支持人次（万人次） Now that I've got the loan and can register for 561 累计发放金额（亿元） 600 545 placement at school! ” 本年发放金额 373 420 ——Zhao Bijian, a CDB student loan recipient 400 299 in Henan 232 200 195 133 120 73 66 36 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 057 / 058 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 扶贫 Poverty relief 全世界每天有 12 亿人的生活支出不足 1.25 美元， 截至 2013 年末，我们向 592 个国家级贫困县和 400 合作方 Our partners 我们的举措 Our efforts 影响与实效 Inﬂuence and effect 我国有 1.28 亿人口尚未脱贫。2013 年，我们积极 余个省级贫困县累计发放贷款 1.55 万亿元，贷款 探索金融支持扶贫开发的创新思路、合作机制和推 余额 8,474 亿元，有力支持了这些地区的公共服务、 国务院扶贫办 举办开发性金融扶贫经验交流会 推广成功经验做法，覆盖 22 个省 Poverty Relief Ofﬁce Organized meetings to share Recommended successful experience in 进模式，配合国务院扶贫办等部门及地方政府制定 基础设施、特色产业发展，解决贫困群众的交通、 of the State Council experience in aiding the poor by way 22 provinces 扶贫政策，探索武陵山等连片特困地区扶贫开发的 医疗等生活难题，助其脱贫致富。 of development ﬁnance 新思路与新模式，将捐赠和信贷支持相结合。 国家民委 制定《关于支持武陵山片区区域发 探索连片特困地区扶贫开发新机制与 State Nationalities Commission 展与扶贫攻坚试点的意见》及实施 新模式 About 1.2 billion people in the world live on less than By the end of 2013, we had issued 1.55 trillion yuan 方案，签订省、部、行等六方合作 Explore into new mechanisms and 1.25 dollars per day. In China, 128 million people still loans to 592 state-level poor counties and more than modes for large-scaled poverty relief 协议 live in poverty. In 2013, we explored into new ways, 400 provincial-level poor counties, with 847.4 billion by development in places living in dire Drafted Proposal on Carrying out new cooperation mechanisms and execution models in still outstanding. The loans gave a strong impetus to poverty Pilot Project in Regional Development poverty relief by development finance. In line with the these areas in providing public services, constructing and Poverty Relief in the Wuling policies of the Poverty Relief Office of the State Council infrastructure, developing specialty industries and easing Mountainous Area and a program of action. Signed six-party cooperation and local governments, we came out with a new idea the people's difficulty in travel and medical service and agreement at the provincial, ministerial and new model of donation plus loans poverty-relief helped them end poverty and embark onto the path to and bank levels scheme in the Wuling Mountainous area, where people wealth. still lived in dire poverty. 中国扶贫基金会 向国家级、省级贫困县的农户发放 发放小额扶贫贷款 7.1 亿元，覆盖 14 China Foundation for Poverty 小额扶贫贷款 个省 63 个国家级、省级贫困县 Alleviation Extended small sum povertyExtended 710 million yuan loans to 63 alleviation loans to rural households stateand provincial-level poor counties in stateand provincial-level poor in 14 provinces counties 全世界每天有 12 亿人的生活支出不足 我们向 592 个国家级贫困县和 400 余 1.25 美元 个省级贫困县累计发放贷款 1.55 万亿 各地政府 与贵州、四川等省政府签订扶贫攻 从基础设施、特色产业、教育、医疗 About 1.2 billion people in the world 元，贷款余额 8,474 亿元 Local governments 坚合作备忘录 等方面全面支持扶贫开发工作 live on less than 1.25 dollars per day We had issued 1.55 trillion yuan Signed MOU on cooperation with Supported poverty-relief scheme by loans to 592 state-level poor counties 1.25 Guizhou and Sichuan provincial developing infrastructure, specialty and more than 400 provincial-level governments industries, education and medical service poor countries, with 847.4 billion still 美元 outstanding 小额贷款公司、保险公司等机构 与宁夏惠民小贷公司等合作开展扶 引导金融力量共同参与扶贫开发 1.55 Small lending companies and 贫小额贷款；与中国平安保险公司 Encouraged all ﬁnancing agencies insurance agencies 在贵州支持特色农业 to participate in relieving poverty by 万亿元 development 我国有 1.28 亿人口尚未脱贫 Provided small sum loans In In China, 128 million people still live cooperation with small sum lending 8,474 in poverty ﬁrms in the Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region. Supported specialty industries 1.28 亿元 in Guizhou in cooperation with Ping An Insurance 亿人 059 / 060 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 因地制宜支持武陵山连片特困地区扶贫开发 Poverty Relief Development Project in areas living in dire poverty in the Wuling Mountainous region 武陵山连片特困地区区域范围包括湖南、湖北、 The areas for poverty relief by development in the 贵州、重庆四省市 11 个地（市、州）71 个县（市、 Wulingshan mountainous region included Hunan, Hubei, 区），是跨省交界面积大、少数民族聚集多、 Guizhou and Chongqing, involving 11 prefectures (cities) 贫困人口分布广的连片特困地区。 and 71 counties, where minority people live in compact community and the poor population was widespread. 关键词 贵州—支持正安县茶叶规模化种植 Tea plantation in Zheng’an County of Guizhou Key Word Zheng’an is a state-level poor county in Guizhou. 贵州 贵州省正安县是国家级贫困县，茶叶种植历史悠久， GuiZhou It has a long history of growing tea. But due to low 贷款：9,574 万元 但由于产业化程度较低，茶农收入增长缓慢。贵州 industrialization, the income of local farmers was slow 95.74 million yuan in loans 分行坚持规划先行，编制《发展顾问咨询报告》提 in increase. CDB (Guizhou) compiled a Development 间接创造就业机会 1 万多个 供融智支持，与当地政府及扶贫办合作，将财政扶 Consultation Report to provide expert support. In Indirectly created more than 贫和信贷资金结合，向该县 1,700 户茶农发放贷款 cooperation with the local government, CDB combined 10,000 jobs fiscal poverty relief with credit fund and provided nearly 近 9,574 万元，间接创造就业机会 1 万多个。 95.74 million yuan loans to tea farmers, creating more 正安县茶园 Tea plantation in Zheng'an County than 10,000 jobs indirectly . 关键词 Key Word 湖北—创新金融产品支持恩施扶贫开发 Hubei: CDB created new financial products to support poverty-relief development in Enshi, Hubei 湖北分行以“基础设施 + 产业扶贫 + 金融支撑”为 发放小额农户集合贷 湖北 CDB (Hubei) made Infrastructure, industry and 切入点，支持恩施土家族苗族自治州饮水安全、沼 6,000 万元 HuBei finance as the cut-in point to carry out poverty relief 气等民生项目，推进高山蔬菜种植加工、文化旅游 development. It supported the drinking water safety and Extended aggregated loans of 60 million 等产业发展。2013 年，向 153 户生猪养殖户发放小 methane gas and other projects associated with people's 养殖户人均年收入增长 额农户集合贷 6,000 万元，间接创造就业机会 500 livelihood and promoted alpine vegetable planting and 5,000 多元 processing and developed cultural tourism in the Enshi, 多个，养殖户人均年收入增长 5,000 多元。 Annual income increased Tujia and Miao Autonomous County. In 2013,it provided 贵州印江土家族苗族自治县特色产业茶业、食用菌丰收 by more than 5,000 yuan 60 million yuan loans to 153 pig breeding households, Specialty Tea plantation and edible fungi harvesting in creating, indirectly, more than 500 jobs. The per capita Yinjiang Tujia and Miao Autonomous County of Guizhou annual income of pig breeders increased by more than 5,000 yuan. 061 / 062 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 公益 Public welfare 我们积极投身社会公益事业，开展公益捐赠，组织 We have actively participated in the public welfare 主题公益活动送关爱 Public good activities 志愿者服务活动，热心回馈社会。2013 年，公益捐 cause, organized donation to welfare undertakings and provided voluntary services in return for the support 彩烛工程—西部教育人才开发项目 Colorful Candle Program , a project for education 赠总额 4,180 万元，其中 1,120 万元用于救灾，支 personnel development in western China given to us by the general public. In 2013, we donated 与中国西部人才开发基金会、北京师范大学合作 援雅安等地区实施救灾和重建；开展“垄上行—国 The project, the brainchild of CDB, the China Western 41.80 million yuan to public welfare projects, including 连续两年开展“彩烛工程”项目。2013 年，邀请 家开发银行青年农村金融服务行动”、“七彩课堂” Personnel Development Fund and the Beijing Normal 11.20 million yuan to disaster relief and reconstruction 等志愿服务活动 23 个，传播金融知识，关爱需要 270 名重庆、四川等贫困地区小学校长赴京参加 University, lasted for two years. of Ya’an. We launched 23 volunteers’ service activities 为期 10 天的综合素质培训。 In 2013, the project organized 270 primary school 帮助的群体。 including the “Colorful Classroom” campaign during headmasters from the poor areas of Chongqing and which we organized CDB young employees to provide Sichuan to receive a ten-day training in Beijing. financial services in the rural areas, disseminate financial knowledge and take care of the people in need. 新长城助学—教育资助项目 New Great Wall education grant project 与中国扶贫基金会合作连续 11 年开展“新长城助 Together with the China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation, CDB has for 11 years in a row carried out 学”项目，2013 年捐赠资金 100 万元，资助广西、 the New Great Wall education grant scheme. In 2013, 高效及时支援灾区 Efficient and timely disaster relief 新疆、西藏的 5 所大学的学生；在重庆、四川等定 CDB donated one million yuan as grants to students of 我们作为唯一的金融机构，与国家减灾委员会建 We are the only financial institution to share disaster 点扶贫县，各选择 1 所中学设立高中自强班，资助 five universities in Guangxi, Xinjiang and Tibet. It also information with the State Commission for Disaster funded 250 high-school students in the poor counties of 立了灾情共享机制，为抗击自然灾害、应对突发 250 名高中贫困学子。 Reduction and provide efficient and timely financial Chongqing and Sichuan. 事件提供快捷、高效的金融支持。2013 年发放应 support during natural disasters and breaking events. 急贷款 80 亿元，有力支持了灾区救灾和生产生活 In 2013, CDB provided 8 billion yuan emergency loans, 恢复。 helping disaster areas restore production and daily life. On April 20, 2013, a 7.0 magnitude quake hit Lushan 2013 年 4 月 20 日，四川省雅安市芦山县发生 7.0 County of Ya’an City in Sichuan Province, causing 级强烈地震，造成 19 个市州、152 万人受灾。四 disaster to 1.52 million people in 19 cities and prefectures. CDB (Sichuan) set its quick response 川分行第一时间启动响应机制，地震当天发放首 mechanism in motion and on the very day, extended an 笔应急贷款 2 亿元，并与省政府签署 500 亿元合 emergency loan of 200 million yuan. It signed a 50 billion 作备忘录，与雅安签署 100 亿元专项协议，全力 yuan cooperation MOU with the provincial government 支持救灾。地震发生一年以来，分行累计向地震 and a 10 billion yuan exclusive agreement with the city of 灾区投放贷款 80 亿元，通过应急贷款、项目贷款、 Ya'an. Over the past year after the quake, CDB (Sichuan) provided a total of 8 billion yuan. In addition, it provided 规划服务、捐款捐物等方式为抗震救灾和灾后重 an effective support to disaster relief and post-disaster 建工作提供了有力支持。 reconstruction by providing emergency loans, earmarked loans, program service and donations. “彩烛工程”培训现场 Training classroom of the Colorful Candle Project 063 / 064 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 励志奖学金—教育资助项目 启明行动—白内障康复项目 七彩课堂—关爱农民工子女志愿服务 2010 年，首次向中国金融教育发展基金会捐赠 与中国残疾人福利基金会合作开展“启明行动” Volunteer Service for children of migrant workers 100 万元，设立“国家开发银行励志奖学金”， 白内障康复项目，2013 年捐赠资金 200 万元，为 三年间奖励内蒙古、四川等七省区九所大学的 重庆、四川等地 2,000 名患者免费治疗 300 名学生。2013 年 4 月，再次捐赠 100 万元， 奖励范围扩展为十二省区十三所高校。 Inspirational Scholarship -another education Sight Restoration Action -cataract recovery grants project project In 2010,CDB donated its first one million yuan to In cooperation with the China Foundation for Disabled the China Financial Education Development Fund Persons, CDB has carried out a “Sight Restoration for setting up the CDB Inspirational Scholarship . Action”, a project to help cataract patients restore In a short period of three years, the scholarship sights. CDB donated 2 million yuan in 2013, which was granted to 300 students in nine universities of were used to give free surgery to 2,000 patients in Inner Mongolia, Sichuan and five other provinces. In Chongqing, Sichuan and other places. April 2013, CDB donated another one million yuan, extending its scholarship to 13 institutions of higher learning in 12 provinces and autonomous regions. 苏州分行青年志愿者为宝南学校的农民工子女介绍苏州评弹 CDB Suzhou young volunteers telling children of migrant workers at Baonan School about Suzhou Pingtan Opera 情暖阿里—员工志愿活动 2013 年 8 月，宁波分行“青春开行”爱心公益基 金的代表与西藏分行员工一起，从拉萨出发，驱 车上千里，赶往阿里雄巴乡小学举办“爱心开行、 情暖阿里”服装捐赠仪式，赠送 320 余套羽绒服、 冲锋衣及 140 套棉帽、围巾和手套等价值 20 余万 的保暖衣物，为藏区老师及孩子们送去一份温暖。 Bring warmth to Ngari -CDB employee volunteers In August 2013, representatives of CDB (Ningbo), together with employees of CDB (Tibet) set off from Lhasa and drove hundreds of miles to a primary school in Xiongba Township of Ngari, bringing with them 320 pieces of down clothes, water-proof jackets and 140 cotton hats, scarves and gloves, worth more than 200,000 yuan for the teachers and pupils of the school. 穿上新衣的孩子们 山东分行青年志愿者在济南市柳埠镇大会村小学开展消防演习 Children in new clothes CDB Shandong young volunteers teaching pupils of Dahui Primary School in the city of Jinan how to ﬁght ﬁre during a ﬁreﬁghting exercise 065 / 066 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 美丽 共建绿色 低碳家园 地球是人类共同的家园，良好的自然生态环境是经 济社会可持续发展的基础。开发性金融致力于推动 “ 为了与自然环境和谐发 展，我们从未止步。 生态文明建设与经济发展、社会进步的有机结合， For the harmony between man and nature, we have 实施绿色信贷，在支持产业转型升级、新型城镇化 Beautiful Home ” never stopped. 建设等过程中坚持将环境保护作为重点，推进资源 合理利用与生态保护，应对气候变化，融资绿色未 Joint operation for a green and lowcarbon home 来，建设美丽中国。 我们发挥开发性金融在环境保护方面的积极作用， 支持能源结构优化，推进环境污染防治，助力绿色 2013 年末 我们的成效 环保产业发展，携手各方共建天蓝、地绿、水净的 Our achievements in 2013 阅读完整的 美丽家园。 美丽共建绿色低碳家园 请扫描 The Earth is the common home of mankind. A good Scan QR for further information natural ecology and environment provide the foundation for a sustainable economic and social development. 支持集中供热等城镇大气 190 60% 污染防治项目 190 个 Development finance is dedicated to the organic 支持了中国 60% 并网光伏 Financed 190 urban air 容量的建设 integration of the building of ecological civilization pollution prevention and CDB alone has financed with economic development and social progress. control projects, including 60% of the on-grid PV power central heating systems capacity CDB has focused on environmental protection in the course of extending green loans, supporting industrial transition and upgrading and getting involved in the new type of urbanization. It has contributed its share to promoting the rational utilization of resources and 17,447 6,580 ecology protection, and in coping with climate change 节约标准煤 6,580 万吨 减排 CO2 17,447 万吨 by investing in the green future and the building of a Reducied 174.47 million tons of Saved 65.8 million tons of CO2 emission standard coal beautiful China. By displaying the positive role of development financing in environment protection, CDB has in cooperation with all quarters made great efforts to finance projects 支持节能环保项目 环保及节能减排贷款余额 of optimizing energy structure, controlling pollution 3,928 个 8,945 亿元，占全部贷款 3,928 13% and developing environment-friendly industries so as to Supported 3,928 余额 13% energy-saving projects make the sky blue, land green and water clean. Post a loan balance of 894.5 billion yuan, about 13 percent of the bank’s total loan balance 067 / 068 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 大气治理 Air pollution prevention and control 近年来，中国许多地区遭遇了持续雾霾天气，引发 源汽车产业和城市轨道交通发展，降低公众出行的 Many areas in China have sustained foggy and hazy Protection, CDB has expanded financing channels 了全社会对大气质量的高度关注。2013 年，我们制 尾气排放。 weathers, arousing great concern for the air quality. for pollution control to finance the development of 定《国家开发银行支持大气污染防治工作方案》， In 2013, we mapped out a “CDB Program of Action automobiles using new energy and urban rail transit for Supporting the Efforts to Prevent and Control system development so as to reduce exhaust emissions. 支持工业企业和城镇大气污染防治项目；推进清洁 截 至 2013 年 末， 我 们 支 持 的 项 目 总 计 约 减 排 Air Pollution”, spelling out the steps in supporting 能源在工业生产和居民生活中的广泛应用；与环保 CO21.7 亿吨、SO2309 万吨、NOX99 万吨，帮助改善 industrial enterprises and cities and towns in their By the end of 2013, the projects financed by CDB had 部合作，拓宽大气治理项目的融资渠道；支持新能 空气质量。 air pollution prevent and control projects, and in the reduced 170 million tons of CO2, 3.09 million tons of use of clean energy in industrial production and daily SO2 and 990,000 tons of NOX, going a long way to life. Cooperating with the Ministry of Environmental improving the air quality. 支持“煤改气” 天然气清洁高效，可有效替代煤炭供热，并降低污染。 关键词 天津—支持陈塘庄热电厂煤改气搬迁工程 Coal-to-gas project at Chentangzhuang Thermal Key Word Power Plant in Tianjin 天津市陈塘庄热电厂煤改气搬迁工程建成后，相 Coal-to-gas Project After completion, the project may achieve the result 贷款：24.79 亿元 当 于 年 节 约 燃 煤 420 万 吨， 水 2,000 万 吨， 减 排 Clean, efficient and pollution-free natural gas is a perfect equivalent to an annual saving of 4.2 million tons of coal Aggregate loan of 2.479 SO23,500 吨、NOX4,688 吨、粉尘 1,100 吨。截至年末， alternative for coal in heating. and 20 million tons of water, reducing 3,500 tons of SO2, billion yuan 天津分行为该项目累计发放贷款 24.79 亿元。 4,688 tons of NOX, and 1,100 tons of soot and dust. By the 天津 TianJin end of the year, CDB (Tianjin) granted a 2.479 billion yuan loan to the project. 关键词 Key Word 新疆—支持乌鲁木齐成为全国首个气化城市 Making Urumqi in Xinjiang the first city that uses natural gas in all production and daily life 新疆 乌鲁木齐市对 72 座燃煤锅炉进行“煤改气”改造， XinJiang The project involved the conversion of 72 coal-fired 贷款：20.8 亿元 拆除 5,000 余台燃煤小锅炉。新疆分行创新信用 Loan issued: 2.08 billion yuan boilers and removal of more than 5,000 small coal-fired 结构，10 天完成项目贷款审批。截至年末，累计 boilers. CDB (Xinjiang) designed a credit structure that 发放贷款 20.8 亿元。乌鲁木齐市成为全国首个气 allowed loan examination and approval to finish in only 化城市，PM2.5 浓度同比下降 48%，全年空气质量 ten days. By the end of 2013, it extended 2.08 billion 优良天数达 304 天。 yuan loans. Urumqi has become China’s first city that 陈塘庄热电厂全景 has realized the use of natural gas citywide, with the PM A bird's-eye view of the Chentangzhuang Thermal 2.5 density dropping by 48% and the number of days Power Plant with air quality rated as good reaching 304. 069 / 070 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 支持首都大气环境改善 我们融资支持恢复首都北京的空气质量。 关键词 Key Word 北京 Beijing 北京 2013 年，北京分行发放中长期贷款 2 亿元，支持密 In 2013, our bank’s Beijing Branch issued a long-term Air and environment improvement in Beijing 北京分行发放中长期贷款 Beijing 云县 25,000 亩平原地区造林工程。 loan of 200 million yuan to an afforestation program We have provided financing to Beijing in its efforts to 2 亿元 covering a land area of 25,000 mu in Miyun County. clean its air. CDB (Beijing) issued 200 million yuan 关键词 Key Word The Inner Mongolia 内蒙古 内蒙古分行发放贷款 13,500 万元，用于治理京津冀 CDB (Inner Mongolia) offered a 135 million yuan loan 贷款：13,500 万元 内蒙古 The Inner Mongolia 地区风沙来源库布齐沙漠，实现沙地绿化 150 万亩。 for controlling the Kubuqi Desert, a sandstorm source of Loan: 135 million yuan Beijing, Tianjin and Hebei. More than 100,000 hectares 实现沙地绿化 150 万亩 have been covered with green. More than 100,000 hectares have been covered with green. 密云造林工程 Miyun Afforestation project 库布齐沙漠绿化 Kubuqi Desert Greening Project 071 / 072 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 可持续能源 Sustainable energy 我们响应联合国“人人享有可持续能源”倡议，支 截至 2013 年末，开行支持国内水电、风电、光伏 Responding to the United Nation’s initiative of “Sustainable By the end of 2013, CDB financed 1,248 hydropower, 持可持续能源发展。中国被认为是世界最大的可持 发电等清洁能源替代项目 1,248 个，贷款余额 3,079 Energy for All”, we have rendered great support to the wind power and PV power projects, with 307.9 billion 续能源供应者，是世界风电及光伏产业第一大国。 亿元；向境外可再生能源发电项目发放贷款 80.9 development of sustainable energy. China is regarded as yuan loans. It also released 8.09 billion US dollar loans to the world’s biggest sustainable energy supplier and the renewable energy power projects in neighboring countries 我们独立承担了中国 1/3 风电装机容量和 60% 并网 亿美元，有效支持周边国家、美洲、欧洲等主要国 world’s No. 1 for its wind and PV industry. CDB alone has and some countries in the Americas and Europe. 光伏容量的融资支持。 家水电、风电、光伏等可再生能源的建设。 financed 1/3 of the wind power installed capacity and 60% of the on-grid PV power capacity. 2013 年支持可持续能源重点举措 水电 风电 光伏 Major Measures for Supporting Sustainable Hydropower Wind power PV power Energy in 2013 承诺贷款 267 亿元，总装机容量 490 万千瓦，相当于年节约标煤 发布《海上风电项目开发评审指导意见》，支持中国海上风电产 支持技术研发、改造和引进，兼并重组，分布式光伏系统应用等 约 470 万吨，减排 CO21,232 万吨、SO27.5 万吨、NOX3.7 万吨、 业国际竞争力提升 领域；强化行业风险防控，压缩对太阳能电池板等产能过剩子行 烟尘 7,500 吨 业的新增信贷 Published “A Guide to Evaluation of Offshore Wind Power Committed 26.7 billion yuan loans to finance projects with a Projects” in support of the efforts to lift the international Financed R&D, technical transformation and technology import, total installed capacity of 4.9 million kw, equivalent to an annual competition power enterprise acquisition and recapitalization and the distributive saving of about 4.7 million tons of standard coal and an emission PV power system reduction of CO2 by 12.32 million tons, SO2, by 75,000 tons, NOX Intensified industry risk prevention and control and reduced the by 37,000 tons, and soot and dust, by 7,500 tons amount of increased loans to sub-sectors with overcapacity in solar cell panel production 073 / 074 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 支持雅砻江流域锦屏水电站建设 助力风力、光伏发电项目 Wind and PV power project By the end of 2013, CDB (Ningxia) had extended 25.193 雅砻江流域锦屏水电站是国家“西电东送”关键 截至 2013 年末，宁夏分行累计向贺兰山、红寺堡、 billion yuan loans to the wind and PV power projects in 工程，建成后平均每年可为全国 5 亿居民提供 太阳山等风电、光伏发电项目发放贷款 251.93 亿 Helanshan, Hongsipu and Taiyangshan. It provided a 408 亿度清洁用电。四川分行作为银团贷款牵头 元，可实现年上网电量 46.7 亿千瓦时，相当于年 combined on-grid electricity of 4.67 billion kWh a year, 行，开通贷款审批“快速通道”，并在贷款期限 节约标准煤 140.1 万吨，减排 CO2420 万吨； saving 1.401 million tons of coal annually and cutting carbon dioxide emissions by 4.2 million tons. 和利率上予以优惠。截至年末，发放贷款 164 亿元。 甘肃分行融资支持国内首个光伏发电示范工程项 Our bank’s Gansu Branch financed China’s first Jinping hydropower project on the Yalong River demonstration project for grid-connected photovoltaic 目并网。累计投放贷款 25 亿元，贷款余额 24 亿元， Jinping Hydropower Station is a key project in power generation. Some 2.5 billion yuan has been 支持光伏发电项目 31 个，总装机容量 56 万千瓦， 甘肃大唐玉门昌马风电场 China’s West-East power transmission program. After lent to 31photovoltaic power plants which have an Datang Wind Farm in Changma,Yunna,Gansu Province 每年可节约标准煤 302400 吨，减少烟尘 6043 吨、 completion, it can provide 40.8 billion kWh of electricity aggregated installed capacity of 560,000 kilowatts. a year for 500 million people to consume. CDB 二氧化碳 786240 吨、二氧化硫 2570 吨； The loan balance was 2.4 billion yuan. Last year, the (Sichuan) provided a consortium loan and opened an amount of energy saved reaches 302,400 tonnes of coal express loan examination and approval channel and equivalent while dust emissions shrink by 6,043 tonnes a 黑龙江分行支持风电项目 19 个，可实现年发电量 offered preferences in loan maturity term and interest year. The annual discharge of carbon dioxide and sulfur rate. By the end of the year, the consortium loan put in 20 多亿千瓦时，相当于年节约标准煤 60 万吨， dioxide can be cut by 786,240 tonnes and 2,570 tonnes place amounted to 16.4 billion yuan. 减排 CO27 万吨、S026,000 吨、烟尘 6,000 吨； respectively. CDB (Heilongjiang) financed 19 wind power projects, 江苏分行累计发放贷款 52.6 亿元，支持 180 兆瓦 which can generate more than 2 billion kwh of electricity 江苏如东潮间带实验风电场项目，相当于每年节 a year,equivalent to a saving of 600,000 tons of standard 约标准煤约 16 万吨，减排 CO2 约 36 万吨。 coal and the reduction of CO2 by 70,000 tons, SO2 by 宁夏太阳山光伏并网电站一期 10MW 项目发电设备 6,000 tons and soot and dust, by 6,000 tons. 10MW ﬁrst phase project of Taiyangshan on-grid PV power plant in Ningxia CDB (Jiangsu) granted 5.26 billion yuan loans to the 180MW inter-tide experimental wind field project in Rudong, 相当于每年节约标准煤约 16 万吨，减排 Jiangsu Province, equivalent to saving about 160,000 CO2 约 36 万吨 Equivalent to saving about 160,000 tons of standard coal and cutting CO2 emissions by about tons of standard coal and cutting CO2 360,000 tons. emissions by about 360,000 tons 360,000 吨 雅砻江流域锦屏水电站 Jinping Hydropower Station on the Yalong River 075 / 076 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 循环经济 Circulating economy 循环经济具有低污染、低排放、高效率的特点，是 Our priority support area is the circulating economy, 支持生物质发电 我们支持的重点领域。我们携手发改委等部门，探 which is characterized by low pollution, low emission and 生物质发电可显著减少 CO2 和 SO2 排放，推进资 索循环经济的规模化发展途径；联合相关企业和研 high efficiency. We have worked hand in hand with the 源循环利用。2013 年，山西分行发放贷款 3.6 亿 State Development and Reform Commission in exploring 究机构，推动资源综合利用、循环经济园区、再制 元，支持应县和寿阳生物质发电项目。前者年发 into the way for scale development and associated with 造产业化等循环经济重点领域再制造产业化等循环 电量 19,200 万度，可提供 70 万平米的供热热源。 enterprises and research institutions to promote the 经济重点领域的发展。2013 年，我们提供了 196 亿 comprehensive utilization of resources, build circulating 后者预计年发电量 19,500 万千瓦时，年节约标 元资金支持循环经济发展。 economic parks and industrialize the re-manufacturing 准煤 11 万吨，减排 SO2 3,000 吨。 sector. In 2013, CDB provided 19.6 billion yuan loans to sustain the development of the circulating economy. Bio-power project Bio-power can significantly reduce CO2 and SO2 emissions and promote the cyclic utilization of 应县生物质发电项目 打造再生资源产业“汨罗模式” “Miluo Model” for developing renewable resources resources. In 2013, CDB Shanxi granted 360 million Bio-power plant in Yingxian County industry yuan loans to the bio-power projects in Yingxian and 使用再生资源可大量节约能源、水和生产辅料， The use of renewable resources can save a lot of energy, Shouyang. Yingxian project has an annual power 减少环境污染。2004 年以来，湖南分行累计向湖 water and auxiliary materials and reduce pollution to the generating capacity of 192 million kwh, capable 南汨罗再生资源企业发放贷款 22.27 亿元，200 of supplying heat to 700,000 square meters. The environment. Since 2004, CDB (Hunan) has provided 家受助企业实现了设备更新换代。汨罗市也成为 2.227 billion yuan loans to the Hunan Miluo renewable Shouyang project is expected to have an annual 中南地区最大废旧物资聚集地和加工地。 resource enterprises. The 200 recipients realized the generating capacity of 195 million kwh, equivalent to replacement of their equipment. Miluo has become saving 110,000 tons of standard coal and cutting 3,000 the biggest center for collecting and processing waste tons of SO2. materials in the central China area. 年节约标准煤 11 万吨，减排 SO2 3,000 吨 Equivalent to saving 110,000 tons of standard coal and cutting 3,000 tons of SO2 寿阳生物质发电项目 Bio-power plant in Shouyang County 3,000 吨 湖南汨罗市再生资源市场 Renewable resources market in Miluo, Hunan 077 / 078 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 流域综合治理 Comprehensive river valley harnessing “ 水是生命之源。我们大力推进太湖、滇池等重点流 Water is the source of life. We have firmly committed to 千岛湖是我国极为难得的优质水资源，加强千岛湖及新安江上游流域水资源保护意义重大，在这个问题上要 域综合治理，还公众以清澈的河流和新鲜的水源。 the comprehensive harnessing of Lake Taihu, Lake Dianchi 避免重蹈先污染后治理的覆辙。浙江、安徽两省要着眼大局，从源头控制污染，走互利共赢之路。 2013 年，发放流域综合治理贷款 373.9 亿元，同比 and other major river valleys, making the waters clean and Qiandao Lake is one of the few hard -to-get quality water sources in China. It is of great significance to fresh. In 2013, CDB provided loans amounting to 37.39 增长 14.4%；贷款余额 1,580.2 亿元，同比增长 9.2%。 strengthen the protection of the water in Lake Qiandao and the upper reaches of the Xin’an River. We must billion yuan for such projects, 14.4% more than in the avoid repeating the mistakes of polluting it first and controlling it later. The two provinces of Zhejiang and previous year. The total outstanding loans came to 158.02 Anhui must have the whole situation in mind and control pollution from the sources and follow the mutual billion yuan, 9.2% more than in the previous year. benefit and win-win road. ” ——中华人民共和国主席 习近平 支持流域综合治理 ——Xi Jinping, President of the People’s 我们致力于流域综合治理，为广袤大地增添绿 Republic of China 水清泉。 Comprehensive harnessing of river valleys We have dedicated ourselves to projects of comprehensive harnessing of river valleys. 关键词 安徽—新安江流域综合治理项目 Xin’anjiang drainage area Comprehensive Key Word harnessing project, Anhui Province 新安江发源于安徽黄山，为千岛湖供应了近 70% 的 Sourcing in the Huangshan in Anhui Province, Xin’an 累计发放贷款 19.2 亿元 水源。项目完成后将关停、转移近百家污染严重企 River supplies nearly 70% of the water in Lake Qiandao The cumulative amount of 业，解决 10.3 万移民的生产生活和 20 万人口的安 area. The project involved the closure and removal of CDB loans to the project 安徽 全饮水问题。截至年末，累计发放贷款 19.2 亿元。 nearly 100 heavily polluting enterprises and resolved the reached 1.92 billion yuan. AnHui production and living for 103,000 relocated people and safe drinking water for 200,000 people. By the end of 治理后的新安江流域（横江和率水交汇处） 2013, the cumulative amount of CDB loans to the project The Xin'an River catchment area (conﬂuence of Hengjiang reached 1.92 billion yuan. and Lushui) after harnessing 关键词 Key Word 上海—青草沙水源地原水工程项目 Water source project at Qingcaosha, Shanghai 项目获得中国水利工程最高奖—中国水利工程优质 The project has won China’s top award for hydraulic 累计发放贷款 23.9 亿元 上海 engineering, the Dayu Prize for Best Quality. After ShangHai （大禹）奖。完成后，供水能力可达每天 719 万立 The amount of loans completion, it can supply 7.19 million cubic meters of provided by CDB had 方米，供水规模将占上海原水供应的 50% 以上，1,000 water a day, or more than half of the water supply to added up to 2.39 billion 余万人受益。截至年末，累计发放贷款 23.9 亿元。 Shanghai, benefiting more than 10 million people. The yuan. amount of loans provided by CDB had added up to 2.39 青草沙水源地示意图 Chart of Qingcaosha Water Source billion yuan by the end of 2013. 079 / 080 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 煤炭清洁高效利用 Clean and efficient utilization of coal 我们关注煤炭生产和利用方式变革，推动煤炭使用 We have closely watched the changing coal production 支持潞安矿业集团煤间接液化示范项目 Indirect coal liquefaction demonstrative project and utilization patterns and strive to advance toward the launched by the Lu’an Mining Group 由燃料向原料与燃料并举转变；融资促进煤矿企业 我们承诺贷款 23 亿元，支持潞安矿业集团煤间 direction of transition from pure fuel use to the use as We committed a 2.3 billion yuan loan to the indirect coal 兼并重组和资源整合，加速煤炭产业转型升级；支 接液化示范项目。项目可实现年产油品 16 万吨。 fuel and raw material. We have financed the acquisition liquefaction project of the Lu’an Mining Group, which 持煤层气（煤矿瓦斯）抽采利用，弥补中东部地区 and recapitalization of coal enterprises to integrate their is designed to produce 160,000 tons of oil products 天然气资源不足，为构建我国稳定、经济、环保的 annually. resources to accelerate the transition and upgrading of 现代能源产业体系贡献金融力量。 the coal industry. We have supported the coal seam gas extraction and utilization projects to make up for the “ shortages in natural gas supply in the middle and eastern 把臭煤（高硫煤）变成了香煤，把废料变成了原料，把废品变成了产品，把宝藏变成了宝物，展示了循环经 regions. We have contributed our share to the building of 济发展的巨大魅力。 a stable, economical and environment-friendly modern energy industrial system. Turning stink coal (high sulfur coal) into good-scented coal (Non-sulfur coal), turning waste into raw material, turning rejects into finished products, and turning hidden trove into treasure – all these have demonstrated ” 2013 年支持煤炭清洁高效利用重点举措 the immense charm of the circulating economy. Major moves for supporting the clean and efﬁcient utilization of coal in 2013 煤炭生产和利用方式变革 煤炭深加工示范项目贷款余额 314 亿元，推动每年将 1 亿吨煤炭 ——中华人民共和国国务院总理 李克强 Changes in the pattern of coal production 转化为 988 万吨油品、110 亿立方米天然气、226 万吨烯烃和 60 ——Li Keqiang, Premier of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China and utilization 万吨乙二醇 Lent 31.4 billion yuan to an experimental coal deep-processing project that can convert 100 million tons of coal into 9.88 million tons of oil products, 11 billion cubic meters of natural gas, 2.26 million tons of oleﬁn and 600,000 tons of ethylene glycol 煤矿企业兼并重组和资源整合 开创矿业权出让等新模式，累计承诺贷款 1,440 亿元，整合产能逾 Acquisitions & recapitalization and 2 亿吨 / 年，整合资源量逾 100 亿吨 resources integration of coal enterprises Committed 144 billion yuan loans by way of royalty transfer and other new models to integrate production capacity amounting to 200 million tons. The resources integrated exceeded 10 billion tons 煤层气（煤矿瓦斯）抽采利用 贯彻国务院《关于进一步加快煤层气（煤矿瓦斯）抽采利用的意见》 Coal-seam gas extraction and utilization 要求，向煤层气产业累计承诺贷款 66.2 亿元 创新“组合众多安全改造工程为整装项目、以煤炭生产安全费作 为项目资本金”模式，实现差别化信贷管理 Committed 6.62 billion yuan loans to coal-seam gas extraction industry according to the requirements of the State Council on accelerating coalseam gas extraction and utilization Created a “project package” by combining the numerous safety transformation projects and made production safety fees the project capital, thus realizing differentiated loan management 潞安矿业集团煤间接液化示范项目 Indirect coal liquefaction demonstrative project of the Lu'an Mining Group 081 / 082 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 累计发放城镇化贷款约 7 万亿元 人民币贷款累计发放的 62% 当年发放城镇化贷款 9,968 亿元 Extended seven trillion yuan in Accounting for 62 percent of our The urbanization loans issued in loans to ﬁnance urbanization bank's total RMB loans 2013 hit 996.8 billion yuan 专题：支持新型城镇化建设 7 万亿元 62% 9,968 亿元 Special topics: new type of urbanization 新型城镇化建设是今后相当长时期我国经济改革发 The new type of urbanization will remain a major force 国家开发银行支持城镇化建设“三个专项”工作 展的重要推动力。新型城镇化发展，需要解决好“三 propelling forward China’s reform and development in a CDB's three special projects for urbanization 个一亿人”问题，涉及户籍、土地、资金、体制机 considerable long time to come. This requires efforts to solve the following problems: urban residency problem 发放专项贷款 集中和引导社会资金解决农民工市民化、保障房和 制等多个领域改革，尤其需要建立多元化可持续的 of around 100 million rural migrants, the rebuilding of Earmarked loans 中西部地区建设中的资金缺口问题，强化专项贷款 资金保障机制。 urban shantytowns where some 100 million people live, 的风险管理，提高资金使用效率 and the movement into cities of another 100 million rural Amassed social idle funds to make up for the fund 2013 年，我们从各地经济社会发展水平、区位禀赋、 residents in the middle and western regions. This involved shortages in resolving the problem of urbanizing 资源环境承载能力等实际出发，支持“基础设施、 the reform of household registration system, land, funds migrant workers, housing problem and the construction projects in the middle and western parts of the country; 生态环境、文化传承、健康保障”承载力建设，在 and institutions, and especially a diversified and sustainable intensiﬁed risk management of ear-marked loan and 城市燃气市场化运营、循环经济、文物及历史风貌 mechanism that can ensure funds for these projects. raised the fund utilization rate 保护、综合医院建设等领域取得了突破和进展，着 In 2013, we made breakthrough progress in the operation of 力提升城镇的公共服务、文化等内涵，使城镇成为 发行专项债券 通过发行市政债券等方式，解决城镇化重大项目建 urban fuel gas market, circulation economy, cultural relics 具有较高品质的宜居之所。选择安徽、辽宁、苏州 Earmarked bond Issue and historical sites protection and the building of general 设的资本金不足问题，确保城镇化建设资金供给可 作试点，为新型城镇化探索多元化、可持续的资金 hospitals by helping various places in their efforts to 持续 来源渠道。 enhance the bearing capacities with regard to infrastructure, Issued municipal bonds to make up for capital shortage ecology and environment, cultural heritage and health in major urbanization projects to ensure sustainability of insurance according to their actual levels of economic fund supply to urbanization projects 截至 2013 年末，我们累计发放城镇化贷款约 7 万 亿元，占人民币贷款累计发放的 62%，当年发放城 and social development, geographic endowments and resources. We made great efforts to upgrade urban public 设立专项基金 发挥协同作用，可由开行发起设立并进行管理，也 镇化贷款 9,968 亿元，占当年人民币贷款发放的 services and cultural establishment so as to make cities 65%。 Special purpose funds 可根据需要由国家设立并纳入政府性基金预算管理 and towns highly livable. We selected Anhui, Liaoning and To display the synergy effect, the funds may be initiated Suzhou as the cities for experiments in seeking multiple and put in the hands of CDB. It may also be set up by and sustainable fund sources. the central government and put under the governmental funds budget management By the end of 2013, we had extended 7 trillion yuan loans to urbanization projects, accounting for 62% of the total RMB loans in the year. The amount of loans issued in the very year amounted to 996.8 billion yuan, 65% of the RMB loans in the year. 083 / 084 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 基础设施 Infrastructure 支持“亚洲第一、世界第二”超长隧道 ——秦岭终南山公路隧道贯通通车 CDB funded “No 1 in Asia, No.2 in the world” Super long tunnel of Zhongnanshan highway at Qinling Mopuntain Range 生态 Ecology 支持湖北黄冈“以水兴城”遗爱湖生态修复工程 Yiaihu ecology restoration project in Huanggang, Hubei Province 文化 Culture 山西“又见平遥”剧场外观 Outer view of Shanxi Pingyao Theater 养老 Support for the Aged 支持安徽天长市金太阳老年公寓建设 CDB funded Golden Sun Apartment for the aged in Tianchang, Anhui Province 085 / 086 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 可持续发展能力建设 我们深知应对可持续发展挑战并取得商业成功，需要具备独特的能力。 2013 年，我们强调稳健运营，注重提升跨周期经营能力，积极改革创新， 发挥人才、资金和技术专长，强化客户服务、员工成长、资金筹集、风险 Sustainable Development 防控和绿色运营等工作，增强可持续发展能力，实现商业价值创造与可持 Capacity Building 续发展的统一。 We are fully aware that it requires unique abilities to achieve commercial success in coping with the sustainability challenges. In 2013 we stressed prudent operation, with the eyes set on raising the cyclic management capabilities. By displaying the strong points in personnel, fund and technology, we actively carried out reform and innovation, refined customer service, employee growth and fundraising, guarded against and controlled risks and devoted to green operation so as to enhance the capacity of sustainable development, realize the creation of commercial values in the course of achieving sustainability. 客户服务 员工成长 资金筹集 风险管控 运营管理 Customer service Employee growth Fund-raising Risk managemen Operation and management 087 / 088 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 客户服务 完善客户服务体系 Customer service Bring customer service system to perfection 我们发挥综合金融服务优势，为全球客户提供多元 我们完善服务体系，为提升客户服务能力奠定稳固 We have tried to perfect the service system so as to We have renovated our service products and models. 化、综合化的产品和服务。加快投融资模式创新， 的基础。截至 2013 年末，开行在境内开设 37 家一 lay a solid foundation for enhancing customer service This included “the services that integrate financing with 构建市场型、混合型、政府型等不同类别的多元投 级分行、4 家子公司和 15 家村镇银行，在境外开设 capability. By the end of 2013, CDB had opened 37 tierexpert service and sharing of business resources” to one branches, four subsidiaries, 15 village banks, three serve upand down-stream industrial chains and share 资主体和运行主体，完善客户服务体系，努力实现 香港分行及开罗、莫斯科、里约 3 家代表处，并完 representative offices in Cairo, Moscow and Rio-deresources and risks. We have pushed the securitization 客户与银行价值共同增长的经营目标。2013 年，客 善网上银行、呼叫中心等渠道，将服务延伸到客户 Janeiro. It had also improved on-line banking service of assets, issuing 8 billion yuan bonds earmarked for 户满意度为 96%。 身边。 and call centers to make our services more easily railway projects; it also included entrusted investment accessible. business initiatives in executing the Sino-Russian project We have given full scope to our advantage in the 发布《国家开发银行关于客户经理业务工作的指导 for increasing supply in the crude oil trade. Another comprehensive financial service and provided a 意见》和《国家开发银行客户经理业务工作手册》， We published the “CDB Guidelines on the Work of new product is a model that integrates bills exchange diversified and comprehensive products and services 以客户经理作为与客户沟通的窗口，提升服务品质； Customer Managers” and the “CDB Handbook for with factoring. We have carried out experiments in such to global clients. We have accelerated renovating Customer Managers”, making the work of customer innovative products as domestic letter of credit and 落实中国铁路总公司、国家电网等 120 家重点客户 investment and financing modes, and created marketmanagement a window for communications with consortiums factoring. 综合金融服务方案，完成 50 家战略客户的规划咨询。 oriented, fixed and governmental and other types of customers and raising our service quality. We put into investors and operational players and improved the execution the integrated financial service program customer service system, striving to materialize the 创新服务产品和模式。提出“融智、融资、融商” for 120 VIP clients including the China Railway operational objectives of creating value growth for both 客户服务综合模式，为客户提供上下游产业链服务， Corporation and the State Grid and completed planning customer and the bank. Customer satisfaction reached 共享资源、共御风险；推进资产证券化，发行 80 亿 consultation for 50 strategic clients. 96% in 2013. 元铁路专项信贷资产支持证券；推出委托投资业务 模式，实施中俄原油贸易增供项目；创新票据、保 理等产品组合模式，开展国内信用证、银团保理等 创新产品试点。 2013 年，客户满意度为 96% Customer satisfaction reached 96% in 2013 96% 089 / 090 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 加强客户关系管理 Customer relations management 提供综合金融服务 Upholding the customer-centric philosophy, CDB 天津分行秉持“以客户为中心”的理念，不断强 Comprehensive financial services (Tianjin) has constantly intensified servicing and 化客户关系的维护和管理。 management of customer relations. 综合金融服务创新是开发性金融的活力所在。2013 Creating comprehensive financial service provides 年，我们秉持“一个开行、一个客户、一套服务” the vitality for development finance. By upholding 举措 Measures 成效 Result 的理念，在现有投资、贷款、债券、租赁、证券基 the principle of offering well-tailored services to each 推动银政合作 明确对“美丽天津”建设、示范小城镇建设、节 particular client, we have created such service portfolios 础上，创新并推广“债贷结合”“投贷结合”“租 Bank-government cooperation 能环保等领域提供支持 as “investment plus loans” and “leasing plus loans” Getting clear about support to “Beautiful Tianjin” 贷结合”等模式，涉及 3,824 亿元融资。 in 2013 on the basis of the existing investment, loans, project, small city and town demonstrative project bonds, leasing and securities. The models entailed a and energy-conservation and environment-friendly projects financing of 382.4 billion yuan. 推动重点客户合作 建立“潜力客户、中端客户、高端客户”动态管 Cooperation with VIP clients 理梯次，维护客户关系 Established a dynamic three-tiered customer management system for “potential customers, 综合金融服务模式 Comprehensive ﬁnancial services middle-end customers and high-end customers” and 服务模式 Service model 举措与成效 Measures and results actively serviced customer relations 债贷结合 Bonds plus loans 配合国家发改委，创新推出“债贷结合”企业债券， 建立综合营销统筹调度机制 发挥综合金融服务优势，针对重大客户和战略成 成功发行首批两支湖南岳阳、安徽铜陵“债贷统筹” Establishment of integrated marketing and unified 长型企业，统筹协调，系统推进，提升服务实效 债券，协助地方政府有效防控债务风险，支持两 dispatching mechanism Displayed the advantages in comprehensive 地棚改项目建设 financial services and unified and coordinated steps Together with the State Development and Reform in systematic advance and raised the efficiency of Commission, we issued bond-plus-loan corporate services to VIP clients and growth enterprises bonds. The first two issues were Hunan Yueyang and Anhui Tongling bond-plus-loan bonds to assist the local governments in effectively guarding against and controlling risks in their shantytown transformation projects 投贷结合 与国开金融，重点支持新型城镇化建设、基金、 中国开发性金融促进会 China Association for the Promotion of Development Investment plus loans 产业投资及海外投资等领域，投贷协同项目投资 Finance 达 527 亿元 2013 年 4 月，我们发起成立中国开发性金融促进 In April 2013, we initiated and set up the China In cooperation with CDB Capital, we invested 52.7 会，促进开发性金融社会化发展，搭建交流合作 Association for the Promotion of Development Finance billion yuan in the urbanization projects, funds, 平台，加强开发性领域企业与各级政府、金融机构、 as a platform for cooperation and exchange in the industries and overseas investment 科研院所的联系，共同推进开发性金融事业发展。 development finance and for development finance 租贷结合 与国银租赁，实现租赁协同到位资金 369 亿元， institutions to strengthen contacts with governments Leasing plus loans 重点支持城市基础设施、轨道交通、保障房等领 at all levels, other financial agencies, and research 域建设 institutions in facilitating the progress of development We put in place 36.9 billion yuan in leasing-plusfinance. loan portfolio in support of urban infrastructure projects, rail transit systems and affordable housing construction 091 / 092 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 发行首期 80 亿元铁路专项信贷资产支持证券 First 8-billion-yuan credit assets-backed railway “债贷结合”支持岳阳市保障房建设 bonds 我们于 2013 年 11 月 18 日在银行间债券市场成功 湖南岳阳市天灯咀地区住宅多为棚户和危房，基 On November 18, 2013, we issued the first 8-billion发行 2013 年第一期开元铁路专项信贷资产支持证 础设施不完善，垃圾、污水乱排放，是典型的脏 yuan credit asset-backed railway bonds on the interbank 券，金额 80 亿元。这是国内首次发行单一行业、 bond market. That was the first single-industry and 乱差棚户区。为缓解低收入群体住房困难，我们 单一借款人的证券化产品，也是 2013 年 8 月国务 single-borrower securities-backed bond and also the first 利用“债贷结合”方式，由湖南分行提供专项贷 院决定进一步扩大信贷资产证券化试点后发行的 product after the State Council decided to further expand 款 8 亿元，国开证券承销 18 亿元债券，形成了 credit assets securitization in August 2013. 第一单产品，盘活了存量铁路信贷资产，拓宽了 全国首例利用贷款和债券资金相互配合，共同支 铁路信贷资产的市场出口，为中国铁路投融资体 持保障房建设的范例，共支持岳阳市建设保障房 制改革探索了新路径。 9,256 套，惠及人口 2 万人。 Support government secured affordable housing projects in Yueyang, Hunan, by way of bond plus “ loan 信贷资产证券化是落实金融支持经济结构调整和转型升级决策部署的具体措施，也是发展多层次 We adopted the method of bond-plus-loan to support 资本市场的改革举措。开行一直是我国金融市场最活跃的创新力量之一，也是我国证券化领域的 the shantytown and dangerous houses transformation 先行者。 projects undertaken by the city of Yueyang, which was Asset-backed securitization is a concrete step in implementing the government’s decisions noted for its poor infrastructure, poor and dangerous 改造前 Before transformation on supporting economic restructuring and industrial transition and upgrading through financial houses. CDB (Hunan) provided an 800 million yuan services. It is also a reform measure for developing a multi-level capital market. CDB is a very earmarked loan and CDB Securities underwrote 1.8 ” dynamic innovator in China’s financial market and a leader in securitization. billion yuan corporate bonds to raise funds for the project, which involved the building of 9,256 apartments ——金融业专家 for 20,000 people. This set an example in undertaking —— Financial expert affordable housing construction and bonds. 改造后 After Transformation 093 / 094 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 员工成长 员工招聘 员工培养 Employee growth Recruitment Training 我们拥有一支具备国际化视野和战略思维、能够适 公开招聘是我们获取专业人才、打造高水平员工队 我们始终坚持“大教育、大培训”的员工培养理念， We have always held onto the “all-round education 应改革发展要求的高素质员工队伍，员工的专业背 伍的重要途径。2013 年，我们完善高校毕业生招聘 坚持国际化和专业化标准，既着眼于提升员工的技 and training” principles and the international and 景多元化，涉及国计民生众多行业。通过公平、公 机制，实现招聘平台、筛选标准、招考笔试的“三 能和能力，也重视员工思想修养等层面的素质提升， professional standards in the training of employees, with an eye on both their skills and capabilities and 开招聘，持续、系统的专业培训和实践锻炼，我们 统一”，确保了人才招聘的公开、公平、公正，全 形成了“思想素质教育、业务技能培训、管理能力 the ethical values cultivation. This has given rise to a 将员工培养成为一流的行业专家，成为开发性金融 年接收高校毕业生 608 人。 提升”三位一体的教育培训模式。 three-in-one training model, featuring ethical qualities 最可靠的实践者。 education, skills and management abilities training. 创设以海外一流院校毕业生为核心的“管理人才培 2013 年，推动员工分类分级培训，提高培训的针对 We have a contingent of high quality employees, who 养计划”，开发和储备后备管理精英，首期招录 15 性和有效性。加强网络学习平台建设，制作网络学 In 2013, we carried out classified training at different have the international vision and strategic insight, 名海外毕业生。继续赴哈佛、麻省理工、斯坦福、 习和培训课件，完成网络培训及考试 22,196 人天。 levels to make the training program well-tailored and capable of adapting to the changing environments 加州伯克利四校开展海外实习生招聘，为优秀学子 赴巴克莱实习交流机会向分行和基层员工倾斜，交 effective. We encouraged on-line learning and compiled of reform and development. They have a diversified 流学员中分行员工占 46.43%。 on-line courses. In the year, 22,196 people went through 提供锻炼成长平台，全年招聘 71 名实习生。 professional background, covering a multiple industries on-line training and testing. We biased toward the branch concerning the livelihood of the people. Through fair and grassroots employees in the exchange program with Open recruitment is a major way of acquiring and open recruitment and sustained systematic training Barclays PLC. About 46.43% of branch employee had professionals and train high-level personnel. In 2013, and practice, we have made them the top-notch experts the opportunity to become exchange trainees. we optimized our university graduates recruitment and reliable practitioners in development finance. procedures by unifying the recruitment platform, screening standards and written tests so as to achieve openness, fairness and justice. We accepted 608 2013 年，全年接收高校毕业生 608 人 graduates from institutions of higher learning that year. In 2013, We accepted 608 graduates 员工分类分级培训 Classiﬁed employee training at different levels We launched a managerial personnel-training 608 中高层管理人员 业务骨干 青年员工 plan targeting at graduates of prestigious overseas Senior and middle level managers Backbones Young employees 人 universities as part of the program of developing and training reserve management personnel. We enrolled 战略思维 领导能力 基础知识、基本技能 the first batch of 15 overseas university graduates. Then Strategic thinking Leadership Basic knowledge and skills we went on to recruit interns from the four universities 2013 年，全年招聘 71 名实习生 of Harvard, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 围绕城镇化、风险管理等领域举办 覆盖规划、评审、风险、资金、国 开展村镇银行岗位实践、新员工 In 2013, we hired 71 interns Stanford University and the University of California at 马里兰信用风险与信贷管理培训等 际合作、人力资源等主要业务领域， 入职、基础知识技能等培训，600 71 Berkeley. In 2013, we hired 71 interns. 境外高端培训 9 期，培训 263 人 举办培训 38 期，培训 3,284 人 人参与 名 High-end overseas trainings in Training program covered such Training 600 people from village credit risks and credit management key business areas as planning, banks in job skills, orientation for at Maryland for people working in evaluation and review, risk new recruits and in the training of the area of urbanization and risk management, capital, international basic knowledge and skills management. We conducted nine cooperation and human resources. classes with 263 people attending We organized 38 training sessions, with 3,284 trainees 095 / 096 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 “三同”实践锻炼活动促进青年员工全面发展 All-round development training for young employees 为加强对青年员工的培养，宁夏分行开展了青年 To bring about an all-round development of young 员工在贫困艰苦地区与当地群众“同吃、同住、 employees, CDB (Ningxia) organized young 同劳动”为主题的实践锻炼活动。青年员工通过 employees to visit poor areas and live, eat and work 调研，根据当地养牛基础好的条件，将原“三同” together with local people. Through investigation and 提升到了帮扶助贫为主题的“同吃、同商、同建” study, the young people created a farm household plus guarantee new aiding-the-poor program, which 新“三同”，提出了“农户 + 担保”的“造血扶贫” provided 1.31 million yuan loans earmarked for cattle 模式，为当地 111 名农户发放 131 万元养牛专项 breeding to 111 farm households, enabling them to 贷款，形成了以肉牛养殖为主的产业致富之路。 embark on the road to wealth. 赴马里兰信用风险与信贷管理培训团拜访美国花旗集团 Maryland Credit Risk and Credit Management training team visiting Citigroup in the United States 青年员工村镇银行岗位实践 On-the-job training in village banks for young employees 青年员工在田野中学习 走访貂养殖户 走访汽车配件加工小企业 Young employees learning in ﬁeld Visiting mink breeders Visiting small auto parts processing factory 097 / 098 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 员工关爱 “ 银监会明确开行的金融债券零 Care for employees 我们坚持以人为本，为员工创造和谐的工作环境， 让员工切实感受到开行的关爱与重视。2013 年，坚 风险权重延长至 2015 年底。 持开展员工帮扶和“送温暖”活动，慰问西藏、青 The China’s Banking Regulatory Commission extended CDB's 海等艰苦地区员工和驻海外员工。为员工提供心理 咨询服务，组织和鼓励员工参与文体活动，有效缓 zero-risk weight for its financial bonds to the end of 2015. ” 解员工工作压力，促进工作与生活平衡，2013 年全 员健身参与率为 100%。 甘肃分行开展三八妇女节“感受温馨花艺 展现女性风采”主题 插花活动 We have upheld the people-first principle to create Celebrating the Women's Day at CDB Gansu a harmonious work environment for our employees, 2013 年 making them feel the care and concern of the bank for 我们的成效 them. In 2013, we organized employees on a tour to Our achievements in 2013 Tibet and Qinghai to see the CDB employees, who work under harsh working conditions, and provided them with mental counseling and organized and encouraged them to take an active part in recreational and sports activities 发行境内人民币债券 12,400.8 as a way of relieving pressure and balancing their work 亿元，占政策性金融债市场总 实现表外融资 5,885 亿 量的 59%，成为唯一没有发生 元，占同期人民币贷款发 and living. In 2013, all the staff members participated in 59% 36% 开行员工在全国金融系统运动会上获奖合影 流标的利率债发行体 放的 36% health building activities. CDB prize-winning employees at National Financial System Issued 1.24008 trillion yuan RMB Realized off-balance sheet Sports meet. bonds, 59% of the total on the financing of 588.5 billion policy-based financial bond market yuan, 36% of the total RMB to become the only bond issuer loans in the same period without aborted bidding 资金筹集 Fund-raising 成功赴港发行 45 亿元点 银团牵头筹组额 心债，国际投资者群体进 1 45 居同业第一 一步拓展 随着经济体制改革的深入推进，经济增长趋势性放 The deepening of economic reform, the slow-down in Became No. 1 among banks in the amount raised at the head Issued dim-sum bonds of 4.5 缓，利率市场化改革进入实质性深化阶段，开行的 economic growth and market-oriented interests rate of a consortium billion yuan in Hong Kong and further expanded the 经营环境发生了显著的变化。我们努力适应市场环 reform have brought about significant changes to the ranks of overseas investors operational environment for CDB. To go along with the 境变化，以资金运用保本微利为原则，建立多元化 market changes, we have persisted in the break even, 筹资渠道，通过创新拓宽筹资方式。 with thin profit principle and opened a diversified fundraising channels and creating new ways of raising funds. 独家试点发行交易所债券 120 承销债券 286 只，帮助 2013 年，穆迪和标普对开行的信用评级分别为 Aa3 120 6,481 亿元，推动开行债实现历史性 企业融资 6,481 亿元 和 AA-，展望持续稳定。银监会明确开行的金融债 In 2013, the Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s credit rating 互联互通，直通个人投资者 Underwrote 286 bonds, 券零风险权重延长至 2015 年底。 Independently issued 12 billion raising 648.1 billion yuan of CDB was Aa3 and AA-, pointing to a sustained stable yuan stock market bonds, outlook. The China’s Banking Regulatory Commission realizing historic interconnection of the CDB bonds and even extended CDB's zero-risk weight for its financial bonds to among individual investors the end of 2015. 99 / 100 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 风险管控 完善风险管理体系 强化内控内审 反金融犯罪 Risk management Improve risk management system Intensify internal control and audit Fighting financial crimes 健全的风险管控，是金融业持续稳健发展的生命线。 2013 年，我们强化宏观形势分析和风险预研预判， 我们创新审计模式，以机构为对象，开展 10 家分 我们坚决防范金融犯罪，大力加强反腐倡廉建设， 当前，经济增长放缓、结构调整深入推进，不确定 深化与政府、企业、金融机构的合作，科学设计信 行机构审计，通过自查自纠，提升合规意识，促进 推进反洗钱工作，以身作则，维护国家经济、金融 性因素增多，风险防控难度大大增加。面对复杂的 用机构，降低国别、项目和法律等各类风险。推动 规范经营。继续推进内审体制、机制改革，在 4 个 安全和正常的经济秩序。 形势，我们强化全面风险管理，严守不发生系统性、 实施重点风险管控客户名单制管理，加强对煤炭、 稽核专员组内设处室，增强审计力量，强化内部控 区域性金融风险的底线。 光伏等高风险行业的风险管控。加强风险文化建设， 制。2013 年受理举报 16 件，举报处理率 100%。 We are firmly committed to guarding against financial 建立完善风险管理责任制，以有效的风险管控保 crimes and make great efforts to encourage the We have created a new audit model, which takes struggle against corruption and for clean operations. A sound risk management system is the lifeline of the 障可持续发展。截至 2013 年末，开行不良贷款率 the organizations as the targets and carried out We have made much progress in fighting against sustainable and steady development of the financial 0.48%，连续 35 个季度保持在 1% 以内。 organizational audit of 10 branches. The selfmoney laundering. We have acted as an example in industry. The economic slowdown and the deepening of examination and correction has heightened the appliance safeguarding national economy, financial security and restructuring have caused the increase in uncertainties In 2013, we strengthened the pre-research and preawareness and stimulated standard operations. We normal economic order. and added to the difficulty in risk prevention and judgment of the macro-economic situations, deepened control. In the face of the complicated situation, we have have continued the internal audit and reformed the cooperation with the government, enterprises and other intensified risk management in an all-round manner mechanisms. We set up offices under the four auditing financial institutions in scientifically designing credit and strictly guarded the bottom line of no occurrence of commissioners to strengthen auditing and intensify organizations to lower country-specific, project and systemic and regional financial risks. internal control. In 2013, we accepted 16 tips and all the law risks. We introduced the management of customer cases were handled. list subject to key risk control and improved the risk management responsibility system, thus ensuring effective risk management and sustainable development. 反腐倡廉 反洗钱 By the end of 2013, CDB's non-performing loan ratio Fight against corruption and for clean Anti-money laundering operations was 0.48%, kept at below 1% for 35 consecutive quarters. 2013 年，我们继续深化惩治和预防腐败体系建设， 2013 年，我们实施反洗钱专项审计调查，检查和评 以“一季一课”等多种形式开展反腐倡廉教育，完 价现行管理机制的有效性，及时整改发现的问题， 善反腐倡廉制度建设，开展廉政风险岗位监控等工 深化反洗钱风险评估和管理，向中国反洗钱交易监 2005-2013 年国家开发银行 不良贷款率 商业银行平均 作，强化对权力运行的制约和监督，严肃查处违纪 测中心报送大额交易报告 13 万份，涉及交易 37 万 不良贷款率同业比较 10% 国家开发银行 Non-performing loan ratios 8.60% 违法问题，促进全体员工廉洁自律和廉洁从业。 笔；排查可疑交易 2.8 万笔，均确认为非可疑交易。 of CDB in comparison with 8% industrial averages from 7.10% In 2013, we continued deepening the building of In 2013, we carried out anti-laundering audit 2005 to 2013 6.17% corruption punishing and preventing system and carried investigation to see the effectiveness of the existing 6% out a lecture a quarter program and other ways of management mechanisms and timely discovered education, improved the anti-corruption system and problems. We have deepened money laundering risk 4% intensified the monitoring of risk-prone posts and evaluation and management. We submitted 130,000 big2.42% 1.58% strengthened the restriction and monitoring of the sum transaction reports to the China Anti-Laundering 2% 1.14% 1.00% 0.95% 1.00% exercise of power, seriously discovered disciplineand and Trade Monitoring Center, involving 370,000 deals. 0.87% 0.72% 0.60% 0.96% 0.94% 0.68% law-violating acts so that all employees are clean handed We uncovered 28,000 transactions suspected of being 0 0.40% 0.30% 0.48% 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 in their work. dubious, but in the end, it proved that they were not dubious. 101 / 102 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 运营管理 绿色办公 绿色采购 公务用车改革 Operation and management Green office Green procurement 我们在总行开展公务用车改革，部门公务车由 205 辆减少到 51 辆，大大降低了汽油消耗。要求 员工尽量合并使用公车，提倡短距离出行乘坐公 我们以高效、绿色运营为目标，全面提升运营管理 坚持绿色运营是我们减少自身环境足迹的出发点。 2003 年我们建立采购中心，十年来，我们不断完善 共交通工具；严格控制 8 小时以外和节假日期间 水平，加强绿色办公和绿色采购，推动自身的稳定 我们将环保节约理念融入日常运营的全过程，倡导 采购管理体系，推行电子化采购管理流程，在节约 的车辆使用。培训驾驶人员，提高节油技能。 健康发展。 水电、纸张等资源的节约使用，借助视频会议减少 资金、防范风险的同时，将环保节能、员工权益、 公务旅行，推行办公垃圾的细分处理，全面降低自 安全生产等内容明确纳入采购要求。2013 年，保持 Reducing the use of official vehicles We have improved the operation and management levels 身运营的环境影响。2013 年视频会议设备 100% 覆盖， 绿色采购比率和供应商审查覆盖率 100%。 We took the initiative to reduce the use of official in an all-round manner, making it up to the standard of 全年共召开视频会议 700 余场，同比增长 47.1%，相 vehicles at the head office, cutting the number of efficient and green operation. We strengthened green 当于减少碳排放 17828.1 吨。 We set up a procurement center in 2003. We have, official cars from 205 to 51, thus greatly reducing the officing and green procurement to bring about a stable over the past decade, made constant efforts to improve gasoline consumption. We encouraged employees and healthy development of the bank. the procurement management system by introducing to share car journeys as far as possible and the use Green officing is our starting point for reducing our own procurement management processes. While saving of public transmit system in short-distance travel. We carbon footprints in the environment. We have factored money and guarding against risks, we have raised the also banned the use of bank's vehicles in the off-hours the idea of environmental protection and economy into demand of factoring environmental protection, the rights and during holidays and festivals. We have given the entire process of our routine operation, encouraging training to specialized drivers in how to economize the the economical use of water, electricity, paper and other and interests of the employees and safe production use of gasoline. materials. We have organized more videoconferences to into procurement. In 2013, the coverage of green reduce business. We encouraged refined sorting of office procurement and supplier screening reached 100%. waste and mitigated the impact of our operation on the environment. In 2013, all the head offices and branches had been installed with video conferencing equipment. 责任采购体系 Procurement responsibility system We held 700 such conferences, 47.1% more than in 完善采购管理体系 Procurement management 具体要求 Speciﬁc requirements the previous year, equivalent to a carbon reduction of 17,828.1 tons. 健全采购管理制度 规范集中采购行为，在采购合同中增加环保、节 管理运营 Improve the procurement management system 能条款，赋予绿色采购法律效力 Management Standardized the centralized procurement and factored environmental protection and energy conservation 信息化建设 elements into procurement contracts, thus making green Application of information technology procurement legally binding 扎实、高效的管理运营，是我们践行可持续发展的 深化重要业务信息化，加强数据标准和质 制定集中采购目录 实现采购业务全覆盖，明确绿色采购实施范围 基础。2013 年，我们从流程再造、财务管理、信 量管理，夯实 IT 基础设施，提升信息安全 Build centralized procurement catalog Realized full coverage of all procurements and clariﬁed 息化建设等方面优化管理，为可持续发展提供基础 the scope of green procurement 防控，提高 IT 技术对业务发展的支撑保障 保障。 能力。 实行采购全过程质量管理 加强对产品的环保、节能要求；要求供应商保障 Solid and efficient management is the foundation Tighten quality control in the entire process of procurement 员工权利和安全生产 Strengthened the application of information of our sustainability. In 2013, we optimized our technology in core businesses, data standards Strengthened the implementation of the requirements management starting from procedural re-creation to for environmental protection and energy conservation in and quality control, consolidated the IT procuring products, Demanded suppliers to protect the financial management and the application of information infrastructure and upgraded the control of rights of employees and ensure safe operation technology, thus providing the basic guarantee for a information security and raised the capabilities sustainable development. of IT to support business development. 103 / 104 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 当前，全球经济复苏道路艰难曲折，中国正经历着 新一轮改革大潮。可以预见，未来十年将是全球共 同努力推进经济发展的十年，将是中国社会经济体 制发生重大变革的十年。开行也将面临全新的环境、 全新的形势、全新的任务、全新的要求，必须不断 未来展望 深化开发性金融的实践和理论探索，保证我们的生 机与活力，在全面深化改革的时代潮流中赢得主动、 Future Prospects 赢得机遇、赢得未来。 2014 年是开行改革的关键一年，也是我们发挥开 发性金融战略作用的重要一年。我们将更加重视以 下几方面的工作： ● 服务国家战略，促进经济发展提质增效；推进区 ● 拓展民生金融，围绕“三农”、小微企业、教育医疗、 域协调发展，支持中国建设丝绸之路经济带和 扶贫救灾等领域的发展需求和融资困境，进一步 21 世纪海上丝绸之路的战略； 推进市场建设、信用建设和制度建设，构建可持 续融资机制，帮助社会弱势群体实现“民生梦”， ● 发挥主力作用，以支持棚户区改造作为促进新型 使发展成果惠及更多人民； 城镇化建设的切入点，加快住宅金融事业部组建 工作，今后将确保每年发放贷款的 60% 以上投入 ● 深化开行改革，完善集团架构，强化风险管理， 新型城镇化建设； 推进管理创新，实现自身稳速、提质、增效的可 持续发展。 未来，我们将继续肩负起中长期投融资主力银行的 重任，以打造国际一流的开发性金融机构为目标， 在经济金融体系的变革中，推进开发性金融实践， 以市场化方式服务国家战略。通过自身改革和管理 创新，不断提升综合服务水平和可持续发展能力， 在开发性金融新的历史征程上创造新业绩，体现自 身机构价值，为促进经济持续健康发展和社会全面 进步贡献力量。 105 / 106 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 Future Prospects The road to the world economic recovery is rough and ● Display the role as a main player in the support of ● Deepen CDB reform and optimize the group In the future, we shall continue to shoulder the heavy tortious. China is in for a period of a new round of shantytown transformation and in the new type of framework, tighten risk management, create new mission as a major mediumand long-term financing reform. It is foreseeable that the next decade will be a urbanization program, accelerate the formation of management models and realize its own sustainable bank, with the aim of becoming the international firstdecade in which the entire globe will make concerted housing finance business department and see to it that development featuring steady speed, higher quality class development finance institution. In the course of efforts toward economic recovery and a decade that 60% of the annual amount of loans will be devoted to and better efficiency. the changing economic and financial system, CDB will will witness major changes in the social and economic the new type of urbanization program. disseminate its successful experience in development systems. CDB is bound to face an entirely new ● Deepen reform and optimize our operating financing and serve the national strategy through the environment, new situation and new tasks and entirely ● Extend livelihood-oriented finance, take further steps architecture to strengthen risk management, advance market means. Through the reform and management new requirements. It is imperative to bring into depth in the construction of market, credit and institutions, managerial innovations and pursue sustainable and innovation, CDB will lift its comprehensive service the practice and theoretical exploration of development construct sustainable financing mechanism, help efficient development with quality. level and sustainable development capability and finance in order to retaining its vigor and vitality and disadvantaged groups realize their dreams and make create new performances in the new historical win the initiative, opportunities and future in the high development fruit share by more people. journey, embody the values of its own organizations tide of all-round reform. and contribute its share to the sustained and healthy economic development and social progress in all 2014 is a crucial year for CDB in its reform and an aspects. important year for CDB to display its strategic role in development finance. We shall pay more attention to the work in the following aspects: Serving national strategy, stimulating quality and added results in economic development, advancing coordinated regional development, supporting the construction of the Silk Road economic belt and implementing the strategy of rebuilding the 21st century Marine Silk Road. 107 / 108 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 附录 Appendixes 109 / 110 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 111 / 112 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 荣誉与奖励 Honors and awards 颁奖单位 Awarder 获奖名称 Honors and Awards 颁奖单位 Awarder 获奖名称 Honors and Awards 人民社会责任奖（连续八年） 人民网 中国人民银行 银行科技发展奖二等奖 People's Social Responsibility Award (for eight consecutive people.com.cn The People's Bank of China Second Prize for the development of banking technology years) 董事长胡怀邦荣获 2013 年度金融人物奖 年度国际收支统计之星先进单位 Chairman Hu Huaibang, the ﬁnancial ﬁgure of 2013 国家外汇管理局 Star enterprise of the year for international balance of State Administration of Foreign Exchange 金融时报 payment statistics 中国金融机构金牌榜· 金龙奖年度最佳支持新型城镇化 Financial News 银行 Onto the Gold List for China's ﬁnancial institution: Golden 社科院金融所 最具社会责任金融机构奖 Dragon Award for providing the best services to new type of Institute of Finance and Banking of the China Most socially responsible ﬁnancial institution award urbanization Academy of Social Sciences 优秀企业社会责任报告 ·创新专项奖 WTO 经济导刊 Award for Excellent Corporate Social Responsibility Report 中国银行业协会 China WTO Tribune 社会责任最佳民生金融奖 and a special prize for innovations China Banking Association Best practice to improve people's livelihood award 《项目融资》杂志 年度拉丁美洲交通运输行业最佳交易奖 Project Finance Magazine Best deal in the Latin America's transportation industry 胡怀邦董事长获得年度社会责任引领人物奖 Chairman Hu Huaibang, leading ﬁgure award in IFLR 杂志 年度项目融资最佳交易奖 implementing social responsibility IFLR Magazine Best deal for project ﬁnancing 中国能源报 中小企业融资突出贡献奖 China Energy News 中国光伏电站绿色金融创新大奖 中国中小企业协会 An outstanding contributor in ﬁnancing for small and Green ﬁnancing innovation award for China's photovoltaic China Association of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises medium-sized enterprises 企业研究杂志 power station Business Research Magazine 中国金融教育发展基金会 年度金融教育先进集体 中国可再生能源学会 支持风电发展突出贡献奖 China Foundation for Development of Financial Education Outstanding collective of the year in ﬁnancial education China Association of Circular Economy Outstanding contributor to wind power generation 113 / 114 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 名词解释 Glossary 名词 Term 释义 Explanations 名词 Term 释义 Explanations 开发性金融 开发性金融的基本内涵包括：以服务国家发展战略为宗旨，以国家 爱晚工程 是一项中国社会化养老服务的系统工程。爱晚工程的两大实施主体是 Development ﬁnance 信用为依托，以资金运用保本微利为原则，以市场化为基本运作模式， Aiwan Project 中国社会工作协会社会化养老工作委员会和世纪爱晚投资有限公司。 以建设市场、信用、制度为核心原理，以银政合作和社会共建为主 Aiming to provide elderly services through market operations, the project 要抓手，以规划先行为工作切入点，以中长期投融资推动为载体。 is jointly implemented by the Elderly Service Committee of the China Serving national development strategies as its objective, this business Association of Social Workers and Aiwan Investment Corporation strategy is based on sovereign credit and market operations and aimed for moderate profits. By focusing on market-, creditand institutional 新兴产业区域集聚发展试点 中国国家发展改革委、财政部制定发布《关于推进区域战略性新兴 building, it boosts the cooperation between governments and banks and Pilot work for regional 产业集聚发展试点工作的指导意见（试行）》（发改高技〔2012〕 the participation of social organization, emphasizes prior planning and agglomeration of emerging 3438 号），2013 年，在全国 4 省 1 市选择试点。 advances the development of mediumand long-term investment and industries China National Development and Reform Commission and the ﬁnancing Ministry of Finance jointly issued a guideline (trial) to advance regional agglomeration of emerging industries (2012, No. 3438). Four provinces 上海合作组织银行联合体 简称上合组织银联体，成立于 2005 年 10 月，旨在按照市场化原则， and one city began with the experiments in 2013 Inter-bank Consortium of 依托成员国政府的推动作用和企业的广泛参与，创建适合本地区特 the Shanghai Cooperation 点的多领域、多样化融资合作模式，共同为上海合作组织框架内的 Organization(SCO) 十大节能工程 即十大重点节能工程，包括燃煤工业锅炉（窑炉）改造工程、区域热 合作项目提供融资支持和金融服务，促进成员国经济社会可持续发 Ten major energy-saving 电联产工程、余热余压利用工程、节约和替代石油工程、电机系统节 展。 projects 能工程、能量系统优化工程、建筑节能工程、绿色照明工程、政府机 Also known as the SCO Inter-bank Consortium, it was established in 构节能工程、节能监测和技术服务体系建设工程。 October 2005. It aims to provide ﬁnancing support and ﬁnancial services These projects include the renovation of coal-ﬁred industrial boilers, to cooperative projects within the SCO framework, promote the social regional combined heat and power generation, surplus heat and pressure and economic development of member countries in line with market utilization, oil replacement, conserving energy in motor system, power principles and via the broad participation of member states' governments system optimization, environment-friendly structures, green lighting, and enterprises, and create a ﬁnancing cooperation model that can satisfy the region's diverse and multi-sector needs energy conservation in government departments, and energy-saving monitoring and technical services 115 / 116 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 全球契约十项原则对照表 Compliance with the global compact’s ten principles 全球契约十项原则 2013 年行动绩效 全球契约十项原则 2013 年行动绩效 Global Compact's Ten Principles Actions in 2013 Global Compact's Ten Principles Actions in 2013 人权 Human Rights 原则 6：杜绝任何在用工与行业方面的歧视行为 同工同酬；建立公开、平等、竞争、择优的人才使用选 Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of 拔机制；杜绝因种族、性别、婚姻状况、国别、年龄、 原则 1：企业应该尊重和维护国际公认的各项人权 遵守国家和经营所在地区的法律法规，劳动合同签订率 discrimination in respect to employment and occupation 残疾、宗教、文化背景、语言等对员工歧视的现象 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the 100%；推行职工民主管理和民主监督，维护职工合法权 Establish a career advancement system emphasizing open, fair protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 益；为员工提供基本养老保险、基本医疗保险、失业保险、 competition on a level playing ﬁeld. Ban staff discrimination 工伤保险、生育保险等五项基本保障，最低薪酬水平均 based on ethnicity, gender, marital status, nationality, age, 满足经营所在地区最低工资要求 disability, religion, cultural background or language Observe the laws and stipulations of China and relevant regions; sign labor contracts with all employees; strengthen democratic 环境 Environment staff management and democratic staff supervision; protect the lawful rights and interests of employees; provide basic old-age 原则 7：企业应对环境挑战未雨绸缪 制定《国家开发银行支持大气污染防治工作方案》；响 pension and basic insurances for medical care, unemployment, Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary 应银监会《绿色信贷指引》 occupational injuries and maternity. Meet local government’s approach to environmental challenges Form an in-house work plan on supporting atmospheric requirements over the minimum salary pollution control and treatment and implement the Green Credit Guidelines of the Banking Regulatory Commission 原则 2：绝不参与任何漠视与践踏人权的行为 遵守中国政府签署或承认的国际公约、国际惯例，尊重《世 Principle 2: Businesses should make sure they are not 界人权宣言》 《联合国公民权利与政治权利国际公约》 《联 原则 8：主动增加对环保所承担的责任 践行绿色信贷，在大气污染治理、可持续能源、循环经济、 complicit in human rights abuses 合国经济、社会与文化权利国际公约》等公约和宣言 Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to 流域综合治理等领域均有建树，全年发放环保及节能减 Observe international conventions and international practices promote greater environmental responsibility 排贷款 1962 亿元；践行绿色办公和绿色采购 signed or recognized by the Chinese government. Respect the Implement Green Credit policies and score achievements in Universal Declaration of Human Rights, UN International atmospheric pollution treatment and prevention, sustainable Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, International Covenant energy, circular economy and watershed governance. Extend on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, and other conventions 196.2 billion yuan in loans for environmental protection, and declarations energy conservation and emissions reduction, implement green operations and green procurement. 劳工标准 Labor 原则 9：鼓励无害环境技术的发展与推广 全年发放清洁能源和十大节能工程贷款 1010 亿元，支持 原则 3：企业应该维护结社自由，承认劳资集体谈判 建立健全职工代表大会制度；工会建会率 100% Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development 环保技术的推广应用 的权利 Establish and improve workers’ conference system and set up and diffusion of environment-friendly technologies Extend loans of 101 billion yuan to projects concerning clean Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of labor unions in all branches. energy and energy conservation, facilitate the use of environmentassociation and the effective recognition of the right to friendly technologies collective bargaining 反腐败 Anti-corruption 原则 4：彻底消除各种形式的强制性劳动 杜绝各种形式的强迫劳动 Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all Ban all forms of forced labor. 原则 10：企业应反对各种形式的贪污，包括敲诈、勒 推进内审体制、机制改革，集中开展内审人员教育培训和 forms of forced and compulsory labor 索和行贿受贿 交流，提升内审能力；加强内部控制评价，完成《国家开 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in 发银行内部控制评价报告》；2013 年受理举报 16 件，举 原则 5：消除童工 杜绝使用童工 all its forms, including extortion and bribery 报处理率 100% Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition Ban the use of child labor Advance reforms on internal audit, make institutional improvement of child labor to enhance internal audit capacity, strengthen training on internal auditors and internal control evaluation, complete CDB internal control evaluation report. Finish investigations into all 16 complaints in 2013 117 / 118 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 GRI4.0 对照表 Comparison table for GRI4.0 本报告参照全球报告倡议组织《可持续发展报告指南 This report has been compiled in reference to the （4.0 版）》及金融服务行业补充指南编写，共采用 Sustainable Development Reporting Guideline 4.0 of the 指标 84 项，未采用指标 62 项，另有 23 项指标不适用。 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the supplementary 指标具体应用及对照情况请见本报告的电子版。 guidelines for the financial service sector. Altogether 一般标准披露项 General standard disclosures 84 indicators have been used, 62 indicators were not 指标分类 指标排序 指标内容 采用情况 used, 23 indicators were not applicable. For details on Indicators Ranging Content Adoption the application of the indicators and comparison, please classiﬁcation refer to the web edition of this report. 机构规模，包括员工人数、运营地点数量、净销售额（私营机构适用） 或净收入（公共机构适用）、按债务和权益细分的总市值（私营机 一般标准披露项 General standard disclosures 构适用）、所提供的产品或服务的数量 指标分类 指标排序 指标内容 采用情况 Report the scale of the organization, including: Indicators Ranging Content Adoption Total number of employees, classiﬁcation 采用 G4-9 Total number of operations, Adopted 机构最高决策者（如 CEO、董事长或相当的高级职位）就可持续发 Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector 采用 organizations), 战略与分析 G4-1 展与机构的相关性及机构可持续发展战略的声明 Adopted Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private Strategy and Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. sector organizations), analysis 描述主要影响、风险及机遇 采用 G4-2 Quantity of products or services provided. Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Adopted 按雇佣合同和性别划分的员工总人数 采用 机构名称 采用 G4-3 Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender. Adopted Report the name of the organization. Adopted 按雇佣类型和性别划分的固定员工总人数 未采用 主要品牌、产品和服务 采用 机构概况 G4-4 Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and Not Report the primary brands, products, and services. Adopted Organizational gender. Adopted 机构总部的位置 proﬁle 采用 按正式员工、非正式员工和性别划分的员工总数 未采用 G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. Adopted Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by Not 机构在多少个国家运营，在哪些国家有主要业务，或哪些国家与报 gender. Adopted 机构概况 告所述的可持续发展主题特别相关 采用 未采用 Organizational G4-6 Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names G4-10 按地区和性别划分的员工总数 Adopted Not proﬁle of countries where either the organization has signiﬁcant operations or that Report the total workforce by region and gender. Adopted are speciﬁcally relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. 机构的工作是否有一大部分由法律上认定为自雇的人员承担，或 所有权的性质和法律形式 采用 G4-7 由非员工及非正式员工的个人（包括承包商的员工及非正式员工） Report the nature of ownership and legal form. Adopted 承担 未采用 机构所服务的市场（包括地区细分、所服务的行业、客户 / 受益者的 Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is Not 类型） 采用 performed by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by Adopted G4-8 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, Adopted individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and types of customers and beneﬁciaries). and supervised employees of contractors. 119 / 120 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 一般标准披露项 General standard disclosures 一般标准披露项 General standard disclosures 指标分类 指标排序 指标内容 采用情况 指标分类 指标排序 指标内容 采用情况 Indicators Ranging Content Adoption Indicators Ranging Content Adoption classiﬁcation classiﬁcation 不适用 列出机构的合并财务报表或同等文件中包括的所有实体 雇佣人数的重大变化 采用 Not List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated ﬁnancial Report any signiﬁcant variations in employment numbers. Adopted Applicable statements or equivalent documents. 集体谈判协议涵盖的员工人数百分比 不适用 G4-17 说明在合并财务报表或同等文件包括的任何实体中，是否有未纳入 G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining Not 未采用 可持续发展报告的实体 agreements. Applicable Not Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated Adopted ﬁnancial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. 描述机构的供应链情况 采用 G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. Adopted 说明界定报告内容和方面边界的过程 未采用 报告期内，机构规模、结构、所有权或供应链的重要变化，包括运 Explain the process for deﬁning the report content and the Aspect Not 营地点或业务转变，包括工厂的启用、关闭和扩充；股本架构的改变， Boundaries. Adopted 机构概况 其他资本的构成、保有及业务变更（私营机构适用）；供应商所在地、 采用 G4-18 Organizational G4-13 说明机构如何应用“界定报告内容的报告原则” 未采用 proﬁle 供应链结构、与供应商关系（包括甄选和终止）的改变 Adopted Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Not Report any signiﬁcant changes during the reporting period regarding the Deﬁning Report Content. Adopted organization’s size, structure,ownership, or its supply chain. 机构是否及如何按预警方针及原则行事 未采用 列出在界定报告内容的过程中认定的所有实质性方面 采用 G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is Not 确定的实质 G4-19 List all the material Aspects identiﬁed in the process for deﬁning report Adopted 性方面与 content. addressed by the organization. Adopted 边界 机构参与或支持的外界发起的经济、环境、社会公约、原则或其 Identiﬁed 对于每个实质性方面，说明机构内方面的边界 采用 他倡议 material G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the 采用 aspects and Adopted G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, organization Adopted boundaries principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or 对于每个实质性方面，说明机构外方面的边界 which it endorses. 采用 G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the Adopted organization. 机构加入的协会（行业协会）和全国或国际性倡议机构，并且在治 理机构占有席位、参与项目或委员会、除定期缴纳会费外，提供大 采用 G4-16 额资助、视成员资格具有战略意义 说明重订前期报告所载信息的影响，以及重订原因 不适用 Adopted G4-22 Not List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous national or international advocacy reports, and the reasons for such restatements. Applicable 121 / 122 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 一般标准披露项 General standard disclosures 一般标准披露项 General standard disclosures 指标分类 指标排序 指标内容 采用情况 指标分类 指标排序 指标内容 采用情况 Indicators Ranging Content Adoption Indicators Ranging Content Adoption classiﬁcation classiﬁcation 说明范围、方面边界与此前报告期间的重大变动 采用 关于报告或报告内容的联络人 采用 G4-23 Adopted G4-31 Report signiﬁcant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Adopted Aspect Boundaries. 未采用 机构的利益相关方列表 采用 说明机构选择的“符合”方案（核心或全面） G4-24 Adopted Not Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. Adopted 就所选定的利益相关方，说明识别和选择的根据 未采用 说明针对所选方案的 GRI 内容索引 采用 G4-25 Report the basis for identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders with whom Not Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option . Adopted to engage. Adopted G4-32 如报告经过外部鉴证，引述外部鉴证报告。GRI 建议进行外部鉴证， 利益相关方参与的方法，包括按不同的利益相关方类型及组别的参 但并非成为“符合”本指南的要求 机构概况 与频率，并指明是否有任何参与是专为编制报告而进行 采用 采用 Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been Organizational G4-26 Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including Adopted frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an Adopted externally assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is proﬁle not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken speciﬁcally as part of the report preparation process. 机构为报告寻求外部鉴证的政策和目前的做法 利益相关方参与的过程中提出的关键主题及顾虑，以及机构回应的 采用 Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to 方式，包括以报告回应。说明提出了每个关键主题及顾虑的利益相 Adopted seeking external assurance for the report. 关方组别 采用 G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder Adopted 如未在可持续发展报告附带的鉴证报告中列出，则需说明已提供的 engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics 不适用 and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups 任何外部鉴证的范围及根据 No that raised each of the key topics and concerns. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability Applicable report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. G4-33 所提供信息的报告期（如财务年度或日历年度） 采用 G4-28 Reporting period (such as ﬁscal or calendar year) for information provided. Adopted 说明报告机构与鉴证服务方之间的关系 Report the relationship between 采用 the organization and the assurance providers. Adopted 报告概况 上一份报告的日期（如有） 采用 Report proﬁle G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Adopted 说明最高治理机构或高级管理人员是否参与为可持续发展报告寻求 鉴证 采用 报告周期（如每年一次、两年一次） 采用 Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are Adopted G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). Adopted involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. 123 / 124 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 一般标准披露项 General standard disclosures 一般标准披露项 General standard disclosures 指标分类 指标排序 指标内容 采用情况 指标分类 指标排序 指标内容 采用情况 Indicators Ranging Content Adoption Indicators Ranging Content Adoption classiﬁcation classiﬁcation 机构的治理架构，包括最高治理机构下的各个委员会。说明负责经济、 最高治理机构确保避免和控制利益冲突的程序，是否向利益相关方 环境、社会影响决策的委员会 披露利益冲突 未采用 采用 G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees G4-41 Not Adopted Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conﬂicts of of the highest governance body. Identify any committees responsible for interest are avoided and managed.Report whether conﬂicts of interest are Adopted decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. disclosed to stakeholders. 说明从最高治理机构授权高级管理人员和其他员工管理经济、环境 和社会议题的过程 在制定、批准、更新与经济、环境、社会影响有关的宗旨、价值观 采用 或使命、战略、政策与目标方面，最高治理机构和高级管理人员的 G4-35 Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental Adopted 角色 and social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and 采用 other employees. G4-42 Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the Adopted development, approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value 机构是否任命了行政层级的高管负责经济、环境和社会议题，他们 or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, 是否直接向最高治理机构汇报 未采用 environmental and social impacts. G4-36 Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or Not positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, Adopted 为加强最高治理机构对于经济、环境和社会主题的集体认识而采取 and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. 的措施 采用 G4-43 Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance 治理 Adopted 利益相关方和最高治理机构就经济、环境和社会议题磋商的过程。 body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social Governance 如果授权磋商，说明授权的对象和向最高治理机构的反馈过程 topics. Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest 采用 G4-37 governance body oneconomic,environmental and social topics. If Adopted consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to 评估最高治理机构管理经济、环境和社会议题绩效的流程。此等评 the highest governance body. 估是否独立进行，频率如何。此等评估是否为自我评估 Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s 采用 报告最高管理机构与其委员会的组成 performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and Adopted 采用 G4-38 social topics. Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees. Adopted frequency. Report whether such evaluation is a self-assessment. 最高治理机构的主席是否兼任行政职位（如有，说明其在机构管理 G4-44 层的职能及如此安排的原因） 对于最高治理机构管理经济、环境和社会议题的绩效评估的应对措 采用 G4-39 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an 施，至少应包括在成员组成和组织管理方面的改变 未采用 Adopted executive ofﬁcer (and, if so, his or her function within the organization’s Report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance Not management and the reasons for this arrangement). body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, Adopted environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in 最高治理机构及其委员会的提名和甄选过程，及用于提名和甄选最 membership and organizational practice. 高治理机构成员的条件 采用 G4-40 Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance Adopted body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members. 125 / 126 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 一般标准披露项 General standard disclosures 一般标准披露项 General standard disclosures 指标分类 指标排序 指标内容 采用情况 指标分类 指标排序 指标内容 采用情况 Indicators Ranging Content Adoption Indicators Ranging Content Adoption classiﬁcation classiﬁcation 在识别和管理经济、环境和社会的影响、风险和机遇方面，最高治 说明向最高治理机构沟通的重要关切问题的性质和总数，以及采取 理机构的角色。包括最高治理机构在实施尽职调查方面的角色 的处理和解决机制 未采用 未采用 G4-50 Not Report the highest governance body’s role in the identiﬁcation and Not Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were management of economic,environmental and social impacts, risks, communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) Adopted Adopted and opportunities. Include the highest governance body’s role inthe used to address and resolve them. implementation of due diligence processes. G4-45 说明最高治理机构和高级管理人员的薪酬政策 未采用 是否使用利益相关方咨询，以支持最高治理机构对经济、环境和社 G4-51 Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and Not senior executives Adopted 会的影响、风险和机遇的识别和管理 采用 Report whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest Adopted 说明薪酬政策中的绩效标准如何与最高治理机构和高级管理人员的 governance body’s identiﬁcation and management of economic, 经济、环境和社会目标相关联 未采用 environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Not Report how performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ economic, Adopted 在评估有关经济、环境和社会议题的风险管理流程的效果方面，最 environmental and social objectives. 高治理机构的角色 未采用 G4-46 Not 说明决定薪酬的过程。说明是否有薪酬顾问参与薪酬的决定， Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management processes for Adopted 他们是否独立于管理层。说明薪酬顾问与机构之间是否存在任 economic, environmental and social topics. 何其他关系 未采用 G4-52 Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether Not 最高治理机构评估经济、环境和社会的影响、风险和机遇的频率 remuneration consultants are involved in determining remuneration Adopted 未采用 and whether they are independent of management. Report any other G4-47 Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s review of Not relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the economic, environmental and socialimpacts, risks, and opportunities. Adopted organization. 正式审阅和批准机构可持续发展报告并确保已涵盖所有实质性方面 说明如何征询并考虑利益相关方对于薪酬的意见，包括对薪酬政策 的最高委员会或职位 和提案投票的结果，如适用 未采用 采用 G4-53 Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account Not G4-48 Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and Adopted regarding remuneration, including the results of votes on remuneration Adopted approves the organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all policies and proposals, if applicable. material Aspects are covered. 在机构具有重要业务运营的每个国家，薪酬最高个人的年度总收入 说明与最高治理机构沟通重要关切问题的流程 与机构在该国其他所有员工（不包括该薪酬最高的个人）平均年度 采用 G4-49 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the highest 总收入的比率 未采用 Adopted governance body. G4-54 Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s Not highest-paid individual in each country of signiﬁcant operations to the Adopted median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. 127 / 128 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 一般标准披露项 General standard disclosures 一般标准披露项 General standard disclosures 指标分类 指标排序 指标内容 采用情况 指标分类 指标排序 指标内容 采用情况 Indicators Ranging Content Adoption Indicators Ranging Content Adoption classiﬁcation classiﬁcation 在机构具有重要业务运营的每个国家，薪酬最高个人的年度总收入 机构产生及分配的直接经济价值，包括： 增幅与机构在该国其他所有员工（不包括该薪酬最高的个人）平均 1．货币捐赠额； 年度总收入增幅的比率 未采用 2．时间投入； G4-55 Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation Not 3．服务或实物形式的捐赠； for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of Adopted 4．管理成本。 未采用 G4-EC1 signiﬁcant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total Not Adopted Direct economic value generated and distributed, include compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) 1．Monetary contributions; in the same country. 2．Time contributions; 3. In-kind contributions from services or equipment; 说明机构的价值观、原则、标准和行为规范，如行为准则和道德 4. Management costs. 准则 采用 G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of Adopted 气候变化对机构活动产生的财务影响及其风险、机遇 采用 behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the Adopted organization’s activities due to climate change. 机构固定收益型养老金所需资金的覆盖程度 采用 寻求道德与合法行为建议的内外部机制，以及与机构诚信有关的事 G4-EC3 道德与诚信 Coverage of the organization’s deﬁned beneﬁt plan obligations. Adopted 务，如帮助热线或建议热线 采用 Ethics and G4-57 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on Adopted integrity 政府给予的财务补贴 未采用 ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational 经济 G4-EC4 integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. Financial assistance received from government. Not Adopted Economic 不同性别的工资起薪水平与机构重要运营地点当地的最低工资 举报不道德或不合法行为的内外部机制，以及与机构诚信有关的事 水平的比率 未采用 务，如通过直线管理者逐级上报、举报机制或热线 G4-EC5 采用 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local Not Adopted G4-58 Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about Adopted minimum wage at signiﬁcant locations of operation. unethical or unlawfulbehavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing 机构在重要运营地点聘用的当地高层管理人员所占比 mechanisms or hotlines. 未采用 G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at Not Adopted signiﬁcant locations of operation. 开展基础设施投资与支持性服务的情况及其影响 采用 G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services Adopted supported. 重要间接经济影响，包括影响的程度 采用 G4-EC8 Signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of Adopted impacts. 129 / 130 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 一般标准披露项 General standard disclosures 一般标准披露项 General standard disclosures 指标分类 指标排序 指标内容 采用情况 指标分类 指标排序 指标内容 采用情况 Indicators Ranging Content Adoption Indicators Ranging Content Adoption classiﬁcation classiﬁcation 在重要运营地点，向当地供应商采购支出的比例 机构的活动、产品及服务在生物多样性方面，对保护区或其他 未采用 G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at signiﬁcant locations of Not Adopted 具有重要生物多样性价值的地区的重大影响 operation. 采用 G4-EN12 Description of signiﬁcant impacts of activities, products, and Adopted 所用物料的重量或体积 不适用 services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high G4-EN1 biodiversity value outside protected areas. Materials used by weight or volume. Not Applicable 采用经循环再造物料的百分比 不适用 采用 G4-EN2 G4-EN13 受保护或经修复的栖息地 Habitats protected or restored. Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Not Applicable Adopted 机构内部的能源消耗量 采用 G4-EN3 按濒危风险水平，说明栖息地受机构运营影响的列入国际自然 Energy consumption within the organization. Adopted 保护联盟（IUCN）红色名录及国家保护名册的物种总数 未采用 G4-EN14 Total number of iucn red list species and national conservation list 机构外部的能源消耗量 未采用 Not Adopted G4-EN4 species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of Energy consumption outside of the organization. Not Adopted extinction risk. 能源强度 未采用 G4-EN5 Energy intensity. Not Adopted 直接温室气体排放量（范畴一），来源包括： 1．商务差旅或使用公司车辆； 减少的能源消耗量 未采用 2．使用快递服务 G4-EN6 采用 环境 Reduction of energy consumption. Not Adopted G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas(ghg) emissions(scope 1) Adopted Environmental 1．Include travel on behalf of the company or use of 产品和服务所需能源的降低 未采用 the company ﬂeet; G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services. Not Adopted 2．Include the use of courier services 按源头说明的总耗水量 未采用 G4-EN8 能源间接温室气体排放量（范畴二），融资组合的温室气体排 Total water withdrawal by source. Not Adopted 放应该单独披露 采用 G4-EN16 因取水而受重大影响的水源 不适用 Energy indirect greenhouse gas(ghg) emissions(scope 2), Adopted G4-EN9 Emissions of the ﬁnancing portfolio should be disclosed separately. Water sources signiﬁcantly affected by withdrawal of water. Not Applicable 循环及再利用水的百分比及总量 不适用 其他间接温室气体排放量（范畴三），来源包括： G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Not Applicable 1．商务差旅或使用公司车辆； 2．使用快递服务 机构在环境保护区或其他具有重要生物多样性价值的 未采用 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 3) 地区或其毗邻地区，拥有、租赁或管理的运营点 Not Adopted G4-EN11 不适用 1．Include travel on behalf of the company or use of the Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, Not Applicable company ﬂeet; protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside 2．Include the use of courier services. protected areas. 131 / 132 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 一般标准披露项 General standard disclosures 一般标准披露项 General standard disclosures 指标分类 指标排序 指标内容 采用情况 指标分类 指标排序 指标内容 采用情况 Indicators Ranging Content Adoption Indicators Ranging Content Adoption classiﬁcation classiﬁcation 温室气体排放强度 未采用 降低产品和服务环境影响的程度 G4-EN18 采用 Greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions intensity. Not Adopted G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products Adopted and services. 减少的温室气体排放量 采用 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions. Adopted 按类别说明，回收售出产品及其包装物料的百分比 不适用 G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are 臭氧消耗物质（ODS）的排放 Not Applicable 未采用 reclaimed by category. G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ods). Not Adopted 违反环境法律法规被处重大罚款的金额，以及所受非经济处罚 氮氧化物、硫氧化物和其他主要气体的排放量 未采用 G4-EN21 的次数 Nox, Sox, and other signiﬁcant air emissions. Not Adopted 不适用 G4-EN29 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of nonNot Applicable monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws 按水质及排放目的地分类的污水排放总量 未采用 G4-EN22 and regulations. Total water discharge by quality and destination. Not Adopted 按类别及处理方法分类的废弃物总重量（大部分金融机构 为机构运营而运输产品、其他货物及物料以及员工交通所产生 的废弃物主要包括废弃的纸张和电子产品） 的重大环境影响 采用 G4-EN23 未采用 G4-EN30 Signiﬁcant environmental impacts of transporting products and Total weight of wastebytypeanddisposalmethod.(The primary Not Adopted Adopted types of waste streams for most ﬁnancial institutions will be other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and paper and waste IT products.) transporting members of the workforce. 严重泄露的总次数及总量 不适用 G4-EN24 按类别说明总环保支出及投资 未采用 Total number and volume of signiﬁcant spills. Not Applicable G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. Not Adopted 按照《巴塞尔公约》附录 I、II、III、VIII 的条款视为有害 废弃物经运输、输入、输出或处理的重量，以及运往境外 的废弃物中有害废弃物的百分比 不适用 使用环境标准筛选的新供应商的比例 采用 G4-EN25 Not Applicable G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste Adopted environmental criteria. deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel convention annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. 供应链对环境的重大实际和潜在负面影响，以及采取的措施 未采用 G4-EN33 Signiﬁcant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in Not Adopted 受机构污水及其他（地表）径流排放严重影响的水体及相 the supply chain and actions taken. 关栖息地的位置、面积、保护状态及生物多样性价值 不适用 G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of 经由正式申诉机制提交、处理和解决的环境影响申诉的数量 Not Applicable 不适用 water bodies and related habitats signiﬁcantly affected by the G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts ﬁled, Not Applicable organization’s discharges of water and runoff. addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. 133 / 134 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 一般标准披露项 General standard disclosures 一般标准披露项 General standard disclosures 指标分类 指标排序 指标内容 采用情况 指标分类 指标排序 指标内容 采用情况 Indicators Ranging Content Adoption Indicators Ranging Content Adoption classiﬁcation classiﬁcation 按年龄组别、性别及地区划分的新进员工和离职员工总数 与工会达成的正式协议中的健康与安全议题 未采用 及比例 未采用 G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade G4-LA1 Not Adopted Not Adopted unions. Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group,gender and region. 按性别和员工类别划分，每名员工每年接受培训的平均小时数 未采用 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by 按重要运营地点划分，不提供给临时或兼职员工，只提供 Not Adopted employee category. 给全职员工的福利 未采用 G4-LA2 Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees that are not provided 为加强员工持续就业能力及协助员工管理职业生涯终止的技能 Not Adopted to temporary or parttime,employees, by signiﬁcant locations of 管理及终生学习计划 operation. 采用 G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support Adopted the continued employability of employees and assist them in 按性别划分，产假 / 陪产假后回到工作和保留工作的比例 managing career endings. 未采用 G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by Not Adopted 按性别和员工类别划分，接受定期绩效及职业发展考评的员工 gender. 的百分比 未采用 G4-LA11 有关重大运营变化的最短通知期，包括该通知期是否在集 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career Not Adopted 劳工实践和 体协议中具体说明 未采用 development reviews, by gender and by employee category. G4-LA4 体面工作 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, Not Adopted 按性别、年龄组别、少数族裔成员及其他多元化指标划分，治 Employment including whether these are speciﬁed in collective agreements. 理机构成员和各类员工的组成 未采用 G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees 由劳资双方组建的职工健康与安全委员会中，能帮助员工 Not Adopted per employee category according to gender, age group, minority 监督和评价健康与安全相关项目的员工代表所占的百分比 group membership, and other indicators of diversity. 未采用 G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint Not Adopted management–worker health and safety committees that help 按员工类别和主要运营地区划分，男女基本薪金和薪酬比率 未采用 monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by Not Adopted employee category, by signiﬁcant locations of operation. 按地区和性别划分的工伤类别、工伤、职业病、误工及缺 勤比例，以及和因公死亡人数 使用劳工实践标准筛选的新供应商所占比例 未采用 采用 G4-LA6 G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, Not Adopted Adopted practices criteria. lost days, and absenteeism,and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender. 供应链对劳工实践的重大实际和潜在负面影响， 从事职业病高发职业或高职业病风险职业的工人 以及采取的措施 未采用 不适用 G4-LA15 G4-LA7 Signiﬁcant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices Not Adopted Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to Not Applicable their occupation. in the supply chain and actions taken. 135 / 136 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 一般标准披露项 General standard disclosures 一般标准披露项 General standard disclosures 指标分类 指标排序 指标内容 采用情况 指标分类 指标排序 指标内容 采用情况 Indicators Ranging Content Adoption Indicators Ranging Content Adoption classiﬁcation classiﬁcation 经由正式申诉机制提交、处理和解决的劳工问题申诉的数量 安保人员在运营相关的人权政策及程序方面接受培训的百分比 未采用 未采用 G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices ﬁled, addressed, G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s Not Adopted Not Adopted and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. human rights policies or procedures that are relevant to operations. 含有人权条款或已进行人权审查的重要投资协议和合约的 涉及侵犯原住民权利的事件总数，以及机构采取的行动 总数及百分比 不适用 未采用 G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of signiﬁcant investment Not Applicable Not Adopted indigenous peoples and actions taken. agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening. 接受人权审查或影响评估的运营点的总数和百分比 未采用 就经营相关的人权政策及程序，员工接受培训的总小时数， G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject Not Adopted 以及受培训员工的百分比 to human rights reviews or impact assessments. 未采用 G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or Not Adopted 使用人权标准筛选的新供应商的比例 procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant 采用 G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Adopted criteria. 歧视事件的总数，以及机构采取的纠正行动 供应链对人权的重大实际和潜在负面影响，以及采取的措施 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective 未采用 G4-HR11 Signiﬁcant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in 人权 actions taken. Not Adopted the supply chain and actions taken. Human rights 已发现可能违反或严重危及结社自由及集体谈判的运营点 或供应商，以及保障这些权利的行动 经由正式申诉机制提交、处理和解决的人权影响申诉的数量 不适用 Operations and suppliers identiﬁed in which the right to 不适用 G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts ﬁled, addressed, G4-HR4 Not Applicable exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may Not Applicable and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. be violated or at signiﬁcant risk, and measures taken to support these rights. 实施了当地社区参与、影响评估和发展计划的运营点比例 未采用 已发现具有严重使用童工风险的运营点和供应商，以及有 G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community Not Adopted 助于有效杜绝使用童工情况的措施 engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. 不适用 G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk Not Applicable for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to 社区 对当地社区具有重大实际和潜在负面影响的运营点 未采用 the effective abolition of child labor. Society G4-SO2 Operations with signiﬁcant actual and potential negative impacts Not Adopted on local communities. 已发现具有严重强迫或强制劳动事件风险的运营点和供应 商，以及有助于消除一切形式的强迫或强制劳动的措施 已进行腐败风险评估的运营点的总数及百分比，以及所识别出 Operations and suppliers identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk 不适用 的重大风险 未采用 G4-HR6 G4-SO3 for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures Not Applicable Not Adopted Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or related to corruption and the signiﬁcant risks identiﬁed. compulsory labor. 137 / 138 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 一般标准披露项 General standard disclosures 一般标准披露项 General standard disclosures 指标分类 指标排序 指标内容 采用情况 指标分类 指标排序 指标内容 采用情况 Indicators Ranging Content Adoption Indicators Ranging Content Adoption classiﬁcation classiﬁcation 反腐败政策和程序的传达及培训 改善弱势群体金融服务可获得性的倡议 采用 采用 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and FS14 Nitiatives to improve access to ﬁnancial services fordisadvantaged Adopted Adopted procedures. people. 确认的腐败事件和采取的行动 未采用 G4-SO5 为改进现状而接受健康与安全影响评估的重要产品和服务类别 Conﬁrmed incidents of corruption and actions taken. Not Adopted 的百分比 未采用 G4-PR1 Percentage of signiﬁcant product and service categories for which Not Adopted 按国家和接受者 / 受益者划分的政治性捐赠的总值 未采用 health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement. G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/ Not Adopted beneﬁciary. 按后果类别说明，违反有关产品和服务健康与安全影响的法规 涉及反竞争行为、反托拉斯和垄断做法的法律诉讼的总数及 和自愿性准则（产品和服务处于其生命周期内）的事件总数 不适用 未采用 其结果 G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations G4-SO7 Not Not Adopted Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, antiand voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of Applicable trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. 违反法律法规被处重大罚款的金额，以及所受非经济处罚的 机构关于产品和服务信息与标识的程序要求的产品及服务信息 次数 种类，以及需要符合这种信息要求的重要产品及服务类别的百 未采用 G4-SO8 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of 分比 Not Adopted 产品责任 未采用 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and Product G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the Not Adopted regulations. responsibility organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of signiﬁcant product and service 使用社会影响标准筛选的新供应商的比例 categories subject to such information requirements. 采用 G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for Adopted impacts on society. 按后果类别说明，违反有关产品和服务信息及标识的法规及自 愿性准则的事件总数 供应链对社会的重大实际和潜在负面影响，以及采取的措施 未采用 未采用 G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and G4-SO10 Signiﬁcant actual and potential negative impacts on society in Not Adopted Not Adopted voluntary codes concerning product and service information and the supply chain and actions taken. labeling, by type of outcomes. 经由正式申诉机制提交、处理和解决的社会影响申诉的数量 未采用 客户满意度调查结果 采用 G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society ﬁled, addressed, G4-PR5 Not Adopted Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Adopted and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. 人口稀少或经济欠发达地区的各种金融服务网点的分布 禁售或有争议产品的销售 不适用 采用 G4-PR6 FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged Sale of banned or disputed products. Not Applicable Adopted areas by type. 139 / 140 国家开发银行 2013 年可持续发展报告 / China Development Bank Sustainability Report 2013 一般标准披露项 General standard disclosures 一般标准披露项 General standard disclosures 指标分类 指标排序 指标内容 采用情况 指标分类 指标排序 指标内容 采用情况 Indicators Ranging Content Adoption Indicators Ranging Content Adoption classiﬁcation classiﬁcation 按后果类别划分，违反有关市场推广（包括广告、推销及 报告机构内所有投资组合中与之就环境和社会议题产生互 赞助）的法规及自愿性准则的事件总数 动的分公司的数量和比例 采用 未采用 FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations Adopted and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, Not Adopted portfolio with which the reporting organization has interacted including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of on environmental or social issues. outcomes. 产生正面或负面的环境或社会影响因素的资产比例 未采用 经证实的侵犯客户隐私权及遗失客户资料的投诉总数 FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative 未采用 Not Adopted G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of environmental or social screening. Not Adopted customer privacy and losses of customer data. 如有违反提供及使用产品与服务的有关法律法规，说明相 关重大罚款的总金额 未采用 G4-PR9 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes for non-compliance with Not Adopted laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. 按具体区域、规模和行业划分的各项业务资产组合的比例 未采用 FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by speciﬁc Not Adopted region,size and by sector. 按用途分类的各项业务中为实现某一特定社会效益而设计 的产品和服务的货币价值 采用 FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a Adopted speciﬁc social beneﬁt for each business line broken down by purpose. 按用途分类的各项业务中为实现某一特定环境效益而设计 的产品和服务的货币价值 采用 FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver Adopted a speciﬁc environmental beneﬁt for each business line broken down by purpose. 141 / 142 报告说明 Notes on this report 本报告是国家开发银行股份有限公司致力可持续发 Reporting guidelines: 展的真实反映。 Guidance on Social Responsibility ISO26000（http:// This report truly reﬂects China Development Bank www.iso.org）; Guidelines for Sustainable Development Corporation's commitment to pursuing sustainable Report (GRI4.0) and the supplementary guidelines for development. the ﬁnancial services sector (http://www.globalreporting. org); the AA1000 standards (http://www.accountability. 报告时间范围： org); and the relevant opinions and guidelines of the 2013 年 1 月 1 日至 12 月 31 日，部分内容超出上述 China Banking Regulatory Commission (CBRC) and 范围。 the China Banking Association. Reporting period: From Jan. 1, 2013 to Dec. 31, 2013, with some content 报告保证方法： outside of the aforementioned period. 为保证报告的真实性、可靠性，本报告提请安永华 明会计师事务所（特殊普通合伙）进行第三方鉴证， 报告发布周期： 提供独立的鉴证声明。 年度报告。上一期报告发布时间为 2013 年 11 月 20 日。 Report guarantee: Publication cycle: A third party, Ernst & Young Hua Ming accounting This report is an annual publication. The previous report ﬁrm (special general partnership), audited the report to was released on Nov. 20,2013. secure its authenticity and credibility and provided an independent assurance report. 报告组织范围： 覆盖国家开发银行股份有限公司总部、分行、代表 报告获取： 处和子公司。在报告的表述中分别使用“国家开发 本报告的电子版请访问：http://www.cdb.com.cn。 银行”“开行”以及“我们”。 Availability of this report: Organization coverage: For the electronic version of this report, please visit: This report covers the headquarters of China http://www.cdb.com.cn Development Bank Corporation, as well as its branches, representative ofﬁces and subsidiaries. For convenience 报告联系人： of expression, they will be referred as “China 周孟夏 国家开发银行教育培训局 Development Bank”, “CDB” or “our bank”. Report contact person: Zhou Mengxia, Education and Training Department, 设计制作：北京大良造品牌顾问有限责任公司 报告编制参考： CDB Designer: Bei Jing Da Liang Zao Brand Identity and Consultants., LTD. 《组织社会责任指南（ISO26000）》（http://www. iso.org）；《可持续发展报告指南（GRI4.0）》及 电话：86-10-88303732 艺术插图：刘曾林 金融服务行业补充指南（http://www.globalreporting. Tel: 86-10-88303732 Illustration: Liu Zenglin org）；《AA1000》系列标准（http://www. 传真：86-10-68337473 accountability.org）；中国银监会、中国银行业协会 Fax: 86-10-68337473 提出的相关意见和指引等。 电子邮箱：csr@cdb.cn 纸张认证：该报告采用 FSC 认证纸张印刷 E-mail: csr@cdb.cn Paper Certification: The report is printed with FSC-certified paper 国家开发银行 CHINA DEVELOPMENT BANK 中国北京市西城区复兴门内大街 18 号 邮编：100031 No.18 Fuxingmennei Street.Xicheng District, Beijing. P.R. China 100031 电话 / Tel：86-10-68306789 传真 / Fax：86-10-68306699 邮箱 / Email：csr@cdb.cn www.cdb.com.cn
