Chief Executive Officer Eurobank Ergasias S.A. 20, Amalias Ave. 105 57 Athens, Greece Tel.: (+30) 210 33 37 000 Fax: (+30) 210 33 37 970 Url: www.eurobank.gr Mr. Ban Ki-moon Secretary General United Nations First Avenue at 46th Street New York, NY 10017 United States of America September 25th, 2014 Ref. No. 72 Dear Mr. Ki-moon, I am pleased to confirm that Eurobank continues to support the ten principles of the Global Compact in respect to human rights, labor rights, the protection of the environment and anticorruption. With this communication, we express our intent to support and advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We commit to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company and undertake to make a clear statement of this commitment – both to our employees, partners, clients and to the public. We support public accountability and transparency and will report on progress made in a public manner. Please find attached some general information regarding our company as well as the contact person responsible for contacts with the office of the Global Compact. Sincerely yours, Christos Megalou Attch: – 1 – Corporate responsibility remains a main pillar of the Eurobank group’s make-up. By means of its initiatives, the Organisation supports effectively to its social partners, which include its Employees, its Customers, its Suppliers and Society at large. Eurobank, through its initiatives continues to support the ten principles of Global Compact as follows: Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit with in human rights abuses One of the most fundamental principles of Eurobank group is the respect and protection of human rights. Placing special emphasis on objectivity, transparency and fairness, the Personnel selection procedure, either for external or internal candidates, is based on predetermined criteria and certified methods. The Group implements unified Supplier selection procedures, based on specific criteria, in order to ensure absolute transparency. Eurobank is also cooperating with international agencies and developing major charity initiatives, with the aim of raising public awareness on human trafficking. (Annual Report, p.39-45) Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation The Management’s key commitment is the advancement and satisfaction of its people. In this context, and through the implementation of sophisticated selection, training, evaluation, and reward methods, special emphasis is placed on: Covering job positions by means of selection and evaluation systems founded on meritocracy, according to the needs and requirements of each field of work Providing all employees with equal training and career advancement opportunities Nurturing an environment of constant recognition and reward, in accordance with the principles that govern the Group It is worth noticing that the Personnel selection procedure applied by the Bank in Greece has received the SIO 9001 certification by TÜV HELLAS, and is carried out by properly trained and specialized Personnel. (Annual Report, p. 39-42) Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies The Eurobank group aims at mitigating the environmental impacts that stem from its daily operation, as well as from its interaction with its Customers and Suppliers. Seeking to protect the environment, the Group has adopted an official Environmental Policy, whose implementation is based on an Environmental Management System developed and implemented in accordance with the ISO 14001 Standard. The Bank remains, since 2004, the first and only bank in Greece, and one of the few banks in Europe, to have established an externally certified ISO 14001 compliant Environmental Management System (Annual Report, p. 46-50) Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Eurobank has set up the Group Governance Division, which establishes the management, operation and control frameworks for Eurobank and its subsidiaries, ensures their proper implementation and is responsible for informing the competent supervisory authorities in accordance to the legislative provisions in force. (Annual Report, p. 41, 51-52)
