Strength. Performance. Passion. Sustainable Development Report 2013 ACC Limited ABOUT US ACC India's First name in Cement and Concrete ACC is among India’s foremost manufacturers of cement and concrete. Established in 1936, it has been a trendsetter in cement and concrete technology. ACC is recognized for its best practices in environment management and corporate citizenship. ACC cement enjoys high brand equity. Today ACC is part of the worldwide Holcim Group. Our approach to sustainable development is proactive and holistic to create value for all stakeholders. It embodies safety, conservation of energy and natural resources, preserving environment and biodiversity, water stewardship and the well-being of our host communities. Many pioneering steps over the years have reduced our specific carbon footprint by 32 per cent since 1990 and as per our Low Carbon Technology Roadmap this will further reduce by 20% by 2040. Our Alternative Fuels programme utilizes industrial, municipal and agricultural wastes – contributing significantly to sustainability. We also contribute to thought leadership in the field of sustainable construction. Our Community development agenda reaches out to half a million people among our host communities, creating livelihoods, providing health & education and building rural infrastructure. The report is “In accordance” with GRI G4 Guidelines – Core option and externally assured by Bureau Veritas Certification (India) Pvt. Ltd. CONTENTS 1. Foreword Page N0 1. Foreword 02 2. Organization & Strategy 2.1 Organization Profile 06 2.2 About the Report 07 2.3 Our Boundary – The Value Chain 08 2.4 Stakeholder Engagement 09 2.5 Materiality Determination 10 3. Financial Performance 3.1 Major Products 14 3.2 Financial Highlights 15 4. Governing Carefully 4.1 Governance Structure 18 4.2 Institutionalizing Excellence 22 5. Growing Sustainably 5.1 Risks and Opportunities 28 5.2 Occupational Health and Safety (OH&S) 29 5.3 Geocycle – Alternative Fuels and Raw Materials 33 5.4 Sustainable Supply Chain 36 5.5 Sustainable Construction & Responsible Products 38 6. Employee Wellbeing 6.1 Employee Profile 44 6.2 Employee Engagement 44 6.3 Collective Bargaining 45 6.4 Building a Workforce 45 6.5 Enhancing Communication 45 6.6 Employee Benefits 46 7. Working Inclusively 7.1 Customers 48 7.2 Investors 50 7.3 Government Bodies and Regulatory Authorities 50 7.4 Influencers Engineers, Contractors, Masons 50 7.5 Community 51 7.6 Suppliers and Vendors 51 7.7 Other Key Stakeholders 51 8. Being Environment Friendly 8.1 Material 54 8.2 Energy 56 8.3 Water 62 8.4 Biodiversity 64 8.5 Emissions 65 8.6 Effluents and Waste 67 9. Building Community 9.1 CSR Policy 70 9.2 CSR Approach 71 9.3 Key Focus Areas 71 9.4 Leadership in CSR Sector 78 10. Where We Stand and the Way Ahead 10.1 Journey So Far 80 10.2 Road Ahead 81 11. Annexures 11.1 Assurance Statement 82 11.2 GRI G4 – In Accordance “Core” – Content Index 85 11.3 UN Global Compact Principles Linkage 93 11.4 Memberships 94 11.5 Glossary 95 ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 02 Foreword I am pleased to present the Sustainity in organizations across all sectors. natural resource footprints and able Development Report of ACC We were also ranked as being The partially mitigating cost escalations. Limited for the Year 2013. This is the Most Admired Company in Cement seventh in the series since we began Sector in 2013 by Fortune India magaOur Ready Mix Concrete (RMX) reporting our sustainable developzine. business made substantial progress ment performance in 2007. Unlike the by widening its customer base, previous reports, this one addresses The country’s economic environment enhancing service levels and developthe company’s business as a whole, in 2013 was sluggish, characterized ing value added speciality products looking at our cement and concrete by slow GDP growth of 4.5 – 5%, the and solutions. This made it possible businesses. But what makes it lowest in a decade. The rupee was at for RMX business to achieve a quanparticularly special to us is the fact its weakest. There were steep tum jump in profitability. that this is among the first externally increases in fuel prices, transportation assured reports in the country to be and other major input costs. All these As a responsible business, the safety prepared and published in accordance conditions led to a slowdown in and wellbeing of employees and the with the latest G4 guidelines of the construction activity, which in turn community occupies foremost of our Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). impacted the demand for cement and priorities with a focus on the motto of concrete. Under these circumstances “no harm to anyone anywhere within In addition to conforming to the new we were faced with flat growth in sales ACC”. We implemented many safety reporting guidelines, the approach volumes and steep cost increases. excellence initiatives for employees used in the preparation of this report like Suraksha Laher, Suraksha Jagriti is more significant because it included During the year we continued on the and Suraksha Sangoshthi. Our logisrevisiting our materiality matrix to journey of Institutionalizing Exceltics safety excellence agenda is comupdate the understanding we had of lence (IE) that we began in 2012, prehensive and has received recogniour stakeholders’ perceptions. This which was essentially a flagship tion within the Holcim global fraternity exercise helped us to prioritize key programme to build organizationand from other sectors as well. It sustainability issues concerning us wide leadership capability for motivataddresses people, vehicles and and thus enable us to develop a more ing and empowering employees to processes including driver training, meaningful road map for the near strive for superior performance levels creation of infrastructure and ameniterm. in everything we do. Egged on by ties and the on-going programmes of emerging results and improvements, RFID and GPS implementation. We closed the year 2013 with a sense the IE activities were implemented of satisfaction when we received with greater passion and innovation. Building a competent, motivated and external recognition with the prestiThanks to several process and prodpassionate workforce is a key driver gious CII – ITC Sustainability Prize in uct innovations and operational in our people excellence initiatives. category A for large companies, which efficiency improvements, we were We introduced a new competency is acknowledged as being among the able to enhance customer service building initiative at the grass-root country’s top honours for sustainabillevels while reducing our carbon and ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 03 “We closed the year with a sense of satisfaction when we received the prestigious CII-ITC Sustainability Prize which is acknowledged as being among the country's top honours for sustainability in organizations across all sectors” level with our Workmen Development Another area of improvement is the states in the country. Our preprocessprogrammes that aim to upgrade the reduction of specific kiln dust emising facilities for processing waste skills and competencies of employees sions by as much as 18%. Demonstreams at Wadi and Kymore are and contractors’ workmen. We are strating greater transparency, we have progressing satisfactorily and satisfied to note that the share of started online reporting of kiln stack expected to be commissioned in 2014; female employees rose by 21% in the dust emissions from various plants to this will enhance our co-processing year 2013 as compared to the previthe pollution control boards. capability in these plants manifold. ous year. During the year, we commissioned Work on the on-going expansion Our community development initiaACC’s first waste heat recovery power programme in eastern India at Jamul tives were spread over a wide canvas generation unit of 7.5MW which has a and Sindri is on track and expected to – reaching more than half a million potential to reduce ~44,180 tonnes of be commissioned in 2015 as schedpeople in 132 villages in the country CO2 per year while providing 7.5% uled. with valuable engagements in educagreen energy for the plant. This shows tion, health, creating livelihoods and us a way to set up similar systems in As we progress further on our Institubuilding village infrastructure among our other plants. In 2013, we realized tionalizing Excellence (IE) journey, we other schemes. We were able to 94,459 Certified Emission Reductions aim to create new benchmarks in provide timely assistance to the (CERs) from our Clean Development various areas beginning with safety, victims and other people affected by Mechanism (CDM) projects registered customer excellence, manufacturing, disasters that struck the nation, with United Nations Framework logistics, people processes and buildnamely the landslides and flashfloods Convention on Climate Change ing a green supply chain. We hope to in Uttarakhand and severe drought in (UNFCCC) and have submitted verifimaintain our position of best-in-class central Maharashtra. cation reports recommending for in sustainability by implementing the issuance of 846,313 CERs. comprehensive plan we have drawn On the environment excellence up touching all aspects in the entire journey, I am pleased to share that the In our Alternative Fuels and Raw business value chain. As we make company’s overall carbon intensity materials (AFR) programme implestrides in this journey, we will has been cut by 32% since 1990, mented under Holcim’s Geocycle continue to seek valuable feedback, thanks to proactive and consistent banner, we were able to raise the suggestions and support from all of attention. Despite an increase in the thermal substitution rate (TSR) to our stakeholders. demand for more ‘carbon-intensive’ 4.36% during the year. This resulted products like Ordinary Portland in usage of >5 Lakh tonnes of alternaCement (OPC), we were able to reduce tive raw materials and fuels in the ACC’s overall specific CO2 emissions cement manufacturing process. We to 538 kg CO2/Tonne of cement have also received clearances for through various CO2 reduction initiaco-processing the highest number Kuldip Kaura tives in the entire business operations. (127) of waste streams across various CEO & Managing Director ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 0SHBOJ[BUJPO & Strategy We have always taken pioneering steps in knowledge building and innovation in our manufacturing and operating processes. Among our most important achievements has been the conservation of minerals and utilization of industrial wastes, which enabled India’s cement industry to achieve an impressive reduction of its carbon footprint. 06 2.1 Organization Profile across India. Cementing relationships safety. Our cement plants have been with generations of customers and ISO 50001 certified and our long term 75 Years and Beyond other stakeholders have added to the goal is to have all plants certified for trust, respect and confidence we enjoy. ISO 50001 as a commitment to energy O ur journey started in 1936 when ten Our products are made easily available efficiency. Thondebhavi Cement Works cement companies merged together to across Indian cities and towns with the is India’s first cement grinding unit form a single entity that was aptly support of over 9000 authorized certified under CII – Sohrabji Godrej named “The Associated Cement dealers through more than 50,000 Green Business Centre’s GreenCo Companies Limited”. In 2006, the sales outlets positioned all over the rating – Silver category. company’s name was changed to “ACC country. Limited”. Today we are a part of the Our Presence Holcim group of Switzerland which Innovation at ACC With the vision of being India’s most owns 50.01 % of our total equity. We We have always taken pioneering steps respected cement company, we have operate 17 cement factories, 47 in knowledge building and innovation tried to reach out to the vast geography concrete plants, 26 offices including in our manufacturing and operating of India in pursuit of building the registered, regional and sales offices processes. Having the distinction of nation. Through our sales units spread across India with our headquarters in being the first cement company in across the country, we cater to a large Mumbai. Our organization structure is India to establish its own R&D centre, market comprising of Individual Home divided into four geographical regions we encourage and foster innovation in Builders, Private Institutions (Builders, North, East, South and West, each our products, most significantly with Contractors, Corporates, Co-operatives) headed by a chief executive under the the promotion of eco-friendly blended as well as Government Institutions overall leadership of the Chief cements. Our efforts in introducing (central & state level corporations, Executive Officer and Managing Ready Mix Concrete (RMX) coupled public sector units and local bodies). Director at corporate level. with the promotion of bulk cement handling facilities have been From Quarry to Lorry People’s Brand responsible for redefining the pace and Growing steadily in our capability With our strong geographical presence quality of construction activity in each year, we took an early lead in in the country, we have contributed to metropolitan cities and in mega areas such as energy conservation the making of many iconic structures infrastructure projects. such as Mumbai’s Marine Drive and the and concern for the environment, Bhakra Nangal Dam in Himachal long before the concepts of Adherence to Standards sustainable development and triple Pradesh. We are privileged to be the Being a signatory to the United Nations most preferred brand for construction bottom line were formally evolved. Our Global Compact, we are committed to of homes in cities, towns and villages its ten principles which foster better focused approach towards sustainable corporate responsibility in the areas of development encompasses all activities human rights, labour, environment and of our value chain “from quarry anti-corruption. All our plants are ISO to lorry”. 9001 and ISO 14001 certified which demonstrate our commitment to quality, environment and health and ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 07 Among our most important 2.2 About the Report leadership discussions, conducted achievements has been the capacity building workshop, visited conservation of minerals and At ACC, we always try to set for select sites for data collation and utilization of industrial wastes which ourselves higher benchmarks and developed the report with the enabled India’s cement industry to to deliver the highest quality of company’s Environment & Energy achieve an impressive reduction of impact not just on customers or Conservation Cell and Corporate its carbon footprint. shareholders but also on other Communications Department. stakeholders. As part of the quest to Low Carbon Roadmap innovate at every step, we have For this report, we have adopted an We are an active member of the embraced the new GRI G4 extensive stakeholder engagement Cement Sustainability Initiative (CSI) guidelines for our Sustainable approach, taking into account their which is a global effort by 25 leading Development Report for the year perspectives regarding key aspects cement producers, with operations 2013. Also, as a torch-bearer of of Sustainability at ACC. The in more than 100 countries. Apart sustainability performance and process has also helped us in from leading a multitude of CSI’s reporting, we consider it important ensuring reliability, transparency initiatives in India including those of to be an early adopter of the G4 and value of reporting. safety and CO2 reduction, we have guidelines. played a major role in the developWhile we had examined all the ment of a Low Carbon Technology This is our 7th annual Sustainable disclosures required for the Roadmap for the Indian Cement Development report, covering the Comprehensive option of the Industry which aims to provide an period from January to December Global Reporting Initiative (G4) ambitious, sector-specific vision for 2013 which is aligned with our Guidelines and found ourselves carbon emissions reductions up to financial year reporting. capable of addressing them year 2050. We were also part of the positively, we finally decided to expert team that reviewed a set of NextGen PMS Pvt. Ltd. was publish the report as being “in technical papers on greenhouse gas engaged for providing advisory accordance“ with the Core option emission reductions relevant to the services to the company to review in the first attempt. Indian cement industry which has its sustainability reporting process been developed as part of the and to assimilate and adapt to GRI This report is externally assured by roadmap project. G4 guidelines. During its Bureau Veritas Certification (India) engagement with ACC, NextGen led Pvt. Ltd. Parivartan Sustainability Leadership CII-ITC Sustainability Prize 2013 for Award 2013 for demonstrating outstanding policy, practice and results Most Improved Disclosure” By CII-ITC Centre of Excellence in By Sustainability Outlook Sustainable Development Eco-Corporate Yes Bank-Saevus Natural Capital Award 2013 By Yes Bank ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 08 2.3 Our Boundary – The Value Chain One of the key features of the approach deliver its products or services to the consultation with our key stakeholders. adopted by GRI G4 reporting is the market and comprises of all the steps We have also evaluated where and by concept of identifying and accounting and activities that are undertaken to add what elements these issues are caused for material issues or aspects with value to that product or service. We and what the impact centers are. For us, regard to a company's “value chain”. In acknowledge that we need to focus our our value chain includes suppliers, these guidelines, this concept is attention to material issues and their product design processes, all our referred to as 'Aspect Boundaries' impacts across our value chain, cement plants, offices and Sales Units within and outside a company. Aspect irrespective of whether or not we have (SUs), our marketing and distribution Boundaries attempt to broaden the direct control over the issues. By channels. Detailed further in the report scope of our thinking and the role that adopting this approach, we aspire to is the process we have adopted to we, as a company, play in relation to our influence positive changes towards identify our material aspects. For all the material impacts that affect various Sustainability in our value chain. aspects, a detailed perception study has stakeholders. been conducted and all our top In order to implement this, we stakeholder groups have been included Typically, value chain refers to the chain undertook the exercise of identifying in the aspect boundary. of activities that a company performs to material issues and aspects in There have been no significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization's size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain. However, RMX business is included in the report for the first time since we began sustainability reporting. Also, there are no restatements of information provided in previous reports. ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 09 2.4 Stakeholder Engagement Our operations and activities have varied economic, Engage on issues that matter environmental and social impacts across our sphere of influence. These varied impacts have been perceived differently by each of our stakeholder groups. Engage the right stakeholders Materiality here is broader than the traditional measures of organization mechanism. For instance, in financial reporting, materiality is commonly thought of as a threshold for influencing Manage expectations the economic decisions of those using an organization's financial statements, investors in particular. Through years of sustainability practice, we realized that the concept of threshold Provide adequate resources is concerned with a wider range of stakeholders. We abide by a simple rule of sustainabilityour efforts should Level the playing field strive to meet the need of the present without compromising the need of the future generation. To streamline our approach, we devised a mechanism of interaction with stakeholders. Look beyond the playing field To ensure that our stakeholders are a part of the ecosystem we devised principles of engagement as below: Be Open Engage – Learn Engage Ensure open and transparent Create a healthy, self-sustaining model communication with stakeholders on to identify and employ means of issues that matter to them. Give them a engagement with various stakeholder clear picture of all successes and groups. Apart from the engagement failures in a regular fashion through process itself, involve them to assess channels such as annual report and the success of the process of sustainable development reporting. engagement as well as its outcome. Then, implement the results emerging from the engagement exercise. Finally, Be Accountable provide regular updates on progress made with matters that are material to The trust that our stakeholders show in them and invite feedback for further us is our greatest strength. That trust is engagement. reflected in our reputation as a highly credible brand and a great workplace. We consider it important to link the engagement process and their results to core business decision-making and corporate governance in order to maintain this trust. ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 10 2.5 Materiality Determination We revisited the subject of Materiality Mapping to be aligned with GRI's G4 guidelines. In the process, there are changes in the Materiality matrix as compared to the previous one. The approach to materiality began with realizing who our key stakeholders are and the nature of their involvement and influence on our business. To ensure that our stakeholders are a part of the ecosystem, we devised principles of engagement as below: Academic Institutions International Bodies Internal Stakeholders Media Suppliers & Service Providers Government & Regulating Bodies Community Customer & Industry Distributors Bodies Investors Waste Generators The process provided us with important take into account every aspect of insights and demonstrated our sustainability in our organization. Using commitment to building trust through this list as a basis for discussion, we transparency and dialogue. We would organized detailed surveys with all our like to express our thanks to all our stakeholders. Our principles of stakeholders who participated in the engagement will ensure that each exercise and helped us reach our goal of question answered creates value in determining what matters and what understanding our material issues. should matter more. Our discussions This interaction with our stakeholders and implementation of stakeholder gave us a 360 degree insight into how analysis have helped us to a great extent our presence is perceived in various in our materiality determination. sections of the society. It also helped us In order to understand issues relevant formulate how stakeholders can further to us and our stakeholders, we created 6 interact to convey ideas or suggestions. buckets of relevance that cumulatively ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 11 We have included a section in the report“Working Inclusively” which is a detailed insight into our stakeholder engagement practice. Materiality was also discussed internally involving various departmental functions, senior management and close to twenty percent of our employees from various plants of the organization. Both our internal and external stakeholders had some common grounds of opinion. Considering all essentials, we derived our final materiality matrix as below. The results of the materiality exercise yielded us our highly material aspects for this year as follows: • Economic Performance These are largely congruent with the • Materials materiality issues identified in the • Energy mapping exercise conducted for the • Water previous reports. • Biodiversity In this report, we have highlighted the • Emissions newly identified aspects in detail while • Effluents and Waste also reporting our performance with the • Products and Services other aspects related to our • Compliance sustainability performance. Moving • Supply Chain ahead, these aspects will help us • Employee Wellbeing evaluate our performance with respect • Occupational Health and Safety to the targets that we set ourselves. • Anti-Corruption • Public Policy • Responsible Selling and Customer Care • Local and indigenous communities ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 Financial Performance ` We continue our focus on cost reduction under the “Institutionalizing Excellence” programme, our thrust on increasing the sale of our premium products and various other customer excellence initiatives. 14 3. Financial Performance OPC 43 Grade and 53 Grade High Strength High Performance Concrete 3.1 Major Products • Most commonly used in all Concrete constructions Stamped Pervious • Surpasses Bureau of Indian Concrete Concrete Standards (BIS) Specifications • High initial strength Temperature Self-compacting controlled Concrete Concrete PPC Fly-ash based Fibre Light Weight Reinforced • Inter-grinding clinker with high Concrete Concrete We produce three major types of quality processed fly ash Cement, namely, Ordinary Portland Ce• Improved workability, more corroReady Mix Concrete (RMX) is ment (OPC), Portland Pozzolana sion resistant, impermeable, strengmanufactured by mixing cement, Cement (PPC) and Portland Slag ths comparable to OPC aggregates, water and admixtures in Cement (PSC). PPC and PSC are the right proportions by automated Blended Cements that are manu• Specially suitable for mass concomputer controlled batching systems. factured with combination of clinker creting work RMX thus produced is specifically desiwith fly-ash and slag respectively. Both gned as per the construction requthese varieties of blended cement are irements and is transported further in acknowledged as high quality cements PSC Slag based Transit Mixers from the batching plant that have special properties offering to the construction site within a • Inter-grinding clinker and granulated stipulated time period for delivery to durability and resistance to aggressive slag construction sites in a freshly mixed environments, which make them and plastic or unhardened state. superior to ordinary cements. In • Reduction in free lime leaching, Industrial waste such as fly-ash, addition to conserving valuable natural strengths comparable to OPC, Ground Granulated Blast-furnace Slag mineral resources and reducing waste, greater workability, denser, less heat, (GGBS) and slag are also consumed in the production of these blended reduced plasticity, increased making RMX. cements helps in reducing CO 2 serviceability emissions. Advantages of RMX: Concrete: • Uniformity Our Concrete is manufactured in • Consistency modern, fully computerized plants with • Flexibility state-of-the-art machinery and equip• Ease of Addition ment of global repute. • Reduced material handling • Reduced labour usage • Reduced wastage • Environment friendly We are among the largest manufacturers of RMX in India with 47 modern plants in major cities. The use of RMX is an environmental friendly practice that ensures a cleaner work place and causes minimal disturbance to its surroundings. ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 15 3.2 Financial Highlights Our key financial highlights show the steady growth that we achieved with a gentle rise in our profits despite Indian economic growth in 2013 slowing down to 4.5%-5%, the lowest in the last decade. Growth was mainly pulled down by the contraction of the manufacturing sector which is reflected in the reduction in our sales and turnover. Financial Highlights – Overall 2013* 2012 2011 Turnover (Rs. cr.) 10,908 11,130 9,430 Profit After Tax [PAT] (Rs. cr.) 1096 1059 1325 Earnings per Share [EPS] (Rs.) 58.36 56.52 70.59 Net Worth (Rs. cr.) 7825 7383 7192 Spend on CSR activities (Rs. cr.) 22.76 26 22 *All figures include ACC Limited's Ready Mix Concrete NET SALES, OPERATING EBITDA & OPERATING EBITDA MARGIN NET WORTH & RETURN ON NET WORTH 12000 11130 40 10908 8000 7825 45 33 35 7383 9430 7192 10000 40 Op. EBITDA Margin (%) Return on Net Worth (%) 7000 30 6469 7967 7710 8000 6015 35 24 25 6000 `Crore 20 20 `Crore 30 6000 20 5000 27 15 25 4000 15 4000 2644 10 20 2196 17 18 1812 1921 2000 1629 3000 5 15 14 14 0 0 2000 10 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Net Sales Op. EBITDA Op. EBITDA Margin Net Worth RONW In cement manufacturing, each of our efficiency etc. In logistics management contributions directly or indirectly regions has been given targets to the approach is to 'move less', reducing were made by us. achieve reductions in costs, the on freight costs. Our performance in implementation for which is handled at Ready Mix Concrete products was highthe plant level by the regional heads. The ly encouraging with better cost objective is to benchmark ourselves management and higher revenues from with Holcim plants in operating value added products and solutions. parameters and input costs as well as in All entities included in the organisafety and environment. We have zation's consolidated financial statecompany wide communities of practice ments or equivalent documents can be for some important KPIs and found in our Annual Report for the year production modules such as to pursue 2013. Also, no financial assistance has improvements in clinker factor, cost of been received from the government and captive power generation and electrical no financial and in-kind political ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 We believe sustainability to be a process of continuous assessment and improvisation and have, since our inception, endeavoured to adopt an innovative approach in implementing sustainable initiatives. At ACC, we lay great emphasis on the need to have a robust governing mechanism that can drive change effectively through to all layers in an organization as vast as ours. We believe that the key to our consistent success over the many years of existence lies in our fundamental values and policies which guide us towards our goals. 18 Vision The Code lays down the standard of Values conduct which is expected to be “To be one of the most respected At ACC, we propagate the three values followed by Directors and designated companies in India; recognised for of Strength, Performance and Passion. employees in their business dealings challenging conventions and delivering We believe that these values propel us and in particular on matters relating to on our promises”. Upholding the value further and guide us in our efforts to conflicts of interest, bribery and and respect that we are regarded with, progress towards our vision. To achieve corruption, integrity of accounting and as a company, we promise to deliver on the same, we have formulated business financial reporting, fair competition, our social, economic and environmental strategies which have led to the corporate social responsibility, concern commitments that form the three pillars development of policies and business for sustainable development/susof sustainable development. As practices that have incorporated social tainable performance, concern for reflected in our vision statement, we and environmental aspects and bring occupational health and safety, use of endeavour to go beyond conventional about transparency and accountability. licensed software, email and internet practices and adopt new and innovative connectivity and corporate commmethodologies to achieve our goals. unications. Employees are also regularly trained in these areas. Code of Conduct Strength A certificate of compliance is obtained The Board of Directors has approved a periodically from employees who are Code of Business Conduct and Ethics covered by the Code of Business which is applicable to Members of the Conduct and Ethics which includes the Board and all employees in ManagePassion Performance Anti-Bribery and Corruption Directive ment grade. (ABCD). Our employees in the management grade are given training with a view to create the awareness on business ethics and build an Policies organization culture which has zero We consider Corporate Governance as tolerance for corrupt practices. an integral part of good management. We have adopted a “Code of Conduct for Apart from our Code of Conduct and Prevention of Insider Trading” to Ethics and the Anti-Bribery and regulate trading in securities to which Corruption Directive, we have a Fraud the Board and designated employees Risk Management policy approved by have confirmed compliance. A 24x7 the Board of Directors and signed by the ethics helpline enables employees, Company Secretary. We have in place customers, vendors or anyone assopolicies for some of our key focus areas ciated with ACC to raise ethical issues such as Occupational Health and Safety while maintaining their identity (OH&S), Environment, Alternative Fuels confidential. Through our Value and Raw Materials (AFR), Quality and Creation in Competitive Environment Anti Sexual Harassment. Our Corporate (VCCE) programme we carry out Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy has training sessions for awareness been reviewed and restated to make it creation among relevant employees for more comprehensive and aligned with conducting business in a fair manner the Companies Act, 2013. and upholding the interests of 4.1 Governance Structure consumers. Better governance comes from simpler flow of responsibility. This helps us eliminate potential risks of losing valuable information and also minimize ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 19 the communication gap. As a listed Below is the composition of our Board of Directors as on 31st Dec 2013company, we have complied with the requirements of Corporate Governance Name of Board Member Independent/Non-Executive/Executive laid down under Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement with Stock Exchanges. We Mr N S Sekhsaria, Chairman Independent/Non-Executive are professionally managed and Mr Paul Hugentobler Non-Executive function under the overall superintendence, directions and control of Mr Kuldip Kaura Executive our Board of Directors. Mr S M Palia Independent/Non-Executive Mr Bernard Fontana Non-Executive Board of Directors Mr M L Narula Non-Executive The Board of Directors comprises Mr Shailesh V Haribhakti Independent/Non-Executive executive and non-executive directors. These individuals are selected based on Mr Aidan Lynam Non-Executive a judgment of their expertise in an area Mr Sushil Kumar Roongta Independent/Non-Executive of relevance to the company and their ability to provide advice and guidance Mr Ashwin Dani Independent/Non-Executive on matters of organizational strategy or Mr Farrokh K Kavarana Independent/Non-Executive those concerning economic, environmental and social aspects. Our Board is Mr Bernard Terver Non-Executive a holistic combination of highly accomplished engineers, management basis are brought before the audit financially literate and in compliance experts, chartered accountants and at committee. In cases, where approval of with Clause 49 of the Listing least two directors are authorities on the Board is required, the matter is Agreement, the Chairman of the cement technology and cement discussed in detail and a vote of committee is an Independent Director. business. The Board functions approval is taken. The concerned Acting as a link between statutory democratically while playing a pivotal Directors abstain from voting on such auditors, internal auditors and the role in ensuring good governance. Its resolutions. Board of Directors, the terms of role, functions, responsibility and reference of this committee conform to accountability are all clearly defined. Governing Committees guidelines of the Listing Agreement Strong governance is at the heart of our with Stock Exchanges read with the The directors do not have any personal business approach. We have commitCompanies Act, 1956. dealings with the company or its tees operating centrally to carry out subsidiary companies. Nevertheless to governing operations. The Board of address any possible conflicts of Directors approves corporate policies, interests, we have in place provisions annual operating plans and budgets, that are in accordance with the capital expenditure, strategies for Companies Act, which require a business expansion or consolidation, Director to disclose his/her interest in performance and financial statements any transaction between the company and statements and other items listed in and a private company/firm in which Clause 49 as applicable. The functions he/she or his/her relative, partner in the of each of our committees have been firm are interested or where a Director briefed below: either singly or jointly with any other Audit Committee Director holds more than 2% shares in The Audit Committee comprises four such company. Related party transIndependent Directors of the company. actions, which are on an arm's length All members of this committee are ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 20 The terms broadly include review of the following: Shareholders'/Investors' Grievance Committee • Approval of the Annual Internal Audit Plan • All matters relating to transfer/ • Review of the financial reporting system and internal control systems transmission of shares /debentures • Review quarterly, half yearly and annual financial statements including major • Issue of duplicate share certifiaccounting entries involving exercise of judgment by the management cates; issue and allotment of rights/bonus shares/shares against • Representation by the Statutory Auditors to the management in regard to any Employee Stock Options; review of internal control weaknesses observed by them during the course of their audit shares dematerialized all other and the action taken by the management thereon related matters • Discussions with Statutory, Internal and Cost Auditors on matters related to • Monitoring expeditious redressal their area of audit; review of Internal Audit Report and implementation of action of investors' grievances points arising therefrom • Non receipt of Annual Report and • Review of Risk Management framework concerning the critical operation of the declared dividend; and all other Company matters related to shares/debentures • Management Discussion & Analysis of the Company's operations • Review of significant related party transactions • Review of implementation of the Fraud Risk Management Policy • Recommendation for appointment of Statutory and Cost Auditors and their remuneration • Appointment, removal and terms of remuneration of the Chief Financial Officer and the Chief Internal Auditor Compliance Committee It reviews the training given to employees for ensuring compliance with the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Directive and the Value Creation in a Competitive Environment (VCCE) programme • Reviewing the legal environment in • Reviewing the compliance with all which the Company operates with a applicable statutes, rules and view to understand the implications regulations based on reports of major legislative and regulatory received from the CEO & MD, Chief developments and their interExecutives of the Regions, CFO, pretation by the Courts of law that President Human Resources and may significantly affect the the Company Secretary & Head Company Compliance and recommend corrective actions, if any, where required • Reviewing compliance with the provisions of Competition Law and • Reviewing significant legal cases to provide guidance in regard to the filed by and against the Company development of the laws in India and abroad ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 21 Compensation Committee The terms of reference of the Compensation Committee, inter In determining the remuneration, the Compensation alia consists of reviewing the overall compensation policy, the Committee takes into consideration the size of the remuneration structure, service agreement and other Company's operations and the onerous responemployment conditions of the CEO & MD with a view to sibility required to be shouldered by the incumbent, retaining and motivating the best managerial talents. In the remuneration paid by comparable concerns and determining the remuneration, the Committee takes into the performance of the Company. For the Board of consideration the industry trend, remuneration paid by Directors, in recognition of their contribution and comparable concerns, responsibilities to be shouldered by the the time spent on the Company's business and CEO & MD and the Company's and individual performance. taking into consideration the size and complexity of The Compensation Committee looks into the Succession the Company's operations, the stringent accounting Planning both at the Board and Management level and standards and governance norms, the Members of identifies individuals who may be considered for appointment the Company have at the 74th Annual General as Independent Directors and as Chief Executive Officers & Meeting sanctioned the payment of commission to Managing Directors. The committee also reviews and the Non-Executive Directors of an amount not recommends to the Board the appointment of senior most level exceeding one percent of the net profits of the of Executives and the Company Secretary & Head Compliance Company as computed in the manner provided and their compensation package. under Section 198(1) of the Companies Act, 1956. CAPEX Committee Corporate Social Responsibility assigned to appropriate functional The aim of the CAPEX Committee is to Committee departments and integrated into undertake a detailed examination of the The Board has formulated a CSR individual job descriptions and our company's large project proposals. The Committee, which is entrusted to guide performance management system to committee comprises six members, and monitor our CSR delivery, to review further incentivize employees to take up five of whom are non-executive the existing CSR Policy and to make it sustainable practices. members. The committee's terms of more comprehensive so as to indicate reference are as below: the activities to be undertaken by the • To evaluate the financial viability of Company as specified in Schedule VII of all expansion CAPEX proposals the Companies Act 2013; and to provide exceeding a pre-determined ceiling guidance on various CSR activities to be undertaken by the Company and to • To monitor projects with regard to monitor its progress. the committees expenditure and time-schedules Sustainable Development Council • To discuss post audit evaluation of Apart from our board level committees, above completed projects we have a Sustainable Development Council (SD Council), headed by the CEO • To evaluate acquisition proposal and to & MD and comprising representatives make appropriate recommendations from the key functions, that drives the to the Board implementation of the sustainability • Such other duties relating to CAPEX agenda. A core group from this council projects as may be assigned to the meets to coordinate and advise the committee from time to time by the council from time to time on target Board setting and reporting. Plant level SD Councils at each of our plants further strengthen the governance of sustainability. The responsibility of processes is ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 22 4.2 Institutionalizing Excellence company with traction in all areas covered by it. To gain efficiency across We at ACC believe that that there is a all five sectors, plant teams contistrong business case for adopting nuously brain storm and monitor both As we look ahead, we see sustainable practices. Efforts to align performance and process to achieve India's economy continue to our goals and ideas to this agenda their target aspirations. Through these grow, resulting in consresulted in a programme pioneered in strategic excellence projects, we aim to truction activity, particularly in early 2012 called Institutionalizing empower our people with the right housing and infrastructure Excellence . With a humble yet resources and motivations that can help sectors. As one of the determined start, our programmes were us create more efficient processes and country's largest cement aimed at two interdependent better leaders. producers, we aim to enhance components of Superior Value to Logistics Excellence our capacity to meet the Customers and Cost Leadership. Built increasing requirements for essentially around our core processes, The Logistics pillar of our “Institutioncement. the overall objective of the programme alizing Excellence” journey is a wellis to achieve excellence in the functions -Kuldip Kaura structured programme that aspires to of manufacturing, logistics, sales & achieve best-in-class logistics marketing, people processes and performance in terms of cost-to-serve certain strategic procurement projects and time-to-serve. The Logistics through the pursuit of continuous excellence journey saw many visible improvements. We have plants of and significant initiatives that helped drivers and the development of onsite different vintages scattered across the reduce lead distances and eliminate traffic management systems along with country. Since all plants have similar multiple handling. driver amenities. Best-in-class logistics processes, the idea behind this project was to facilitate the sharing of best RFID (Radio Frequency Identification management with a focus on safety also practices that can be replicated across Device) and GPS (Global Positioning calls for creation of superior logistics all the plants. Systems) modules which were infrastructure at our plants, warehouses successfully deployed at three plants and other intermediary points critical in Designed to deliver superior value to our storage and handling including ameare being replicated at all plants of the customers, the institutionalizing nities for drivers and their crew such as Company in a phased manner. These excellence journey has already shown rest rooms, canteens, drinking water technologies have demonstrated their signs of improvement across the and maintenance facilities. effectiveness in managing in-plant loading time and tracking vehicles in This Excellence program has gained a transit to help improve turn-around lot of traction with module deployment time. The end result is better customer and engagement with all stakeholders. service. During the year, Driver and Vehicle The most critical component of logistics Passports have been introduced to excellence is the safety and well-being ensure that drivers are competent to of the people who play the most drive the vehicles on the company's important part in it – the drivers and business and the vehicles are safe to be transport crew. We are committed to driven. So far 14,000 Driver Passports mitigating and eliminating risks in and 12,600 Vehicle Passports have Logistics and are implementing this been issued. with a host of measures focused on People, Vehicles and Processes. The logistics safety programme focuses primarily on ensuring roadworthiness of contractor vehicles, training of ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 23 SSafety of the stakeholders SPEED to reduce time and cost PProductivity of the packers Launched in March 2012, SPEED has been continuously developing new EEfficient Utilization of the assets logistics management systems to stimulate efficiency and productivity EEnsuring customer in logistics while saving on freight costs and reducing detention time of DDelight vehicles at all our plants. Manufacturing Excellence Manufacturing Excellence programmes Green Manufacturing Excellence Award 2013 emphasize the need to investigate by Frost and Sullivan minute aspects that go into the Leaders Award : ACC Lakheri manufacturing process and hence improve overall performance. We thus Challengers Award: ACC Chanda, Gagal, Wadi infused a series of innovation to bring in Medium Business: ACC Sindri competitiveness by improving the overall performance for business. This Aspirants: ACC Thondebhavi, programme throws focus on four most Jamul & Kudithini important aspects of a cement manufacturing process that include energy efficiency and clinker factor Innovation Lab at Jamul improvement among others. Through this excellence programme, Our Jamul plant’s challenge was to infuse innovation and bring competitiveness by improving overall performance for business. To the concept of creating model plants motivate people and churn out better solutions, an “Innovation Lab” was paid rich dividends and went beyond the created. The lab has helped in generating 26 major implementable organization when one of our plants was solutions till date, which resulted in improving cost competitiveness. The named as model plant in the Holcim outcomes of some of the innovative actions are: Group, characterized by its best • Reduction of electrical energy consumption by approximately 24% by performance in respect of Electrical implementing zero CAPEX solutions. Energy. Several of our plants have been recognized by reputable bodies for • Reduction in clinker factor by 3.5%. demonstrating high standards of • Reduction in CPP unit generation cost through addition of AFR material manufacturing excellence, energy called 'Dolochar'. efficiency, mines operations and safety. • Reduction in slag drying cost through utilization of waste heat from K-3 cooler ESP and addition of AFR material. We have an established Center of Excellence on clinker factor. The approach of achieving excellence through these programmes has resulted in reduction of clinker factor in both varieties of blended Cements viz. Portland Pozzolana Cement (PPC) and Portland Slag Cement (PSC) through product innovation and research efforts. ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 24 Techport At Techport we believe in driving strength through Techport, an operation located at the participation, partnership and passion for Technology Thane Complex of ACC, is a joint pool of talent from ACC and Ambuja Cements Case Study – Techport Impact Ltd (ACL). As part of the Holcim group, Techport is committed to support At our Kymore plant, we encountered the problem of dust layer of about 500mm initiatives that combine sustainable solgetting accumulated at the inlet of 4th cyclone of pre-heater tower. This utions with performance excellence. excessive dust was leading to reduction in cyclone efficiency and also an The dedicated team of technical experts increase in pressure drop, resulting in higher power consumption of the fan. adds value to large cement CAPEX Kymore plant referred this issue to Techport. Based on a Computational Fluid projects and existing plant operations Dynamics study done at Techport, the plant was advised to modify the cyclone across manufacturing facilities and inlet to guide the flow towards the circumference of the cyclone inlet. With this grinding units of ACC and ACL in India. modification, the dust accumulation reduced to a large extent. More significantly, this modification improved the efficiency of cyclone and reduction in overall pressure drop of preheater leading to substantial power reduction. Mining Excellence Our Mining Excellence programme was Mining Excellence Organization-Workflow initiated with an objective to control the raw material extraction cost while emphasizing on adopting highest standards of safety and sustainable practices in our mining operation. It is a structured approach to focus on cost, safety and best environment practices through various initiatives started at all mines. Benchmarking the operations and drawing advantages from cross pollination of ideas have been the major achievements through this programme. Despite increase in input material prices, mines have been able to control re-engineer human resource (HR) the cost while demonstrating best processes and ensure that each process safety parameters through this progis fine-tuned with current and future ramme. business requirement and an appropriate number of employees are People Excellence groomed to take up middle and senior With our intention to create a futureleadership roles in the future. Through ready talent pool for managing our this initiative, greater focus is being business growth, we choose People as given to hiring and retaining talent from one of the areas of excellence we aim to different disciplines and streams. drive. The aim of this programme is to The Learning and Development team ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 25 conducts trainings covering subjects anies in the industry. We have academic Workmen and supervisors constitute a such as Project Management, Personal alliances with reputed institutions such major part of our workforce. They are Effectiveness, Quality Tools, Finance for as IIM-Ahmedabad, Wigan and Leighkey partners in our growth journey and non-finance executives, Shop-floor Bangalore, School of Inspiration the backbone in driving operations and management, Negotiation and conflict leadership (Soil)-Delhi, and Welingkar maintenance at the Plants. This vital management and Holcim CompetencySchool of Business, Mumbai. As extengroup is now renamed as “Shop Floor based programmes under a concept of sion of faster learning for young talent, Associates” to convey a change in 'On Boarding Centre', a complete we have embarked on a plan to impart mindset, instill in them a greater sense functional orientation programme intensive learning through challenging of pride and recognition and to invite which is in place and is expected to functional/ cross-functional projects them to participate more meaningfully deliver competent process engineers and coaching to improve analytical and in problem-solving and improvement and functional specialists. The concept decision making capability. projects. has been evaluated as one of the best practices across manufacturing compCustomer Excellence This program aims to work towards enhancing customer value by supplying the best quality cement complemented with services that exceed expectations. The program also touches upon the importance of ethical behavior and techniques of our marketing force. eMLPMobile Based Mason Loyalty Programme A path-breaking programme for connecting with one of the key influencer segments (masons and small contractors) was launched through the eMLP. ACC East pioneered eMLP programme by leveraging the deeper reach of mobile telephone networks in all parts of the country, the modus operandi of the programme being “easy to implement, yet robust and efficient”. 360-degree Approach to Customer Excellence ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 26 DREAM RUN In an added effort to further enhance the impact of our excellence programmes, we have instituted what we call “Dream Run”, which is a methodology through which we want to induce the trend of improvements being reciprocated across all plants, thus ensuring sustainability of efforts. By way of the method of Dream Run, we also aim to instill in the teams at our Plants, a sense of competition to achieve greater excellence in improvements. Under each of our excellence programmes, plants undertake various initiatives to improve their systems and driven to sustain the performance and place which make the growth processes that fall under the ambit of aim to reach beyond the targets set by sustainable. In the next section, we logistics, manufacturing, marketing the Dream Run. detail our approach to certain aspects and people. Dream Run provides the that determine our growth path and how plants with an opportunity to take up the Our plant teams have expressed a sense we ensure a consistent upward challenge of achieving an ambitious of achievement with pride and shown trajectory. target within a time frame of one-month much enthusiasm in sustaining efforts to surpass the levels set in the past. The and performance that were needed to process includes the phases of make 'Dream Run' a success. formation of teams to undertake the Thus, it is imperative for us to keep journey of improvements, identification pursuing higher standards of organizaof areas for improvement, preparing for tional excellence and to continue on the the dream run and executing the same. path of growth till such a stage where Once a target is achieved, the teams are we have such systems and processes in ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 Growing Sustainably At ACC, we follow a time tested approach in addressing our risks, be it directly business–related or the risks that are faced by mankind in view of climate change related phenomenon. While we have robust systems and processes in place to ensure the risks are adequately addressed, we constantly attempt to find opportunities in these risks and seek to capitalize on them. 28 5.1 Risks and Opportunities Understanding Risks In a business as vast as ours, we face a We have endorsed a Fraud Risk ManAlong with constant growth and perforvaried scope of risks across our operaagement (FRM) Policy for the implemance targets, we have set rigid tions and practices. Our risks are both mentation of which, a Fraud Risk Manpolicies to ensure risks are mitigated internal and external. Our Business agement committee has been formed. paving way for opportunities. Financial Risk Management Process (BRM) The committee reviews and takes risks associated with projects are the helps us identify various risks and appropriate action on cases of most visible risks that we encounter. As opportunities associated with our suspected fraud or misconduct brought one of the leading players, we are combusiness. We have also developed our to its knowledge through the channels mitted to execute large projects which Materiality Matrix as detailed in the provided such as e-mail/Fax and hotline are vulnerable to cost and time overprevious sections, which identifies the or by letter. The FRM policy is available runs. We are strengthening our project issues most pertinent and material to for reference of employees on the management team as well as our us. We endeavour to create opportuniintranet portal. project accounting and governance ties from each of these risk centres by frame work to mitigate this risk. Each of innovating in our approach. Our external risks and opportunities our risks is associated with the triple arise from the paradigms of regulatory bottom line and can be classified as: Our Internal Audit Department changes and physical and other related assesses the risks related to corruption impacts due to climate change. For through regular internal audits and instance, the methods of hot weather People Risks checks, based on a well-structured risk and cold weather concreting are differassessment approach. Potential fraud ent and hence mix proportions need to risk areas, their probability and impact be closely monitored. We have identiHazardous workplace are a vital input for the risk assessment. fied risks on account of Perform, Negative impacts on The testing methodology and docuAchieve and Trade (PAT) scheme which community mentation is reviewed and validated by sets specific energy consumption external auditors. The Audit Committee targets for energy intensive sectors of the Board reviews the adequacy and such as ours. We also comply with the efficacy of our internal control systems. Renewable Purchase Obligation (RPO) Planet Risks 53% 393 to utilise a fixed proportion of renewable energy for each unit of energy from coal-based sources. Such risks Depleting Resources have opened doors for us to explore Increasing Emissions various opportunities to embark on the journey of aggressive implementation Accumulation of wastes of various energy conservation measures, and to explore more sources of renewable energy. Profit Risks Close competition India Manufacturing Excellence Need for product Award 2013 Platinum Certificate to differentiation ACC Lakheri, Gold Certificate to Greater fuel costs ACC Chanda and Gagal in Cement sector Large category In a large manufacturing PSHBOJ[BUJPO as ours, with thousands of personnel employed across various business units comprising of plants, mines and other operations, the safety of our ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 29 employees, customers and all stakeCreating Opportunities holders associated with our operations assumes great importance for us. The At ACC, we utilize a robust Business plans. For each of the key risks enlisted physical wellbeing of all those in a premRisk Management (BRM) process to above, we have come up with ises operated by ACC is of utmost identify, evaluate business risks and measures and mitigation plans that importance. Apart from risks of physical convert them to feasible opportunities can help us see the opportunity that is injury to employees, we face the risk of both at corporate and at regional level. presented by the risks, which can also non-retention of talent. With the indusThe identified opportunities are then help us create a competitive advantry growing at a hectic pace and demand integrated into rolling and annual tage. for experienced and trained manpower outstripping supply, the ability to retain Below are some of the ways in which we have encountered the risks existing talent and attract new professional talent assumes crucial imporPeople Planet Profits tance. The transformational leadership Providing safer workplace Environment friendly fuels programme and strategic talent manMore responsible product Awareness on importance Waste reduction design agement are steps initiated to retain of safety Environment friendly Value added products talent. products With respect to fuel risks, at ACC, we require more than 2.2 million Tonnes of 5.2 Occupational Health coal to meet our kiln fuel requirements. and Safety (OH&S) The dwindling availability of linkage coal Working towards our vision, we is an offshoot of the inability of the local engage all our contractors, transportcoal producers to meet the current and ers and employees through various growing energy requirements of the training programmes. A milestone in country. There are other additional risks our vision is that none of our workers like continuous increase in ash content Best Safety Training Module Award in Gulbarga region to ACC Wadi have been affected by any disease in coal which impacts kiln productivity. related to their occupation. Our joint Besides initiating steps to develop our By Directorate of Factories, Karnataka OH&S committee operates at plant own coal blocks which would partly level involving all relevant stakeholdmeet our coal requirements, we are also ers. To ensure safety is inculcated from trying to mitigate this risk by increased the very start we have safety clauses usage of alternative fuels and pet coke. included in our formal agreement with We are also considering the setting up trade unions. Occupational Health and Safety (OH&S) of waste heat recovery plants at certain is an essential component of our locations. journey towards sustainable development. Our apex OH&S Committee The Cement Industry is becoming headed by the CEO & MD governs intensely competitive with the foray of implementation of the OH&S policy and new entrants with highly competitive incorporates initiatives to create maxibusiness strategies. To mitigate the risk mum awareness amongst the work of competition, we are leveraging our force thereby mitigating the Health and newly created capacities to increase our Safety risks at the workplace. Our market share, enhance our brand equity vision is “to achieve zero harm to and visibility, and enlarge our product anyone associated with ACC”. portfolio and service offering while also expanding the scope of services of our Commercial and Institutional Sales Units to offer value to large customers. ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 30 These clauses cover the requirement of Holcim OH&S Pyramid the company, adherence to rules and Health & mandatory use of Personal Protective Wellness Equipment (PPEs). A Centre of ExcelIssues lence in Safety, opened during the year, Occupational Management provides a platform to implement safety Rehabilitation Procuremrnt of Changes processes and systems uniformly at all plants with capability building, sharing Audit and Safe Working Inspection Design experiences and best practices. Procedures & Testing Safety System Improvement To further improve our OH&S outreach, Induction Induction Industrial Employee Information Investigation& Hygiene & Communication we have adapted to a systematic and &Training Corrective Action Monitoring & consultation &Reporting structured approach OH & S Pyramid. Roles Hazard Management It comprises of 19 blocks and each Responsibilities Hazardous Work Identification & Planned Legal Commitment Activities Inspections Obligations block addresses a key OH&S aspect. & Accountabilities Risk Assessment & Planning The overall objective of implementing all of the blocks within the OH&S PyraOur OH&S Policy mid is to provide an OH&S ManageWe manage our activities in a responsible manner to avoid causing any ment System that is capable of deliverharm to the health and safety of our employees, contract personnel and ing healthy and safe workplaces. It visitors. differs from any other management system in that the scoring pattern is We apply OH&S standards and guidelines; provide the necessary divided into documentation and impleresources, training and education and measure performance for mentation parts. Any plant implementcontinuous improvement. ing the system has to score in both aspects. Programmes and Initiatives Since safety is a key priority at ACC, we (SOTs) to encourage people with safe engage our stakeholders through behaviors, and to identify unsafe acts various initiatives and training and unsafe conditions associated with programmes to convey safety any activity and suggest appropriate messages. We practice Gate Meetings control measures. Fatality Prevention to engage stakeholders, contractors Elements (FPEs) have been impleand third party workers to address mented through workgroups made up issues or concerns that are recorded of individuals with extensive experience for appropriate actions. We also in operations, to manage high risk conduct Safety Observation Tours areas at our workplaces. Employee Contractor Third Party Employee Employee Lost Employee Lost Critical Incidents Fatalities fatalities Fatalities Lost Time Time Injury Working Days Reported (Nos.) Injury Frequency Rate 0 1 4 13 0.9 532 15 ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 31 Suraksha Laher: Some of the key steps taken towards OH&S in the last year are: This year, we launched Suraksha Laher, our initiative for safety which aims to create PSHBOJ[BUJPO-wide impact. The Through widely communicated initiatives such as “Suraksha Laher”, initiative was implemented to enhance efforts were directed to create an appropriate infrastructure, improve capabilities of line and functional OH&S systems by identifying and addressing deficiencies and by building employees. Symbolic of its name, the OH&S capabilities of line and functional personnel. initiative is being launched in ‘Waves’, each comprising of key themes/risk A Centre of Excellence has been created to implement safety processes areas to be implemented across the and systems uniformly at all plants, for capability building and for sharing PSHBOJ[BUJPO. Wave 1 of Suraksha Laher experiences and best practices. was implemented from September – December 2013. The behaviour-based safety initiative “ACC Chetna”, launched in 2012, continued to form part of the basic behaviour expected as a practice from employees to prevent incidents. Plant-level health and safety checks such as overall plant layout, packing house layout, truck parking yards, inward and outward flow of traffic, storage areas and infrastructure for road and rail transport. Other initiatives are Suraksha Jagriti and Highlighted below are a few other Contractor Safety Management (CSM): Suraksha Sangoshthi. Under Suraksha practices in our safety initiatives: Contractor safety management Jagriti, good practices are shared by standard has been developed for a Safety Awareness Campaign is carried involving the transport supervisor and selection of the contractors. The out for the employees working in the drivers, in activities such as quiz standard outlines the requirements for offices and Plants of ACC to create contests, nukkads, seminars for knowlensuring that adequate processes are awareness regarding OH&S policy, edge enhancement and rewarding them developed and implemented, to control principles and management system. for good work. Suraksha Sangoshthi or minimize the risks associated with initiative deals with sharing facts and contracted activities. Visible Safety Leadership programmes figures on logistics safety, sharing rules are being conducted across business and communications on truck and driver units for senior line managers with safety, meeting of senior management special emphasis given to Top Managewith drivers/transport supervisors, ment. The programme comprises of training of issues and knowledge sharpractical exercises and interactive ing. sessions, and prepares line managers to be a role model to their subordinates by leading safety visibly in the field. Zone ownership: This concept has been implemented in ACC to bring more accountability to line managers. In this concept the plant is divided into the zones and a senior line manager owns the responsibilities of safety in each zone. The owner is responsible for conducting regular inspection, audits, safety observation tours and drawing up action plans for removing hazards from his zone. ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 32 Our occupational health programmes have resulted in optimizing our emergency medical response system, and reduction of health risk factors among employees through our wellness programmes. Our initiative ‘Safe and Healthy Students’ is inculcating safe and healthy behaviour among 8000 students. This programme has been implemented in all ACC schools. Logistics Safety The volume of our logistics operations is well demonstrated by the metrics of daily outbound cement despatches of Effective use of technologies such as RFID (Radio Frequency Identification close to 40,000 MT (over 2,500 trucks Device) to control the number of vehicles moving in our plants at a point per day) coupled with high inbound of time and Global Positioning System (GPS) to track vehicle movement movement of raw materials such as fly against various parameters from ‘Gate Out’ to ‘Gate In’. ash, slag and coal by trucks which increase the risk of vehicle and traffic Addressing critical issues like journey risk mapping and driver fatigue to related accidents. To counter the high control accidents. risk areas in plant layouts that are old and have undergone expansion, we Intensive transporter engagement was undertaken to sensitize them to have changed layouts to facilitate oneimprove the condition of vehicles and quality and skills of manpower way traffic. With safety as our priority, (drivers). A 30 point vehicle inspection checklist has been introduced for we conducted various initiatives under daily inspection of trucks and a defensive driving training drive launched across the plants covering over 6,000 drivers in 2013. the ambit of logistics safety: ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 33 5.3 Geocycle – Alternative Fuels and Raw Materials We have embarked wholeheartedly on industrial, agricultural and municipal tonnes of AFRs, achieving a Thermal a new path of promoting the use of sources as AFRs. The utilization of Substitution Rate (TSR) of 4.36%, well Alternative Fuels and Raw Materials waste as AFR leads to a significant surpassing the target of 4.12%. The (AFR). Through the usage of AFR, we contribution to our commitment focus on AFR initiatives has enabled us aim to utilize wastes as fuel that can towards sustainable development. to reduce conventional fuel consumphelp in conserving scarce conventional During the year 2013, a quantum jump tion in kilns and in Captive Power fuels. Currently we are co-processing has been achieved in the usage of AFR Plants (CPPs) and dryers. different types of waste streams from with the co-processing of over 5 Lakh Co-processing and Usage of AFR An important plank of ACC’s AFR most ‘wastes’ represent an incomplete co-processing is environmentally approach, Co-processing is the act of exploitation of a resource. It is not better technology and also ecologically adapting an existing industrial process merely seen as the substitution of more sustaining for managing waste whereby certain so-called ‘waste’ fuels, recycling and elimination of than any other technologies such as materials may be put to use to serve as waste, but more broadly as a scientific landfill and incineration that are in alternatives resources either as fuel or approach that enables the most practice today. With more focus on as alternative raw material in cement efficient utilization of available this initiative, we lower the risk of kilns, dryers and captive power plants. resources. rising energy costs, improve energy All this is attempted while assuring the security, and reduce the consumption quality of the end product and occupaAfter carrying out 46 co-processing of scarce resources. tional health and safety of employees. trials of different waste materials, since Our approach helps us understand that inception, we have demonstrated that In 2013, 23 new companies were added to our clientele and 32 new streams contributed to our waste portfolio for co-processing in our different plants. Based on the successful demonstration of the suitability of the co-processing technology for waste streams, we have received co-processing clearances for 127 different waste streams generated by the industries from segments such as automobile, chemical, engineering, power, steel, refinery, petrochemical etc. Thus, AFR has significantly improved our operation efficiency and helped reduce total carbon emissions. ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 34 We have been working on ways to maximize existing waste streams, identifying new waste avenues, through better sourcing and securing future markets. The following are some highlights of the initiatives taken by Geocycle, some of which are in association with Holcim and Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ): A formal policy framework to promote the use of alternative fuels and raw materials Each of our cement plants has been mapped for its AFR profile. Installation of machinery and equipment for AFR feeding wherever required. AFR awareness programmes are conducted in all our plants. Identification of wastes generated by other industries across the country to examine the feasibility for co-processing these wastes in our kilns, dryers and captive power plants. Testing of hazardous waste samples to assess the scope of their usage as AFR. Effective lobbying and dissemination of information through articles, seminars and lectures to encourage greater acceptance of co processing as a preferred form of waste disposal as compared to landfill and incineration. Our Geocycle team is working closely with Government, Central and State Pollution Control Boards to help popularize co-processing of waste in cement kilns. ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 35 ENERGY PLANTATION DRIVE: SUSTAINABLE LIVELIHOOD INITIATIVE FOR LOCAL FARMERS Team Geocycle has initiated energy plantation (under project Sustainable Livelihood Initiatives) in the local villages near its cement plants with the support of plant Horticulture and CSR department. This project aims to utilize unused or barren lands of local farmers for planting biomass (energy) yielding plants. The local farmers benefit greatly from this exercise since they can meet their household requirement of firewood through this activity and reduce dependence on local forest. Thus, farmers will be To increase the AFR utilization substancontributing towards conservation of forest. Also they can provide any tially we have initiated implementation additional biomass from these plants to ACC cement plants at market rates thus of pre-processing platforms in three of supplement their income. our Plants viz. Kymore, Wadi and MadBiomass is a carbon neutral material and helps in mitigating CO2 by saving ukkarai. At these platforms, we shall be 1.34T of CO2 per tonne of biomass and helps in reduction of coal usage. preparing uniform quality AFR material Research studies have suggested that biomass utilization in kiln can lead to from various kinds of wastes that have reduction of NOX and SOX emissions. different types of chemical, physical and packaging characteristics through The Geocycle representatives hold farmer meetings in villages to know barren physical processes. Two of these facililand availability and also raise awareness about sustainable livelihood initiative ties will be ready and operating shortly. and its benefits. In these meetings the farmers interested in community plantation on their barren/unutilized land for sustainable income are enlisted. Today, the utilization of Alternative Fuels Geocycle extends guidance and technical support to the interested farmers and Raw Materials (AFR) in the cement through regular interactions and recommends various energy plant species like manufacturing process is on a progresSissoo, Acacia, Cassia, Subabul etc. sive curve and is helping us mitigate rising costs of traditional fuels and raw One of our cement plants where this project was pioneered and has seen huge materials. Through co-processing we success is Kymore. More than 1000 Subabul saplings have been planted in are not only contributing to our sustainthree villages around Kymore namely Amrahia, Ametha & Bhatura. Subabul was ability journey, but also helping other chosen since it is a fast growing plant with high yields. Also the same plants can industries achieve their sustainability be harvested for biomass after every three years. targets by managing their waste in an eco-friendly manner. During the course of project implementation, utmost care is taken to ensure that energy plantations are carried out only on barren land. Also, farmers are made aware of appropriate measures to control any invasive growth of these plants. These measures include regular trimming of lateral branches with fresh foliage, thereby reducing seed load substantially, and killing of newly germinated delicate seedlings within seven days of their germination by rubbing them at ground level using a wooden stick / rod. In case these measures could not be followed timely, foliar spraying of Glyphosate @ 4ml / litre of water mix with 2-3 gm urea is recommended to control any invasive growth at a very economic cost. This project is an environment friendly initiative to provide sustainable livelihood to farmers. It will also help in improving the green cover of the surroundACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 36 5.4 Sustainable Supply Chain The supply chain process of a manuensure to assess contract suppliers a dialogue with them and adopt facturing company constitutes a major whose practices comply with the critemechanisms to help improve our part of its operating cost. Our supply ria of SA8000 and ISO 14000 suppliers’ standards. In cases of chain operations involve many key standards. We have clauses pertaining persistent non-compliance or obvious internal and external stakeholders who to Corporate Social Responsibility violation, we decide to terminate are associated with the operations of (CSR) and Occupational Health and relationships. We encourage our our company. Procurement and Safety (OH&S) which are included in suppliers to take up “Selfsupply operations involve a large the Purchase Orders/ Agreements. Assessment” based on a checklist group of organisations with multiClose to 90% of our suppliers are integrating SA8000, environmental disciplined personnel. It is thus imporscreened through such clauses by way management and legal compliance tant to ensure efficiency and transparof self-assessment. In cases where requirements. About 400 new suppliency in our operations. Our corporate suppliers are not able to meet these ers have been screened through this and plant procurement department minimum requirements, we engage in process. Asian Manufacturing and Supply Chain Award for Excellence in Material Handling Our operations are well connected with the Manufacturing Units and Sales Units spread across the country. We have local procurement teams to take care of everyday purchases. Our Central Procurement Organisation (CPO) located at the Head Office engages in high value purchase of commodities such as Coal, Raw Materials (Gypsum, Iron Ore and Bauxite etc.), Capex Items, Steel and various other essential services. All requirements for above categories from individual units are directed to the CPO and purchases are carried out centrally. Nos. engaged Amount spent(INR Crores) Total no. of suppliers 9355 8675.57 Indian suppliers (Local) 9267 8081.93 International suppliers 88 594.18 ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 37 Contractual Agreement of ComSBUF Social Responsibility. We have parency and accountability should be pliance started the implementation of Sustainstrictly adhered to in all procurement able Procurement through the activities. This has listed nine All our Purchase Orders or the AgreeSupplier Code of Conduct which is standards that Suppliers are expected ments that we enter into, incorporate meant to provide clear summary of to adhere to, in addition to complying different clauses related to Safety, ACC’s expectation from the suppliers with local and national laws and reguEnvironment Management and $PSQPin all procurement contracts. Translations. Occupational Health and Safety Typical steps involved in supplier selection are as follows: (OH & S) Working Conditions Freedom of Association and Non-retaliation Forced Labour Child Labour Non-Discrimination Environmental Regulatory Compliance Management of Environmental Impacts Bribery and Corruption Respecting Human Rights Environmental principles in Procurement At ACC, we are highly conscious of respecting human rights. We have Contractual agreement of Compliance: ensured all measures towards the same All agreements with suppliers, such as across our operations and supply purchase orders, purchase agreechain. Respecting the rights of women, ments, service agreements and frame preventing child labour or any other agreements have to refer to the forms of forced labour and nonsupplier’s compliance with SA8000, discrimination are among the areas of environmental management and legal focus for us. We have put in place compliance requirements. With its systems and measures for ensuring signature or order confirmation, the that the labour engaged by our contracsupplier accepts and agrees to adhere tors is governed by the Contract Labour to these requirements. In the reporting (R&A) Act and mechanisms to report period, more than 5% of our new any grievance of human rights violasuppliers have been screened using tion. During the last year, no cases of environmental criteria. human rights violation (viz. incidences of child labour, forced or compulsory labour, overtime without pay etc.) were recorded in our operations. ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 38 5.5 Sustainable Construction & Responsible Products As a leading manufacturer of building superior road building material as able Construction in India at IIT materials, we are concerned with the compared to bitumen as it is more Bombay in April 2013. Leading sustainability of our products. We environment-friendly in nature and is construction professionals and continue to demonstrate this concern cost-effective on useful life cycle cost planners from around the world in several ways. The foremost in this basis. We continued to partner with participated in the Forum to debate respect is the promotion of state governments and industry the subject of the economy of sustainenvironment-friendly blended bodies to advocate the use of concrete able construction. We also helped cements products that utilize indusroads in terms of the significant arrange mobile workshops for the trial waste by-products namely, fly sustainable benefits to the economy. delegates to visit some examples of ash and slag which helps conserve sustainable construction projects in limestone resources. The role of We are inspired by the Holcim Founthe city. During the year we also blended cements in cutting CO2 emisdation for Sustainable Construction promoted the 4th International Holcim sions is well explained elsewhere in and actively support the cause in Awards widely among students and this report. India. We assisted the Foundation in professionals of various disciplines organizing the prestigious 4th Interrelated to construction. It is a proven fact that concrete makes national Holcim Forum for SustainGreen Buildings Green Building Materials In October 2013, La Residency, ACC’s green building in Thane formally With an aim to educate the Indian rural received Platinum Certification from the Indian Green Building Council. La population in construction techniques Residency is a state-of-the-art residential facility for delegates of the ACC and create business opportunities for Academy, a modern learning centre in Thane. This building is an existing them, we set up ‘Green Building residential structure constructed in the year 1965 for ACC employees. Centers’ in the states of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and The company’s headquarters building, Cement House, which is LEED Gold Rajasthan in 2013. These centers certified and holds 5Star Energy efficiency status awarded by the Bureau of provide simple and complete solutions Energy Efficiency Government of India, re-emphasized its energy efficiency for affordable and integrated construcby registering a reduction of 8 per cent in overall energy consumed during tion solutions. They facilitate strong 2013 thus recording the lowest level of energy consumption in the past six partnerships within the local commuyears. nity, help in the creation of sustainable business models and opportunities to network with local entrepreneurs and government. ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 39 ACC’s Green Building Centers familiarize customers with rural construction techniques and function as one-stop shops with: • Locally produced, easy to use, reasonably priced construction products like bricks, tiles, pavers, roofing and similar items • Knowledge and training on how to produce and apply these products in the rural context • Well-equipped quality laboratory to monitor product quality • Industrial machines which enable end-users to manufacture locally and thus save costs • Display and explain application of rural construction elements ranging from fly ash bricks to roofing and housing solutions. We plan to set up ten more such centers in 2014 to reach out to a larger customer base. Responsible Products Being one of the largest cement manufacturers in India, it is our responsibility to set a benchmark for the quality of products served to the society. Our major areas of focus in responsible product design are raw materials, fuel and innovative product development. ACC Gold Responsible and Sustainable Known for innovative research and product development, we have always delivered a unique blend of products and services to our valued customers. Among various products launched in 2013, ACC Gold is the only one of its kind. It is a specially formulated fly-ash based blended cement variety with higher strength, increased durability and water repellent properties. At many places in India, heavy rainfall leads to water seepage into the construction material, which initiates the deterioration of the structure. Additionally, the shallow water table in northern India results in water seeping through the foundation and walls. Concrete made from “ACC Gold” is denser and thereby the concrete structures have lesser permeability compared to structures made with ordinary cement. This reduces the possibility of water seepage and chloride and sulphate attacks and makes the structures including homes more durable while creating a healthy indoor climate due to dry walls. ACC Gold also helps save the cost and problems associated with using water proofing chemicals in construction. ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 40 While bringing more efficient, effective cement specifications exceed those set manufacture, weight, lot number, week and innovative products, we strive to by BIS by a wide margin. Today, all of manufacture and MRP (Maximum achieve greater resource efficiency ACC cement plants have the ISO 9001 Retail Price) under the prescribed rules through conservation of natural Quality Systems certification. This laid down by Standard of Weights and resources. Another key driver in proddemonstrates our tradition of providMeasures Act. It is ensured to provide uct development is to cut down on the ing reliable and consistent quality complete information about the prodclinker factor, which results in CO2 through the application of modern uct quality and services (e.g. sharing of emission reduction. Our blended technology, and justifies the prefertest certificates) on a regular basis. cements are a testimony to such ences of a nationwide customer base. efforts. To achieve the above goals in On our product base, no incidents of We conform to the guidelines of Adverproduct design, we have regular internon– compliance were observed. We tising Standards Council of India, a nal initiatives for monitoring the prodcurrently manufacture PSC, PPC and self-regulatory voluntary organization uct quality and innovation in embedOPC cements as per the specification of the advertising industry. We ensure ding the triple bottom line. of Bureau of Indian Standard (BIS) and that only tested and proven product as per norms; cement bags display capabilities are claimed in our commuAs a result of this focus on quality, ACC information about the grade, year of nication. There have been no incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of our products and services. During the reporting period, there were no fines imposed on us for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services and no complaints were received regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Product Packaging The packaging material used for our to transport them. We have increased various products is tamper-proof and the co-processing of waste plastic in reusable. The cement bags are made kilns and whenever shredded, it is from Polypropylene, paper or a mix of used as an alternative fuel. Pilot both depending on the product that programmes have been initiated to they pack. We are conscious of the use research and innovate on taking the of effective packing material that plastic bags further upwards to be would be of no harm to employees used as in input material in the producwho carry the bags on their shoulders tion chain. There have been no incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning our product and service information and labeling. ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 41 Cement Product Development In recent years, we have launched special high performance premium brands like F2R, Concrete Plus, Coastal Plus, ACC Plus+ and ACC Gold for specific Market segments/Market climatic conditions for improved performance and durability of products. ACC F2R ACC Plus+ ACC Concrete+ ACC Coastal+ ACC Gold Premium PSC Premium PPC Premium PPC Premium PSC Premium PPC Cement Cement Cement Cement Cement Concrete Value Added Products Through years of technical research, we are now become trend setters in manufacturing value added products. This takes us a step closer to sustainable construction. Here are few of our highlighted products: ACC Supercrete uses concrete grade of M100 which is high performance concrete for high rises. ACC Speedcrete is a quick road solution available in two variants UTWT 24 and UTWT 12. UTWT 24 is used to build roads which can be thrown open to traffic within 24 hours and UTWT 12 is used for road repair works wherein roads can be opened to traffic within 12 hrs. ACC-Jet-setcrete is designed to gain high-strength within three days, this variety of concrete has self-levelling features. It is suitable for use in projects which need to be completed within a short span of time. The product can be engineered to gain desired strength at required age. ACC Lightcrete is a special concrete which is lighter than water and can be used for roof screeding and filling of sunken slabs, thus reducing dead load of structures. ACC Fibrecrete contains fibrous material which increases its structural integrity, mainly tensile strength when compared to normal concrete, and also prevents shrinkage cracks. ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 42 ACC Flowcrete is self-compacting concrete which is used in structures wherein congested reinforcement is required. This reduces manpower costs and compaction is not required. ACC Permecrete is environment friendly concrete which is permeable and hence permits seepage of water through itself, thus improving the ground water table and avoiding waterlogging. ACC Finescrete is ready-mix mortar which is delivered in a transit mixer at sites for application in brick masonry, wall finishing and laying tiles. ACC Permecrete ACC Imprintcrete is a unique variety which is stamped for making surfaces decorative. It can be designed on walls, slabs, landscapes and parking areas using concrete grades from M20 to M40 compressive strength. The final appearance resembles natural materials like paverblocks, stone and wood. ACC Thermalcrete is designed to provide thermal comfort in buildings. A layer of Thermalcrete is usually applied over the top layer of the roof slab to prevent external heat or cold from penetrating into the building. It reduces energy consumption required to keep rooms at comfortable temperature. ACC Ecocrete is environment-friendly, high performance, durable ACC Imprintcrete concrete designed to build sustainable structures and protect the environment. We have earned the distinction of and more durable as compared to Thus, through various approaches being the largest producer of blended ordinary Portland cement. explained above, through innovative cements in the industry and the fuel choices and product design, we biggest user of industrial wastes. We aspire to be environmentally have created a mark in the industry Blended cements are not just environresponsible and more profitable, and have carved a path for sustainable ment friendly but also have certain creating more value while lowering our growth. As we progress ahead in our properties which render them superior environmental impact. We believe that journey towards Sustainability, we sustainability also involves how our want to take with us our stakeholders end users create a positive impact in who play a very crucial role in our their construction practices. ACC growth and progress. Together with promotes the cause of sustainable our stakeholders, we endeavour to construction in India through produccreate a sustainable eco system in tion of blended concrete, promotion of which every entity associated with us green buildings, advocacy on the will see progress and growth. The benefit of concrete roads and the following sections will highlight our dissemination of good construction major stakeholders, their importance practices. to us and their role in our success. ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 Employee Wellbeing Our workforce is the strongest pillar of our business and we make all efforts to ensure fair labour practices. Each member of our workforce is well equipped with the knowledge to ensure no injustice is enforced on them. 44 6.Employee Wellbeing T he success of any organization depends upon engagement and motivation levels of their employees. They are the ones who create the organizaBest Talent Management tion’s growth story and drive business Strategy 2013 results. Thus, in the Human Resource function, our emphasis is to give autonBy ET Now Talent & HR Leadership omy to people at different levels and create a sense of ownership so that employees can discover their potential. 6.1 Employee Profile Employees are the key drivers in taking our ideas to implementation. They are At the corporate level, our human competent and effective work force is our greatest strength and through them resource function is headed by the to build and nurture talent within the we have manifested excellence in President Human Resources (HR) PSHBOJ[BUJPO. To the greatest extent various aspects. Our operations are who oversees the two broad functions possible, we train and develop committed to the pursuit of achieving of 0SHBOJ[BUJPOBM Learning & Developemploy-ees in the PSHBOJ[BUJPO to take the highest levels of operating performent and 0SHBOJ[BUJPOBM up more competent roles and mance and cost competitiveness. Our Management. The role played by responsibilities as per requirements management functionality takes a corporate-level HR is strategic, rather than under-take lateral hiring. holistic approach and takes into penetrating to units in all plants With a total work-force of 9588 account every aspect of employee through intermediate regional HR determined people, our employee development and growth. functions. Our mantra to foster a profile is as below: Management Shop Floor Contract Women % of employees Staff Associates Employees Employees in associations 4896 4692 3654 393 53% 6.2 Employee Engagement Employee feedback through various and senior management of the organisurveys that were conducted show zation. that our employees experience a great sense of engagement. This has been To maintain proactive industrial achieved through various on-the-job relations, a great deal of time is spent engagement initiatives. Employee in engaging Unions and sharing Satisfaction Surveys seek feedback on relevant information with them to internal communication, integrity and enable them to participate in the ethical behaviour of peers, superiors growth journey. ACC MasterMind is a pan-ACC level quiz competition for all our employees and their families. This is a platform for the old, young, and children to showcase their knowledge and talent. Organized by renownedprofessional quiz masters, MasterMind was conducted across ACC during 2013. MasterMind served as a great platform for interaction and saw enthusiastic participation from our employees. ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 45 A continuously monitored Recognition and Reward model has been created. Engagement at Plants Throughout an employee’s life-cycle we encourage various training programmes We regularly organize engagement programmes for for skill development and continuous learning. Programmes for our employees our employees and their families during major include Time Management, Communication Skills, Root Cause Analysis and Probfestivals such as Diwali and Holi and special days such as International Women’s Day, aiming at lem solving. fostering better relationships and an ever-lasting bond. All the festivals are celebrated with great zeal We have formulated training calendars that provide specific training to each of and enthusiasm at all the plants and sales units with distribution of gifts, decorating the premises and our employees categorized in the aforementioned sections. Our efforts are to involvement of all workers and channel partners. empower them beyond the scope of their duties and to also inculcate innovative We have special clubs for the spouses of our working ideologies. employees where the ladies meet often celebrating and enjoying during their free time. We also understand that sports and recreation helps people rejuvenate and work better. To that end, sporting Training ( Hours per employee per year) events like kabbadi, cricket etc. are organized which see participation from all levels and age groups of employees. SUSTAINABILITY (HRS) 2 5 NON-TECHNICAL SKILLS(HRS) 20 17 6.3 Collective Bargaining MANAGEMENT(HRS) 20 17 HEALTH AND SAFETY(HRS) 10 6 Approximately 53% of our permanent TECHNICAL SKILLS(HRS) employees are members of recognised 17 64 employee associations. Our Group Collective Bargaining (GCB) structure is Male Female responsible for providing strategic direction to all our units on the manageTrainings for RMX ment of Shop Floor Associates (SFAs) Average hours of Technical skills Health and Management Non-Technical who are non-management staff. Under training per year per Skills safety Skills the GCB, agreements are made with employee (Hrs.) every union and renewed with their Male 20604 640 2208 3288 consent every 4 years. In case of any Female 224 288 88 32 grievances or issues, plant unions are invited for a negotiation centrally where issues are resolved. A plan has been put in place for upgrading the skills of SFAs through training and engaging them in a variety of improvement programmes to enable them to align As per Section 9A of the Industrial with business and perform better. Disputes Act, 1947, 21 days’ notice period is required to effect an operational change. However, if there is a 6.5 Enhancing Communication settlement between the Company and the Trade Union, then there is no We have an employee helpline, called requirement of notice period for change. iCare equipped with a 24x7 telephone no. and an email ID. Employees are 6.4 Building a Workforce encouraged to raise any issue of their concern on this helpline. Through this At ACC, we believe in building and internal portal for grievance redressal, generating capacity within our issues are escalated by the help desk PSHBOJ[BUJPO With a view to motivating until they get resolved. and retaining talent and providing growth opportunities for them in their respec-tive work areas, identified talent has been given new challenges through engagement, mobility and special projects. ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 46 We conduct management forums 6.6 Employee Benefits called Disha in every cluster at regular time intervals which is a direct chanAll our employees receive regular Our Retirement Benefit Scheme for nel of communication between the career development reviews for growth. employees includes the Company’s regional Chief Executive (CE)'s office They are provided benefits of health Officers’ Superannuation Fund, Proviand every employee, in each area care cover, disability and invalidity dent Fund, Employee State Insurance attending these workshops. Employees coverage, retirement provisions and and Labour Welfare Fund, Gratuity, get the platform to share their parental leave. In the reporting period, additional gratuity, Post Employment feedbacks/concerns directly face-to342 employees were entitled to parental Medical benefits, Silver jubilee and long face with CE & other Executive Comleave, seven of whom availed the same; service awards. Pension plans and mittee members. six of them returned to work and other applicable benefit obligations are remained employed for rest of the year determined in accordance with There are feedback sessions conducted after resuming work. independent actuarial valuation. in every workshop which include open ended questions addressing ethical and integrity issues. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSE ‘Accelerate’ is our internal communica2013 (INR Crore) tions portal designed to provide answers to questions which arise in the Salaries and Wages 573.28 course of our day-to-day work. The Contributions to Provident 53.30 intention of this portal is not only to give and other Funds the employees a window into the inner Staff Welfare Expenses 36.38 thoughts and procedures of the PSHBOJ[BUJPO but also for them to Total 662.96 express their views and ideas on processes, quality management and new initiatives that they think we should be partnering. Employees share their thoughts to help us work together to internalize and demonstrate our core values of Strength, Performance and Passion. ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 We aim to work inclusively with all our stakeholder groups in our journey towards PSHBOJ[BUJPOBM excellence to achieve the pinnacle of sustainability. In the preceding section, we elaborated on our employee profile and engagement channels with our workforce, who form our internal stakeholders. In this section, we detail out our external stakeholders and how we engage with them. 48 7.1 Customers Channel Partners Dealers and Retailers Our approach towards development of Satisfaction measurement and seeking our offerings targets excellence in the feedback are regular activities We sell approximately 80% of our total aspects of Consistent Quality, Innovaconducted with both consumer cement through channel partners. tive Products and Customer Delight. segments as well as the channels. Both Thus, they play a pivotal role in the We believe that a satisfied customer is formal and informal methods are used secondary selling of cement to the one of the most important elements to measure their levels of satisfaction. end-consumers. Besides, they also contributing to the success of the orgaBrand health studies are conducted play an important role in building and nization. Thus, we strive to engage with with individual customers to measure maintaining our brand image in the our customers in a comprehensive Brand Equity. To gauge the satisfaction market place. Engagement with chanmanner. levels of dealers we use the Net nel partners happens at different levels Promoter Score methodology. We have at regular intervals. We cater to two broad consumer in place a computerized Customer segments of Individual Home Builders Complaint System (CCS) which and the Institutional segment addresses customer complaints on (comprising corporate, small & large product quality. builders, government, small & large contractors). The first segment is These calls are managed by Local ACC Sales catered to, exclusively through our officer to align commercial goals of organizachannel of dealers and retailers. The tion with the individual channel partner in second segment of institutional buyers Sales Calls terms of sales and price premiums. The is serviced directly by us. engagements are done on one-to-one basis. The meets are managed at a higher level to give a direction to a group of channel partners on commercial parameters. The engagements Dealer Meets are done on one-to-many basis. Regular activities like Festival meets, Picnics and Trips are organized with channel partners. The purpose of these events is to Relationship engage with the Channel and their families to create and nurture long-lasting relationships Building Activities with them. These engagements are done on many-to-many basis with constant participation of ACC families as well. The key topics and concern areas that emerge from these engagements are related to product, packaging, local brand building activities and timely deliveries. To address these concerns, adequate steps are taken to ensure complete customer satisfaction. We also benchmark our services at a local level against the best players in respective areas. A nation-wide initiative has been launched to improve OET (Order ExecutionTime) so that the delivery process is tightened and closely monitored while other bottlenecks can also be identified. ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 49 Individual Home Builders Institutional Consumers and Contractors The segment of institutional consumIndividual Home Builders are the largest Individual home builders have no prior ers, although smaller, is growing at a consumer segment in the country. This experience with the construction faster rate. With continuous urbanizabeing the more profitable segment business and therefore have concerns tion, we believe this segment would be compared to the Institutional segment, related to performance parameters of a more significant one in the future. we enjoy an iconic brand status and the cement, the process of good With our experience of over 75 years in better price premium within the cement construction etc. the cement and concrete manufacturcategory. Thus, this sector is of special ing industry, we aim to be a complete importance to us and we engage with To help our consumers with their home solution provider to this segment. our consumers regularly in following building, we educate them about good formats: construction practices through our We engage with institutional consumcustomer service engineers, through ers regularly on one-to-one basis our website www.acchelp.in and literathrough sales calls. Principles of KAM ture. We also elaborate to them on the (Key Account Management) i.e. engagcement performance parameters and ing with consumers across different how we fare. functions, levels of procurement, project, quality and finance are deployed selectively. The key concerns that have emerged ACC Customer services engineer visits the are related to timely supply of the consumer building sites and informs them product and consistency in quality for about benefits of using ACC products and Direct Consumer Calls the entire project. To deal with these services. These are one-to-one meets. issues, we partner with the concerned departments in their PSHBOJ[BUJPOT to ensure proper inventory planning so We invite consumers at specific localities in a that adequate stocks are maintained. meeting to make them aware about ACC Our national footprint has also helped products and impart knowledge about good Consumer Meets us in this regard. construction practices. We QBSUJDJQBUF in local exhibitions pertaining to home building and construction materials based on Exhibitions opportunities in the market. ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 50 7.2 Investors Shareholders have access to directly The main concerns which emerge from interact with the Board of Directors and these discussions are usually related to We believe that our investors’ trust and Management at the Annual General the long duration required for receiving support has helped us build a strong Meetings to give their valuable suggespermits and the need for generic legacy. Our operations are committed tions and comments on the working of permits. Regular visits are carried out to the pursuit of achieving high levels of the PSHBOJ[BUJPO and to seek informaby management executives to address performance and cost competitiveness, tion on various topics like CAPEX, these concerns. Presentations are consolidating and building for growth, CSR, Dividend Policy etc. made before regulators to make them enhancing productive assets and aware of issues such as the concept of nurturing our overall corporate reputaco-processing and the benefits assocition. We are committed to creating 7.3 Government Bodies ated with co-processing of waste over value for our stakeholders such that our and Regulatory Authorities traditional waste management options corporate actions positively impact the and other issues concerning environsocio-economic and environmental Government, Regulators and other ment management. dimensions of the society for sustainlocal authorities at specified locations able growth and development. are also our important stakeholders as 7.4 Influencers Engineers, they influence policy decisions and We carry out an annual satisfaction rules. The government’s focus on Contractors, Masons survey on the final and interim dividend building infrastructure is likely to payouts, shareholding, and other increase in the near future and the Influencers are the key to the Individual issues related to investments for our Indian cement industry is expected to Home Builder segment as the individual shareholders. Investors’ opinions are sustain an even higher growth rate over home builder usually has limited expealso welcome via e-mails and telephone the coming years. rience in construction and depends to a and during Annual General Meetings large extent on the advice of these influ(AGM). All communication from sharePolicy measures are adopted by the encers for brand selection, usage and holders are responded to in a timeIndian government to support and aid other matters related to building. bound manner. Any grievances or comthe growth of the Indian cement indusplaints are given special focus and try. Apart from this, the regulators and We engage with this segment through redressed within the framework of our Pollution Control Boards provide meets and seminars, such as Mason company's policy. permits for various operations, setting meets, Contractor meets and Engineer up of plants, co-processing of wastes meets. These meets give us the opporin cement kilns, mining and emissions tunity to disseminate technical informaactivities. Our association with regulation about our products, correct practory organizations helps us put forward tices during construction and the latest our business ideals and establish an advances in the field of construction. operating framework fully adhering to Also, online forums like Concrete Club legal standards. have been created for engineers and contractors to come together and The general approach we use in discuss the best construction pracengagement with these authorities is by tices. Local Engineering Chapters and way of regular visits, applications, technical seminars are supported letters, telephonic conversations, through our diverse sponsorship participation in different forums orgaprogrammes. nized by regulatory authorities and presentations by management teams. While we may not have specific norms for the frequency of engagement we have always attempted to set benchmarks in terms of these activities compared to other cement players. ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 51 7.5 Community Vendors meet our requirements as per The common mode of engagement specifications and supply the required with waste generators consists of Local communities around the plant are materials within the stipulated time. regular visits, emails, telephonic important stakeholders. We have conversations, participation in various adopted a participatory approach. The We treat our vendors as business assoforums, release of case studies and Community Development Plan (CDP), a ciates. Adequate care is taken to ensure articles in reputed publications. Such road map for development, is created transparency in procurement engagement is continuous. for the processes. Our procurement policy has community, by the community itself. a clearly defined code of practice for The key concerns identified are related This development plan is executed procurement conduct and encourages to longer time cycles involved in through communities and partnership fair and open competition in markets. services extended to these stakeholdwith local Non-Government Organizaers, due to the long permit process and We engage with our suppliers to build lack of understanding among waste Community Advisory Panels (CAPs) synergy and long term relationships. generators on how co-processing is a have been formed where local people To ensure that our suppliers undermore appropriate solution for promotdiscuss and design the CDP. The CAP is stand and comply with our requireing sustainable waste management. an informal team made up of relevant ments, we conduct trainings for them local stakeholders and opinion leaders on aspects of ethics, anti-corruption To address these issues, we try to such as panchayat representatives, and anti-bribery. These sessions, each provide support to waste generators in villagers, and district officials. CAP has of which cover about 50 suppliers, are our liaison with regulatory authorities. proved to be effective in all aspects of conducted for all new suppliers across Regular interactions are carried out for executing a successful community all our areas of operation at regional promoting the understanding of development plan. level. In the last year we conducted 1 co-processing apart from participation such training session. in various forums, collaboration with Village Development committees industrial bodies such as CII for (VDCs) are constituted in several Regular interaction with vendors takes discussions and developments on the villages around many plant locations place through phone, video conferconcept. which have been useful in designing and ences, e-mail or in person as and when execution of village specific intervenrequired. Concerns regarding the tions. quality, quantity and payments are duly resolved by concerned functional Our role is that of a catalyst for social personnel. change, providing management and knowledge inputs and partial financial support. 7.7 Other Key Stakeholders 7.6 Suppliers and Vendors Besides the above stakeholders, there are others who form an important part We have a vendor base of more than of our community and are indispens9000 suppliers spread across the counable to the robust operation and functry including reputed manufacturers tioning of the company. and trusted brand names, usually the leading vendors of their particular Waste Generators industry segment who are technically and financially sound and have the Waste generators are partners in intrinsic capacity to supply material of promoting the concept of sustainable desired quality in a timely manner. For development championed by us, our vendor base, we prefer vendors requiring co-processing solutions for who demonstrate good corporate disposing their wastes in an environcitizenship and promote sustainable mentally sound manner. development. ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 52 Academic Institutions Consultancies Media There are many institutes with whom We partner with various consultants Our involvement with media and other we partner to hire the right talent for and consulting agencies which help in such agencies is instrumental in buildmeeting our capacity requirements. We providing an outside perspective on our ing our brand image in public percepleverage the expertise of educational different excellence initiatives and tion. Top management interviews, institutes such as SP Jain Institute of benchmark our performance against release of case studies and articles in Management Studies, Indian Institute other companies. This has helped us reputed publications, presentations in of Management Ahmedabad, Indian restructure our People Excellence forums, seminars etc. are common Institute of Management Indore and programmes like Talent management, engagement methods we use at regular Indian School of Business, Hyderabad capability building and on-boarding intervals. News articles are also circufor training and developing the potenprocess. The mode of engagement is lated regularly through corporate comtial of employees within the organizacontinuous, as and when required. munications. We also find that the tion. The purpose of such engagement Media serves as an effective channel of is to inculcate high standards of quality communication to ensure greater in our people, infuse the right talent promotion of environment friendly within the company and make existing measures like co processing. employees future ready. Hiring from campuses and other training Having identified areas key to our programmes continue through the growth and the stakeholders who will year. help us reach the goal of creating a positive triple bottom line impact, we will now elaborate on our environmental and social performance in the next sections. ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 Being Environment Friendly We are among the first companies in India to include environment conservation as a corporate objective. Our strong focus on sustainable development includes conservation of natural resources integrated into all activities of the business from ‘quarry to lorry’. We pursue exacting standards in energy efficiency, clean mining techniques, emission controls and environment management. Each of our cement plants is an example in its own, with unique success stories of environmental upkeep. 54 We have put into implementation, ties. ‘Each One, Plant One’ is a message that inspires our employees. tion. various measures to reduce our environmental impact. We ensure Afforestation programmes in mines During the reporting period, no strict adherences to regulatory have helped transform the barren and significant fines or non-monetary standards. Apart from regulatory dry ambience into lush greenery. sanctions for non-compliance with compliance, each of our cement environmental laws and regulations plants has its successful programmes We continuously seek better ways to were imposed on us. There were miniof tree plantation, greening activities, manage our water resources mal environmental impacts during horticulture, flower and fruit cultivaefficiently. At our mines, we use transporting products and other tion and water conservation. Tree mined out pits as reservoirs by goods and materials for our operaplantation and green belt development collecting rainwater from catchment tions, and transporting members of programmes have been extended to areas around mines. Some of our the workforce. Also, no water sources cover areas in the vicinity of our plants plants have become near self-reliant were significantly affected by our for the benefit of the local communiin respect of their water requirements water withdrawal processes and no for industrial and domestic consumpspills were recorded. 8.1 Material Our management approach towards material consumption is very active. At ACC, we follow a detailed long term planned strategy to measure and monitor our resource utilisation and then to eventually achieve a target reduction through implementation based on the benchmarks that we set ourselves. Measure Benchmark Monitor Our Approach to Resource Efficiency Evaluate Set Target Implement ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 55 Raw Material Consumption Making efforts to specially foster our research and development, we are continually encouraging the manufacture of ecoefficient Blended Cements which do not consume as much raw materials and natural resources as normal Ordinary Portland Cement. Each of our plants has a fully equipped laboratory with the latest testing machines to carry out routine and detailed tests of raw materials as well as finished products. This has resulted in reduction in the clinker factor and has contributed to our raw material conservation, energy efficiency and CO2 reduction initiatives detailed further in the following pages. RAW MATERIAL (MILLION TONNE) 2013 2012 2011 LIMESTONE 22.13 22.07 22.69 GYPSUM 1.16 1.18 1.14 ALTERNATIVE RAW MATERIALS 0.14 0.24 0.18 SLAG 2.79 2.44 2.68 FLYASH 4.38 4.35 3.98 ADDITIVES 0.016 0.017 0.018 OTHERS (BAUXITE, IRON ORE ETC.) 1.56 1.50 1.51 RAW MATERIAL (TONNE) 2013 2012 2011 LUBRICATING OIL 488 813 890 GREASE 176 226 211 WEIGHT OF BAGS CONSUMED 30292 31969 29523 % OF RECYCLED MATERIAL USED 22.72 22.09 21.23 Material Use – RMX In the reporting period, our RMX volume stood at 1,800,000 cubic meters. The utility of RMX is more significant for quality constructions in crowded cities and sensitive localities. Ready Mix Concrete proves to be more cost effective in the longer term while ensuring that structures are built faster and are more durable. The material usage for the Ready Mix Concrete plants during the year was as follows: Material Amount Consumed Units Usage of Recycled Materials Slag 21,924 Tonne We make efforts to use recycled Cement Volume Consumed 445,201 Tonne materials as inputs for our processes, Fly ash 99,998 Tonne wherever possible and viable. Additives 4,983 Tonne Lubricating Oil 11.99 Tonne Grease 6.66 Tonne Resource Efficiency At ACC, we make continuous improvements to our existing processes and systems in order to progress towards greater efficiency in manufacturing. As detailed in the previous sections, our Manufacturing Excellence targets among other aspects to achieve greater efficiency in our production processes. ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 56 Of all aspects, resource efficiency assumes the highest importance. Apart from helping achieve greater quality output with lesser investments, resource efficiency also helps to conserve scarce natural resources. Listed below are some methods that we employ for optimal utilisation of resources: Clinker Factor Improvement The main driver for reducing CO2 emissions in cement production continues to be the improvement in clinker factor, by substituting clinker in cement with appropriate secondary materials. In recent years, our product portfolio has undergone a successful switch to low-CO2 cements and now we have one of the lowest clinker factors in the industry. Some of the initiatives that we have undertaken to further reduce the clinker factor are: Formation of clinker factor team at individual plants Ensuring that the right quality and quantity of the raw material is used in production (Clinker, Slag/fly ash, Gypsum, Additives, Enhancers) Production of good quality clinker results in higher absorption of fly ash/slag thus reducing the overall clinker factor Process and equipment management Dozing rate of additive/enhancers use of Rota scales and other equipment for precise feeding Adopting best operation practices (Mill inspection after defined frequency, Cement Fineness, Air-flow inside mill/Velocity, Condition of separator) Benchmarking (Comparison of key parameters across plants): Clinker % and Aspiration on key KPI’s for individual plants based on benchmarking Training and sharing best practices and ideas implemented across ACC plants 8.2 Energy We are dedicated to the continual more sustainable manufacturing improvement of our environmental industry. Currently we are co-processperformance. Cement manufacturing ing different types of waste streams is a resource and energy intensive from industrial, agricultural and process which requires sustainable municipal sources as AFRs and are solutions. Eco-efficiency is therefore also actively engaged in co-processat the heart of our business. By reducing segregated non-recyclable plastic ing the resources used in production waste from Municipal Solid Waste and and minimizing waste, we aim to be at thereby assisting society in providing the forefront of the drive towards a cleaner environment. ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 57 Energy ConsumpƟon Unit 2013 2012 2011 Coal + Pet Coke consumpƟon in Kiln TJ 46577 46933 48983 Diesel Oil consumpƟon in Kiln TJ 62 52 62 AlternaƟve Fossil fuels* consumed in Kiln TJ 603 164 111 AlternaƟve Bio-mass consumed in Kiln TJ 342 396 156 Diesel Oil consumpƟon for Onsite vehicle TJ 474 563 554 movement Fuels for drying of raw materials TJ 1398 1124 1262 Coal for onsite power generaƟon TJ 21831 24602 24515 Diesel Oil consumpƟon for Onsite power TJ 78 32 35 generaƟon Biomass for Onsite power generaƟon TJ 136 42 60 ůĞĐƚƌŝĐĂůŶĞƌŐǇŽŶƐƵŵƉƟŽŶ Energy ConsumpƟon Unit 2013 2012 2011 SpeciĮc power consumpƟon upto & KWH / Tonne of 71.21 73.39 73.61 including clinker producƟon Clinker SpeciĮc power consumpƟon upto & KWH / Tonne of 81.78 85.37 86.35 including cement grinding CemenƟƟous Material SpeciĮc power consumpƟon including KWH / Tonne of 83.92 87.75 88.93 cement grinding, colony, auxiliaries CemenƟƟous Material SpeciĮc total power consumpƟon KWH / Tonne of 86.08 90.01 90.93 including cement grinding, colony, CemenƟƟous auxiliaries & packing Material SpeciĮc thermal energy consumpƟon GJ / Tonne of 3.066 3.076 3.101 Clinker Electrical Energy Purchased Unit 2013 2012 2011 Electricity Purchased MWH / Annum 544201 606200 701929 *As per WBCSD protocol Alternative fossil fuel comprises of waste oil, waste tyres, and plastics, solvents, impregnated saw dust etc. ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 58 Energy consumption in Kilns Fuel-wise 2011 2012 2013 700 603 600 490 469 466 500 396 400 342 300 156 164 200 111 62 52 62 100 0 Coal +Pet Coke (100TJ) Alternative Biomass (TJ) Alternative fossil fuels (TJ) Diesel Oil Energy Consumption from Diesel Oil (TJ) Year-wise 700 600 35 32 78 500 400 552 563 474 300 200 100 62 52 62 0 2011 2012 2013 In Kiln For Onsite vehicle movement For Onsite Power generation Energy Consumed in Onsite Power Generation Fuel-wise 2011 2012 2013 300 250 245 246 218 200 150 136 100 78 60 50 35 32 42 0 Diesel oil (TJ) Coal (100 TJ) Biomass(TJ) ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 59 Specific Thermal Energy Consumption (GJ/Tonne of Clinker) 3.11 3.101 3.10 3.09 3.076 3.08 3.066 3.07 3.06 3.05 3.04 2011 2012 2013 Electrical Energy Purchased (MWH/Annum) 2013 544201 2012 606200 2011 701929 0 200000 400000 600000 800000 Specific total power consumption including cement grinding, colony, auxiliaries & packing KWH / Tonne of Cementitious Material 100 90.93 90.01 86.08 80 60 40 20 0 2011 2012 2013 ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 60 Energy Efficiency Improvement We have been undertaking measures to We have been undertaking measures in our plants, aimed at optimized producimprove our energy intensity and tion with maximum energy efficiency. Some of our energy efficiency initiatives at efficiency figures. Old, inefficient kilns different plants are: are being discontinued and replaced with newer, more efficient kilns which • Installation of Waste Heat Recovery Power Generation have contributed substantially in • Installation of MV Drives for major fans and pumps reduction in energy consumption. • Close circuiting of Cement Mills • Coal Mill inertisation The EARN (Energy Activation across Regional Network) initiative that is The Power of Wind practiced across the South-East Asian Wind Power Generated in Million region of Holcim defines five pillars for 2013 2012 2011 Units improving energy efficiency: Tamil Nadu 18.12 24.2 21.55 1. Reduction of energy intensity Rajasthan 11.02 14.63 13.73 2. Optimization of fuel mix and Maharashtra 3.39 3.5 3.61 increase in AFR 3. Proactive energy management At ACC, we make every effort to utilise non-conventional and renewable 4. Excellence in buying energy sources of energy. Our Thane complex is powered by green power. We have 5. Energy business participation three wind farms of 19 MW installed capacity at Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan and Maharashtra. This has also contributed in reducing our dependency on grid power. The wind energy generated from these sources is utilized for our captive purpose by wheeling into our premises, while we also comply with our Renewable Purchase Obligation (RPO) through wind power. Although we could not invest in new wind energy installations as much as we would have liked to, our wind energy farm in Satara, Maharashtra generated Renewable Energy Certificates (REC) in 2013. Waste Heat Recovery Clinkerization lines, in all Cement Plants, have a potential to generate power by utilizing the waste heat from preheater and cooler gases. This waste fuel gas which sometimes requires conditioning before exhaust can be used in low pressure boiler and turbine system to generate electricity. This technology is called “Waste Heat Recovery System” (WHRS) in short. We installed our first 7.5 MW WHRS at Gagal Cement works, Himachal Pradesh which is expected to generate 47 million kWh/annum of power. This is an important milestone in our sustainable development journey. Key benefits of this system: • Conserving fossil fuels • Reducing energy cost • Reduction of ~44,180 Tonne of CO2/annum • Supports plant in achieving its PAT target • Assists in our journey towards energy security ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 61 Energy Conservation Initiatives Savings in INR Plant IniƟaƟves Million 1. ModiĮcaƟon in water circulaƟon line of PG circuit to stop the complete cooling tower along with circulaƟon pump of PG circuit. 2. ModiĮcaƟon in lighƟng circuit (InstallaƟon of Ɵmers) in CPP area conveyor gallery to opƟmize the ON Ɵme of luminaries. CII 14th Annual National Awards 3. InstallaƟon of VFD in Coal handling secƟon Bag Įlter # 1 fan (37 for Excellence in Energy ManagekW) 4. Trouble shooƟng in pre-grinder # 1 which was drawing more ment 2013: power. This has resulted in saving of around 150 kW ACC Jamul Excellent Energy 5. Conversion of delta to star connecƟon in packer spout motors in Tikaria all the three packers 9.349 Efficient Plant 6. Feeding of pre ground material in CM # 1 from PG-1 to improve ACC Kymore & Lakheri – Energy the CM # 1 output. 7. Use of 5.5 kW compressor for GGLS purpose in place of 15 kW Efficient Units compressor in all the three Mills. ACC ThondebhaviEnergy Efficient 8. Replacement of worn out impeller and cone of Cement Mill # 3 RecirculaƟng Fan. Unit & Best Project Implemented 9. Replacement of 40 Nos. Sodium lamp of 250 waƩ with 60 LED in Colony & Plant street light Chanda LVVSD for Compressors, MVVSD in CM 1& 2 Separator Fan 7.695 Bargarh LVVSD in CPP Boiler Auxiliary, Cooler Fans 9.459 Thondebhavi MVVSD for Bag House Fan, compressors 2.183 Wadi-1 LVVSD for Raw Mill Vent Fan 1,2,&3, PA Fans 4.305 Madukkarai VSD for cooler fans, MVVSD for Kiln Exhaust Fan 10.134 Gagal MVVSD for PH Fan, VRM fan, Separator fan 9.837 Sindri MVVSD for VRM ID Fan 0.777 1. InstallaƟon of LVVSDs for cooler fan no 6,7 and 9, Cement Mill Compressors, Dust Collector Fan of Clinker Silo, Calciner PD Blower, PA Fans in CPP, Auxiliary Cooling Water Pump in CPP 2. InstallaƟon of Rotary Air Lock in Raw Mill 1 Lakheri 20.675 3. MVVSD for Calciner fan, E Mill Fan 4. Conversion of Delta to Star for lightly loaded motors. 5. Replacement of Roller and Roller Liner of VRM1. Impact on increased output of the Mill from 110 tph to 135 tph. 1. InstallaƟon of MVVSD in coal mill fan motor, BH fan motor 2. InstallaƟon of LVVFD in RA Fan, kiln and calciner Įring Blower 3. ReducƟon of speciĮc power consumpƟon in Slag Dryer by installing high eĸciency new ID fan 4. ReducƟon of speciĮc energy of Raw Mill VRM by changing Roller Chaibasa 14.486 liner and Table liner 5. Stopping one compressor completely in Pyro Process secƟon by arresƟng the leakages and line modiĮcaƟon 6. Stopping one compressor in Raw Mill & Ball mill secƟon by converƟng the H.P Cylinder in to L.P Cylinder 1. OpƟmizaƟon of Over Land Conveyor TPH by removing Sweetener Įlling arrangement 2. Replacement of GRR and HT motor with LVVSD, Motor and Kymore transformer in CM-1 & CM-8 sepax fan. 12.454 3. ModiĮcaƟon in calciner string down comer duct 4. Replacement of Bag house fan Impeller and inlet duct modiĮcaƟon CM Cement Mill PA Primary Air CPP Captive Power Plant PD Positive Displacement GGLS Girth Gear Lubrication System PH Pre-heater GRR Grid Rotor Resistance PG Pre-grinder LVVSD Low Voltage Variable Speed Drive VFD Variable Frequency Drive MVVSD Medium Voltage Variable Speed Drive VSD Variable Speed Drive ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 62 8.3 Water Water stewardship is embodied as a critical part in our Sustainable Development approach. We strive to maintain Zero Process Waste Water Discharge, and always look forward for better ways to manage our water resources efficiently by way of recycling and rainwater harvesting in mine pits. While some of our plants have become near self-reliant in respect of their water requirements for industrial and domestic consumption by utilisation of harvested rain water, we have devised plans to address water-related risks and are taking measures to reduce current dependency on other sources of water. Water Withdrawal* Source of Water Unit 2013 2012 2011 Some of our water conservation and Surface Water Million m3 7.92 8.18 8.85 management initiatives include water Harvested Rain Water Million m3 7.08 8.16 7.66 treatment, recycling and reuse of water. We have systems in place for Municipal Water Supplies Million m3 0.09 0.05 0.02 treating water rejects from the plant Ground Water Million m3 1.57 1.34 1.23 operations which is recycled back to *Partial quantities are based on meter readings where available while the rest is calculated the system helping to reduce fresh water requirement. Sewage treatment plants treat sewage generated Water Recycling* in the residential townships, and the treated sewage water is used for Water Treated and Reused Unit 2013 2012 2011 green belt development, while Total quantity of water treated and % 11.91 13.15 11.45 worked out mined pits are used to reused annually harvest rain water which is subseTotal quantity of water treated and quently consumed by the plant and reused annually Million m3 1.98 2.33 2.03 nearby communities. *Estimated CASE STUDY De-siltation of Periyakulam tank at Coimbatore by ACC Madukkarai Coimbatore city’s water is majorly sourced began on May 1, 2013. In order to ensure that from the nine lakes surrounding it. The failure citizens also take up equal responsibility and of monsoon last year and lack of appropriate ownership, volunteers were invited to join maintenance of the lakes has resulted in hands for the cause. As the word spread, more drastic reduction in the water table. The and more volunteers participated in this Coimbatore Corporation, foreseeing a huge operation. ACC employees along with their water crisis, has sanctioned Rs.200 crores to family members also volunteered to support revive 6 of these lakes, spanning 1200 this good cause. The landscape has been hectares of area. Periyakulam Lake, which transformed in little over a month’s time. was once the biggest lake of Coimbatore, Where there was only garbage and underspans across 320 acres with a catchment area growth, there is now clean and scrub-free of 63 sq. km. The lake had been asphyxiated ground. Round-the-clock work has cleared by water hyacinth, raw sewage and garbage. the humongous mess and made way for There was hardly any water in the lake. ACC bunds. Four islands have been painstakingly Madukkarai took up the initiative of de-silting created at the centre of the dry lake. Saplings the lake. This operation was carried out under have been planted on them and along the the directions of Coimbatore Corporation, bund. The Periyakulam Lake can now store 70 Siruthuli NGO, Residents Awareness Associamillion cubic feet of water. tion of Coimbatore (RAAC) and Vijayalakshmi Charitable Trust. The de-silting operation ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 63 CASE STUDY Reduction in Raw Water Consumption Jamul Water project Jamul Cement Works has always been conscious of water conservation and 4000 harvesting. Since decades, the plant has 31.6% been harvesting large quantities of rain 3000 water every year in two mined out pits of the M3/day 2012 Jamul mine lease area collecting an average of 12 -15 Lakh m3 of rain water in each pit 2000 11.5% 2013 every year. Numerous water saving projects were taken up in different areas of plant and 1000 colony at Jamul which resulted in good water saving. The water saving project is an ongoing objective of Jamul Cement Works. 0 The achievement of the foregoing year is not an end or a destination but it’s a journey, Cement Plant& CCP striving for new objective and target. Domestic Water treatment plant at ACC Kymore ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 64 8.4 Biodiversity At ACC, we are conscious of conserdust etc. are addressed through of our plants for the benefit of the vation of biodiversity and upkeep of appropriate measures. All of our local community. Afforestation environment. As per our Environment mining sites have rehabilitation plan programmes have helped transform Impact Assessment (EIA) Reports, in place which is implemented in the barren and dry ambience into lush none of our mining sites is adjacent to phased manner. greenery. In the reporting period, protected areas and areas of high approximately 1 lakh trees have been biodiversity value. Insignificant At each of our cement plants, tree planted under various such impacts in the form of biodiversity plantation and green belt developprogrammes. loss due to erosion of top soil, noise ment programmes have been disturbance, removal of vegetation, extended to cover areas in the vicinity Quarry Rehabilitation at Chanda – A Case Study: Mine closure after extraction of limestone Mining duly approved by Indian Bureau of mining operation and continues steadily includes the rehabilitation process as an Mines (IBM). As per the approved PMCP for through mine life. For the year 2013, under ongoing programme designed to restore the Govari and Sindola Mines near Chanda, PMC it was planned to plant 5000 saplings physical, chemical and biological quality mine management has made certain at Sindola and 8000 saplings at Govari disturbed by the mining to a level acceptcommitments. Progressive mine closure Mines over dumps and nonmineralized able to all concerned. In many areas around plan is an additional chapter in the mining area and we achieved the targets by the mines, topsoil, which is necessary for plan and is reviewed every five years in the planting the saplings as planned. Various good vegetation, is in short supply. General Scheme of Mining. Mine management measures as described in the mining plan practice is to use the topsoil and to sow considers post mining rehabilitation are adopted to enhance the survival rate seeds or plants on the overburden layer to requirements and the operational strategies and life expectancy of these plantations. grow green cover. This is also part of to achieve those outcomes as an integral Progressive Mine Closure Plan (PMCP) which part of mine planning and operation. Hence is integral of Mining Plan / Scheme of quarry rehabilitation is practiced along with Environmental Protection Expenditures We have invested in energy efficient equipment, up-gradation of pollution control measures, dust suppression systems, rainwater harvesting systems, air pollution control equipment, green belt development, environmental training and awareness, road sweeping machines, certifications etc. No formal grievance had been filed about environmental impacts through grievance mechanisms during the reporting period. ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 65 Details Unit 2013 2012 2011 Environmental Expenditure Rs. In Million 1575 1476.49 2379 8.5 Emissions Cement Industry by its nature of on continuous basis. We are also manufacturing is prone to generate continuously upgrading the existing dust and gaseous emissions. The Air Pollution Control equipment and emissions from cement manufacturinstalling new equipment to meet the ing can be classified as Stack Emisrequirements of latest emission sions comprising of Dust & Gaseous norms. Some of the initiatives in this Emissions and Fugitive Emissions. We direction are listed below: have incorporated various control Commissioning of 8 nos. of high efficiency bag filters at measures like conversion of ESPs to different locations at Gagal Baghouse, changing the maintenance Modification of bag filter for Cement mill at Damodhar practices, installing PolytetrafluoroModification of bag filters at different locations at Kymore ethylene (PTFE) membrane glass fibre Modification of bag filters at different locations at filter bags instead of ordinary filter Madukkarai bags and other such measures to Modification of bag filters for cement mill & clinker minimize these emissions on continuhopper at Chanda ous basis. We are committed to reduce our Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions. We are the first Indian cement company to install Continuous Emissions Monitoring Systems (CEMs) on Kiln stack to monitor various parameters ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 66 Apart from CAPEX intensive projects, we are also upgrading our emission monitoring systems continuously. We maintained our ongoing thrust on reducing the overall carbon footprint of operations using the recognized levers of: • Manufacturing blended cements • Pursuing continuous improvements in thermal and electrical energy efficiency • Improving the usage of Alternative Fuels and Raw materials (AFR) and • Adopting clean and green technologies ScopeWise Emissions Scope-Wise Emission 2013 Emissions (Tonne CO2-e) Cement RMX Scope 1* 15,143,788 2,655 4% Scope 2 508,805 2,671 3% Scope 3# 641,504 12,989 *Scope 1 includes emissions due to Captive Power Plant (CPP). #Scope 3, assumptions and approximation have been used to club vehicles to the distance brackets. Categories of Employee Commute, Transportation of heavy machineries installed in different plants, Business Travel and Emissions due to courier emissions have not been considered. Emission Intensity: 538 kg CO2-e/Tonne of cement excluding onsite power generation RMX: 1.47 kg CO2/cubic meter of RMX 93% Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Overall CO2 Reductions Achieved The CO2 reductions mentioned below have been achieved by implementing various energy efficiency measures, increasing the utilization of alternative fuels & biomass fuels consumption as well as utilization of alternative raw materials in the cement manufacturing process. Parameter Unit 2013 2012 2011 On Account of Thermal Savings1 Tonne of CO2 30077 65260 22983 On Account of Electrical Savings2 Tonne of CO2 94923 13804 78849 On Account of Clinker Factor Improvement3 Tonne of CO2 6903 200872 Nil Note: (1) CO2 emission reductions on account of thermal energy is calculated by using simple mathematical equation. (2) Combined Margin Emission Factor (CO2 Baseline Database for the Indian Power Sector – User Guide – Version 8.0 – Jan 2013 – by Central Electricity Authority) was used for calculating the CO2 emissions on account of electrical savings. (3) CO2 emission reductions on account of clinker factor improvement is calculated by using the thumb rule that for 1% improvement in clinker factor there is reduction of 7.5 kg CO2 / Tonne of Cement ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 67 SO2 and NOx Emissions* With Continuous Emission Monitoring Systems (CEMS) in place, we are tracking SO2 and NOx emissions in real time which is helping us to take immediate corrective actions on the process to control the emissions. It also helps us to prepare for the upcoming regulations on SO2 and NOx emissions. Emissions Units 2013 2012 2011 gm/Tonne of Clinker 1873.31 1772.86 1582.89 NOX gm/Tonne of Cement 1218.98 1136.05 1058.11 Tonne 29079.78 27393.77 25174.05 gm/Tonne of Clinker 163.7 111.39 68.35 SO2 gm/Tonne of Cement 106.52 71.38 45.69 Tonne 2541.22 1721.24 1087.03 gm/Tonne of Clinker 52.25 64.92 74.04 Dust gm/Tonne of Cement 34 41.6 49.49 Tonne 811.02 1003.11 1177.46 * The emissions reported are based on Kiln stacks only. 8.6 Effluents and Waste Cement kilns have the ability to utilise any form of waste in the manufacturing process and make wastes useful. At ACC, reducing the amount of wastage is one of the major areas of efforts in the manufacturing process. Through rigorous R&D and innovation, we pioneered the utilization of blast furnace slag from steel Best Sustainable Business Practices award to ACC Geocycle for co-processing plants and fly ash from thermal power plants and deployed them into the manuBy World CSR Forum facturing process to produce blended cements. Today our pioneering efforts have enabled a situation where slag and flyash are no longer treated as a waste NITIE-CSR Award for “Clean & Green Madukkarai” Solid Waste Management but sold as a by-product. initiative to ACC Madukkarai By National Institute of Industrial Engineering, Mumbai Waste Disposal ECO Award for Solid Waste Management initiative to ACC Madukkarai The wastes arising from our manufacturing processes are disposed off responsiBy British Council bly through means such as auctioning, selling to recyclers or to authorized third party vendors. Hazardous Waste Details Unit 2013 2012 2011 Waste Oil Litre 136312 108848 171276 Grease Kg 4160 16950 76955 Non Hazardous Waste Steel Scrap1 Tonne 14486 11077 8650 Others2 Tonne 2579 5559 782 Filter Bags Nos. 41377 33063 22296 Note: 1. Steel Scrap includes casƟngs, waste steel, MS drums, wrapper scrap, iron scrap, grinding balls, HC lining plate, table liner, HC grinding media, etc. 2. Others includes waste cement bags, conveyor belts, wood, copper, plasƟc bags, electrical cables, empty glass boƩles, aluminum, tyre, paper, PVC drums, HDPE wrapper, etc. ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 Building Community We have a firm commitment to create larger societal value. Initiating our community development initiatives in pre independence era, we have continued to engage in development initiatives with host communities around our operations. 70 9.1 CSR Policy We believe that the communities living around our operations are our key stakeholders. Our corporate social responsibility initiatives began as early as 1944 with activities that would be largely classified as philanthropy. Since 1952, we have evolved in our approach, aligning our community development initiatives to the needs of the areas around our operations so as to add greater value with our interventions. Through our current projects, we actively assist these communities in identifying, prioritizing and meeting their developmental aspirations. We have adopted participatory community self-reliance initiatives across our sites in India by creating forums such as Community Advisory Panel (CAP) which acts as a platform for the community, local district administration, NGOs and other opinion groups to come together and implement projects. The panels have proven to be valuable in presenting stakeholder views, reviewing the progress of community projects, obtaining timely feedback from stakeholders and ensuring appropriate delivery of planned initiatives in a participatory method. During the year 2013, our community monitoring CSR initiatives of the comdevelopment initiatives focused on 132 pany. Our CSR initiatives reached out villages with a population of 0.6 to the people residing around our million, located primarily around 17 operation areas as well as to disaster plants. The projects were planned, hit areas in the country. The focus of implemented and evaluated with stakethese initiatives was mainly on enhancholder participation. Total CSR expening literacy and education for commuditure in FY 2013 was Rs. 22.76 crore nity, preventive health and sanitation, i.e. 1.94 percent of the PAT average. livelihood, employability and income generation, women empowerment and In the year 2013, we revisited our CSR augmentation of the community infrapolicy and constituted a CSR commitstructure. tee to particularly focus on guiding and ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 71 9.2 CSR Approach district officials, health workers and integral part of our CSR activity, self-help groups (SHGs). The priorities conducted at each plant location every Our CSR initiatives are delivered in are discussed with the community to year. partnerships with NGOs and other formulate a Community Development institutions. We conduct base line Plan (CDP) comprising of projects, SES generates a feedback on progress studies and need assessment surveys schemes and action plan. The projects and outcomes of the projects before initiating any community develare implemented in collaboration with conducted during the year. This helps opment projects. A formal Community like-minded organizations like governin making the CSR initiatives more Advisory Panel (CAP) is formed involvments, voluntary organizations and appropriate to community needs and ing local stakeholders such as development banks. Stakeholder enhance sustainability. Panchayat representatives, villagers, Engagement Survey (SES) is an 9.3 Key Focus Areas • Livelihood, Employability and Income Generation • Improving Education Quality and Reach • Preventive Health and Sanitation • Equality and Women Empowerment • Community Environment Projects • Building Community Infrastructure • Other CSR Initiatives (Promotion of Arts, Culture & Sports) A. PROVIDING EDUCATION FOR SOCIETY’S FUTURE Our CSR initiatives in education sections of the community are encourjoint initiative with the Ministry of benefited 18,380 children in neighboraged through the grant of scholarLabour and Employment, Government hood communities. We have estabships. In 2013 Company supported of India. Our support focuses on lished schools at our plant locations, 666 meritorious students from weaker enhancing the skills and employability where children of employees and sections of the community; through of the students passing out of these those from surrounding communities grant of scholarships for continuing institutes by upgrading the quality of are provided good quality education. their education. Support is also education offered there. Management of these schools is provided to poor learners by way of outsourced to reputed educationists coaching through Technology aided like the DAV or the best locally availEducation initiatives such as smart able institution, thereby ensuring that classes and interactive kiosks are the schools maintain high standards of implemented at several of our education. The schools are supported locations for enhancing quality of by providing funds and infrastructure learning which benefited 12695 school for initial construction, meeting a part children. Specific education support of the teachers’ salaries and upgradawas provided to 851 drop out girl tion activities such as e-learining. children. We continued to support Apart from this we engage with other seven Government-run Industrial government schools in the vicinity. Training Institutes (ITI) under a Public Meritorious students from weaker Private Partnership scheme (PPP) in a ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 72 CASE STUDY Bridge Education Program, A way of nurturing education among rural school-children It was a distant dream for school students of Amheta and other surrounding villages to succeed in Board Examinations. There were not enough teachers in schools to teach the three key subjects of Maths, Science and English. Parents were also not able to afford private tuitions for their children. ACC Kymore facilitated tuitions to village students by means of Bridge Schools. Educated youth from the villages serve as support teachers. The bridge schools programme helps support teachers with books, dictionaries and other resource material; and the students with note books and stationery. Bridge Schools hosted by ACC Kymore are run in five villages of Kharkhari, Amheta, Amuwari, Kalhera and Khalwara nurturing the education of about 550 students studying in Grade 1 to 10. The success rate of students in the examinations has gone up with majority of the students scoring marks in the First and Second division. The ratio of girl-students in the schools has also improved. ACC also runs two technical training It had its own independent curriculum by the company is the ACC Cement institutes for technical training. The and certification. Since 2008 the Technology Institute (ACTI) at Jamul Sumant Moolgaokar Technical Instiinstitute works with a revised objective which offers specialized technical tute (SMTI) at Kymore was established of complementing the education training to young engineering graduin 1957 to train young men in specialreceived by engineering diploma ates. ACTI trained 166 boys and 32 ized trades to become artisans, trained candidates. In 2013 SMTI girls during the year with both class foremen and first line supervisors. trained 120 young men as Diesel room and practical trainings in operaMechanic Cum Fitter and Electrical tion and maintenance of cement Instrumentation through an 18 month plants. course. The other institute managed ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 73 B. SUPPORTING SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Our Sustainable Community Development programme comprises preventive health, women’s empowerment and creating livelihoods. These initiatives benefited more than 1,09,000 people directly while twice as many people were indirectly benefited. Promoting Health Health being one of the prime concerns of the community and critical for general wellbeing of company’s stakeholders, significant initiatives were undertaken in this domain. Total 1,09,000 people benefited from company’s various health and nutrition related initiatives. Our health initiatives mainly focus on preventive health of the community. Active awareness campaigns are undertaken to enhance community’s understanding about prevention of various diseases and healthy ways of living. Regular preventive health support to the community is reached out through health camps and mobile health vans. Creating awareness on the services of Primary Health Care centres and AROGYA DAAN creches. Joint review meetings to reduce child mortality with Integrated Child DevelACC’s Kudithini engaged with the opment Services, anganwadi workers and Asha workers who are part of local community and set up ComNational Rural Health Mission munity Advisory Panels (CAP) which included young men, 20 Balika mandals were formed with about 330 adolescent girls who were women, and Self Help Groups educated on the benefits of maintaining personal hygiene and health. (SHG). Janani Suraksha Scheme was set up to provide post natal health care to women during and after child delivery. 351 members opted for institutional To address the concerns related to delivery and 59 are linked with Janani Suraksha Scheme. health, CSR initiatives implemented ‘Arogya Daan’ program About 500 nursing mothers and pregnant women were provided training in reproductive child health care (RCH), a programme launched by National Rural Health Mission. We support the local administration in promoting national health campaigns on important issues such as malaria, prevention and immunization and DOTS. During the year 2013, total 3,273 general and special health camps were conducted to reach out with preventive care to community members. In addition, regular support to the ACC hospitals and to various government Primary Health Care centers and Community Health Care centers is also extended. Special initiatives in healthcare and nutrition are undertaken for women and children in coordination with Health authorities. Communities are mobilized to participate in programmes for immunization, ante-natal care, post-natal care and birth spacing methods. IFA tablets were provided to prevent anemia among pregnant mothers and adolescent girls. ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 74 Other support activities included health ny in the corporate sector in India to cohesiveness, book-keeping, product and accidental insurance for SHG lend a hand to the national effort to development, marketing of the prodmembers and drivers in the company’s fight the spread of HIV/AIDS in the ucts, market linkages, bank linkages supply chain, subsidized ambulance country. In 2007 we established two and exposure to best practices in SHG facility to villagers for their emergency Anti Retroviral Treatment centres for functioning. Some of these groups needs. patients of HIV/AIDS in two states have initiated their own micro enterSupport to Anganwadi: suffering the country’s highest prevaprises. Through bank linkages and lence of the disease. We also estabinter-loaning these members generAnganwadis are an integral part of lished the ACC Ayushman Trust at Wadi ated a total savings of Rs. 1.53 crore. “Integrated Child Development in Karnataka and the ACC CMC Trust Scheme” (ICDS) that plays a vital role Creating Women Entrepreneurs for Infectious Diseases (ACTFID) at in rural areas for overall development Vellore in Tamil Nadu in association of children as well as support to pregKymore with support of NGO partner with Christian Medical College. Udyogini is empowering women by nant and lactating mothers. We encouraging them to become entrepreprovided support to 132 Anganwadis We extended support to ACTFID and neurs through the formation of SelfHelp that are serving the host communities. Groups (SHGs). 190 SHGs comprising AYUSHMAN trusts in 2013 in their This has resulted in better supply and 2550 women have been formed with 140 of on-going endeavour. During 2013, our use of government’s medicine supplies the groups linked to Banks. Kymore has HIV/AIDS related care reached to through Anganwadi Centres which has engaged with specialists to provide Grass about 3,026 people. direct impact on infant mortality and Root Management and Skill Enhancement maternal mortality. Trainings on activities like incense stick Family Health Insurance: making, imitation jewellery and vegetable The 339 kitchen gardens initiated cultivation through kitchen-gardens. through CSR have saved nutritional In 2013 CSR programmes covered Market linkages have been provided in 1056 drivers, associated with the each case while giving training to SHG food expenditure of Rs 1200/per company’s logistics, under family members with necessary marketing skills. family, enhancing their health condiLiteracy classes are conducted for women tion. health insurance. to help them maintain accounts and perform transactions with banks. At Combat against scourge Women’s empowerment present, the SHGs created by Kymore have of HIV/AIDS: savings of about Rs. 6.5 lakh in the banks and are maintaining accounts’ registers of their Group. Performing business through The spread of HIV/AIDS is recognized Self Help Groups makes women indepenas being one of India’s major public dent and empowers them. Through revolvhealth issues. We are the first compaing funds women learn how to help sustain the organization of SHGs. Encouraging numbers of SHGs and positive feedback from the community sustains the efforts of Kymore. ACC AHEAD (Association for Health, Education and Development), the A variety of initiatives is pursued to volunteering wing of the company’s promote skill building and income ladies clubs at all plants, set up in generating schemes for local women 2008, continued to support social groups. Women SHGs are imparted volunteering and community programs relevant training in their selected liveliwith special emphasis on empowering hoods and supported in the establishwomen.The group has been successful ment of micro-enterprises. 737 SHGs in creating livelihood opportunities for were organized during the year. Memcommunity women in the areas of bers of these new as well as old SHGs tailoring, embroidery, knitting, making were provided training for group masala, pickles, fancy bags, gloves and in making disposable cups and plates . ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 75 Livelihood and Employability various employers enabling a similar Each plant contributed in creation of number of families to improve their water harvesting structures and instalWe believe in empowerment of people standard of living. lation of hand pumps for drinking and assist them in sustainability of water. Excavation of Pond for Irrigation their livelihood, as it makes the comand other water uses, directly and munity self-reliant and increases their indirectly benefited 2,72,418 people, self-respect. During the year our whereas drinking water initiatives various initiatives in this direction benefited 72,294 people. benefited 17,288 people. Under employability initiatives, we supported training of 3,579 youth from poor families in the host community of which 2,501 persons were placed with Project – Gurukul, An Effort to generate Alternate Income opportunity for Tribal youth of Chaibasa ACC’s Chaibasa Cement Works is located in backward tribal area where the community has limited opportunities of employability and is dependent upon traditional agricultural practices and forest products. We are making efforts to provide alternate Special initiatives to promote sanitaincome generation opportunities for the tribal youth. tion among neighboring communities were undertaken. Construction of 330 ‘Pan IIT Alumni Reach For India (PARFI)’, Govt. of Jharkhand, NABARD and ACC Limited household toilets contributed as a step are working as partners, to set up a rural skill gurukul at West Singhbhum, Jharkhand. in improving the local sanitation conditions. We support rural candidates by extending required loan for training through NABARD. The initial phase of training is provided at the Gurukul institute. Then PARFI A total length of 4.75 kilometer road provides 7-months vocational training to students, particularly on construction skills. was constructed for meeting the needs The methodology adopted for imparting training involves learning by doing rather of communities and operations around than classroom teaching. All candidates go through evaluation and selected ones receive PARFI skill certificates. The candidates trained at PARFI Gurukul are placed by our own locations. PARFI in various enterprises. C. BUILDING INFRASTRUCTURE FOR LIVEABLE NEIGHBORHOODS We play a vital role in facilitating the creation and maintenance of basic infrastructure such as roads, safe drinking water, development of water bodies, repairs to schools, anganwadi and other community amenities around the company’s operations. benefits of government schemes for the welfare of village communities. In Wherever needed, NGO partners join in 2013, our initiatives for infrastructure to ensure quality execution of the development benefited 4,35,392 projects. Efforts are also taken to bring people. ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 76 D. AADHAAR ENABLEMENT Aadhaar card has become a basic CASE STUDY Usgaon Sanitation Project requirement for availing benefits of government programmes. To enhance Our CSR projects at Chanda support projects for improving local hygiene and sanitaaccess of weaker sections to governtion in the village of Usgaon near the plant through construction of drains to ment entitlements, we facilitated the improve the existing drainage system. Community Advisory Panel (CAP) and Usgaon process of Aadhaar enablement for the Gram Panchayat are actively involved in making the project successful. Expansion of local community. Substantial numbers village on the outskirt areas had been leading to accumulation of water on roads and of people around our plants now have development of unhygienic environment. Through CSR initiatives, a 245 meter cement-concrete drain was constructed along with a culvert. Within 2 months the Aadhaar identification cards facilitated environment became hygienic and mosquito free. through our CSR initiatives. E. ACC’s DISASTER RESPONSE INITIATIVES Uttarakhand Uttarakhand faced major devastation during the disastrous floods in June 2013. Our disaster response team (DRT) of 24 volunteers reached out to the affected villages in Uttarkashi region. The DRT reached out relief Our team also extended rehabilitation through mobile health units, doctors, support by providing water filtration nurses and pharmacists along with units and sanitation units to ensure provision for drinking water, food and clean drinking water and sanitation clothing. availability in the 5 worst affected villages. District Administration appreciated consistent management support provided by our team. Maharashtra We played a pivotal role of providing relief from water scarcity problems and arranged for drinking water for a popuMother Teresa Corporate Citizenship Award 2013 to ACC Madukkarai lation of over two lakhs. Free water from Loyola Institute of Business tankers each with a capacity of 5,000Administration 10,000 litres provided water for almost a month to the drought-affected regions of Aurangabad, Sillod, Jalna, Beed and Buldana. We partnered with Indian Society of Structural Engineers and supported a water conservation initiative for drought-proofing. ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 77 Under this initiative a check dam (4 meters high and 12 meters long) was constructed at village Rohanwadi in the district of Jalna. This work involved deepening of channel in the upstream, which helped in water retention and percolation of water. In 2013, early in the monsoon, the check dam was filled with water and the effect of water recharge is visible. We continued to engage with drought affected communities in Beed district. We provided Ferro san roof water harvesting tanks to households which have improved drinking water availability. Construction of check dams in Hiwara-Asti and Pimpalkheda in Beed district is in progress. By the end of 2014, these check dams will irrigate 100 acres of land. CONSTRUCTION OF CHECK DAM AT FERRO SAN RAIN WATER HARVESTING TANKS VILLAGE HIWARA-ASTI IN IN HIWARA, PIMPALKHEDA, VELLTURI & BEED DISTRICT BHOJEWADI VILLAGE CHECK DAM AT VILLAGE ROHANWADI, FREE WATER TANKERS IN DROUGHT AFFECTED DISRICT-JALNA REGIONS OF AURANGABAD, SILLOD, JALNA, BEED AND BULDANA ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 78 9.4 Leadership in CSR Sector India Water Tool The Global Fund channels financial Roundtable on CSR provisions resources to help countries reduce the under the Companies Act, 2013 In 2013, we co-chaired development of impact of HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis (TB) India Water Tool with keen involveand Malaria by facilitating the impleWe exchanged views at ‘Roundtable on ment of 14 WBCSD member compamentation of strong and sustainable the CSR provisions under the Companies. This tool is a free web based tool, programmes through in-country nies Act, 2013’ at Planning Commisaccessible to all. India Water Tool partners. Through CCM, we particision convened on 27th November helps the users visualize groundwater pated in decision mechanism along 2013 under the Chairpersonship of Dr. availability and quality risks in any with Government, Civil Society organiSyeda Hameed, Member, Planning particular area. The results can help zations on major projects to combat Commission. A dialogue between users to geographically focus water HIV/AIDS, TB and Malaria. various Ministries, Companies and related CSR initiatives to the locations Civil Society members led to key pointwith a greater water issue. Joppe UN Global Compact India ers on CSR for further discussions Cramwinckel who leads WBCSD’s Collaboration Lab between various stakeholders. Water project commended team working of 14 companies and various data We actively engaged in UN Global agencies of Government of India. India Compact India Collaboration Lab. We Water Tool version 1.0 was launched created a space for collaboration with on 23rd July 2013 in New Delhi. the innovative, entrepreneurial water solution venture, Wello, to roll out their The Global Fund Country innovation ‘Water Wheel’ in Odisha. Coordination Mechanisms The water wheel is a potential solution for carrying 40-50 litres of water to In 2013, we represented the private households with minimal physical sector on India’s Country Coordination stress. The larger scale implementaMechanism (CCM) of The Global Fund. tion of this innovation on market based approaches is being pursued by Wello. ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 80 10 Where We Stand and the Way Ahead 10.1 Journey So Far At ACC, we have long nurtured the aspiration to maximise our achievements in environmental performance, particularly in the aspects of material use and resource efficiency. To that end, we had set ourselves goals to achieve during 2009 to2013. Evaluating the performance so far : GOAL 2013 CURRENT STATUS ENERGY (ALTERNATIVE FUEL & RAW MATERIALS) Increase Total Substitution Rate (TSR) to 4.12% by 2013 from the Achieved TSR of 4.36% base of 0.6% in 2009 ENERGY (FOSSIL FUELS AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY) 5% reduction in specific power consumption per tonne of cement Surpassed. 85 KWH achieved in 2013 with 6.59% by 2013 from a base of 91 KWH in 2009 reduction. Share of renewable energy capacity stands at 6%. Increase the % share of Renewable Energy capacity to total We could not achieve this target. Going ahead, we Captive Power capacity from 6% in 2009 to 15% by 2013 plan to make greater efforts to achieve it. LEGAL COMPLIANCE To be the most respected cement company in India and one of Maintained the most reputed corporate entities SUSTAINABLE CONSTRUCTION To promote usage of blended cements in all forms of construcMaintained. Out of total production of 2013, tion, as green cement 62.73% was of PPC, 21.82% was of PSC and 15.45% was for OPC. We have produced, promoted and distributed large quantities of the environment friendly blended cements. To position ACC as a responsible company that promotes sustainWe have demonstrated that sustainability also able construction. involves how our end users create a positive impact in their construction practices by promoting sustainable construction through production of blended concrete, promotion of green buildings, advocacy on the benefit of concrete roads and the dissemination of good construction practices. To maintain lead rank in share of blended cement to total In 2013, 84.55% of our total cement production cement production. (In 2009 ACC produced 91% blended was of blended cements despite higher production cement against industry average of 75%) of OPC due to demand. WATER, WASTE MANAGEMENT & TRANSPORT Zero discharge of effluents Achieved 10% reduction in specific water consumption per ton of cement on Achieved the base of 2010-11 ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 81 10.2 Road Ahead Going ahead, we nestle the vision to become plastic positive, water positive and waste positive with negligible impact on biodiversity. In line with the results of our materiality matrix and the aspects that have emerged as important, we willlook to improve upon our performance in the aspects of investing more in renewable power, reduction in clinker factor and electrical and thermal energy consumption, resource efficiency, greater reach to customers and higher targets towards a safer workplace. To progress towards these goals, we have devised specific targets for the next fouryears in our roadmap as shown in the table here. In addition to these, we will also aspire to abide by and achieve general targets conforming to the longer term global Sustainability ambition envisaged by the Holcim group. AREA TARGET CO2 Reduce specific CO2 emissions by 35% vs. 1990 Thermal Substitution Rate To achieve Thermal Substitution Rate of 10% Water Reduce specific water consumption for manufacturing of cement by 10% vs. 2012 Specific total energy intensity To reduce by 3% vs. 2013 (MTOE per Tonne of Cement) Continue to improve our CSR foot print CSR Focus on inclusive business projects like sanitation etc ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013    ,1'(3(1'(17$6685$1&(67$7(0(17   ,QWURGXFWLRQDQGREMHFWLYHVRIZRUN %XUHDX9HULWDV&HUWLILFDWLRQ ,QGLD 3YW/WG %XUHDX9HULWDV KDVEHHQHQJDJHGE\$&& /LPLWHG WR FRQGXFW DQ LQGHSHQGHQW DVVXUDQFH RI LWV WK 6XVWDLQDEOH 'HYHORSPHQW 5HSRUW 7KLV$VVXUDQFH6WDWHPHQWDSSOLHVWRWKHUHODWHGLQIRUPDWLRQLQFOXGHGZLWKLQWKHVFRSH RIZRUNGHVFULEHGEHORZ 7KLVLQIRUPDWLRQDQGLWVSUHVHQWDWLRQLQWKH6XVWDLQDEOH'HYHORSPHQW5HSRUW KHUHDIWHU UHIHUUHG WR DV 6' 5HSRUW  DUH WKH VROH UHVSRQVLELOLW\ RI WKH PDQDJHPHQW RI $&& /LPLWHG %XUHDX9HULWDVZDVQRWLQYROYHGLQWKHGUDIWLQJRIWKH5HSRUW2XUVROHUHVSRQVLELOLW\ZDVWR SURYLGHLQGHSHQGHQWDVVXUDQFHRQWKHDFFXUDF\DQGUHOLDELOLW\RILQIRUPDWLRQLQFOXGHGDQGRQ WKHXQGHUO\LQJV\VWHPVDQGSURFHVVHVHVWDEOLVKHGWRFROOHFWDQDO\VHDQGUHYLHZ7KLVLVWKH VW\HDULQZKLFKZHKDYHSURYLGHGDVVXUDQFHIRU6'5HSRUWRI$&&/LPLWHG 6FRSHRI$VVXUDQFH $&&/LPLWHGUHTXHVWHG%XUHDX9HULWDVWRYHULI\WKHDFFXUDF\DQGUHOLDELOLW\RIWKHIROORZLQJ  'DWDDQGLQIRUPDWLRQLQFOXGHGLQWKH6'5HSRUWRI&RUSRUDWH)XQFWLRQV  &HPHQW 3ODQWV FRYHULQJ ,QWHJUDWHG &HPHQW 3URGXFWLRQ 23& 33&  36&  *ULQGLQJXQLWV 5HDG\PL[&RQFUHWHXQLWVDFURVV,QGLD  7KH DVVXUDQFH SURFHVV ZDV FRQGXFWHG WR PHHW WKH UHTXLUHPHQWV RI D 7\SH  DVVXUDQFHHQJDJHPHQWDV GHILQHG E\ $$$VVXUDQFH 6WDQGDUG $$ $6  7KH DVVXUDQFH SURFHVV ZDV GHVLJQHG WR SURYLGH D UHDVRQDEOH OHYHO RI DVVXUDQFHFRQFHUQLQJWKHQDWXUHDQG H[WHQWRI$&&¶VDGKHUHQFHWRWKH$$$6 DFFRXQWDELOLW\ SULQFLSOHV DQG D 0RGHUDWH OHYHO RI DVVXUDQFH RI WKH UHOLDELOLW\ RI VSHFLILHGVXVWDLQDELOLW\SHUIRUPDQFHLQIRUPDWLRQGDWDGLVFORVHGLQWKHUHSRUW 0HWKRGRORJ\ $VSDUWRILWVLQGHSHQGHQWDVVXUDQFH%XUHDX9HULWDV$VVXUDQFHWHDPSODQQHG FDUULHGRXW WKHDVVXUDQFHHQJDJHPHQWEDVHGRQRIIVLWHGRFXPHQWUHYLHZDQGVLWHYLVLWDW$&&/LPLWHG¶V RIILFH DW 7KDQH 0DKDUDVKWUD ,QWHJUDWHG &HPHQW 0DQXIDFWXULQJ )DFLOLW\ DW :DGL,, WK VW .DUQDWDNDEHWZHHQ WR 0DWFKUHYLHZHGVXVWDLQDELOLW\SHUIRUPDQFHRI7LNDULD WK .\PRUH -DPXOSODQWVRYHUDXGLRFRQIHUHQFLQJRQ 0DUFKDQGXQGHUWRRNEURDGO\ WKHIROORZLQJDFWLYLWLHV  &RQGXFWHG ,QWHUYLHZV ZLWK FRUH WHDP RI WKH 6' JURXS UHVSRQVLEOH RI SUHSDULQJ WKH 6XVWDLQDEOH 'HYHORSPHQW UHSRUW DQG WKH 6HQLRU 0DQDJHPHQW RI $&& /LPLWHG ± ,QFOXGLQJ EXW QRW OLPLWHG WR 'LUHFWRU(QHUJ\  (QYLURQPHQW 'LUHFWRU 4XDOLW\  3URGXFW 'HYHORSPHQW 9HQGRU 0DVWHU &RQWUROOHU  6XSSOLHU 5HODWLRQVKLS 0DQDJHU +HDG(QHUJ\&RQVHUYDWLRQ*0(QYLURQPHQW6U*0&656U*00LQLQJ'*0 $FFRXQWV $*050; 6U *0+5 6U *02SHUDWLRQ:DGL ,, DQG 'LUHFWRU3ODQW  :DGL8QLW  2QVLWH  RIIVLWH UHYLHZ RI GRFXPHQWDU\ HYLGHQFH VXFK DV 3HUIRUPDQFH 0RQLWRULQJ VW 5HSRUWV  )DFWXDO LQIRUPDWLRQ IRU WKH SHULRG VW -DQXDU\  WR   'HFHPEHU  FRQWDLQHGLQWKH5HSRUW$FKLHYHPHQWDJDLQVW,QWHUQDO ([WHUQDOWDUJHWV5LVN PDQDJHPHQW IUDPHZRUN (QYLURQPHQWDO &RQVHQWV RI WKH &HPHQW 8QLWV &65 H[SHQGLWXUHUHFRUGVIURP6$3V\VWHPHWFVKDUHGE\$&&/LPLWHGWR%XUHDX9HULWDV $VVXUDQFHWHDP  (YDOXDWLRQRILQIRUPDWLRQDJDLQVW*OREDO5HSRUWLQJ,QLWLDWLYH *5,*LQDFFRUGDQFH ZLWK &RUH  GLVFORVXUH IUDPHZRUNV  SULQFLSOHV RI $FFXUDF\ $FFHVVLELOLW\ %DODQFH &ODULW\&RPSDUDELOLW\5HOLDELOLW\DQG7LPHOLQHVV  $XGLWRISHUIRUPDQFH,QGLFDWRUGDWDVDPSOHRIZKLFKWUDFHGEDFNWRVRXUFH  5HYLHZ RI $&& /LPLWHG¶V LQWHUQDO PHFKDQLVPV IRU LPSOHPHQWLQJ 6XVWDLQDEOH 'HYHORSPHQW  RWKHU SROLFLHV GDWD DQG LQIRUPDWLRQ V\VWHPV IRU FROOHFWLRQ DJJUHJDWLRQDQDO\VLVDQGUHYLHZDW&RUSRUDWH/HYHO 0DQXIDFWXULQJ3ODQW/HYHO %85($89(5,7$6&(57,),&$7,21  3DJHRI    5HYLHZRISURFHVVIRULGHQWLILFDWLRQDQGPDQDJHPHQWRIPDWHULDOLVVXHVDQGULVNVWR WKH &RPSDQ\ DQG LWV VWDNHKROGHUV DQG MXVWLILFDWLRQ IRU VXEVHTXHQW LQFOXVLRQ ZLWKLQ WKHUHSRUW 2XU ZRUN ZDV FRQGXFWHG DJDLQVW %XUHDX 9HULWDV¶ VWDQGDUG SURFHGXUHV DQG JXLGHOLQHV IRU H[WHUQDO $VVXUDQFH RI 6XVWDLQDEOH 'HYHORSPHQW 5HSRUWV EDVHG RQ FXUUHQW EHVW SUDFWLFH LQ LQGHSHQGHQWDVVXUDQFH7KHZRUNZDVSODQQHGDQGFDUULHGRXWWRSURYLGHUHDVRQDEOHUDWKHU WKDQDEVROXWHDVVXUDQFHDQGZHEHOLHYHLWSURYLGHVDUHDVRQDEOHEDVLVIRURXUFRQFOXVLRQV 2XUILQGLQJV UHFRPPHQGDWLRQV 2QWKHEDVLVRIRXUPHWKRGRORJ\DQGWKHDFWLYLWLHVGHVFULEHGDERYHLWLVRXURSLQLRQWKDW  7KH LQIRUPDWLRQ DQG GDWD LQFOXGHG LQ WKH VFRSH RI RXU DVVXUDQFH DUH DFFXUDWH UHOLDEOHDQGIUHHIURPPDWHULDOPLVWDNHRUPLVVWDWHPHQW7KHLQIRUPDWLRQLVSUHVHQWHG LQDFOHDUXQGHUVWDQGDEOHDQGDFFHVVLEOHPDQQHUDQGWKH5HSRUWSURYLGHVDIDLUDQG EDODQFHGUHSUHVHQWDWLRQRIDFWLYLWLHVGXULQJ  $&&/LPLWHGKDVHVWDEOLVKHGDSSURSULDWHV\VWHPVIRUWKHFROOHFWLRQDJJUHJDWLRQDQG DQDO\VLV RI UHOHYDQW LQIRUPDWLRQ DV SHU *5, * VWDQGDUG '0$V GLVFORVHU RQ PDQDJHPHQW DSSURDFK  UHODWHG WR VSHFLILF GLVFORVXUH (FRQRPLF (QYLURQPHQWDO /DERXU +5 6RFLDO 3URGXFW 5HVSRQVLELOLW\ 6XSSO\ &KDLQ  $QWL FRUUXSWLRQ  UHTXLUHPHQWV7KHFKDQJH LQGDWDFROOHFWLRQ V\VWHPIRXQGHIIHFWLYHGXHWRWUDQVLWLRQ IURP*5,WR*UHSRUWLQJ  'HWDLOHG*+*$FFRXQWLQJ6\VWHPIRUPRQLWRULQJUHSRUWLQJ SHULRGLFYHULILFDWLRQPD\ EHHVWDEOLVKHGDQGH[WHQGHGWRWKHVXSSO\FKDLQDQGSURGXFWFKDLQ  7KH:DWHU)RRWSULQW SHUIRUPDQFH DFFRXQWLQJV\VWHP PD\ EH H[SORUHG DWSODQWOHYHO IRU RSWLPLVLQJ WKH QDWXUDO UHVRXUFH FRQVXPSWLRQV  DFKLHYLQJ VXVWDLQDEOH ZDWHU UHVRXUFHPDQDJHPHQW  2XWFRPHV RI WKH YDULRXV 6WDNHKROGHU HQJDJHPHQW IRUXPV DQG DVVRFLDWHG PDQDJHPHQWLQLWLDWLYHVWREHPRUHFRPSUHKHQVLYHO\GRFXPHQWHG  &ULWHULD RI SULRULWL]LQJ WKH &65 DFWLYLWLHV  H[SHQGLWXUH DW YDULRXV OHYHOV PD\ EH UHDOLJQHGDVSHU6FKHGXOH9,,6HFWLRQRI&RPSDQLHV$FWDFFRUGLQJWRWKH LPSDFWFUHDWHGRQWKHFRPPXQLWLHVDQGDOVRLQOLQHZLWKPDWHULDOLW\DVSHFWVLGHQWLILHG $GKHUHQFHWR$$$63ULQFLSOHV ,QFOXVLYLW\ ± $&& /LPLWHG FRQWLQXHV WR GHSOR\ UREXVW SURFHVVHV IRU HQJDJLQJ ZLWK NH\ VWDNHKROGHUV LQFOXGLQJ XQGHUWDNLQJ FHQWUDOLVHG VWDNHKROGHU HQJDJHPHQW ZLWK NH\ DXGLHQFHV VXFK DV 6RFLDOO\ 5HVSRQVLEOH ,QYHVWRUV DQG QRQJRYHUQPHQWDO RUJDQLVDWLRQV 7KH VLWH YLVLWV DOVRLQGLFDWHWKDWRSHUDWLRQVUHJXODUO\HQJDJHZLWKORFDOVWDNHKROGHUV7KHZLOOLQJQHVVRI$&& /LPLWHGWR HQJDJHZLWKVWDNHKROGHUVLQRUGHUWR GHYHORS LWVDSSURDFK WR UHOHYDQWLVVXHVKDV EHHQ SDUWLFXODUO\ HYLGHQW GXULQJ WKLV UHSRUWLQJ SHULRG WKURXJK DFWLYLWLHV RI WKH HQJDJHPHQW IRUXPVOLVWHGLQWKH6'5HSRUW  0DWHULDOLW\±7KHLQWHUQDOPDWHULDOLW\GHWHUPLQDWLRQSURFHVVUHVXOWVKDVEHHQVWUHQJWKHQHGE\ LQSXWIURPWKH(QHUJ\ (QYLURQPHQW'HSDUWPHQWDQGFRQWLQXHVWRSURYLGHDFRPSUHKHQVLYH DQGEDODQFHGXQGHUVWDQGLQJDQGSULRULWLVDWLRQRI$&&/LPLWHG¶VILIWHHQNH\PDWHULDOFRUSRUDWH UHVSRQVLELOLW\LVVXHV+RZHYHUEHQFKPDUNLQJRISHUIRUPDQFHRIDOOSODQWVRQPDWHULDOLVVXHV UHPDLQV VFRSH IRU WKH FRPSDQ\ WR PRUH IXOO\ LQFRUSRUDWH FRQVLGHUDWLRQ RI WKH LPSDFW RI LWV DFWLYLWLHVRQLWVRYHUDOOPDWHULDOLW\PDWUL[  5HVSRQVLYHQHVV±7KHUHSRUWSURYLGHVDFRPSUHKHQVLYHUHVSRQVHWRWKHPDQ\LVVXHVDQG VWDNHKROGHUFRQFHUQVUHODWLQJWRLWVDFWLYLWLHV7KURXJKWKHDVVXUDQFHSURFHVVLWLVHYLGHQWWKDW $&& /LPLWHG LV UHVSRQGLQJ WR FRQFHUQV UDLVHG E\ VSHFLILF VWDNHKROGHU JURXSV DQG VHHNLQJ SURDFWLYH GLVFXVVLRQV WR DVFHUWDLQ WKHLU YLHZV DQG SURJUHVV WRZDUGV DGGUHVVLQJ DQ\ JULHYDQFHV$WWKHVLWHVYLVLWHGLWZDVDSSDUHQWWKDWVWDNHKROGHUYLHZVZHUHEHLQJOLVWHQHGWR DQGWKDWVLWHOHYHOPDQDJHPHQWDUHZLOOLQJWRZRUNZLWKORFDOFRPPXQLWLHVWRDFKLHYHVXLWDEOH VROXWLRQV  6SHFLILHG6XVWDLQDELOLW\3HUIRUPDQFH'DWD±3HUIRUPDQFHGDWDZLWKLQWKHUHSRUWFRQWLQXHV WR EH JDWKHUHG WKURXJK D YDULHW\ RI GDWD V\VWHPV DQG SURFHVVHV :H FRQVLGHU WKH GDWD DV SUHVHQWHGLQWKHUHSRUWWREHUHOLDEOHEXWDOVRKLJKOLJKWRXUUHFRPPHQGDWLRQWKDW$&&/LPLWHG %85($89(5,7$6&(57,),&$7,21  3DJHRI   UHYLHZVWKHGDWDJDWKHULQJLQSX XWVDJDLQVWWKHNH\SHUIRUPDQFHLQGLFDWRUVWDWHGLQ WKHUHSRUW WRHQVXUHWKDWSHUIRUPDQFHDJD DLQVWWKHVHPHWULFVFDQEHFRQVLVWHQWO\DQGUHJXODUO\ \UHYLHZHG DQGFRQWLQXHWRSURYLGHDFFXUDWH HDQGUHOLDEOHLQIRUPDWLRQ (YDOXDWLRQ DJDLQVW *OREDO 5HSRUWLQJ ,QLWLDWLYH *5,  * 6XVWDLQDELOLW\ 5HSRUWLQJ 5 *XLGHOLQHV %XUHDX 9HULWDV XQGHUWRRN DQ HYDOXDWLRQ H RI $&& /LPLWHG¶V 6XVWDLQDEOH 'HYHORSPH HQW 5HSRUW  DJDLQVW WKH * 6XVWDLQDEOH 'HYHORSPHQW 5HSRUWLQJ )UDPHZRUN ³LQ DFFRUG GDQFH ZLWK &RUH´7KLVLQFOXGHGFURVVFKHF FNLQJWKH*5,LQGH[WDEOHDJDLQVWDOOWKHUHIHUHQFHG GRFXPHQWV WRSURYLGHDQRSLQLRQRQWKHVH HOIGHFODUHG*5,DSSOLFDWLRQOHYHO%DVHGRQRXUZRUUNLWLVRXU RSLQLRQ WKDW $&&¶V 6XVWDLQD DEOH 'HYHORSPHQW 5HSRUW  KDV EHHQ SUHSDUHG LQ DFFRUGDQFHZLWKWKH*5,*5H HSRUWLQJ)UDPHZRUNLQFOXGLQJDSSURSULDWHFRQVLGHUD DWLRQRIWKH 5HSRUWLQJ 3ULQFLSOHV DQG QHFH HVVDU\ LQGLFDWRUV WR PHHW WKH UHTXLUHPHQWV RI *5 5, * ³,Q $FFRUGDQFHZLWK&RUH´GLVFORV VXUH /LPLWDWLRQVDQG([FOXVLRQV ([FOXGHGIURPWKHVFRSHRIRXUZRUNLVDQ\DVVXUDQFHRILQIRUPDWLRQUHODWLQJWR  $FWLYLWLHV RXWVLGH WKH GHILQHG G DVVXUDQFH SHULRG FDOHQGDU \HDU   SRVLWLRQDO VWDWHPHQWV H[SUHVVLRQV VRIRSLQLRQEHOLHIDLPRUIXWXUHLQWHQWLRQE\$&&/LPLWHGDQG VWDWHPHQWVRIIXWXUHFRP PPLWPHQW  /LPLWHG WR WKH GDWD DQG LQIRUP PDWLRQ XQGHU DVVXUDQFH UHODWHG WR DOO 6WDQGDUG GLV VFORVXUH LQ DFFRUGDQFHZLWK&RUH 0DWHULD DODVSHFWLGHQWLILHGE\$&&/LPLWHGIRUVSHFLILFGLVFFORVXUHVDV SHU*5,*UHSRUWLQJIUDPHZRUN N 6WDWHPHQWRILQGHSHQGHQFHLP PSDUWLDOLW\DQGFRPSHWHQFH %XUHDX9HULWDVLVDQLQGHSHQGH HQWSURIHVVLRQDOVHUYLFHVFRPSDQ\ WKDW VSHFLDOLVHV LQ 4XDOLW\ +HDOWK 6DIHW\ 6RFLDO DQG (Q QYLURQPHQWDO PDQDJHPHQW ZLWK DOPRVW  \HDUV KLVWRU\ LQ SURYLGLQJ LQGHSHQGHQW DVVXUDQF FH VHUYLFHV DQG DQ DQQXDO WXUQRYHU LQ  RI (XXURV  ELOOLRQ %XUHDX 9HULWDV KDV LPS SOHPHQWHG D &RGH RI (WKLFV DFURVV WKH EXVLQHVV WR R PDLQWDLQ KLJKHWKLFDOVWDQGDUGVDPRQJV VWDIILQWKHLUGD\WRGD\EXVLQHVVDFWLYLWLHV:HDUHS SDUWLFXODUO\ YLJLODQW LQ WKH SUHYHQWLRQ RI FRQ QIOLFWV RI LQWHUHVW  1R PHPEHU RI WKH DVVXUDQFH WH HDP KDV D EXVLQHVVUHODWLRQVKLSZLWK$&&/LPLWHGLWV'LUHFWRUVRU0DQDJHUVEH\RQGWKDWUHTXLUHGRIWKLV DVVLJQPHQW  :H KDYH FRQGXF FWHG WKLV YHULILFDWLRQ LQGHSHQGHQWO\ DQG WKHUH KDV V EHHQ QR FRQIOLFW RI LQWHUHVW 7KH DVVXUDQQFH WHDP KDV H[WHQVLYH H[SHULHQFH LQ FRQGXFWLQJ YHULILFDWLRQ Y DQGDVVXUDQFHRYHUHQYLURQPHQWDOVRFLDOHWKLFDODQGKHDOWKDQGVDIHW\DVVHVVPH HQWV KDV RYHU  \HDUV FRPELQHG H[SHUULHQFH LQ WKLV ILHOG DQG DQ H[FHOOHQW XQGHUVWDQGLQJ RI %XUHDX 9HULWDVVWDQGDUGPHWKRGRORJ\IR RUWKH$VVXUDQFHRI6XVWDLQDEOH'HYHORSPHQW5HSRUWV  %XUHDX9HULWDV&HUWLILFDWLRQ ,QGLD 3YW/WG   6DQMD\3DWDQNDU 5XSDP%DUXDK /HDG$VVXURU 7HFKQLFDDO5HYLHZHU 3URGXFW0DQDJHU&OLPDWH&KDQJ JH *HQHUDO0DQDJHU±(DVWHUQ5HJLRQ DQG6XVWDLQDELOLW\    0XPEDL,QGLD WK  $SULO  85 11.2 GRI G4 In Accordance “Core” Content Index General Standard Disclosure Title Page Cross Reference of Whether External Assurance Standard Number Report Sections reported Fully Disclosure (or Link) or Partially (Reasons for omissions if any) Statement from the most senior G4-1 2-3 1. Foreword Fully Yes (p.82-84) decision-maker of the organizaƟon DescripƟon of key impacts, risks, and 5.1 Risks and G4-2 28-35 Fully Yes (p.82-84) opportuniƟes OpportuniƟes 2. OƌŐĂŶŝǌĂƟŽŶĂů G4-3 Name of the organizaƟon. 6 Fully Yes (p.82-84) ProĮle Primary brands, products, and/or G4-4 14 3.1 Major Products Fully Yes (p.82-84) services. LocaƟon of organizaƟon's 2.ϭ OƌŐĂŶŝǌĂƟŽŶĂů G4-5 6 Fully Yes (p.82-84) headquarters. ProĮle Number of countries where the organizaƟon operates, and names of countries with either major 2.ϭ OƌŐĂŶŝǌĂƟŽŶĂů G4-6 6 Fully Yes (p.82-84) operaƟons or that are speciĮcally ProĮle relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.ϭ OƌŐĂŶŝǌĂƟŽŶĂů G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. 6 Fully Yes (p.82-84) ProĮle Markets served (including 2.ϭ OƌŐĂŶŝǌĂƟŽŶĂů 6, Back geographic breakdown, sectors ProĮle, G4-8 cover, Fully Yes (p.82-84) served, and types of NaƟonal Footprint, 7.1 48-49 customers/beneĮciaries). Customers 2.ϭ OƌŐĂŶŝǌĂƟŽŶĂů 6, Back G4-9 Scale of the reporƟng organizaƟon. ProĮle, Fully Yes (p.82-84) cover NaƟonal Footprint Total workforce by employment G4-10 type, employment contract, and 43-47 6.1 Employee ProĮle Fully Yes (p.82-84) region, broken down by gender. Percentage of employees covered by 6.3 CollecƟve G4-11 43-47 Fully Yes (p.82-84) collecƟve bargaining agreements. Bargaining 5.4 Sustainable Supply G4-12 OrganizaƟon’s supply chain. 36-37 Fully Yes (p.82-84) Chain SigniĮcant changes during the 2.ϭ OƌŐĂŶŝǌĂƟŽŶĂů G4-13 reporƟng period regarding size, 6-8 Fully Yes (p.82-84) ProĮle structure, or ownership. ExplanaƟon of whether and how the 5.1 Risks and G4-14 precauƟonary approach or principle 28-35 Fully Yes (p.82-84) OpportuniƟes is addressed by the organizaƟon. Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, 2.ϭ OƌŐĂŶŝǌĂƟŽŶĂů G4-15 principles, or other inŝƟaƟves to 6 Fully Yes (p.82-84) ProĮle which the organizaƟon subscribes or endorses. ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 86 General Standard Disclosure Title Page Cross Reference of Whether External Assurance Standard Number Report Sections reported Fully Disclosure (or Link) or Partially (Reasons for omissions if any) Memberships in associaƟons (such as industry associaƟons) and/or naƟonal/internaƟonal advocacy organizaƟons in which the organizaƟon: * Has posiƟons in G4-16 94 11.4 Memberships Fully Yes (p.82-84) governance bodies; * ParƟcipates in projects or commiƩees; * Provides substanƟve funding beyond rouƟne membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. All enƟƟes included in the organizaƟon’s consolidated Įnancial 3.2 Financial G4-17 14-15 Fully Yes (p.82-84) statements or equivalent Highlights documents. 2.2 About the Report, G4-18 Process for deĮning report content. 7-11 2.5 Materiality Fully Yes (p.82-84) DeterminaƟon IdenƟfy all the material aspects in 2.5 Materiality G4-19 the process for deĮning report 10, 11 Fully Yes (p.82-84) DeterminaƟon content Report the Aspect Boundary within 2.3 Our BoundaryͲ G4-20 8 Fully Yes (p.82-84) the organizaƟon The Value Chain Report the Aspect Boundary outside 2.3 Our BoundaryͲ G4-21 8 Fully No the organizaƟon The Value Chain ExplanaƟon of the eīect of any restatements of informaƟon provided No G4-22 -No in earlier reports, and the reasons for restatements such re-statement SigniĮcant changes from previous reporƟng periods in the scope, G4-23 7 2.2 About the Report Fully Yes (p.82-84) boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 2.4 Stakeholder List of stakeholder groups engaged 9-10, G4-24 Engagement, Fully Yes (p.82-84) by the organizaƟon. 47-52 7 Working Inclusively Basis for idenƟĮcaƟon and selecƟon 2.4 Stakeholder G4-25 of stakeholders with whom to 9-10 Yes (p.82-84) Engagement engage. Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of G4-26 48-52 7 Working Inclusively Fully Yes (p.82-84) engagement by type and by stakeholder group. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the G4-27 48-52 7 Working Inclusively Fully Yes (p.82-84) organizaƟon has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporƟng. ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 87 General Standard Disclosure Title Page Cross Reference of Whether External Assurance Standard Number Report Sections reported Fully Disclosure (or Link) or Partially (Reasons for omissions if any) ReporƟng period (e.g., G4-28 Įscal/calendar year) for informaƟon 7 2.2 About the Report Fully Yes (p.82-84) provided. Date of most recent previous report G4-29 7 2.2 About the Report Fully Yes (p.82-84) (if any). ReporƟng cycle (annual, biennial, G4-30 7 2.2 About the Report Fully Yes (p.82-84) etc.) Contact point for quesƟons G4-31 Feedback Form Fully Yes (p.82-84) regarding the report or its contents. 11.2 GRI G4 – In Table idenƟfying the locaƟon of the G4-32 85-92 Accordance “Core” – Fully Yes (p.82-84) Standard Disclosures in the report. Content Index Policy and current pracƟce with G4-33 regard to seeking external assurance 7 2.2 About the Report Fully Yes (p.82-84) for the report. Governance structure of the organizaƟon, including commiƩees under the highest governance body 4.1 Governance G4-34 18-21 Fully Yes (p.82-84) responsible for speciĮc tasks, such as Structure seƫng strategy or organizaƟonal oversight. Report the raƟo of the increase in annual total compensaƟon for the organizaƟon’s highest-paid individual 4.1 Governance G4-56 in each country of signiĮcant 18-21 Fully No Structure operaƟons to the median annual total compensaƟon for all employees. 3.2 Financial Generic Disclosures on Management 10-11, Highlights, 2.5 G4-DMA Fully Yes (p.82-84) Approach – Economic Performance 14-15 Materiality DeterminaƟon 14-15, Direct economic value generated and 3.2 Financial G4-EC1 Annual Fully Yes (p.82-84) distributed Highlights Report Financial implicaƟons and other risks and opportunŝƟes for the 5.1 Risks and G4-EC2 28-35 Fully Yes (p.82-84) organizaƟon's acƟviƟes due to OpportuniƟes climate change Coverage of the organizaƟon's G4-EC3 43-47 6.6 Employee BeneĮts Fully Yes (p.82-84) deĮned beneĮt plan obligaƟons Financial assistance received from 14-15 3.2 Financial G4-EC4 Fully Yes (p.82-84) government Highlights Generic Disclosures on Management 2.5 Materiality 10-11, G4-DMA Approach – Indirect Economic DeterminaƟon, 9 Fully Yes (p.82-84) 70-78 Impacts Building Community Development and impact of G4-EC7 infrastructure investments and 71-72 9.3 Key Focus Areas Fully Yes (p.82-84) services supported ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 88 General Standard Disclosure Title Page Cross Reference of Whether External Assurance Standard Number Report Sections reported Fully Disclosure (or Link) or Partially (Reasons for omissions if any) SigniĮcant indirect economic G4-EC8 impacts, including the extent of 71-72 9.3 Key Focus Areas Fully Yes (p.82-84) impacts 2.5 Materiality Generic Disclosures on Management 10-11, DeterminaƟon, 5.4 G4-DMA Fully Yes (p.82-84) Approach – Procurement PracƟces 36-37 Sustainable Supply Chain ProporƟon of spending on local 5.4 Sustainable Supply G4-EC9 suppliers at signiĮcant locaƟons of 36-37 Fully Yes (p.82-84) Chain operaƟon 2.5 Materiality Generic Disclosures on Management 10-11, G4-DMA DeterminaƟon, 8.1 Fully Yes (p.82-84) Approach Materials 54 Material G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 54 8.1 Material Fully Yes (p.82-84) Percentage of materials used that G4-EN2 54 8.1 Material Fully Yes (p.82-84)) are recycled input materials 2.5 Materiality Generic Disclosures on Management 10-11, G4-DMA DeterminaƟon, 8.2 Fully Yes (p.82-84) Approach Energy 56 Energy Energy consumpƟon within the G4-EN3 56-61 8.2 Energy Fully Yes (p.82-84) organizaƟon G4-EN5 Energy intensity 56-61 8.2 Energy Fully Yes (p.82-84) G4-EN6 ReducƟon of energy consumpƟon 56-61 8.2 Energy Fully Yes (p.82-84) 2.5 Materiality Generic Disclosures on Management 10-11, G4-DMA DeterminaƟon, 8.3 Fully Yes (p.82-84) Approach Water 62 Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 62 8.3 Water Fully Yes (p.82-84) Percentage and total volume of G4-EN10 62 8.3 Water Fully Yes (p.82-84) water recycled and reused 2.5 Materiality Generic Disclosures on Management 10-11, G4-DMA DeterminaƟon, 8.4 Fully Yes (p.82-84) Approach Biodiversity 64 Biodiversity OperaƟonal sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, G4-EN11 protected areas and areas of high 64 8.4 Biodiversity Fully Yes (p.82-84) biodiversity value outside protected areas G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored 64 8.4 Biodiversity Fully Yes (p.82-84) 2.5 Materiality Generic Disclosures on Management 10-11, G4-DMA DeterminaƟon, 8.5 Fully Yes (p.82-84) Approach Emissions 65-67 Emissions Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) G4-EN15 65-67 8.5 Emissions Fully Yes (p.82-84) emissions (Scope 1) Energy indirect greenhouse gas G4-EN16 65-67 8.5 Emissions Fully Yes (p.82-84) (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) G4-EN17 65-67 8.5 Emissions Fully No emissions (Scope 3) Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions G4-EN18 65-67 8.5 Emissions Fully Yes (p.82-84) intensity ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 89 General Standard Disclosure Title Page Cross Reference of Whether External Assurance Standard Number Report Sections reported Fully Disclosure (or Link) or Partially (Reasons for omissions if any) ReducƟon of greenhouse gas (GHG) G4-EN19 65-67 8.5 Emissions Fully Yes (p.82-84) emissions Emissions of ozone-depleƟng No ODS are G4-EN20 -No substances (ODS) emiƩed NOx, SOx, and other signiĮcant air G4-EN21 65-67 8.5 Emissions Fully Yes (p.82-84) emissions 2.5 Materiality Generic Disclosures on Management 10-11, G4-DMA DeterminaƟon, 8.6 Fully Yes (p.82-84) Approach – Eŋuents and Waste 67 Eŋuents and Waste Total water discharge by quality and No water is G4-EN22 -No desƟnaƟon discharged Total weight of waste by type and 8.6 Eŋuents and G4-EN23 67 Fully Yes (p.82-84) disposal method Waste Total number and volume of 8 Being Environment G4-EN24 54 Fully Yes (p.82-84) signiĮcant spills Friendly 2.5 Materiality DeterminaƟon, 5.5 Generic Disclosures on Management 10-11, G4-DMA Sustainable Fully Yes (p.82-84)) Approach – Products and Services 38 ConstrucƟon and Responsible Products Extent of impact miƟgaƟon of 5.5 Sustainable G4-EN27 environmental impacts of products 38-40 ConstrucƟon and Fully Yes (p.82-84) and services Responsible Products 2.5 Materiality Generic Disclosures on Management 10-11, DeterminaƟon, 8 G4-DMA Fully Yes (p.82-84) Approach Compliance 54 Being Environment Friendly Monetary value of signiĮcant Įnes and total number of non-monetary 8 Being Environment G4-EN29 54 Fully Yes (p.82-84) sancƟons for non-compliance with Friendly environmental laws and regulaƟons 2.5 Materiality Generic Disclosures on Management 10-11, DeterminaƟon, 8 G4-DMA Fully Yes (p.82-84) Approach Overall 54 Being Environment Friendly Total environmental protecƟon G4-EN31 expenditures and investments by 64 8.4 Biodiversity Fully Yes (p.82-84) type 2.5 Materiality Generic Disclosures on Management 10-11, DeterminaƟon, 5.4 G4-DMA Approach – Supplier Environment Fully Yes (p.82-84) 36-37 Sustainable Supply Assessment Chain Percentage of new suppliers that 5.4 Sustainable Supply G4-EN32 were screened using environmental 36-37 Fully Yes (p.82-84) Chain criteria 2.5 Materiality Generic Disclosures on Management 10-11, G4-DMA DeterminaƟon, 6 Fully Yes (p.82-84) Approach Employment 43-47 Employee Wellbeing ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 90 General Standard Disclosure Title Page Cross Reference of Whether External Assurance Standard Number Report Sections reported Fully Disclosure (or Link) or Partially (Reasons for omissions if any) BeneĮts provided to full-Ɵme employees that are not provided to G4-LA2 46 6.6 Employee BeneĮts Fully Yes (p.82-84) temporary or part-Ɵme employees, by signiĮcant locaƟons of operaƟon Return to work and retenƟon rates G4-LA3 46 6.6 Employee BeneĮts Fully Yes (p.82-84) aŌer parental leave, by gender Generic Disclosures on Management 2.5 Materiality 10-11, Yes (p.82-84) G4-DMA Approach – Labour/Management DeterminaƟon, 6 Fully 43-47 RelaƟons Employee Wellbeing Minimum noƟce periods regarding operaƟonal changes, including 6.3 CollecƟve Yes (p.82-84) G4-LA4 45 Fully whether these are speciĮed in Bargaining collecƟve agreements 2.5 Materiality Generic Disclosures on Management 10-11, DeterminaƟon, 5.2 Yes (p.82-84) G4-DMA Approach – OccupaƟonal Health and Fully 29-32 OccupaƟonal Health Safety and Safety Type of injury and rates of injury, occupaƟonal diseases, lost days, and 5.2 OccupaƟonal Yes (p.82-84) G4-LA6 absenteeism, and total number of 29-32 Fully Health and Safety work-related fataliƟes, by region and by gender Health and safety topics covered in 5.2 OccupaƟonal Yes (p.82-84) G4-LA8 29-32 Fully formal agreements with trade unions Health and Safety 2.5 Materiality Generic Disclosures on Management 10-11, Yes (p.82-84) G4-DMA DeterminaƟon, 6 Fully Approach – Training and EducaƟon 43-47 Employee Wellbeing Average hours of training per year 6.4 Building a Yes (p.82-84) G4-LA9 per employee by gender, and by 45 Fully Workforce employee category Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the 6.4 Building a Yes (p.82-84) G4-LA10 conƟnued employability of 45 Fully Workforce employees and assist them in managing career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career Yes (p.82-84) G4-LA11 43-47 6 Employee Wellbeing Fully development reviews, by gender and by employee category 2.5 Materiality Generic Disclosures on Management 10-11, DeterminaƟon, 5.4 Yes (p.82-84) G4-DMA Approach – Supplier Assessment for Fully 36-37 Sustainable Supply Labour PracƟces Chain Percentage of new suppliers that 5.4 Sustainable Supply Yes (p.82-84) G4-LA14 were screened using labor pracƟces 36-37 Fully Chain criteria ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 91 General Standard Disclosure Title Page Cross Reference of Whether External Assurance Standard Number Report Sections reported Fully Disclosure (or Link) or Partially (Reasons for omissions if any) 2.5 Materiality Generic Disclosures on Management 10-11, DeterminaƟon, 5.4 Yes (p.82-84) G4-DMA Fully Approach – Child Labour 36-37 Sustainable Supply Chain OperaƟons and suppliers idenƟĮed as having signiĮcant risk for incidents 5.4 Sustainable Supply Yes (p.82-84) G4-HR5 of child labor, and measures taken to 36-37 Fully Chain contribute to the eīecƟve aboliƟon of child labor 2.5 Materiality Generic Disclosures on Management 10-11, DeterminaƟon, 5.4 Yes (p.82-84) G4-DMA Approach – Forced or Compulsory Fully 36-37 Sustainable Supply Labour Chain OperaƟons and suppliers idenƟĮed as having signiĮcant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and 5.4 Sustainable Supply Yes (p.82-84) G4-HR6 36-37 Fully measures to contribute to the Chain eliminaƟon of all forms of forced or compulsory labor 2.5 Materiality Generic Disclosures on Management 10-11, DeterminaƟon, 5.4 Yes (p.82-84) G4-DMA Approach – Supplier Human Rights Fully 36-37 Sustainable Supply Assessment Chain Percentage of new suppliers that 5.4 Sustainable Supply Yes (p.82-84) G4-HR10 were screened using human rights 36-37 Fully Chain criteria 2.5 Materiality Generic Disclosures on Management 10-11, Yes (p.82-84) G4-DMA DeterminaƟon, 9 Fully Approach – Local CommuniƟes 70-78 Building Community Percentage of operaƟons with implemented local community Yes (p.82-84) G4-SO1 70-78 9 Building Community Fully engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 2.5 Materiality Generic Disclosures on Management 10-11, Yes (p.82-84) G4-DMA DeterminaƟon, 4 Fully Approach – AnƟ CorrupƟon 18-26 Governing Carefully CommunicaƟon and training on anƟYes (p.82-84) G4-SO4 18-26 4 Governing Carefully Fully corrupƟon policies and procedures 2.5 Materiality Generic Disclosures on Management 10-11, Yes (p.82-84) G4-DMA DeterminaƟon, 4 Fully Approach – Public Policy 18-26 Governing Carefully Total value of polŝƟcal contribuƟons 3.2 Financial Yes (p.82-84) G4-SO6 14-15 Fully by country and recipient/beneĮciary Highlights 2.5 Materiality Generic Disclosures on Management 10-11, Yes (p.82-84) G4-DMA DeterminaƟon, 4 Fully Approach Compliance 18-26 Governing Carefully ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 92 General Standard Disclosure Title Page Cross Reference of Whether External Assurance Standard Number Report Sections reported Fully Disclosure (or Link) or Partially (Reasons for omissions if any) Monetary value of signiĮcant Įnes 5.5 Sustainable and total number of non-monetary Yes (p.82-84) G4-SO8 38-42 ConstrucƟon and Fully sancƟons for non-compliance with Responsible Products laws and regulaƟons 2.5 Materiality Generic Disclosures on Management 10-11, DeterminaƟon, 5.4 Yes (p.82-84) G4-DMA Approach – Supplier Assessments for Fully 36-37 Sustainable Supply Impact on Society Chain Percentage of new suppliers that 5.4 Sustainable Supply Yes (p.82-84) G4-SO9 were screened using criteria for 36-37 Fully Chain impacts on society 2.5 Materiality DeterminaƟon, 5.5 Generic Disclosures on Management 10-11, Sustainable Yes (p.82-84) G4-DMA Approach – Customer Health and 38-42, Fully ConstrucƟon and Safety 48-49 Responsible Products, 7.1 Customers Percentage of signiĮcant product 5.5 Sustainable and service categories for which Yes (p.82-84) G4-PR1 38-42 ConstrucƟon and Fully health and safety impacts are Responsible Products assessed for improvement Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulaƟons and 5.5 Sustainable G4-PR2 voluntary codes concerning the 38-42 ConstrucƟon and Fully No health and safety impacts of Responsible Products products and services 2.5 Materiality Generic Disclosures on Management 10-11, DeterminaƟon, 5.5 G4-DMA Approach – Product and Service 38-42, Sustainable Fully Yes (p.82-84) Labeling ConstrucƟon and Responsible Products Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulaƟons and 5.5 Sustainable G4-PR4 voluntary codes concerning product 38-42 ConstrucƟon and Fully No and service informaƟon and labeling, Responsible Products by type of outcomes Results of surveys measuring Yes (p.82-84) G4-PR5 48-49 7.1 Customers Fully customer saƟsfacƟon 2.5 Materiality Generic Disclosures on Management 10-11, Yes (p.82-84) G4-DMA DeterminaƟon, 7.1 Fully Approach – Customer Privacy 48-49 Customers Total number of substanƟated 5.5 Sustainable complaints regarding breaches of Yes (p.82-84) G4-PR8 38-42 ConstrucƟon and Fully customer privacy and losses of Responsible Products customer data 2.5 Materiality Generic Disclosures on Management 10-11, Yes (p.82-84) G4-DMA DeterminaƟon, 4 Fully Approach 18-26 Governing Carefully Monetary value of signiĮcant Įnes 5.5 Sustainable for non-compliance with laws and Yes (p.82-84) G4-PR9 38-42 ConstrucƟon and Fully regulaƟons concerning the provision Responsible Products and use of products and services ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 93 11.3 UN Global Compact Principle Linkage ACC signed the United Nations Global Compact in 2006. The table below lists the ten principles of the UNGC and indicates the relevant chapter of this report where the organization’s activity with respect to each principle is addressed. To that extent, this table and the report also serve as a Communication on Progress (COP) required to be disclosed by signatories of the UNGC. Serial Principle Section No Human Rights 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Respecting Human Rights, 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Employee Well Being Labour Standards Environment 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Respecting 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Human Rights, 5 The effective abolition of child labour Employee Well 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment Being and occupation Anti-Corruption 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Risks and Opportunities, Being 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Environmentally responsibility Conscious 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Code of Conduct, including extortion and bribery Policies ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 94 11.4 Memberships 1. Bombay Chamber of Commerce & Industry 2. Bombay First 3. Bombay Management Association 4. British Safety Council (BSC) 5. Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) 6. Council for Fair Business Practices 7. Employers Federation of India 8. Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI) 9. Federation of Indian Mineral Industries 10. Indian Geological Congress 11. Indian Merchants' Chamber 12. Indian Roads Congress 13. Indo American Chamber of Commerce 14. International Management Institute, New Delhi 15. National Safety Council (NSC) 16. Progress Harmony Development Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PHDCCI), Delhi 17. Ready Mix Concrete Manufacturers’ Association (RMCMA) 18. Swiss Indian Chamber of Commerce, India ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 95 11.5 Glossary Absolute Gross Emissions Total amount of ĂƌďŽŶ &ŽŽƚƉƌŝŶƚ Ͳ dŚĞ ƚŽƚĂů ƐĞƚ ŽĨ ŐƌĞĞŶůŝŶŬĞƌ&ĂĐƚŽƌͲdŚĞƉĞƌĐĞŶƚĂŐĞŽĨĐůŝŶŬĞƌŝŶ CO2 ĞŵŝƐƐŝŽŶƐ ĨƌŽŵ ĐĞŵĞŶƚ ƉƌŽĚƵĐƟŽŶ ŚŽƵƐĞ ŐĂƐ ĞŵŝƐƐŝŽŶƐ ĐĂƵƐĞĚ ďǇ ĂŶ ŽƌŐĂŶŝǌĂĐĞŵĞŶƚ͘ ĂĐƟǀŝƟĞƐ͘ ƟŽŶ͘ ŽŵŵƵŶŝƚǇ ĚǀŝƐŽƌǇ WĂŶĞů Ͳ  ŐƌŽƵƉ ŽĨ Absolute Net Emissions Gross CO2 Castor Ͳ  ƚǇƉĞ ŽĨ ƚƌĞĞ ǁŚŝĐŚ ƉƌŽĚƵĐĞƐ ƚŚĞ ƉĞƌƐŽŶƐ ƐĞůĞĐƚĞĚ ƚŽ ƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚ ƚŚĞ ƚĂƌŐĞƚ ĞŵŝƐƐŝŽŶƐ ŵŝŶƵƐ ĐƌĞĚŝƚƐ ĨŽƌ ŝŶĚŝƌĞĐƚ ƐĂǀŝŶŐƐ ĐĂƐƚŽƌ ďĞĂŶ ƚŚĂƚ ǇŝĞůĚƐ ĐĂƐƚŽƌ Žŝů͘ dŚŝƐ Žŝů ŝƐ ĐŽŵŵƵŶŝƚǇ ǁŚŽƐĞ ǀŝĞǁƐ ĂƌĞ ĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĞĚ ĂƐ ƐƵĐŚ ĂƐ ďǇ ƵƐĞ ŽĨ ĂůƚĞƌŶĂƚŝǀĞ ǁĂƐƚĞ ŽŶĞŽĨŚĂƌĚŽŝůƐ͕ǁŚĞƌĞƚŚĞŽŝůĐŽŶƚĞŶƚŝŶƚŚĞ ďĞŝŶŐ ƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĂƟǀĞ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ĐŽŵŵƵŶŝƚǇ ŝŶ ŵĂƚĞƌŝĂůƐĂƐĨƵĞů͘ ƐĞĞĚŝƐƌĞůĂƟǀĞůǇŚŝŐŚ͘ĂƐƚŽƌŽŝů͛ƐŶƵŵĞƌŽƵƐ ŵĂƩĞƌƐ ĐŽŶĐĞƌŶŝŶŐ ŝƚƐ ƐŽĐŝĂů ŶĞĞĚƐ ĂŶĚ ĐŚĞŵŝĐĂůĚĞƌŝǀĂƟǀĞƐĂƌĞΗƌĞŶĞǁĂďůĞƐŽƵƌĐĞƐ͕ ĚĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚƐĐŚĞŵĞƐ͘ ACC AHEAD Ͳ ƐƐŽĐŝĂƟŽŶ ĨŽƌ ,ĞĂůƚŚ͕ ĚƵĐĂďŝŽͲĚĞŐƌĂĚĂďůĞĂŶĚĞĐŽͲĨƌŝĞŶĚůǇ͘ ƟŽŶ ĂŶĚ ĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ͕ Ă ƐŽĐŝĂů ǀŽůƵŶƚĞĞƌŝŶŐ ŽŵŵƵŶŝƚǇEĞĞĚƐƐƐĞƐƐŵĞŶƚͲƐǇƐƚĞŵĂƟĐ ŝŶŝƟĂƟǀĞ ŽĨ ŵĞŵďĞƌƐ ŽĨ ͛Ɛ >ĂĚŝĞƐ ůƵďƐ D Ͳ ůĞĂŶ ĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ DĞĐŚĂŶŝƐŵ͕ Ă ƉƌŽĐĞƐƐƚŽĂĐƋƵŝƌĞĂŶĂĐĐƵƌĂƚĞƵŶĚĞƌƐƚĂŶĚŝŶŐ ĂŶĚƐƉŽƵƐĞƐŽĨĞŵƉůŽǇĞĞƐ͘ ŇĞǆŝďůĞƐĐŚĞŵĞƉƌŽǀŝĚĞĚŝŶƚŚĞ<ǇŽƚŽWƌŽƚŽŽĨĂĐŽŵŵƵŶŝƚǇ͛ƐŶĞĞĚƐĂŶĚƉƌŝŽƌŝƟĞƐŝŶƚŚĞ ĐŽůƚŚĂƚĂƐƐŝƐƚƐĐŽƵŶƚƌŝĞƐĂŶĚďƵƐŝŶĞƐƐĞŶƟƟĞƐ ĐŽŶƚĞǆƚ ŽĨ ŝƚƐ ĞĐŽŶŽŵŝĐ ĂŶĚ ƐŽĐŝĂů ĚĞǀĞůŽƉ ĞŵĞŶƚ dĞĐŚŶŽůŽŐǇ /ŶƐƟƚƵƚĞ ;d/Ϳ – ŝŶĂĐŚŝĞǀŝŶŐĐŽŵƉůŝĂŶĐĞǁŝƚŚƚŚĞŝƌƋƵĂŶƟĮĞĚ ŵĞŶƚ͘ dŚĞ ĐŽŵƉĂŶǇ͛Ɛ ŝŶƐƟƚƵƚĞ ŝŶ DĂĚŚǇĂ WƌĂĚĞƐŚ ĞŵŝƐƐŝŽŶ ůŝŵŝƚĂƟŽŶ ĂŶĚ ƌĞĚƵĐƟŽŶ ĐŽŵŵŝƚǁŚŝĐŚ ŽīĞƌƐ ƐƉĞĐŝĂůŝǌĞĚ ƚĞĐŚŶŝĐĂů ƚƌĂŝŶŝŶŐ ƚŽ ŵĞŶƚƐ͘ Concrete Ͳ  ďƵŝůĚŝŶŐ ŵĂƚĞƌŝĂů ƉƌŽĚƵĐĞĚ ďǇ ǇŽƵŶŐĞŶŐŝŶĞĞƌŝŶŐŐƌĂĚƵĂƚĞƐ͘ ŵŝǆŝŶŐ ĐĞŵĞŶƚ͕ ǁĂƚĞƌ ĂŶĚ ĂŐŐƌĞŐĂƚĞƐ Cement Ͳ Ă ďƵŝůĚŝŶŐ ŵĂƚĞƌŝĂů ŵĂĚĞ ďǇ ĐŽŵƉƌŝƐŝŶŐƐĂŶĚĂŶĚŐƌĂǀĞůŽƌĐƌƵƐŚĞĚƐƚŽŶĞ͘ ůƚĞƌŶĂƟǀĞ&ƵĞůƐĂŶĚZĂǁDĂƚĞƌŝĂůƐ;&ZͿ ŐƌŝŶĚŝŶŐĐĂůĐŝŶĞĚůŝŵĞƐƚŽŶĞĂŶĚĐůĂǇƚŽĂĮŶĞ ŽͲƉƌŽĐĞƐƐŝŶŐ Ͳ dŚĞ ĂĐƚ ŽĨ ĂĚĂƉƟŶŐ ĂŶ /ŶƉƵƚƐĚĞƌŝǀĞĚĨƌŽŵǁĂƐƚĞƐƚƌĞĂŵƐĐŽŶƚƌŝďƵƚƉŽǁĚĞƌ͘/ƚĂĐƚƐĂƐĂďŝŶĚŝŶŐĂŐĞŶƚǁŚĞŶŵŝǆĞĚ ĞǆŝƐƟŶŐ ŝŶĚƵƐƚƌŝĂů ƉƌŽĐĞƐƐ ŝŶ Ă ƐŝŶŐůĞ ŝŶŐĞŶĞƌŐǇĂŶĚͬŽƌƌĞƐŽƵƌĐĞƌĞĐŽǀĞƌǇ͘ ǁŝƚŚƐĂŶĚ͕ŐƌĂǀĞůŽƌĐƌƵƐŚĞĚƐƚŽŶĞĂŶĚǁĂƚĞƌ ĐŽŵďŝŶĞĚ ŽƉĞƌĂƟŽŶ͕ ǁŚĞƌĞďǇ ĐĞƌƚĂŝŶ ƚŽŵĂŬĞĐŽŶĐƌĞƚĞ͘ ƐŽͲĐĂůůĞĚ͚ǁĂƐƚĞ͛ŵĂƚĞƌŝĂůƐŵĂǇďĞƉƵƚƚŽƵƐĞ Bag HouseͲŝƌƉŽůůƵƟŽŶĐŽŶƚƌŽůĞƋƵŝƉŵĞŶƚ ĂƐĂůƚĞƌŶĂƟǀĞĨƵĞůŽƌƌĂǁŵĂƚĞƌŝĂůŝŶĐĞŵĞŶƚ ƚŚĂƚ ƌĞŵŽǀĞƐ ƉĂƌƟĐƵůĂƚĞƐ ĨƌŽŵ ŇƵĞ ŐĂƐ ĞŵĞŶƚ ^ƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďŝůŝƚǇ /ŶŝƟĂƟǀĞ ;^/Ϳ a ŬŝůŶƐ͕ĚƌǇĞƌƐĂŶĚĐĂƉƟǀĞƉŽǁĞƌƉůĂŶƚƐ͘ ƌĞůĞĂƐĞĚŝŶŵĂŶƵĨĂĐƚƵƌŝŶŐƉƌŽĐĞƐƐĞƐ͘ ŐůŽďĂů ŐƌŽƵƉ ŽĨ Ϯϰ ŵĂũŽƌ ĐĞŵĞŶƚ ƉƌŽĚƵĐĞƌƐ set up under the World Business Council for ŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞ ^ŽĐŝĂů ZĞƐƉŽŶƐŝďŝůŝƚǇ ;^ZͿ – In a ŝŽĚŝǀĞƌƐŝƚǇͲZĞĨĞƌƐƚŽƚŚĞǀĂƌŝĞƚǇŽĨůŝĨĞŽŶ ^ƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďůĞ ĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ ĨŽƌ ƚŚĞ ƉƵƌƐƵŝƚ ŽĨ ǁŝĚĞƌĐŽŶƚĞǆƚƚŚĞƚĞƌŵŝŶĚŝĐĂƚĞƐƚŚĞĐŽŵŵŝƚĞĂƌƚŚ Ͳ ƚŚĞ ĚŝīĞƌĞŶƚ ĂŶŝŵĂůƐ͕ ƉůĂŶƚƐ ĂŶĚ ŝƐƐƵĞƐĐŽŶĐĞƌŶŝŶŐƐƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďůĞĚĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚŝŶ ment of business to contribute to sustainable ŵŝĐƌŽͲŽƌŐĂŶŝƐŵƐ͕ƚŚĞŝƌŐĞŶĞƐĂŶĚƚŚĞĞĐŽƐǇƐƚŚĞĐĞŵĞŶƚƐĞĐƚŽƌ͘ ĚĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ͕ ǁŽƌŬŝŶŐ ǁŝƚŚ ǀĂƌŝŽƵƐ ƚĞŵƐŽĨǁŚŝĐŚƚŚĞǇĂƌĞĂƉĂƌƚ͘ ƐƚĂŬĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ ůŝŬĞ ĞŵƉůŽǇĞĞƐ͕ ƚŚĞŝƌ ĨĂŵŝůŝĞƐ͕ D^ Ͳ ŽŶƟŶƵŽƵƐ ŵŝƐƐŝŽŶƐ DŽŶŝƚŽƌŝŶŐ ƚŚĞ ůŽĐĂů ĐŽŵŵƵŶŝƚǇ ĂŶĚ ƐŽĐŝĞƚǇ Ăƚ ůĂƌŐĞ ƚŽ ŝŽĚŝĞƐĞů Ͳ /ƚ ŝƐ Ă ĚŽŵĞƐƟĐĂůůǇ ƉƌŽĚƵĐĞĚ͕ ^ǇƐƚĞŵƐ ŝŵƉƌŽǀĞƚŚĞŝƌƋƵĂůŝƚǇŽĨůŝĨĞ͘tĞŐĞŶĞƌĂůůǇƵƐĞ ƌĞŶĞǁĂďůĞ ĨƵĞů ƚŚĂƚ ĐĂŶ ďĞ ŵĂŶƵĨĂĐƚƵƌĞĚ ƚŚŝƐ ƚĞƌŵ ƚŽ ƌĞĨĞƌ ƐƉĞĐŝĮĐĂůůǇ ƚŽ ĐŽŵŵƵŶŝƚǇ ĨƌŽŵ ǀĞŐĞƚĂďůĞ ŽŝůƐ͕ ĂŶŝŵĂů ĨĂƚƐ͕ Žƌ ƌĞĐǇĐůĞĚ ZʹĞƌƟĮĞĚŵŝƐƐŝŽŶZĞĚƵĐƟŽŶ͕ĂƚǇƉĞŽĨ ĚĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚĂŶĚĞŶŐĂŐĞŵĞŶƚƐ͘ ƌĞƐƚĂƵƌĂŶƚŐƌĞĂƐĞĨŽƌƵƐĞŝŶĚŝĞƐĞůǀĞŚŝĐůĞƐ͘ tradable carbon credit issued in lieu of ĞŵŝƐƐŝŽŶ ƌĞĚƵĐƟŽŶ ĂĐŚŝĞǀĞĚ ďǇ ƉƌŽũĞĐƚƐ ůĞŶĚĞĚĞŵĞŶƚʹ,ǇĚƌĂƵůŝĐĐĞŵĞŶƚƐĐŽŶƐŝƐƚƋƵĂůŝĨǇŝŶŐ ƵŶĚĞƌ ƚŚĞ ůĞĂŶ ĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ ŝŶŐ ĞƐƐĞŶƟĂůůǇ ŽĨ ĂŶ ŝŶƟŵĂƚĞ ĂŶĚ ƵŶŝĨŽƌŵ DĞĐŚĂŶŝƐŵ;DͿ͘ ďůĞŶĚŽĨŽƌĚŝŶĂƌǇWŽƌƚůĂŶĚĐĞŵĞŶƚǁŝƚŚĞŝƚŚĞƌ ƐůĂŐŽƌŇǇĂƐŚ͘ &KʹŚŝĞĨ&ŝŶĂŶĐŝĂůKĸĐĞƌ ƵƐŝŶĞƐƐZŝƐŬDĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚWƌŽĐĞƐƐ;ZDͿ – CII Ͳ ŽŶĨĞĚĞƌĂƟŽŶ ŽĨ /ŶĚŝĂŶ /ŶĚƵƐƚƌǇ͕ Ă ƉƌŽĐĞƐƐŝŶƚŽŚĞůƉŝĚĞŶƟĨǇǀĂƌŝŽƵƐƌŝƐŬƐ ŶŽŶͲŐŽǀĞƌŶŵĞŶƚ͕ ŶŽƚͲĨŽƌͲƉƌŽĮƚ͕ ŝŶĚƵƐƚƌǇͲůĞĚ ĂŶĚ ŽƉƉŽƌƚƵŶŝƟĞƐ ĂƐƐŽĐŝĂƚĞĚ ǁŝƚŚ ŽƵƌ ĂŶĚ ŝŶĚƵƐƚƌǇͲŵĂŶĂŐĞĚ ŽƌŐĂŶŝǌĂƚŝŽŶ ƚŚĂƚ ďƵƐŝŶĞƐƐ͘ ĨĂĐŝůŝƚĂƚĞƐĚŝĂůŽŐƵĞǁŝƚŚŝŶĚƵƐƚƌǇĂŶĚŐŽǀĞƌŶŵĞŶƚ͘ ĂƉƟǀĞ WŽǁĞƌ WůĂŶƚƐ ;WWͿ Ͳ WŽǁĞƌ ƉůĂŶƚƐ ŝŶĐůƵĚŝŶŐ 'ĞŶĞƌĂƟŽŶ ^ĞƚƐ͕ ŶŽƌŵĂůůǇ ůŝŶŬĞƌ An intermediate product in cement ĞƐƚĂďůŝƐŚĞĚ ďǇ ĂŶ ŝŶĚƵƐƚƌǇ ƚŽ ŵĞĞƚ ŝƚƐ ŽǁŶ ŵĂŶƵĨĂĐƚƵƌĞ ƚŚĂƚ ŝƐ ƉƌŽĚƵĐĞĚ ďǇ ƐŝŶƚĞƌŝŶŐ ƉŽǁĞƌƌĞƋƵŝƌĞŵĞŶƚƐ͘ ĂŶĚĨĂƐƚͲĐŽŽůŝŶŐŐƌŽƵŶĚůŝŵĞƐƚŽŶĞ͘ ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 96 ĞŶƚƌĂů WŽůůƵƚŝŽŶ ŽŶƚƌŽů ŽĂƌĚ ;WͿ A >ŽƐƚ dŝŵĞ /ŶũƵƌǇ &ƌĞƋƵĞŶĐǇ ZĂƚĞ refers to 'ŽǀĞƌŶĂŶĐĞĨƌĂŵĞǁŽƌŬ͘ ƐƚĂƚƵƚŽƌǇ ŽƌŐĂŶŝǌĂƚŝŽŶ ƵŶĚĞƌ ƚŚĞ DŝŶŝƐƚƌǇ ŽĨ ƚŚĞƌĂƚĞŽĨŽĐĐƵƌƌĞŶĐĞŽĨǁŽƌŬƉůĂĐĞŝŶĐŝĚĞŶƚƐ ŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚ ĂŶĚ &ŽƌĞƐƚƐ ƌĞƐƉŽŶƐŝďůĞ ĨŽƌ ƚŚĂƚƌĞƐƵůƚŝŶĂŶĞŵƉůŽǇĞĞΖƐŝŶĂďŝůŝƚǇƚŽǁŽƌŬ 'W^ʹ'ůŽďĂůWŽƐŝƟŽŶŝŶŐ^ǇƐƚĞŵ ŵĂŝŶƚĂŝŶŝŶŐ ŶĂƚŝŽŶĂů ƐƚĂŶĚĂƌĚƐ ƵŶĚĞƌ Ă ƚŚĞ ŶĞǆƚ ĨƵůů ǁŽƌŬ ĚĂǇ͘  ĂůĐƵůĂƚĞĚ ĂƐ ƚŚĞ ǀĂƌŝĞƚǇ ŽĨ ĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚĂů ůĂǁƐ͕ ŝŶ ŶƵŵďĞƌ ŽĨ ůŽƐƚͲƟŵĞ ŝŶũƵƌŝĞƐ ǁŝƚŚŝŶ Ă ŐŝǀĞŶ 'ƌĞĞŶ ƵŝůĚŝŶŐ ʹ  ƵŝůĚŝŶŐ ǁŚŝĐŚ ƵƐĞƐ ůĞƐƐ ĐŽŶƐƵůƚĂƚŝŽŶ ǁŝƚŚ ǌŽŶĂů ŽĸĐĞƐ͕ ĂŶĚ ůŽĐĂů ĂĐĐŽƵŶƟŶŐ ƉĞƌŝŽĚ ƌĞůĂƟǀĞ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ƚŽƚĂů ǁĂƚĞƌ͕ŽƉƟŵŝǌĞƐĞŶĞƌŐǇĞĸĐŝĞŶĐǇ͕ĐŽŶƐĞƌǀĞƐ ŐŽǀĞƌŶŵĞŶƚƐ͘ ŶƵŵďĞƌŽĨŚŽƵƌƐǁŽƌŬĞĚŝŶƚŚĞƐĂŵĞĂĐĐŽƵŶƚŶĂƚƵƌĂů ƌĞƐŽƵƌĐĞƐ͕ ŐĞŶĞƌĂƚĞƐ ůĞƐƐ ǁĂƐƚĞ ĂŶĚ ŽƵŶƚƌǇ ŽŽƌĚŝŶĂƟŽŶ DĞĐŚĂŶŝƐŵ ;DͿ – ŝŶŐƉĞƌŝŽĚ͘ ƉƌŽǀŝĚĞƐ ŚĞĂůƚŚŝĞƌ ƐƉĂĐĞƐ ĨŽƌ ŽĐĐƵƉĂŶƚƐ͕ ĂƐ ŽƵŶƚƌǇͲǁŝƐĞ ĐŽŵŵŝƩĞĞƐ ƚŚĂƚ ŝŵƉůĞŵĞŶƚ ĐŽŵƉĂƌĞĚƚŽĂĐŽŶǀĞŶƟŽŶĂůďƵŝůĚŝŶŐ͘ ƉƌŽŐƌĂŵŵĞƐŽĨƚŚĞ'ůŽďĂů&ƵŶĚƚŽ&ŝŐŚƚ/^͕ ŵƉůŽǇĞĞ>ŽƐƚtŽƌŬŝŶŐĚĂǇƐ Those days on dĂŶĚDĂůĂƌŝĂ͘ ǁŚŝĐŚ͕ ďĞĐĂƵƐĞ ŽĨ ŽĐĐƵƉĂƟŽŶĂů ŝŶũƵƌǇ Žƌ Greenhouse Gases Gases that absorb and ŝůůŶĞƐƐ͕ƚŚĞĞŵƉůŽǇĞĞǁĂƐĂǁĂǇĨƌŽŵǁŽƌŬŽƌ Ğŵŝƚ ƌĂĚŝĂƟŽŶ ǁŝƚŚŝŶ ƚŚĞ ƚŚĞƌŵĂů ŝŶĨƌĂƌĞĚ ƌŝƟĐĂů/ŶĐŝĚĞŶƚͲŶŝŶĐŝĚĞŶƚ;/ŶĚĞƉĞŶĚĞŶƚŽĨ ůŝŵŝƚĞĚƚŽƌĞƐƚƌŝĐƚĞĚǁŽƌŬĂĐƟǀŝƚǇ͘ ƌĂŶŐĞŽĨƚŚĞĞĂƌƚŚ͛ƐĂƚŵŽƐƉŚĞƌĞ͘ ƚŚĞ ŽƵƚĐŽŵĞ ĞŐ͗ EĞĂƌ DŝƐƐ͕ &/͕ Dd/͕ >d/Ϳ ǁŚŝĐŚ ŚĂĚ ƚŚĞ ƉŽƚĞŶƟĂů ƚŽ ĐĂƵƐĞ ƐĞƌŝŽƵƐ ŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚĂů/ŵƉĂĐƚƐƐĞƐƐŵĞŶƚ;/ͿAn ,ƵŵĂŶĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ/ŶĚĞǆ;,/Ϳ A composŝŶũƵƌŝĞƐ ;ƐŝŶŐůĞ ĨĂƚĂůŝƚǇ͕ ŵƵůƟƉůĞ ĨĂƚĂůŝƟĞƐͿ Žƌ assessment of the possible impacts that a ŝƚĞƐƚĂƟƐƟĐŽĨůŝĨĞĞǆƉĞĐƚĂŶĐǇ͕ĞĚƵĐĂƟŽŶ͕ĂŶĚ ƚŽĐĂƵƐĞƐƵďƐƚĂŶƟĂůƉƌŽƉĞƌƚǇĚĂŵĂŐĞŽƌůŽƐƐ ƉƌŽƉŽƐĞĚ ƉƌŽũĞĐƚ ŵĂǇ ŚĂǀĞ ŽŶ ƚŚĞ ĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŝŶĐŽŵĞ ŝŶĚŝĐĞƐ ƵƐĞĚ ƚŽ ƌĂŶŬ ĐŽƵŶƚƌŝĞƐ ŝŶƚŽ ;ĞŐ͗ ĮƌĞ͕ ĞǆƉůŽƐŝŽŶƐ͕ ŐĞŽƚĞĐŚŶŝĐĂů Žƌ ŵĞŶƚ͕ĐŽŶƐŝƐƟŶŐŽĨƚŚĞĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚĂů͕ƐŽĐŝĂů ĨŽƵƌƟĞƌƐŽĨŚƵŵĂŶĚĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ͘ ƐƚƌƵĐƚƵƌĂůĨĂŝůƵƌĞƐͿ͘ ĂŶĚĞĐŽŶŽŵŝĐĂƐƉĞĐƚƐ͘ /&Ͳ Iron Folic Acid tablets Dolochar Ͳ  ǁĂƐƚĞ ŵĂƚĞƌŝĂů ŐĞŶĞƌĂƚĞĚ ŝŶ &// Ͳ &ĞĚĞƌĂƟŽŶ ŽĨ /ŶĚŝĂŶ ŚĂŵďĞƌƐ ŽĨ ƐƉŽŶŐĞŝƌŽŶŝŶĚƵƐƚƌǇƵƐĞĚĂƐĂƐƵďƐƟƚƵƚĞĨƵĞů ŽŵŵĞƌĐĞ ĂŶĚ /ŶĚƵƐƚƌǇ͕ ĂŶ ĂƐƐŽĐŝĂƟŽŶ ŽĨ IUCNͲdŚĞ/ŶƚĞƌŶĂƚŝŽŶĂůhŶŝŽŶĨŽƌŽŶƐĞƌǀĂĨŽƌĐŽĂůƵƐĞĚŝŶĐĂƉƟǀĞƉŽǁĞƌƉůĂŶƚƐ͘ ďƵƐŝŶĞƐƐŽƌŐĂŶŝǌĂƟŽŶƐŝŶ/ŶĚŝĂ͘ ƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ EĂƚƵƌĞ͕ ĂŶ ŝŶƚĞƌŶĂƚŝŽŶĂů ŽƌŐĂŶŝǌĂƚŝŽŶ ǁŽƌŬŝŶŐĨŽƌŶĂƚƵƌĂůƌĞƐŽƵƌĐĞĐŽŶƐĞƌǀĂƚŝŽŶ͘ Kd^ Ͳ ŝƌĞĐƚůǇ KďƐĞƌǀĞĚ dƌĞĂƚŵĞŶƚ ^ŚŽƌƚ&ůǇ ƐŚ Ͳ tĂƐƚĞ ƉĂƌƟĐƵůĂƚĞ ƌĞƐŝĚƵĞ ĨƌŽŵ course ƚŚĞƌŵĂůƉŽǁĞƌƉůĂŶƚƐŽƌŝŶĐŝŶĞƌĂƟŽŶƉůĂŶƚƐ͘ /ŶĚƵƐƚƌŝĂů dƌĂŝŶŝŶŐ /ŶƐƟƚƵƚĞ ;/d/Ϳ – 'ŽǀĞƌŶŵĞŶƚͲƌƵŶ dƌĂŝŶŝŶŐ ŝŶƐƟƚƵƚĞƐ ǁŚŝĐŚ ZdʹƚŚĞĐŽŵƉĂŶǇ͛ƐŝƐĂƐƚĞƌZĞƐƉŽŶƐĞdĞĂŵ &ŽĐƵƐ'ƌŽƵƉͲĨŽƌŵŽĨƋƵĂůŝƚĂƟǀĞƌĞƐĞĂƌĐŚ͕ ƉƌŽǀŝĚĞƉŽƐƚͲƐĐŚŽŽůƚĞĐŚŶŝĐĂůƚƌĂŝŶŝŶŐ͘ ǁŚŝĐŚ ŝŶǀŽůǀĞƐ ŝŶƚĞƌǀŝĞǁƐ ĂŶĚ ŝŶƚĞƌĂĐƟŽŶ ŶĞƌŐǇ ĐƟǀĂƟŽŶ ĂĐƌŽƐƐ ZĞŐŝŽŶĂů EĞƚǁŽƌŬ ǁŝƚŚĂƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĂƟǀĞƐĂŵƉůĞŽĨĐŽŵŵƵŶŝƚǇŽƌ /ŶĨĂŶƚDŽƌƚĂůŝƚǇZĂƚĞ;/DZͿThe death rate ;ZEͿʹŶŝŶŝƟĂƟǀĞƉƌĂĐƟĐĞĚŝŶƚŚĞ^ŽƵƚŚƉŽƉƵůĂƟŽŶƐĞŐŵĞŶƚ͘ ĚƵƌŝŶŐƚŚĞĮƌƐƚǇĞĂƌŽĨĂĐŚŝůĚ͛ƐůŝĨĞ͘ ĂƐƚ ƐŝĂŶ ƌĞŐŝŽŶ ŽĨ ,ŽůĐŝŵ ĚĞĮŶŝŶŐ ĮǀĞ ƉŝůůĂƌƐĨŽƌŝŵƉƌŽǀŝŶŐĞŶĞƌŐǇĞĸĐŝĞŶĐǇ͘ &ŽƐƐŝů &ƵĞůƐ Ͳ EŽŶͲƌĞŶĞǁĂďůĞ ĐĂƌďŽŶͲďĂƐĞĚ JatrophaͲŐĞŶƵƐŽĨƉůĂŶƚƐĂŶĚƚƌĞĞƐǁŚŽƐĞ ĨƵĞůƐůŝŬĞĐŽĂůĂŶĚŽŝůĞƚĐ͘ ĨƌƵŝƚ ĂŶĚ ƐĞĞĚƐ ĐŽŶƚĂŝŶ Žŝů ǁŚŝĐŚ ƐĞƌǀĞƐ ĂƐ Ă ĐŽͲĸĐŝĞŶĐǇ Ͳ ZĞĚƵĐƟŽŶ ŝŶ ƚŚĞ ƌĞƐŽƵƌĐĞ ƌĞƉůĂĐĞŵĞŶƚ ŽĨ ĨŽƐƐŝů ĨƵĞůƐ͘ dŚĞǇ ĂƌĞ ŝŶƚĞŶƐŝƚǇ ŽĨ ƉƌŽĚƵĐƟŽŶ͕ ŝ͘Ğ͘ ƚŚĞ ŝŶƉƵƚ ŽĨ &ƌĂƵĚZŝƐŬDĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ;&ZDͿWŽůŝĐǇ – The ĂŵĞŶĂďůĞƚŽďŝŽͲĚŝĞƐĞůƉƌŽĚƵĐƟŽŶ͘ ŵĂƚĞƌŝĂůƐ͕ ŶĂƚƵƌĂů ƌĞƐŽƵƌĐĞƐ ĂŶĚ ĞŶĞƌŐǇ ƉŽůŝĐǇ ƵŶĚĞƌ ǁŚŝĐŚ ƌĞǀŝĞǁƐ ĂƌĞ ĚŽŶĞ ĂŶĚ ĐŽŵƉĂƌĞĚǁŝƚŚƚŚĞŽƵƚƉƵƚ͗ĞƐƐĞŶƟĂůůǇ͕ĚŽŝŶŐ ĂƉƉƌŽƉƌŝĂƚĞ ĂĐƟŽŶƐ ĂƌĞ ƚĂŬĞŶ ŝŶ ĐĂƐĞƐ ŽĨ <ĞǇĐĐŽƵŶƚDĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ;<DͿ A profesŵŽƌĞǁŝƚŚůĞƐƐ͘ suspected fraud or misconduct in the ƐŝŽŶĂů ƐĂůĞƐ ĂƉƉƌŽĂĐŚ ǁŚŝĐŚ ŝŶǀŽůǀĞƐ ƚŚĞ ĐŽŵƉĂŶǇ͘ ƐƵƉƉůŝĞƌ ĂŶĚ ĐƵƐƚŽŵĞƌ͛Ɛ ďƵƐŝŶĞƐƐ ǁŽƌŬŝŶŐ Employee Lost Time Injury Ͳ  ǁŽƌŬͲƌĞůĂƚĞĚ ƚŽŐĞƚŚĞƌƚŽĂĐŚŝĞǀĞĐŽŵŵŽŶŐŽĂůƐ͘ ŝŶũƵƌǇ ĂŌĞƌ ǁŚŝĐŚ ƚŚĞ ŝŶũƵƌĞĚ ƉĞƌƐŽŶ ĐĂŶŶŽƚ Geocycle Ͳ dŚĞ ďƌĂŶĚ ŶĂŵĞ ƵŶĚĞƌ ǁŚŝĐŚ ǁŽƌŬ ĨŽƌ Ăƚ ůĞĂƐƚ ŽŶĞ ĨƵůů ƐŚŝŌͬĨƵůů ǁŽƌŬŝŶŐ ,ŽůĐŝŵŽīĞƌƐƐƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďůĞƐŽůƵƟŽŶƐĨŽƌǁĂƐƚĞ KilnͲ>ĂƌŐĞƌŽƚĂƟŶŐĐǇůŝŶĚƌŝĐĂůŝŶĚƵƐƚƌŝĂůŽǀĞŶ ĚĂǇ͘ ŵĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ͘ ƵƐĞĚŝŶƚŚĞŵĂŶƵĨĂĐƚƵƌĞŽĨĐĞŵĞŶƚĐůŝŶŬĞƌ͘/Ŷ ƚŚŝƐ ƌĞƉŽƌƚ͕ ͞ŬŝůŶ͟ ĂůǁĂǇƐ ƌĞĨĞƌƐ ƚŽ Ă ƌŽƚĂƌǇ GIZ ͲĞƵƚƐĐŚĞ'ĞƐĞůůƐĐŚĂŌĨƺƌ/ŶƚĞƌŶĂƟŽŶĂůĞ ŬŝůŶ͘ĐĞŵĞŶƚŬŝůŶŝƐďĞůŝĞǀĞĚƚŽďĞĂŵŽŶŐƚŚĞ ƵƐĂŵŵĞŶĂƌďĞŝƚ Žƌ 'ĞƌŵĂŶ ^ŽĐŝĞƚǇ ĨŽƌ ůĂƌŐĞƐƚŵŽǀŝŶŐŵĂĐŚŝŶĞƐ͘ /ŶƚĞƌŶĂƟŽŶĂů ŽŽƉĞƌĂƟŽŶ͕ Ă 'ĞƌŵĂŶ ƐƚĂƚĞ ĞŶƚĞƌƉƌŝƐĞ ƚŚĂƚ ǁŽƌŬƐ ŽŶ Ă ŚŽƐƚ ŽĨ ŐůŽďĂů Limestone ʹƐĞĚŝŵĞŶƚĂƌǇƌŽĐŬĐŽŵƉŽƐĞĚŽĨ ĚĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚŝƐƐƵĞƐ͘ calcium carbonate used as the main input in ĐĞŵĞŶƚŵĂŶƵĨĂĐƚƵƌĞ͘ 'ůŽďĂůZĞƉŽƌƟŶŐ/ŶŝƟĂƟǀĞ;'Z/Ϳ An InternaƟŽŶĂůĨƌĂŵĞǁŽƌŬƌĞĐŽŵŵĞŶĚĞĚĨŽƌƌĞƉŽƌƟŶŐ DĂƚĞƌŝĂůŝƚǇ -dŽƉŝĐƐĂŶĚŝŶĚŝĐĂƚŽƌƐƚŚĂƚƌĞŇĞĐƚ ƉƌŽŐƌĞƐƐĂŐĂŝŶƐƚ^ƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďůĞĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ͘/Ŷ ƚŚĞ ŽƌŐĂŶŝǌĂƟŽŶ͛Ɛ ƐŝŐŶŝĮĐĂŶƚ ĞĐŽŶŽŵŝĐ͕ DĂǇϮϬϭϯ͕'Z/ƌĞůĞĂƐĞĚƚŚĞĨŽƵƌƚŚŐĞŶĞƌĂƟŽŶ ĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚĂů͕ ĂŶĚ ƐŽĐŝĂů ŝŵƉĂĐƚƐ Žƌ ƚŚĂƚ ŽĨŝƚƐ'ƵŝĚĞůŝŶĞƐʹ'ϰ͘ ǁŽƵůĚƐƵďƐƚĂŶƟĂůůǇŝŶŇƵĞŶĐĞƚŚĞĂƐƐĞƐƐŵĞŶƚ ĂŶĚ ĚĞĐŝƐŝŽŶƐ ŽĨ ƐƚĂŬĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͘ ĐĐŽƌĚŝŶŐ ƚŽ 'ŽǀĞƌŶĂŶĐĞ ZŝƐŬ ĂŶĚ ŽŵƉůŝĂŶĐĞ ;'ZͿ 'Z/ŐƵŝĚĞůŝŶĞƐ͕DĂƚĞƌŝĂůŝƚǇŝƐƚŚĞƚŚƌĞƐŚŽůĚĂƚ DŽĚƵůĞʹŵŽĚƵůĞŝŶŝƟĂƚĞĚŝŶϮϬϭϭǁŚŝĐŚ ǁŚŝĐŚ ĂŶ ŝƐƐƵĞ Žƌ ŝŶĚŝĐĂƚŽƌ ďĞĐŽŵĞƐ ĐŽŶƚƌŝďƵƚĞƐ ƐŝŐŶŝĮĐĂŶƚůǇ ƚŽ ĞŶŚĂŶĐĞ ŽƵƌ /d ƐƵĸĐŝĞŶƚůǇ ŝŵƉŽƌƚĂŶƚ ƚŚĂƚ ŝƚ ƐŚŽƵůĚ ďĞ ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 97 DŽƚŚĞƌ DŽƌƚĂůŝƚǇ ZĂƚĞ ;DDZͿ Ͳ DĂƚĞƌŶĂů ƉĂƌƚŶĞƌƐŚŝƉŽĨŐŽǀĞƌŶŵĞŶƚĂŶĚŽŶĞŽƌŵŽƌĞ ǁŚŝĐŚĂŶŽƌŐĂŶŝǌĂƟŽŶŝŶǀŽůǀĞƐŝƚƐƐƚĂŬĞŚŽůĚŵŽƌƚĂůŝƚǇƌĂƟŽŝƐƚŚĞŶƵŵďĞƌŽĨǁŽŵĞŶǁŚŽ ƉƌŝǀĂƚĞƐĞĐƚŽƌĐŽŵƉĂŶŝĞƐ͘ ĞƌƐ͕ƚŚĂƚŝƐ͕ƚŚĞƉĞŽƉůĞǁŚŽŵĂǇďĞĂīĞĐƚĞĚ ĚŝĞ ĚƵƌŝŶŐ ƉƌĞŐŶĂŶĐǇ ĂŶĚ ĐŚŝůĚďŝƌƚŚ͕ ƉĞƌ ďǇ ŝƚƐ ĚĞĐŝƐŝŽŶƐ Žƌ ĐĂŶ ŝŶŇƵĞŶĐĞ ƚŚĞ ŝŵƉůĞϭϬϬ͕ϬϬϬůŝǀĞďŝƌƚŚƐ͘ ZĂĚŝŽ&ƌĞƋƵĞŶĐǇ/ĚĞŶƟĮĐĂƟŽŶĞǀŝĐĞ;Z&/Ϳ ŵĞŶƚĂƟŽŶŽĨŝƚƐĚĞĐŝƐŝŽŶƐ͘ - dŚĞ ǁŝƌĞůĞƐƐ ŶŽŶͲĐŽŶƚĂĐƚ ƵƐĞ ŽĨ ƌĂĚŝŽDd – DĞƚƌŝĐdŽŶŶĞ ĨƌĞƋƵĞŶĐǇ ĞůĞĐƚƌŽŵĂŐŶĞƟĐ ĮĞůĚƐ ƚŽ ƚƌĂŶƐĨĞƌ SES – ^ƚĂŬĞŚŽůĚĞƌŶŐĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ^ƵƌǀĞǇƐ ĚĂƚĂ͕ĨŽƌƚŚĞƉƵƌƉŽƐĞƐŽĨĂƵƚŽŵĂƟĐĂůůǇŝĚĞŶƟDt – DĞŐĂǁĂƩ͕ĂƵŶŝƚŽĨƉŽǁĞƌĞƋƵĂůƚŽŽŶĞ ĨǇŝŶŐĂŶĚƚƌĂĐŬŝŶŐƚĂŐƐĂƩĂĐŚĞĚƚŽŽďũĞĐƚƐ͘ ^Kdʹ^ĂĨĞƚǇKďƐĞƌǀĂƟŽŶdŽƵƌ ŵŝůůŝŽŶǁĂƩƐ͘ ZĞĂĚǇDŝǆŽŶĐƌĞƚĞ;ZDyͿConcrete that is STI Ͳ^ĞǆƵĂůůǇdƌĂŶƐŵŝƩĞĚ/ŶĨĞĐƟŽŶƐ EZͲEĂƟŽŶĂůĂŶŬĨŽƌŐƌŝĐƵůƚƵƌĞĂŶĚ ƐƉĞĐŝĮĐĂůůǇ ŵĂŶƵĨĂĐƚƵƌĞĚ ĨŽƌ ĚĞůŝǀĞƌǇ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ZƵƌĂůĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ ĐŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƟŽŶƐŝƚĞŝŶĂĨƌĞƐŚůǇŵŝǆĞĚĂŶĚƉůĂƐƟĐ ^ƵŵĂŶƚ DŽŽůŐĂŽŬĂƌ dĞĐŚŶŝĐĂů /ŶƐƟƚƵƚĞ ŽƌƵŶŚĂƌĚĞŶĞĚƐƚĂƚĞ͘ ;^Dd/Ϳ – Ŷ ŝŶƐƟƚƵƚĞ ĞƐƚĂďůŝƐŚĞĚ ďǇ  ŝŶ EKǆ –  ŐĞŶĞƌŝĐ ƚĞƌŵ ĨŽƌ EŝƚƌŽŐĞŶ ŽǆŝĚĞƐ͕ ϭϵϰϵ ƚŽ ƚƌĂŝŶ ǇŽƵŶŐ ƉĞŽƉůĞ ŝŶ ƐƉĞĐŝĂůŝǌĞĚ ƵƐƵĂůůǇƌĞĨĞƌƐƚŽŝƚĂƐĂŶĂŝƌƉŽůůƵƚĂŶƚ͘ ZĞŐŝŽŶĂů ^ƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďůĞ ĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ &ĞĚĞƌĂƚƌĂĚĞƐƚŽďĞĐŽŵĞĂƌƟƐĂŶƐ͕ĨŽƌĞŵĞŶĂŶĚĮƌƐƚ ƟŽŶƐ;Z^&Ϳ–&ĞĚĞƌĂƟŽŶƐŝŶEŽƌƚŚ͕ĂƐƚĂŶĚ ůŝŶĞƐƵƉĞƌǀŝƐŽƌƐ͘ KĐĐƵƉĂƟŽŶĂů ,ĞĂůƚŚ ĂŶĚ ^ĂĨĞƚǇ ;K,Θ^Ϳ ^ŽƵƚŚͲǁĞƐƚ /ŶĚŝĂ ƚŽ ďƵŝůĚ ŽƵƌ ^ƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďůĞ WŽůŝĐŝĞƐĂŶĚĂĐƟǀŝƟĞƐƚŽƉƌŽŵŽƚĞĂŶĚƐĞĐƵƌĞ ĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚĨƌĂŵĞǁŽƌŬ͘ ^ƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďůĞŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƟŽŶ -ƵŝůĚŝŶŐŝŶĂǁĂǇ ƚŚĞŚĞĂůƚŚĂŶĚƐĂĨĞƚǇŽĨĞŵƉůŽǇĞĞƐ͕ƐƵďĐŽŶƚŚĂƚ ŝƐ ƐŽĐŝĂůůǇ͕ ĞĐŽŶŽŵŝĐĂůůǇ͕ ĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚƌĂĐƚŽƌƐ͕ƚŚŝƌĚƉĂƌƟĞƐĂŶĚǀŝƐŝƚŽƌƐ͘ ZĞŶĞǁĂďůĞWƵƌĐŚĂƐĞKďůŝŐĂƟŽŶ;ZWKͿThe ƚĂůůǇ͕ ĨƵŶĐƟŽŶĂůůǇ ĂŶĚ ĂĞƐƚŚĞƟĐĂůůǇ ďĂůĂŶĐĞĚ ŽďůŝŐĂƟŽŶŝŵƉŽƐĞĚďǇůĂǁŽŶƐŽŵĞĞŶƟƟĞƐƚŽ ƚŽ ŵĞĞƚ ƚŽĚĂǇ͛Ɛ ŶĞĞĚƐ ĂŶĚ ƚŽ ƉƌŽǀŝĚĞ ĂŶĚ ĞŝƚŚĞƌ ďƵǇ ĞůĞĐƚƌŝĐŝƚǇ ŐĞŶĞƌĂƚĞĚ ďǇ ƐƉĞĐŝĮĞĚ ĐŽŶƐĞƌǀĞƌĞƐŽƵƌĐĞƐĨŽƌĨƵƚƵƌĞŐĞŶĞƌĂƟŽŶƐ͘ KƌĚŝŶĂƌǇ WŽƌƚůĂŶĚ ĞŵĞŶƚ ;KWͿ Cement ͚ŐƌĞĞŶ͛ƐŽƵƌĐĞƐ͕ŽƌďƵǇ͕ŝŶůŝĞƵŽĨƚŚĂƚ͕͚ƌĞŶĞǁŵĂĚĞďǇŝŶƚĞƌͲŐƌŝŶĚŝŶŐĐůŝŶŬĞƌĂŶĚŐǇƉƐƵŵ͘ ĂďůĞ ĞŶĞƌŐǇ ĐĞƌƟĮĐĂƚĞƐ ;ZƐͿ͛ ĨƌŽŵ ƚŚĞ ^ƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďůĞ ĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ Ͳ ĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ ŵĂƌŬĞƚ͘ ƚŚĂƚŵĞĞƚƐƚŚĞŶĞĞĚƐŽĨƚŚĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚǁŝƚŚŽƵƚ KƌĚĞƌǆĞĐƵƟŽŶdŝŵĞ;KdͿ ʹdŚĞƚŽƚĂůƟŵĞ ĐŽŵƉƌŽŵŝƐŝŶŐ ƚŚĞ ĂďŝůŝƚǇ ŽĨ ĨƵƚƵƌĞ ŐĞŶĞƌĂƚĂŬĞŶƚŽĞǆĞĐƵƚĞĂŶŽƌĚĞƌ͘ SA8000 ʹ /ƚ ŝƐ ĂŶ ĂƵĚŝƚĂďůĞ ĐĞƌƟĮĐĂƟŽŶ ƟŽŶƐƚŽŵĞĞƚƚŚĞŝƌŽǁŶŶĞĞĚƐ͘ ƐƚĂŶĚĂƌĚ ƚŚĂƚ ĞŶĐŽƵƌĂŐĞƐ ŽƌŐĂŶŝǌĂƟŽŶƐ ƚŽ WĞƌĨŽƌŵ ĐŚŝĞǀĞ dƌĂĚĞ ;WdͿ ^ĐŚĞŵĞ A ĚĞǀĞůŽƉ͕ŵĂŝŶƚĂŝŶ͕ĂŶĚĂƉƉůǇƐŽĐŝĂůůǇĂĐĐĞƉƚ^ƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďŝůŝƚǇ ZĞƉŽƌƟŶŐ Ͳ ƚŚĞ ƉƌĂĐƟĐĞ ŽĨ ƚƌĂĚŝŶŐ ƐĐŚĞŵĞ ĂŝŵĞĚ ƚŽ ƌĞĚƵĐĞ ĞŶĞƌŐǇ ĂďůĞƉƌĂĐƟĐĞƐŝŶƚŚĞǁŽƌŬƉůĂĐĞ͘ ŵĞĂƐƵƌŝŶŐ͕ĚŝƐĐůŽƐŝŶŐ͕ĂŶĚďĞŝŶŐĂĐĐŽƵŶƚĂďůĞ ĐŽŶƐƵŵƉƟŽŶ ŝŶ ŝŶĚƵƐƚƌŝĞƐ ĂĐƌŽƐƐ /ŶĚŝĂ ƵƐŝŶŐ ƚŽ ŝŶƚĞƌŶĂů ĂŶĚ ĞǆƚĞƌŶĂů ƐƚĂŬĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ ĨŽƌ ŵĂƌŬĞƚŽƌŝĞŶƚĞĚŵĞĐŚĂŶŝƐŵƐ͘dŚĞƐĐŚĞŵĞŝƐ ^ĞůĨͲ,ĞůƉ 'ƌŽƵƉ ;^,'Ϳ -  ǀŝůůĂŐĞͲďĂƐĞĚ ŽƌŐĂŶŝǌĂƟŽŶĂůƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞƚŽǁĂƌĚƐƚŚĞŐŽĂů ĚĞƐŝŐŶĞĚĂŶĚŝŵƉůĞŵĞŶƚĞĚďǇƚŚĞƵƌĞĂƵŽĨ ǀŽůƵŶƚĂƌǇƐƵƉƉŽƌƚŐƌŽƵƉƵƐƵĂůůǇĐŽŵƉŽƐĞĚŽĨ ŽĨƐƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďůĞĚĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ ŶĞƌŐǇĸĐŝĞŶĐǇ;Ϳ͕ƵŶĚĞƌƚŚĞDŝŶŝƐƚƌǇŽĨ ϭϬʹϮϬ ůŽĐĂů ǁŽŵĞŶ Žƌ ŵĞŶ ǁŚŽ ĐŽŵĞ WŽǁĞƌ͕/ŶĚŝĂ͘ ƚŽŐĞƚŚĞƌ ƚŽ ĂĚĚƌĞƐƐ Ă ƐŚĂƌĞĚ ĐĂƵƐĞ Žƌ ŽďũĞĐƟǀĞ͘ WƌŽĮƚ ŌĞƌ dĂǆ ;WdͿ Ͳ /ƚ ŝƐ ƚŚĞ ŶĞƚ ƉƌŽĮƚ ĞĂƌŶĞĚ ďǇ ƚŚĞ ĐŽŵƉĂŶǇ ĂŌĞƌ ĚĞĚƵĐƟŶŐ Ăůů Slag -  ŶŽŶͲŵĞƚĂůůŝĐ ƉƌŽĚƵĐƚ ĐŽŶƐŝƐƟŶŐ ĞǆƉĞŶƐĞƐůŝŬĞŝŶƚĞƌĞƐƚ͕ĚĞƉƌĞĐŝĂƟŽŶĂŶĚƚĂǆ͘ ĞƐƐĞŶƟĂůůǇ ŽĨ ŐůĂƐƐ ĐŽŶƚĂŝŶŝŶŐ ƐŝůŝĐĂƚĞƐ͕ ĂůƵŵŝŶŽͲƐŝůŝĐĂƚĞƐŽĨůŝŵĞĂŶĚŽƚŚĞƌďĂƐĞƐ͘/ƚŝƐ WĞƌƐŽŶĂů WƌŽƚĞĐƟǀĞ ƋƵŝƉŵĞŶƚ ;WWͿ ŽďƚĂŝŶĞĚĂƐĂǁĂƐƚĞďǇͲƉƌŽĚƵĐƚŝŶƚŚĞŵĂŶƵWƌŽƚĞĐƟǀĞĐůŽƚŚŝŶŐ͕ŚĞůŵĞƚƐ͕ŐŽŐŐůĞƐ͕ŽƌŽƚŚĞƌ ĨĂĐƚƵƌĞŽĨƉŝŐŝƌŽŶŝŶĂďůĂƐƚĨƵƌŶĂĐĞŽƌĞůĞĐƚƌŝĐ ŐĂƌŵĞŶƚƐ Žƌ ĞƋƵŝƉŵĞŶƚ ĚĞƐŝŐŶĞĚ ƚŽ ƉƌŽƚĞĐƚ ĨƵƌŶĂĐĞ͘ ƚŚĞǁĞĂƌĞƌΖƐďŽĚǇĨƌŽŵŝŶũƵƌǇ͘ ^K2 – dŚĞ ĐŚĞŵŝĐĂů ĨŽƌŵƵůĂ ĨŽƌ ^ƵůƉŚƵƌ WĞƚŽŬĞ -WĞƚƌŽůĞƵŵĐŽŬĞǁŚŝĐŚŝƐĂĐĂƌďŽŶ ĚŝŽǆŝĚĞ͕ ƵƐƵĂůůǇ ƵŶĚĞƌƐƚŽŽĚ ƚŽ ďĞ ĂŶ Ăŝƌ ƐŽůŝĚĚĞƌŝǀĞĚĨƌŽŵŽŝůƌĞĮŶĞƌǇŽŬĞƌƵŶŝƚƐŽƌ ƉŽůůƵƚĂŶƚ ƚŚĂƚ ƉůĂǇƐ Ă ĐƌŝƟĐĂů ƌŽůĞ ŝŶ ŐůŽďĂů ŽƚŚĞƌĐƌĂĐŬŝŶŐƉƌŽĐĞƐƐĞƐ͘ ǁĂƌŵŝŶŐ͘ WŽƌƚůĂŶĚ WŽǌǌŽůĂŶĂ ĞŵĞŶƚ ;WWͿ Cement ^ƚĂŬĞŚŽůĚĞƌ Ͳ /ŶĚŝǀŝĚƵĂůƐ Žƌ ŐƌŽƵƉƐ ǁŚŽƐĞ ƉƌŽĚƵĐĞĚ ďǇ ŝŶƚĞƌͲŐƌŝŶĚŝŶŐ Ă ƉŽǌǌŽůĂŶŝĐ ĂĐƟŽŶƐƐŝŐŶŝĮĐĂŶƚůǇĂīĞĐƚŽƌĐĂŶďĞĂīĞĐƚĞĚ ŵĂƚĞƌŝĂů ƐƵĐŚ ĂƐ ŇǇͲĂƐŚ ǁŝƚŚ ĐůŝŶŬĞƌ ĂŶĚ ďǇ ĂŶ ŽƌŐĂŶŝǌĂƟŽŶ͛Ɛ ĂĐƟǀŝƟĞƐ͕ ƉƌŽĚƵĐƚƐ Žƌ ŐǇƉƐƵŵ͘ ƐĞƌǀŝĐĞƐ͘ WŽƌƚůĂŶĚ ^ůĂŐ ĞŵĞŶƚ ;W^Ϳ Cement ƉƌŽĚƵĐĞĚ ďǇ ŝŶƚĞƌͲŐƌŝŶĚŝŶŐ ƐůĂŐ ǁŝƚŚ ĐůŝŶŬĞƌ ^ƚĂŬĞŚŽůĚĞƌ ŝĂůŽŐƵĞ -  ƐƚƌƵĐƚƵƌĞĚ ǁĂǇ ƚŽ ĂŶĚŐǇƉƐƵŵ͘ ƐŽůŝĐŝƚĨĞĞĚďĂĐŬĨƌŽŵĂĐŽŵƉĂŶǇ͛ƐƐƚĂŬĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͕ƚǇƉŝĐĂůůǇďǇŝŶǀŝƟŶŐƚŚĞŵƚŽĐŽŵŵĞŶƚŽŶ WƵďůŝĐʹWƌŝǀĂƚĞWĂƌƚŶĞƌƐŚŝƉ;WWWͿͲŐŽǀĞƌŶƐƉĞĐŝĮĐŝƐƐƵĞƐŽƌƉƌŽďůĞŵƐ͘ ŵĞŶƚ ƐĞƌǀŝĐĞ Žƌ ƉƌŝǀĂƚĞ ďƵƐŝŶĞƐƐ ǀĞŶƚƵƌĞ ǁŚŝĐŚ ŝƐ ĨƵŶĚĞĚ ĂŶĚ ŽƉĞƌĂƚĞĚ ƚŚƌŽƵŐŚ Ă ^ƚĂŬĞŚŽůĚĞƌ ŶŐĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ The process by ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 98 Techport – Technical center for ACC and ACL dƌŝƉůĞ ŽƩŽŵ >ŝŶĞ Ͳ  ďƵƐŝŶĞƐƐ ĂĐĐŽƵŶƟŶŐ ƐǇƐƚĞŵďǇŚƵŵĂŶƐ͘ which provides consultancy services in ĨƌĂŵĞǁŽƌŬ ƚŚĂƚ ŝŶĐŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞƐ ƚŚƌĞĞ ĚŝŵĞŶǀĂƌŝŽƵƐĂĐƟǀŝƟĞƐĚƵƌŝŶŐĐĞŵĞŶƚŵĂŶƵĨĂĐƚƵƌƐŝŽŶƐ ŽĨ ĂŶ ŽƌŐĂŶŝǌĂƟŽŶ͛Ɛ ƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞ͗ tĂƐƚĞ,ĞĂƚZĞĐŽǀĞƌǇ ʹ'ĞŶĞƌĂƟŶŐƉŽǁĞƌďǇ ŝŶŐ͘ ƐŽĐŝĂů͕ ĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚĂů ĂŶĚ ĮŶĂŶĐŝĂů͘  d> ƵƟůŝǌŝŶŐ ǁĂƐƚĞ ŚĞĂƚ ĨƌŽŵ ƉƌĞŚĞĂƚĞƌ ĂŶĚ ĚŝŵĞŶƐŝŽŶƐ ĂƌĞ ĂůƐŽ ĐŽŵŵŽŶůǇ ĐĂůůĞĚ ƚŚĞ ĐŽŽůĞƌŐĂƐĞƐ͘ TERI Ͳ dŚĞ ŶĞƌŐǇ Θ ZĞƐŽƵƌĐĞƐ /ŶƐƟƚƵƚĞ͕ Ă ƚŚƌĞĞWƐ͗ƉĞŽƉůĞ͕ƉůĂŶĞƚĂŶĚƉƌŽĮƚ͘ ŐůŽďĂů ƚŚŝŶŬ ƚĂŶŬ ĂŶĚ ƌĞƐĞĂƌĐŚ ŝŶƐƟƚƵƚĞ ƚŚĂƚ ;ZĂŝŶͿtĂƚĞƌ,ĂƌǀĞƐƟŶŐ;Zt,Ϳ Techniques ǁŽƌŬƐ ŝŶ ƚŚĞ ĂƌĞĂƐ ŽĨ ĞŶĞƌŐǇ͕ ĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚ hE'ůŽďĂůŽŵƉĂĐƚ;hE'ͿͲhEŝŶŝƟĂƟǀĞ ƵƐĞĚ ĨŽƌ ĐŽůůĞĐƟŶŐ ĂŶĚ ƐƚŽƌŝŶŐ͕ ĂŶĚ ƵƐŝŶŐ ĂŶĚƐƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďůĞĚĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ͘ ƚŽĞŶĐŽƵƌĂŐĞŐůŽďĂůďƵƐŝŶĞƐƐĞƐƚŽĂĚŽƉƚƚĞŶ rainwater ƉƌŝŶĐŝƉůĞƐ ĐŽǀĞƌŝŶŐ ,ƵŵĂŶ ZŝŐŚƚƐ͕ >ĂďŽƵƌ dŚĞƌŵĂů ^ƵďƐƟƚƵƟŽŶ ZĂƚĞ ;d^ZͿ The ^ƚĂŶĚĂƌĚƐ͕ŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚĂŶĚŶƟͲĐŽƌƌƵƉƟŽŶ͘ tŽƌůĚ ƵƐŝŶĞƐƐ ŽƵŶĐŝů ĨŽƌ ^ƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďůĞ ĂŵŽƵŶƚŽĨĞŶĞƌŐǇƵƐĞĚĨƌŽŵĂůƚĞƌŶĂƟǀĞĨƵĞůƐ ĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ;t^Ϳ ʹKͲůĞĚŽƌŐĂŶŝǌĂĂƐĂƉĞƌĐĞŶƚĂŐĞŽĨƚŚĞƚŽƚĂůĞŶĞƌŐǇĐŽŶƐƵŵĞĚ hŶŝƚĞĚ EĂƟŽŶƐ &ƌĂŵĞǁŽƌŬ ŽŶǀĞŶƟŽŶ ŽŶ ƟŽŶ ŽĨ ĨŽƌǁĂƌĚͲƚŚŝŶŬŝŶŐ ĐŽŵƉĂŶŝĞƐ ƚŚĂƚ ŝŶƚŚĞƉƌŽĐĞƐƐ͘ ůŝŵĂƚĞ ŚĂŶŐĞ ;hE&Ϳ Ͳ Ŷ ŝŶƚĞƌŶĂƟŽŶĂů ŐĂůǀĂŶŝǌĞƐƚŚĞŐůŽďĂůďƵƐŝŶĞƐƐĐŽŵŵƵŶŝƚǇƚŽ ĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚĂů ƚƌĞĂƚǇ ǁŚŽƐĞ ŽďũĞĐƟǀĞ ŝƐ ƚŽ ĐƌĞĂƚĞ Ă ƐƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďůĞ ĨƵƚƵƌĞ ĨŽƌ ďƵƐŝŶĞƐƐ͕ TJ ʹ dĞƌĂ:ŽƵůĞ͕ Ă ŵĞĂƐƵƌĞŵĞŶƚ ŽĨ ĞŶĞƌŐǇ ƐƚĂďŝůŝǌĞ ŐƌĞĞŶŚŽƵƐĞ ŐĂƐ ĐŽŶĐĞŶƚƌĂƟŽŶƐ ŝŶ ƐŽĐŝĞƚǇĂŶĚƚŚĞĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚ͘ equivalent to one trillion (1012ͿũŽƵůĞƐ͘ ƚŚĞĂƚŵŽƐƉŚĞƌĞĂƚĂůĞǀĞůƚŚĂƚǁŽƵůĚƉƌĞǀĞŶƚ ĚĂŶŐĞƌŽƵƐ ŝŶƚĞƌĨĞƌĞŶĐĞ ǁŝƚŚ ƚŚĞ ĐůŝŵĂƚĞ ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 ACC Sustainable Development Report 2013 – Feedback Your feedback is important in helping us improve our Sustainability ReporƟng and performance. Please spare a few minutes to answerƋƵĞƐƚŝŽŶƐ below: 1. Rate the report on the following parameters (1= Poor, 5= Excellent) Layout and Design Quality of InformĂƟon Provided Honest and Transparent Approach Depth of Report Ease of Understanding Content Scope of Report Usage of G4 Guidelines 2. How do you rate our performance (1= Poor, 5= Excellent) Governing Carefully Working Inclusively with Customers Sustainable Supply Chain Sustainable ConstrucƟon and Responsible Products Energy Emissions Material Use Eŋuents and Waste OccupaƟonal Health and Safety Employee Wellbeing Building Community Being Environment Friendly 3. Is there any other informĂƟon you would like us to include in the Report 4. How are you related to ACC? Employee Shareholder Client Regulatory Body Contractor Consultant NGO Partner Industry Peer Supplier Customer Others, Please specify 5. How do you rate the Report overall on a scale of 1-5 (1= Poor, 5= Excellent) ______________________________ Respondent Details: Name: OrganizaƟon: Address: Tel: Email: Please email your response to: Mr. K N Rao, Director (Energy & Environment) ACC Limited, Cement House, 121 MaharshiKarve Road, Mumbai 400 020, India Email: narayanarao.kapilavai@acclimited.com Himachal A National Footprint Pradesh 6 Punjab 7 Uttarakhand 20 Haryana 25 15 26 Uttar Pradesh 27 Rajasthan 11 Bihar 10 13 Jharkhand Gujarat 5 Madhya Pradesh West Bengal Chhattisgarh 19 3 2 Maharashtra Odisha 1 5HJLRQDO2IoFHV 8 19. Eastern Region (Kolkata) 4 23 20. Northern Region (New Delhi) 24 16 21. Western Region (Thane) 21 Andhra Pradesh 22. Southern Region (Bengaluru) Goa 17 TECHPORT, Thane (Maharashtra) Karnataka 18 9 Training Centres 14 ACC ACL Leadership Academy, Thane ACC Cement Technology Institute, Jamul 22 Sumant Moolgaokar Technical Institute, Kymore ACC School for Technical Skill Development, Wadi Tamil Nadu 12 Ready Mixed Concrete (RMX) Plants Kerala &RUSRUDWH2IoFH Sales Units 1. Mumbai (Maharashtra) ACC Help Centres Cement Plants Subsidiary Companies 2. Bargarh (Odisha) 23. ACC Mineral Resources Limited 3. Chaibasa (Jharkhand) 11. Lakheri (Rajasthan) (Maharashtra) 4. Chanda (Maharashtra) 12. Madukkarai (TN) 24. Bulk Cement Corporation (India) Limited 5. Damodhar (West Bengal) 13. Sindri (Jharkhand) (Maharashtra) 6. Gagal I (HP) 14. Thondebhavi (Karnataka) 25. Lucky Minmat Limited (Rajasthan) 7. Gagal II (HP) 15. Tikaria (UP) 26. National Limestone Company Pvt. Ltd. 8. Jamul (Chhattisgarh) 16. Vizag (AP) (Rajasthan) 9. Kudithini (Karnataka) 17. Wadi I (Karnataka) 27. Singhania Minerals Pvt. Ltd. 10. Kymore (MP) 18. Wadi II (Karnataka) (Madhya Pradesh) This map is as of February 6, 2014. It is illustrative and not drawn to scale. A WYATT SOLUTION (info@wyatt.co.in) Andaman, Nicobar and Lakshadweep islands are not shown. ACC Limited Registered Office Cement House 121 Maharshi Karve Road Mumbai 400 020, India www.acclimited.com
