our a p pr oach digi ta l i nc l uso in safe e n w t or k c l ean v i e nronment e n qui ri ng team z a a t t ąc łchz mn ek i ni t s o Cp o rrat e S oc i al R eo p snsi bi li t y R ep or t O ra n ge P ol ska 2 0 1 3 1 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 2 CONTENTS a p o p u o r r ach 1. Orange Polska ..................................................................................... 6 1.1 about us . .................................................................................................. 8 digi ta l i nc u lso in 1.2 ethics ...................................................................................................... 12 1.3 corporate governance and risk management .......................................... 14 2. our approach ..................................................................................... 18 2.1 CSR strategy . ......................................................................................... 21 safe e n w t or k 2.2 dialogue and relations ............................................................................. 28 2.3 innovativeness . ....................................................................................... 37 2.4 social commitment .................................................................................. 40 c l ean v i e nronment 3. digital inclusion ................................................................................... 44 3.1 accessible infrastructure .......................................................................... 47 3.2 services accessible to all ......................................................................... 48 3.3 digital education ...................................................................................... 51 e n qui ri ng team 3.4 building the e-state . ................................................................................ 64 4. safe network ...................................................................................... 66 4.1 safe products and services . .................................................................... 68 4.2 secure data ............................................................................................. 72 a z a t tłc ąc hz mn ek i ni t s 4.3 safe children on the Internet ................................................................... 73 4.4 safe on-line ............................................................................................. 76 5. clean environment .............................................................................. 78 5.1 innovations for the environment ............................................................... 81 5.2 eco-friendly products and services .......................................................... 82 5.3 refurbishment and recycling . ................................................................... 83 5.4 e-documents . ......................................................................................... 85 5.5 environment management ....................................................................... 85 6. enquiring team ................................................................................... 90 6.1 dialogue with employees ......................................................................... 93 6.2 modern and friendly work environment .................................................... 96 6.3 diversity management ............................................................................. 99 6.4 sustainable development ....................................................................... 102 6.5 corporate volunteering .......................................................................... 108 our report ...................................................................................................... 113 methodological note . .................................................................................... 114 independent assurance report . ..................................................................... 115 GRI index ...................................................................................................... 116 acknowledgements ....................................................................................... 122 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 For us, social responsibility means a corporate culture in which the development and implementation of our business strategy takes into account the interests of our employees and a range of other stakeholders, including our customers, investors, suppliers, business and social partners as well as the natural environment. We believe that such an approach benefits the company and its environment, helping our business to develop in a sustainable way and improving the quality of life for all of us. 4 our a p pr oach digi ta l i nc u lso in safe e n w t or k Dear Sirs, c l ean I am deeply convinced that corporate social responsibility is a means for building company’s value in the market, winning n e v ironment customers’ trust, attracting valuable employees and partners as well as nurturing good relations with the entire social environment. This is why I attach such great importance to strategic CSR management and incorporation of this idea into our business processes and the way of thinking of each employee. e n qui ri ng In 2013, we adopted Orange Polska’s new CSR strategy, focusing on four major areas which are of key importance for both team our industry and our activity in the Polish market. In the process of development of our CSR strategy we were, and are, guided by the needs and expectations communicated by our stakeholders as part of dialogue both inside and outside the company. By engaging in dialogue with our employees, customers and business or social partners, we are able to look at our business from different perspectives and define new z a t a t ąc łchz mn ek i ni t s social and environmental challenges. One of such important social issues for us is digital inclusion. As we want everyone, regardless of their skills, residence, age or ability, to make use of the opportunities offered by the digital world, we try not only to provide easy and functional tools for access to new technologies, but also teach how to use them wisely. Another challenge faced by our industry is related to safe networks, that is the safety of ourselves, our children and the data collected about us. Therefore, we want the use of the latest technologies to be easy and risk-free. We not only offer proper means of protection, but also show how to use new technologies safely. We are not indifferent to the nature around us. Clean environment is also among our areas of interest. We want to pursue our business objectives with respect for ecological principles and in harmony with the environment. On the one hand we strive to mitigate our environmental impact as much as possible, and on the other hand we demonstrate how innovative ICT solutions can protect the environment. In Orange, we have made corporate social responsibility part of our organisational culture. Therefore, a major pillar of our CSR strategy is initiatives addressed to our employees, which are carried out under a common caption of enquiring team. We want to create a culture of co-operation, in which all employees feel respected and can freely pursue their professional goals and life passions. Ultimately, it is our employees and their daily conduct and relations that determine whether we become a socially responsible company on an every day basis. We present you with a Report that describes last year’s major developments, successes and challenges and demonstrates the practical implementation of the corporate social responsibility concept in Orange Polska. Let me also invite you to a discussion about what else we can do to become a socially responsible company every day. As a provider of modern services and technologies we have an important impact on our surroundings; and we are committed to sustainable development and improvement in the quality of life of all of us. Our ambition is to comply with the highest CSR standards and inspire similar activities in the telecommunication market in Poland. Bruno Duthoit, President and CEO of Orange Polska 5 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 6 our a p pr oach digi ta l i nc u lso in safe e n w t or k c l ean v i e nronment e n qui ri ng team z a a t t ąc łchz mn ek i ni t s O ra n g e P o l ska Orange Polska 7 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 1.1 about us Orange Polska is Poland’s leading telecommunication provider. We operate in all segments of the telecommunications market and own the largest technical infrastructure in Poland, with operations in fixed voice, data and mobile networks. over mobile 23 mn customersfixed voice retail broadband TV 15.3 mn 4.8 mn 2.3 mn 707 K 7.2 mn – postpaid 8.1 mn – prepaid mobile services data solutions for business market We serve over 15 million mobile customers, offering a vaWe are the main provider of leased lines in Poland, both riety of both postpaid and prepaid services. analogue and digital options. Key customers include other Our postpaid offering is focused around customer segtelecom operators, government administration, financial mentation by type of usage (voice, text, web browsing). It institutions and ISP providers. allows us to make the best value proposal for the client, by We offer a broad service portfolio for small to medium adapting the offer’s content (handset, bundles of minutes, companies as well as sophisticated solutions for large corSMS, data package) to the needs of our customers. We porations. also provide fast mobile broadband services. 2013 was our first full year as an integrated operator under broadband and TV services the single Orange brand, and the first full year of operaWe serve over 2.3 million retail fixed broadband customers tion for our convergent Orange Open offer. Orange Open and above 0.7 million TV clients. is an offer combining mobile and fixed line products and TP Group’s main broadband service is offered under the addressing the need to use a number of different commu‘Neostrada’ name. It is offered in a variety of speed options nication services, such as mobile and fixed line telephony, and is often bundled with a television offering, both through mobile and fixed broadband access and TV. satellite (DTH) or through the IP network (IPTV). We also successfully launched nju.mobile, a new brand fixed voice services aimed at the cost-conscious customers. Nju.mobile offers Our fixed-line network provides traditional voice services both prepaid and postpaid options with simple tariff structhroughout Poland, to over 6 million customers, including tures and no handset subsidies. Its key differentiators are almost 5 million retail consumers. Fixed voice offer includes low prices, no limits for calls and SMS, transparent, simple local, domestic-long-distance, fixed-to-mobile and internaterms and Internet-only sales. tional calls, available both in PAYG or minute-packages in the subscription. 8 Orange Polska In December 2013 we merged TP S.A. and PTK Centertel services, further unify our sales and customer care, and our into one company: Orange Polska S.A. It will enable us to develop the infrastructure we need to offer best solutions p a pr oach better leverage on convergence between fixed and mobile to our customers. digi ta l i nc l uso in o u r h s i t o r y safe e n w t or k P ol sk aP oczta, Te l e g r a fiTe l efo n ( P ol ish Post, Te l e g r ap h an d Te l ek om unik acj a Tel ep hon e)sta te enterprise Po l ska e s tab li s h ed es tabli sh e d 1947 1991 c l ean v i e nronment e n qui ri ng team Privati sato i n an d TP S .A.’s d ebuto n t he sto ck e xcha nge s Begn i ning o fth e I n t e rne ti n P o a ln d: in W arsaw and L o nd on (G DR ) the fi rs tem a l i isse nt 1998 17 August 1991 a z a t tłc ąc hz mn ek i ni t s La unch ofthe ‘N eo s trada’s e r v i c e : La sta n ao l g ex chan ge b eginni n g ofthe h g i h -spee d Inte re nt is sw it c hed off 2002 2005 TP S.A. and the Re gulator si g n e d a M em orandum o f U n derstan din g f orI de a ch an ges into Oran ge : t h e i m plem entati o n o ft ran sp are n c yP TK C e n t ertella unc hes an dno n-discri m in at i on p r o ced u r e s se rvices un d er n i int e r -ope ra t o rrea l ti o ns the O rang e b r a nd 2009 2006 T P S . A .and P TK Oran ge Ce nte t relm erged i nto b ecom es m ain a single co mp any kn ow n tr ad eb r a nd a s Ora nge Po l ska S .A. 2012 31 December 2013 9 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 size of activity: Orange Polska’s selected financial data (in PLN mn) tot a lre v en u es 2 0 1 2 1 4 ,1 4 1 1 2 , 9 2 3 20 1 3 reven u e m c oo ps t iion m obil e se rv i ce s m obie l eq ui pm ent s ales fx ied serv ice s oh t erreve nue s 6 , 8 4 7 6 ,1 1 0 1 4 11 4 9 6 ,5 93 6 ,0 5 7 5 606 0 7 * rest at edm ai nl y f orr et s r c ut uri ngc o s ts r es tated E B ITD A * 4 ,8 5 7 4 ,0 8 4 * excld ui ng€550 mnpd a i toDPTGi n 2012aspa rt o r g a nc i c a sh flow 1 ,5 93 * 1 ,1 0 5 * * ** o e f x t c h l e u d n f i i n a g l s s p e e t t c l e t m r u e m n t ac q u is it i on;OCF gui danc e w asr evi sedup i n3Q2 0 13 repo rted n et inc om e D a tacons is tentwi thOr an g ePol ska annualfi nan ci al ( inc. l rest ruc turing co sts) 8 552 9 4 s d t e t a r e i v m e e d n r f t s o , m e t x c h e e p co f t m od r p a o n y n a t i ’s i o t n n e s r n , a w h l r i e c h po h t r a s vebe en In addition to Orange Polska S.A., Orange Group members include: Orange Customer Service Sp. z o.o. TP Edukacja i Wypoczynek The company provides comprehensive customer care for The company organises corporate training and entertainboth residential and business customers of Orange Polska. ment events under the Exploris brand. More at www.exploris.pl Contact Center The company specialises in telesales, customer service, Orange Foundation marketing research, organisation and conduct of compeThe Foundation has been established by Orange Polska to titions and loyalty programmes, recording studio services, carry out social initiatives. More at www.fundacja.orange.pl business consulting and virtual contact centre services. More at www.contactcenter.pl TP Invest The company carries out corporate governance over all of TP Teltech Orange Polska’s non-core subsidiaries. It is also involved The company specialises in providing ICT infrastructure in the Group’s investment activity. More at www.tpinvest.pl services. In addition, it offers integrated telecommunication and ICT solutions. More at www.tpteltech.pl Telefony Podlaskie The company offers telecommunication services in the Ramsat Podlaskie District. It is a TV and broadband provider. Ramsat S.A. is Orange Polska’s authorised dealer. Its More at www.telefonypodlaskiesa.pl nationwide sales network consists of 130 points of sales and approximately 150 Business Account Consultants. 10 Orange Polska Orange worldwide our a p pr oach Orange Polska is a member company of the global Orange Group, one of the world’s largest telecom operators. digi ta l i nc u lso in 236.3 m n c u s t o m e r s 159,515 safe e n w t or k 30 co u n trie e m s€40.981 bn i p lo y e e n s r w eve o n r u l e d i w n 2 i 0 d 1 e 3 c n v i er e l o a n n ment e n qui ri ng team z a a t t ąc łchz mn ek i ni t s We strive to make Orange the telecommunication brand of choice. Our goal is to democratise the digital revolution. What others present only as technologies we want to be comprehensible, plain and human-friendly as much as possible. We want to show how our products and services, together with our people, change the everyday life of our customers to the better. 11 Raport społecznej odpowiedzialności 2013 1.2 ethics Orange core values friendly We treat everyone as individual and dedicate time for listening. We look forward to working together and sharing successes. We talk about what we intend to do and we do what we have promised. honest We have nothing to hide, we are responsible for our actions. We are always transparent and honest. We always try to speak in a manner understandable to everyone. We are clear direct in our statements. Every time we try to view the world from a different perspective, to select the inspiring best manner of action. With us everything gains colour. We are ready to go beyond the boundaries and take risk. dynamic We are passionate about what we do and what we believe. We want to actively change people’s lives. Our optimism is contagious. Compliance with basic ethical standards is an integral part of both personal relations and business activity. Large communities and organisations set values and standards, whose acceptance contributes to easier and faster development and more effective achievement of business objectives, while accounting for the interests of key shareholders. In Orange Polska, we unwaveringly implement the standards and values enshrined in our Code of Ethics, thus demonstrating that we are a member of the community for which these principles are the key to success. Our social and business environment expects us to be decent and energetic in our actions. Therefore, we strive to build direct and friendly relations in the environment in which we function as an organisation. By combining Orange values with an inspiring approach to business we will Irmina Bubałło-Wojciechowska, ensure both us and our shareholders a long-term market success, while building Executive Director in charge of Shared the trust of our customers and delivering them satisfaction from Orange Polska’s Services and Chairman of the Ethics services. Committee Our values are enshrined in the Orange Polska Code of The course concerns human rights and equal treatment, Ethics. Its principles are consistent with such fundamental particularly the issues of discrimination, corruption and acts as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the conflict of interests. The training is attended by both comrecommendations of the International Labour Organization. pany’s employees and outsource personnel. We want the Code principles to be known to all employees, In 2013, we developed an e-learning course in CSR, which so a training course in business ethics is mandatory. So far, is also mandatory for all new joiners. it has been completed by almost 100% of Orange Polska’s employees (23,838 hrs of training). 12 Orange Polska our a p pr oach digi ta l i nc u lso in Our CSR strategy will succeed if our employees know how it is reflected in their tasks and implement it in their daily work. Proper CSR education is a major element of building a social responsibility culture. Therefore, in 2013 we developed an e-learning course in the key aspects of CSR in Orange Polska, which is an element of a mandatory training package for each new joiner. Consequently, they safe e n w t or k learn about our approach to social responsibility at the very start of their career in Orange. We have ensured that our training provides the fundamental theoretical knowc l ean ledge but also accounts for some practical aspects useful in daily operations. n e v ironment Our employees learn about our CSR initiatives as well as the concepts of corporate social reporting or dialogue with stakeholders. Małgorzata Piwowar, We believe that owing to consistent educational efforts we will be able to enlist e n qui ri ng CSR Expert many new CSR ambassadors within our organisation. team z a a t t ąc łchz mn ek i ni t s Adherence to ethical standards is scrutinised by the Ethics The Programme actively supports our good business Committee. The Committee submits annual reports to the practices. Its main objectives are risk identification, inciPresident of Orange Polska and the Audit Committee of the dent monitoring as well as initiation and implementation of TP S.A. Supervisory Board, and presents annual reviews to corrective actions aimed at preventing potential negative all employees of the company. effects of non-compliance with legal regulations, good practices or market standards. The company has implemented a system for anonymous reporting of unethical behaviour (whistleblowing). Any In the Programme, we have implemented a number of emails sent to *zapytaj_etyka (ask an ethicist) are confidenmajor internal regulations. In addition, we have developed tial and full confidentiality is observed in all investigations. training courses and informational materials for employees. Our employees, business partners or other stakeholders Compliance with high standards with respect to the quality can also report questions and doubts or non-compliance and innovativeness of our services, but also with respect to incidents related to the activity of Orange Polska or related conduct of business activity and maintenance of business companies or individuals. relations is a market requirement. Therefore, we have decided to develop a Compliance Management Programme. The implementation of the Compliance Management Programme and adherence to its underlying principles will ensure us and our partners compliance with the highest standards, and is a major element in building the trust of our shareholders, business partners, customers, employees and other stakeholders. 13 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 1.3 corporate governance and risk management Orange Polska S.A. as a company listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange (WSE) complies with the corporate governance practices set out in the Code of Best Practice for WSE Listed Companies, which is available at www.corpgov.gpw.pl For detailed information about the company’s corporate o w ne rship s tructu re asat3 1.1 22 . 0 13 governance, particularly: • Ownership structure; 50.67% • Articles of Association; • Management Board and Supervisory Board By-laws; • General Assembly Regulations; and • Corporate Governance disclosures to the Warsaw Stock Exchange; please visit our website at Orang eS.A . 49.33% www.orange-ir.pl/corporate-governance. Other shar e h od lers A system of internal control and risk management within Orange Polska S.A. convenes General Assemblies in the company has been designed to manage, rather than accordance with the Polish Commercial Companies eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives Code and best practices in shareholder communications. and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurShareholders are encouraged to take part in the Assembly, ance against material misstatement or loss. In addition, whether in person or by proxy. They have the opportunity to the system aims to ensure the reliability of Orange Polska’s communicate recommendations or suggestions. Pursuant standalone and consolidated financial statements and the to the Polish Commercial Companies Code (article 401), company’s compliance with the relevant laws and regulashareholders holding at least 5% of the shares may submit tions. draft resolutions. We encourage our shareholders to play In order to enhance CSR management in Orange, we have an active role in the company’s corporate governance. also developed a list of social risks, which have been incorIndeed, shareholders’ consent is required for key decisions. porated into the company’s risk management system. Members of the company’s Management Board and senior Further information about the internal control and risk executives engage in active dialogue with the company’s management systems has been provided in the TP S.A. shareholders and make regular presentations to instituManagement Board’s Report on the company’s activity in tional investors and representatives of the domestic and 2013, which is available at www.orange-ir.pl/results-centre. international financial community. 14 Orange Polska our a p pr oach digi ta l i nc u lso in Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board performs its tasks collectively. It has The matters related to the avoidance of the conflict of interalso set up the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee ests by members of the Supervisory Board are regulated safe e n w t or k and Strategy Committee. by the Supervisory Board By-laws. Detailed provisions concerning the conflict of interests are also contained in other The duties and responsibilities as well as the requirements by-laws of the company; these concern supervision over for qualifications and experience of the Supervisory Board transactions with related entities, conclusion of significant c l ean members are specified in the Articles of Association. agreements with related entities by the company, identifie n v ironment The document, which details the Supervisory Board’s cation of related entities and approval of transactions with functions, is available at http://www.orange-ir.pl/corporaterelated entities. governance. The powers of Supervisory Board members are regulated by the company’s Articles of Association. As of 31 March 2014, Orange Polska had six independent e n qui ri ng Additional provisions are contained in the Code of Best members on the Supervisory Board. The composition of team Practice for WSE Listed Companies. the Supervisory Board and changes therein in the reported period are detailed in the company’s Annual Report 2013 or at http://www.orange-ir.pl/corporate-governance. z a a t t ąc łchz mn ek i ni t s 15 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 Management Board* M aru isz G a ca Vn icen tLobry Bu rn oD uthoi t P i otrMu szyńs ki Ja cek Kowal sk i M acij eNow ohońs ki Boa d r Mem ber Vi ceP resd ienti nP resi dent t o fheBoa rd, V icePresd i et n Bor ad Mem ber Bor ad Mem e b r i n chargeof B usn ies c s harge ofVau leC he ifExecu ti veOf fc ier incharge i nch ag re o f i n char ge ofFn ianc e, Mar k et M a n agem en t ofOperat ions H umanR es ources Chiefi n Fan ci alOf fi c er an d Con ve rgence * Composition on 31 March 2014. The Management Board consists of 6 members, including Changes in the composition of the Management Board are the President, who are appointed by the Supervisory Board detailed in the company’s Annual Report 2013 or at http:// by simple majority of the votes cast. The term of office for www.orange-ir.pl/corporate-governance. a member of the Management Board is three years. Members of the Supervisory Board and the Management The responsibilities of the Management Board are detailed Board submit quarterly statements declaring any relations in the Management Board By-laws, available at www. to the company or its subsidiaries, which are subsequently orange-ir.pl/corporate-governance. disclosed in the company’s financial statements in line with the International Accounting Standards. Executive Directors I rm i na Bub a łłoW c j o e ich o wska Witod l D o rżdż Joa lnta Dudek M agdal e naHauptman Execu ti veDi rect or E xe c ut iv e Dir ector E x ecuti ve Di rector E xe cuti ve D ir ector n i charge of Shar edSe rvices i nchargeofCo r pora te A ff ar is incharge ofCu s tomerCar e incha r geofEff ect ivene ss & Cu s tomerExcel len ce B ożena Leśn e i wsk a M i chałPaschai lsJaku b owc iz PawełP ato kw sk i Jao r s ław St arcz ew ski Execu ti veDr iect or Exe c ut ie v Dir ector E xe cu t iv e Die rctor Ex c eutv ie D ir ector i n cha rgeoS f ae ls n i ca hrgeofC onsumer Mr ake ti ng incharge ofBrandand inchargeofC ai r rer s Mark e t Ma r keti ng Com munica ti on 16 Orange Polska our a p pr oach reliability of financial RESPECT Index statements i n d c ig u l t i s a l o in Orange Polska is included in the RESPECT Index, the first We ensure that our investors have access to reliable inforCSR index in Central and Eastern Europe. It aims to idenmation. The high quality of our financial statements was tify companies managed in a responsible and sustainable recognised in 2013 with an award for the best application manner, but additionally it puts strong emphasis on the of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in investment attractiveness of companies. safe e n w t or k 2012 financial statements in the eighth edition of the Best Annual Report competition organised by the Institute of In order to be included in the Index portfolio, the Company Accounting and Taxes, Warsaw. The competition aims to has had to demonstrate that it operates in accordance with promote companies which prepare best IFRS consolidated the best management standards in corporate governance, c l ean annual reports with the highest value for shareholders and investor relations and reporting, as well as environmental e n v ironment investors. matters, social responsibility and labour relations. The RESPECT Index regularly raises entry requirements. The competition is held under the auspices of the Ministry Our company has been present in the RESPECT Index of the Treasury and the Financial Supervision Authority, with since its launch. e n qui ri ng the Warsaw Stock Exchange as the project strategic partteam ner. The jury includes representatives of the Ministry of the Treasury, audit firms and other institutions. z a a t t ąc łchz mn ek i ni t s We are also a member of many professional associations and organisations of employers, including: international organisations: Polish organisations: • Baltic Sea Cable Maintenance Agreement (BSCMA) • Employers of Poland • Civil Communications Planning Committee North • Polish Confederation of Private Employers “Lewiatan” Atlantic Treaty Organization (CCPC NATO) • Polish Chamber of Information Technology and • Clearcom Telecommunications • European Network Planning Meeting (ENPM) • French Chamber of Commerce and Industry in Poland • European Telecommunications Network Operators’ • American Chamber of Commerce in Poland Association (ETNO) • Responsible Business Forum • Forum for International Irregular Network Access (FIINA) • Polish Donors Forum • Global Compact • Business Centre Club (BCC) • Global Settlements Carrier Group (GSCG) • Foundation for Development of Radiocommunications • Global Signaling and Inter-working Forum and Multimedia Technologies • International Cable Protection Committee (ICPC) • Association of Stock Exchange Issuers • International Inbound Services Forum (IISF) • Polish Academic-Business Forum • International Telecommunication Union (ITU) • Permanent Platform of Atomium Culture (AC) • RIPE Network Coordination Centre (RIPE NCC) • TeleManagement Forum (TM Forum) • Forum of Incidents Response and Security Teams (FIRST) • One Stop Shopping/Inter-Carrier Data Services Forum 17 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 18 our a p pr oach digi ta l i nc u lso in safe e n w t or k c l ean v i e nronment e n qui ri ng team z a a t t ąc łchz mn ek i ni t s u r op a pr o ach 19 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 our strategy In 2013 we adopted a new strategy to secure a much stronger position for Orange Polska, with improved offer, more efficient sales network and a leaner and more agile organisation. 2013-2015 strategy highlights and priorities c o n ven i e n t tec hn o lo gy , tr an sp a re n t se rvi c e s a v ail a b le a nytim e f la w l e s s c o nn e c t i vit y & a t an y p lac e ex p erien c e th a n k s t o wid ely av ai la b le co nve rg en t ne tw ork c o nverg en ce c us to m er o ri e nta t ed s olutio n s in s tea d c onne c ti v i ty o fp ro d u ct s cu s t o m er a nd te c hn o l o gie s cos t ca pit a l effc iien c y s e l e c tive i n v es tm e n ts, ef f e cti v e b usin e s sm o d el, k e e p ing so u n d b ala nc e sh e et w i th a fle xib l e c o stb a s e Corporate social responsibility is a process of incorporation of changing social demands into the company’s management strategy and monitoring of the company’s impact on its business environment. Growing complexity and volatility of the world around us, high expectations of our stakeholders, i.e. customers, employees, investors as well as business and social partners, and environmental requirements are the key factors which make us seek even better paths of sustainable development for our company. Hence, social responsibility has been an increasingly important element of Orange Polska’s business strategy. It enables us to better prepare for social, legal or economic developments as well as build trust in our company, offer enhanced services and increase the loyalty of our employees and customers. We believe that the company, its partners and its entire environment all benefit from CSR. Witold Drożdż, Executive Director in charge of Corporate Affairs 20 our approach 2.1 CSR strategy digi ta l i nc u lso in CSR mission safe e n w t or k We act unwaveringly: c l ean v i e nronment 99 to allow everybody to use digital world solutions in a simple and safe way, independently from his/her abilities, place of residence, age and skills 99 to build clear and honest relations with our customers e n qui ri ng team 99 to deliver all our investors with the complete information on our activity 99 to execute our business goals with the respect to ecology and environment z a t a t ąc łchz mn ek i ni t s 99 to build a culture of co-operation, where all employees would feel respected and could fulfil their professional & life goals In Orange Polska, we are unwaveringly committed to make CSR present in each area of our activity. The role of the CSR Department is to educate the organisation in the sustainable development challenges faced by both our company and our industry, but also to implement a strategic approach to incorporating the concept of social responsibility into our business processes and the tasks of our employees. 2013 was another period of intensive efforts to implement our new CSR strategy. We aim at measuring and presenting the actual impact of our CSR initiatives; hence, it was crucial for us to set precise goals related to each of the four major areas of our strategy: digital inclusion, safe network, enquiring team and clean environment, as well as the measures of our performance. As a result, we will be able to better monitor the company’s CSR efforts, assess their outcome and Magdalena Rędziniak, inspire the company to undertake further CSR challenges. CSR Director 21 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 major areas addressed by Orange Polska’s CSR strategy we want every one, regardless of their skills, residence, age or ability, digital inclusion to be able to make use of the opportunities offered by the digital world we want the use of the latest technologies to be easy and risk-free safe network we want to pursue our business objectives with respect for ecological clean environment principles and in harmony with the environment we want to create a culture of co-operation, in which all employees enquiring feel respected and can freely pursue their professional goals and life team passions In Orange Polska, we have been successfully implementing Responsibility for the implementation of Orange Polska’s a policy of corporate business responsibility in all areas of CSR strategy lies with the CSR Steering Committee, which our business for several years. Hence, we must have a tool is made up of managers from different areas within the which will enable us to account for the expectations of our organisation. The task of the Committee is to manage the stakeholders as well as social challenges faced by both CSR policy in Orange Polska, that is to approve long-term our company and the entire industry. The corporate social plans as well as co-ordinate and monitor the CSR strategy responsibility strategy is such a tool for us. implementation. Each Committee Member appoints the CSR Co-ordinator for their respective area. The Committee In 2013, we adopted a new CSR strategy. The conclusions is chaired by the Executive Director in charge of Corporate from a dialogue with stakeholders as well as the market Affairs Witold Drożdż. trends and social challenges for our industry in Poland and worldwide have been key elements in its development. On a daily basis CSR activities are handled by the CSR The resulting strategy is aligned with the attainment of our Team, which collaborates with the CSR Co-ordinators for overall business objectives. particular areas as well as CSR specialists in the Orange Group from other countries. The CSR Department is part of the Corporate Communication and CSR function and reports to the Executive Director in charge of Corporate Affairs. 22 our approach area action commitments to 2015 implementation status completed consultation with the commu1/6 of our sales outlets adapted to the nity of people with disabilities; the project needs of customers with disabilities to be launched in 2014 adaptation of our ser‘care without barriers’: training of vices to the needs of customer care staff in the needs of the training to start in 2014 dg ii ta l digital inclusion people with disabilities customers with disabilities i ncl uso in WCAG 2.0 level AA website 31.8% accessibility according accessibility to WCAG 2.0 development of a comprehensive development of educational materials, digital education of s af e programme of digital education of senior ABC of the Internet; ‘Meetings with Pase w t nor k senior citizens citizens sions’ project implementation of Orange Foundation’s implementation of the following proeducation in new programmes for local communities to grammes: Orange Studios, Orange technologies for local build their digital competence, reaching Academy, Orange for Libraries, Orange communities 110,000 people Educational Islands, Grant Programme cl ean n e v io r nme nt ensuring the safety of introduction of offers with parental to be launched in 2014 children on the Internet control tools training of 178,000 children on how to 156,000 children trained in safety on the use the Internet safely Internet q e nr i ui ng education of children t em a safe network about safety on the Internet periodical surveys on the safety of the survey completed in 2013 children on the Internet in Poland education of parents publishing a new edition of the free Safe z a a t t ąc łcz n e h mk i ni t s and teachers about the Guide to be published in 2014 Media guide for parents safety on the Internet development and implementation of the ensuring the customer new Personal Data Security Policy and accomplished data security Personal Data Processing Rules recovery of equipment recovery of 7.5% of the equipment put 2.5% of the equipment put on the market (handsets, modems, on the market recovered etc.) clean environment promotion of 46% of our customers receiving 57% of our customers use e-invoices e-documents e-invoices positive logistic tests of eco-packaging 100% of equipment delivered in eco-packaging and readiness to start recycled producrecyclable eco-packaging tion decrease in energy launch of a comprehensive programme the programme to be launched in 2014 consumption of electrical energy savings at least 35% women in managerial 36.7% women in managerial positions positions equal opportunities 65% of successor lists in the TOP 41.7% of successor lists in the TOP for all in access to managers group with at least one managers group with at least one woman job positions and enquiring team woman listed listed promotions 2.30% of people with disabilities among 0.8% of people with disabilities among company’s employees company’s employees introduction of the diversity diversity audit completed as the basis for diversity management management policy in the company further actions corporate culture at least 10% of employees involved in 17% of employees involved in volunteerbased on involvement corporate volunteering ing projects 23 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 • Responsible Business Forum: For nine years we have • CSR Committee of the French Chamber of Commerce been a partner of the Responsible Business Forum, and Industry in Poland was established at our initiative regularly participating in its task forces which develop in 2012. It aims at promoting the concept of corporate informational and educational materials on important social responsibility and sharing good practices and social issues. experience. • Responsible Business League is a Responsible Business Forum’s programme for disseminating CSR knowledge among Polish university students. We have been a partner to the programme for six years. • Global Compact is the world’s largest initiative for corporate responsibility and sustainable development. We actively participate Signatory companies pledge to align their operations with ten universally accepted principles in the areas in a debate about CSR of human rights, labour, the environment and anticorruption. In 2006, we committed ourselves to these in Poland and readily share principles. our experience and good • Vision of Sustainable Development for Business in Poland 2050: is a project of the Ministry of Economy. practices with others. We actively participate in working groups which develop guidelines for this document. I have followed the CSR development in Orange for several years and I noticed the company’s comprehensive and strategic approach to social responsibility. The sessions of dialogue with stakeholders have provided information about their expectations; a strategy has been developed, as well as measures, which are reported not only by the company, but also by the corporate foundation. The process of development of the latest CSR report itself has been very innovative, using the Internet to get stakeholders involved. I would like the next step in the CSR development to be about including company’s customers in educational initiatives or other specific activities, as a dozen or so million subscribers are a huge potential to use. Mirella Panek-Owsiańska, President of the Responsible Business Forum 24 our approach digi ta l i nc u lso in I have long observed the way CSR influences Orange in Poland and vice versa. The main instrument of the CSR practice, i.e. dialogue with stakeholders, has lead to subsequent changes in Orange’s entire corporate culture. This is also encouragement for many other companies, which begin to approach CSR seriously. safe e n w t or k Research has shown that lack of thorough dialogue with stakeholders can destroy any company. However, such a dialogue is meaningful only if you clearly identify the areas where stakeholders can have a real influence. Hence, ‘struggle’ c l ean with stakeholders critical of the company is now much less frequent than it used n e v ironment to be a few years ago; if you can’t reach an agreement with someone, you should simply accept it and move on. Much more attention is currently paid to the stakeholders with whom we feel bonds. Then, their wisdom can actually lead prof. Bolesław Rok, to innovative solutions in various processes. Centre for Business Ethics n e qui ri ng team and Social Innovation, Strengthening a dialogue with those stakeholders who are really involved best Leon Kozminski Academy contributes to the joint creation of social value or, even more broadly, sustainable value. In the scientific discourse, open innovation is often suggested to build a competitive edge. Such innovation enables further collaboration with the z a t a t ąc łchz mn ek i ni t s business environment, that is involved customers as co-creators of value. In the process, passive stakeholders are transformed into active citizens, who take up sustainable development challenges. The ‘Lewiatan’ Confederation has been actively promoting the concept of social responsibility among Polish companies for years. We are deeply convinced that it is a business strategy which effectively combines social and economic challenges faced by each and every company and the whole free market nowadays. ‘Lewiatan’ has been involved in a number of projects aimed at developing and disseminating practical tools for CSR implementation in a company, sharing best practices and learning from one another. Currently, we are promoting commitment to social capital development in a company by using CSR tools. Orange Polska has been present in each of these projects. Your company has also participated in our Best CSR Practices contests and has always been ranked in the lead. We have a high regard for both your commitment to observe top CSR standards within the company and your constant willingness to share your expertise and Henryka Bochniarz, President of the ‘Lewiatan’ Confederation experience. We are pleased that Orange Polska is one of the leading member companies of the ‘Lewiatan’ Confederation. 25 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 CSR highlights in 2013 January • Presentation of a new composition of the Respect Index on the Warsaw Stock Exchange; we were included for the sixth time in a row. • Presentation of the winners of the 4th edition of the “Charity Stars” poll; Orange Polska is a partner to this project. February • Safer Internet Day with Orange Foundation as a main partner of the event again. • Launch of the stage II of the Vision of Sustainable Development for Business in Poland 2050 project at the Ministry of Economy; Orange Polska participates in the project implementation. • Responsible Business Forum conference: “Polish Diversity Charter: A Year of Experience, a Year of Challenges”; our company became the main partner of the Charter for a second time. March • Orange Polska ranked by TOP Employers Polska among top companies for a third time. • 11th edition of the Good Practices Report by the Responsible Business Forum; 10 Orange Polska’s projects recognised as good business practices in CSR. • ‘Great Heart’ Award for Orange Foundation in recognition of its social initiatives for the people of the City of Olsztyn. • Joint efforts of Orange Polska and the Nobody’s Children Foundation for the security of children on the Internet awarded in the Polish edition of the European CSR Award Scheme as the best partnership between a company and a non-governmental organisation. April • Orange Polska ranked first in the ‘Telecommunications, technology, media and entertainment’ category in the 7th ranking list of socially responsible companies. The ranking was prepared by Gazeta Prawna daily, the Leon Kozminski Academy and the Responsible Business Forum, and audited by PwC. May • International Day of Families in Orange. • Orange Polska Corporate Volunteering programme and the Orange Foundation’s activity for children with impaired hearing recognised in the ‘Benefactor of the Year’ competition. June • “E-accessibility of the Public Sector in Poland: Achievements and Challenges” conference with Orange Polska’s participation. • Establishment of the Diversity Council of the ‘Lewiatan’ Foundation with a representative of Orange Polska as a member. July • Broad Alliance for Digital Skills in Poland with Orange Polska as one of the signatories. 26 our approach August digi ta l i nc u lso in • BeSt browser, which has been designed by the Nobody’s Children Foundation, is certified by CERT Orange Polska. September safe e n w t or k • Orange Studios programme recognised in a report developed by Gazeta Finansowa magazine. • Launch of Orange Foundation’s ‘Meetings with Passions’ project addressed to the elderly and carried out in libraries. • 1st Digital Inspiration Forum organised by the Orange Foundation. c l ean • Conference on keeping children and young people safe online held within the European e n v ironment Commission’s Safer Internet Programme; main partner: Orange. • ‘Concordia IV. The pillars of co-operation between NGOs and business: partnership, synergy, communication, results.’ conference; partner: Orange Foundation. • Inauguration of the Ministry of Administration and Digitisation’s working group for children safety on e n qui ri ng the Internet with participation of Orange Group’s representatives. team October • Launch of the 10th edition of the Responsible Business League programme for university students; z a t a t ąc łchz mn ek i ni t s Orange Polska became a partner to the programme again. • 10th anniversary of the ‘Phone to Mum’ programme for children in hospitals. • ‘Secure’ Conference on ICT security; Orange Polska was a partner to the event. • Introduction of electric cars into Orange Polska’s fleet. • 3rd Orange Volunteering Week; 550 employees joined volunteering projects of the Orange Foundation. November • Final Gala of the 7th edition of the Leaders of Philanthropy competition organised by the Polish Donors Forum; Orange Polska was a partner to the competition. December • Orange Polska Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 was granted the Ministry of Economy’s award for constantly raising the standards of the CSR activity in the Polish market. In addition, it received a honorary mention in the ‘CSR Reports’ competition for measuring the effectiveness of community initiatives. • ‘Volunteering as a Path to Responsible Leadership’ conference of the ‘CEO-Volunteers 2011’ coalition, of which Orange Polska is a member. • Orange Studios programme recognised as the best CSR project in the ‘Golden Clips’ competition organised by the Polish Public Relations Consultancies Association. • Presentation of a new composition of the Respect Index; we were included for the seventh time. • 8th anniversary of the Orange Foundation. • December 31: TP and PTK Centertel became one company: Orange Polska S.A. 27 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 2.2 dialogue and relations For us, dialogue with stakeholders is a process which helps us to better respond to the expectations of our customers, business partners, suppliers, investors, employees and social environment. In 2011, we decided to take up a dialogue with stakeholders We made use of dialogue in the development of this Report in accordance with the AA 1000 standard. The dialogue as well. We invited Internet users to discuss the content concentrated on the key social challenges relevant for the and form of Orange Polska Corporate Social Responsibility verification of our CSR strategy. To the existing and proven Report 2013. For a few weeks, in the “Writing the CSR channels of communication with stakeholders, we added Report” series, we went through all stages of the Report some new tools, such as topical debates, a series of CEO’s development on our corporate blog, www.blog.orange.pl, individual meetings with representatives of the institutions asking users for their remarks, comments or expectations. and agencies of key importance for functioning of the The Report was also discussed with employees in weekly company, expert debates or stakeholder panels. newsletters. In 2013, we focused on the key issues identified in the course of the analysis of internal processes (conclusions from the initial stages of the dialogue; surveys; audits) as W ri t in g well as external conditions (market challenges). the C S R R eport The major topics we submitted for discussion were as follows: n i d c g i l u t i s a l o in n s e f a w t e c o rk ev nr i e l n o a m ne n e nu q e t t i m a i n rg • expectations of elderly customers; • adaptation of our services to the needs of people with disabilities; • safety of children online; • diversity management in the company; • 1 3 n i s talm e n t s of the “W ritin g th e • issues related to concerns about electromagnetic radiation. C S R R e p o r t”s e rie s These topics were further investigated through surveys • 2 8 In ter n e t u se rs t oo k p a rt in th e and audits to obtain the information required to introduce changes. Furthermore, together with the ‘Shipyard’ Unit d is c u s sio n for Social Innovation and Research we developed a new tool for our company: a process of participatory dialogue • 1 2 9 c om m e n s t n i h te c o m b ox related to the adaptation of our services to the needs of people with disabilities. 28 our approach digi ta l i nc u lso in I have been writing about our company’s social responsibility on our corporate blog, www.blog.orange.pl, for several years. I am also responsible for developing our annual CSR Reports. This year I decided to combine these two activities and write the Report on-line. For several weeks, each Tuesday I invited Internet users safe e n w t or k to discuss the previous Report, design the new one, determine the content of subsequent chapters and choose proper graphics. I must admit that it was an inspiring and creative experience for me. I was c l ean prepared for difficult topics or even outright criticism; yet, I was positively n e v ironment surprised by the level of discussions, knowledge of the topics and dedication of my interlocutors, who accompanied me for several weeks, suggesting how to prepare a good and complete description of CSR in Orange Polska. Thanks to them, this Report addresses a number of new issues and topics and has an Monika Kulik, e n qui ri ng interesting form. I hope that all readers will find it absorbing. team CSR Expert z a a t t ąc łchz mn ek i ni t s 29 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 dialogue with stakeholders customers/market • residential customers • telecom operators • customer satisfaction surveys • business customers • rival companies • ‘Listen & Change’ process • key customers • business partners and • Spokesperson for Customers • consumer organisations distributors • social media • government agencies • customers of • dialogue with consumer organisations complementary services • participatory dialogue • regular employees • prospective employees • ‘Me in My Company’ survey • contract and outsource • former employees • internal service satisfaction surveys employees workers • trade unions • dialogue with trade unions • managers • organisations of • Employee Council • trainees and temporary employers • Social Agreement workers • labour market • partner companies institutions • global suppliers • meetings suppliers • local suppliers • opinion surveys • once-off suppliers • QREDIC • long-standing suppliers • audits • institutional investors • reporting • website dedicated to • individual investors • WSE Code of Good Practices investor relations investors • rating agencies • meetings with investors • General Assembly • brokers • teleconferences • Warsaw Stock Exchange • shareholder opinion surveys • capital market supervision agencies (e.g. Financial • industry conferences Supervision Authority, National Depository for Securities) legal and regulatory • regulatory agencies (e.g. Office of Electronic • TP/UKE Memorandum of Understanding Communications, Energy Regulatory Office, Office for • consultations environment Competition and Consumer Protection) • reporting • regulation enforcement agencies (Inspector General for • meetings Personal Data Protection, Central Statistical Office) • industry conferences social environment • local communities • government • surveys • NGOs • media • meetings • public institutions • opinion leaders • consultations • central and local and professional • programme partnership government bodies organisations • co-operation • universities and scholars • environmental organisations • consultations natural • government agencies and regulators • co-operation • national forests • reporting environment 30 our approach dialogue with customers We offer diverse channels of communication with the company to our customers, according to their needs and preferences. In particular, they can contact us on-line through the Orange.pl portal, where they quickly and intuitively find up-toi n d c ig u l t i s a l o in -date information about our offers and promotions. c a 545,000 n e sa t w fe or k u n iq u e v i si to r s to o u r p ort a l d a ily c l ean v i e nronment o v e r 44,000 d o w n lo a d s n e t q e u a r i m n ig o f ‘M y O r an g e ’a p p li c a t io n m o n t h ly z a a t t ąc łchz mn ek i ni t s c a 3,600 c o n v e r s a tio n s h a n d l e d by o u r V irtu a l A d vis o r E v a d a i ly Social networks are an important place of discussions Orange Polska fan page offers a number of complex service about telecommunication offers and services. Internet tools. In the “Orange Help” section, customers can use users not only share their opinions and experience there, “Offer Advisor”, that will propose the best solution for them but also expect that they will get the information or advice within a few minutes. They can also use the contact form to they need or settle matters related to the services they report their problems or choose the “Do It Yourself” section use. We want to be where our customer are, so in Orange to check their payment balance or tariff plan. Help is also Polska there is a team of professional consultants who are provided by the Online Advisor and experts via a video chat, present on forums and blogs, answering questions and where it takes approximately 8 minutes to have a problem solving problems communicated by users. solved. People seeking answers to their questions can also join the “Give Me Advice” social application. Our customers can find us on Facebook, where they can get help, top up their account or watch video instructions Consequently, Orange Polska fan page is the most popular offered by Orange Experts. There, our customers can place for asking questions by consumers among all receive advice and explanations concerning any matters telecom corporate profiles. For younger customers, Orange related to the functioning and use of our services. In 12 Polska profile has become one of the leading channels of months, the team of Orange Experts handled over 26,000 communication with the company. enquiries on Facebook and the average response time to a post on Orange Polska wall was 7 minutes. 31 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 The “Orange Help” video channel on YouTube, where we put short videos which explain the functioning of our 99 94% customers declare that they services, has been also very popular among Internet users. Furthermore, on the orange.pl portal there is a technical have got information or settled the assistance forum (over 13 million views). Each month, 550 new threads on diverse subjects are created there. matter Customers have received a total of over 48,000 answers via the forum. 99 93% customers are satisfied with how they have been served 1.7 99 60% of customers would recommend our services* mn likes of Orange Polska on Facebook Our ambition is to be the most likely recommended operator in Poland, and a measure of this ambition is Net Promoter Score® (NPS), which is a difference between 2.3 our promoters and detractors. We know perfectly well that mn likes satisfied customers are the best brand ambassadors. of Heart and Reason NPS is included in bonus targets of all employees of on Facebook Orange Polska. Between January and December 2013, NPS increased by 6.8 percentage points. 60,000 answers by Orange Experts to questions asked on Facebook Would you recommend Orange services to another person who Our corporate blog platform, www.blog.orange.pl, has is yet to choose a telecom opbeen active for several years. The blogs are run by Orange erator? Please answer on the 1 Polska’s employees who are specialists in their respective fields. On average, the website attracts 150,000 visitors to 5 scale, where 1 is “I would per month. The blog platform is a modern communicator, which provides multimedia materials, video reports, original definitely recommend not using film materials and live broadcast. It is a virtual place of them” and 5 is “I would definitely interaction between the company and its customers, open to comments and criticism. One of the topics discussed on recommend using them.” our blog is corporate social responsibility. Those who prefer traditional means of contact are invited to The question about our sales outlets, where our consultants will advise them on recommendation is our portfolio and help to solve any problems. one of the questions we ask to randomly Our helplines are operated on a 24 hours/7 days basis, selected customers in our so that our customers can have their questions quickly satisfaction survey. answered and, thanks to the automated portion, can easily check the status of their requests or payments. *Internal survey, December 2013 32 our approach In order to better respond to the expectations of our Key actions: customers, we regularly measure their satisfaction, surveying the following: • to bundle mobile and fixed line solutions in convenient packages; • characteristics of our customers, their preferences and • to offer on-line product availability, customer service and expectations; sales; digi ta l i nc u lso in • preferences and expectations of customers from specific • to ensure effective solving of customers’ problems at groups; any point: quickly, efficiently and professionally; • customer relations with the operator and our brand • to provide simple technical solutions and professional perception; support; • customer satisfaction with our portfolio; • to appreciate the customers who stay with us and use safe e n w t or k • customer satisfaction with the technical aspects of our our services for a long time. products, such as Internet speed or image quality; • satisfaction with customer care and our employees’ We can build a customer-orientated company only through conduct in the processes of sales, delivery, complaint commitment of each and every one of our employees. c l ean handling and fault removal. Therefore, ‘In the Front Line’ programme provides for e n v ironment a period of hands-on experience in a selected customer Our customer satisfaction surveys are among the largest care and sales outlet for each manager. In addition, in Poland. Each month, we conduct a total of around managers provide personal patronage to a selected front 20,000 interviews, analyse calls from over 500,000 line business unit for a whole year. e n qui ri ng helpline customers and review handling of complaints from We acknowledge the best of us. The ‘Our Eleven’ team over 30,000 residential customers and 2,500 business competition identifies front line employees, i.e. maintenance customers. specialists, salespeople and consultants, who excel in Prior to the launch of any new services or functionalities, building customer relations. we test their ergonomics and usefulness in the Simplicity+ The effects of our efforts as well as our dedication z a t a t ąc łchz mn ek i ni t s programme. We have adopted a rule that users should have to change have been noticed and acknowledged by no difficulty using a product regardless of their technical renowned analytics company Gartner, which granted the knowledge. CRM Excellence Award to Orange Polska in the Customer Based on surveys we identify causes of customer Experience Excellence category in recognition of our longdissatisfaction and define areas for improvement and term strategy for building a customer-centric company and further actions. its implementation in recent years. It has been considered the best enterprise-wide programme of this type in Europe. A large company means lots of people with different duties and objectives. When focusing on their current tasks, they can easily forget that customer satisfaction should always be an overall point of reference for them. For us, ‘Mission Customer’ is a way to remain customer-focused in everything we do: from general strategy to individual customer contacts. We have a common ambition reflected in Orange Polska’s strategy 2013–2015: we want to be the most likely recommended operator in Poland. In order to achieve it, we need a range of efforts: network investments, systems development, improvements in processes and procedures as well as cultural transformation within the company. Our initiatives have been recognised by both customers, who are getting more likely to recommend our products and services, and experts, who considered the ‘Mission Customer’ programme as the bust project of this type in Europe. This award is a sign for us that our transformation into a customer-focused organisation is not only a remote dream any more. Bartosz Gott, It is actually happening and it results from our hard work put in improving relations Customer Relations Strategy Director with our customers every day. 33 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 dialogue with consumer organisations We carry out a regular dialogue with consumer organisations Our Code has been consulted with Polish and international and local spokespersons for consumer rights, representing experts, including representatives of the Polish regulator, groups of customers who experience problems in relations consumer organisations, the marketing industry and with telecom operators. environmental organisations. The Code has been made available to our employees and business partners. As part of this co-operation, we have established dedicated teams for handling customer cases referred to During tender procedures for services of advertising us via spokespersons for consumer rights; we hold regular agencies, we are guided by the market opinion about meetings to enable clarification of contentious issues; and them. Moreover, the agreements we conclude contain we provide monthly communications, containing information ethical clauses, and ethical issues are an element of about major changes in our portfolio or customer care. our evaluation of the performance of the agency and its In addition, we inform them on a current basis about our employees. In addition, we have signed the Memorandum actions and changes to be introduced, making it easier for of Understanding promoting the use of the European them to solve problems with which they are approached by tendering standards in the marketing industry. The consumers. relevant rules have been specified in the Pitch Guidelines announced jointly by the World Federation of Advertisers (WFA), of which Orange is a member, and the European Spokesperson for Association of Communications Agencies (EACA). The document describes in detail good practices of responsible Customers business in the context of tender procedures and relations with business partners. In 2003, we became the first telecom operator in Poland to appoint the Spokesperson for Customers. His main responsibilities include handling particularly complex matters, analysing feedback from customers and initiating changes in customer care processes. Code of Responsible Communication We want to better communicate with our customers, in a clear, friendly and responsible manner. Therefore, we have introduced the Code of Responsible Communication. The purpose of this document is to apply our social and environmental commitments to all forms of marketing communication as well as to develop best communication practices. Our rules: • To show respect by involving customers in the communication process; • To earn trust through honesty in communication; • To behave responsibly during conversations; • To accept responsibility for the environment; • To disseminate similar rules of communication among our partners. 34 our approach dialogue with suppliers We want the relations with our suppliers and business In 2013, no suppliers were rejected for failure to observe partners to be based on transparent principles and mutual human rights. digi ta l i nc u lso in obligations to abide by ethical standards. We want to build good and long-term relations with our suppliers. In 2013, a great majority of agreements with our biggest suppliers included an ethics clause. Our goal is to have an ethics clause included in 90% of major agreements with suppliers by 2015. safe supplier assessment n e w t or k We take active part in the implementation of the Orange building long-standing Group’s global supplier assessment programme, QREDIC. Periodical assessment is performed on the basis of all relations with suppliers c e i v nr e l o a n n ment information about suppliers available across the Group. In doubtful cases, suppliers are requested to provide We try to build our relations with suppliers on the basis explanation and remove irregularities. The results of of long-term contracts providing for transparent terms assessment are used in a process of negotiations and of co-operation. Over 90% of purchases (by value) are e n qui ri ng selection of suppliers on the global level. A definitely effected under long-term agreements. team negative assessment with respect to compliance with ethical and environmental standards (particularly lack of actions aimed at elimination of the identified irregularities) o l n g-te rm ag re em e n ts disqualifies the supplier. 92.3% 2 0 12 z a t t a ąc łchz mn ek i ni t s On the global level, Orange has joined the Joint Audit 2 0 13 94% Cooperation (JAC) with other operators. The initiative aims at ensuring compliance with ethical, environmental and health & safety standards as well as ban on child labour In 2013, no supplier exceed the 10% threshold in our overall across common suppliers. purchase structure by value. In 2013, a total of 38 audits of key suppliers were conducted We gradually work on effecting all payments to suppliers in within the JAC network. The suppliers for which any gaps due time. Owing to an electronic invoice flow system, the were found were given a deadline for eliminating them. timely payment rate has reached 92%. Local suppliers are required to comply with an ethics clause, which is included in agreements with our company. The clause includes an obligation to respect ethical and environmental rules, particularly international conventions on human rights and special protection of children’s rights. Pursuant to the ethics clause, we have the right to conduct regular audits. The ethics clause is a standard element of agreements drawn up by our company. The clause can be removed only upon submitting proper justification and obtaining an approval of the Orange Polska Legal Director. The company does not keep records of what percentage of agreements include an ethics clause. 35 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 transparent procedures for selecting suppliers We follow a competitive and open procurement policy, A considerable number of the solutions worked out in that which provides for direct electronic placement of orders process has been incorporated into subsequent regulatory with suppliers. Currently, over 55% of orders are placed in decisions which determine Orange Polska’s obligations the electronic form. Suppliers who want to co-operate with with respect to wholesale relevant markets and reference Orange can register in a database of potential suppliers and offers. thus participate in the procurement processes initiated by Orange. fines imposed on Orange We have developed the Procurement Organisation Code of Ethics. It is a set of rules, which should be followed by all Polska in 2013 procurement organisation employees in direct and indirect contacts with suppliers. The Code covers procurement In the reported period, no fines were imposed on procedures, which determine transparent rules of Orange Polska in connection with breach of competition selecting suppliers and concluding agreements, as well as law. However, a binding ruling was issued in appellate confidentiality procedures for protecting information; it also proceedings, upholding a fine imposed by the Office for addresses the conflict of interests and regulates the issue Competition and Consumer Protection, though the initial of gifts. Any actual or suspected breach of the Code shall fine of PLN 75 million was reduced to PLN 38 million in the be reported by employees to their superiors or the Internal course of proceedings. Audit Director. Two final and binding rulings in appellate proceedings transparent rules of which upheld UKE’s decisions concerned fines for (i) failure to provide emergency calls, particularly from pay phones, co-operation with alternative in some regions, and (ii) failure to submit draft changes in the price list of the TP Seek & Connect service for UKE’s operators approval. Both fines total PLN 1.2 million. We perform our obligations resulting from regulatory In the reported period, no fines were imposed on Orange decisions concerning equal and transparent procedures Polska in connection with product/service information for co-operation with alternative operators (AO). The actual and marking or the rules of marketing communication, i.e. implementation of AO non-discrimination was subject of promotion, advertising and sponsoring. detailed settlements with other telecom operators and the regulator, which led to the conclusion of the Memorandum In the reported period, no fines were imposed on Orange of Understanding between TP S.A. and UKE in 2009. In Polska and no final and binding rulings upholding fines were a model of inter-operator relations adopted pursuant issued in appellate proceedings in connection with nonto MoU, additional supporting IT tools and transparent compliance of delivery or use of products/services with the reporting methods were developed. relevant laws and regulations. In particular, the list of KPIs related to procedures For information about other fines previously imposed on for wholesale service provision, customer migration Orange Polska please see Note 29. Litigation and claims between operators and providing information about the (including contingent liabilities) to the Consolidated Financial telecommunication infrastructure (also to local government Statements of the Orange Polska Group for the year ended bodies) and available wholesale services has been agreed 31 December 2013, prepared under International Financial upon and the Good Practises Code has been developed. Reporting Standards. 36 our approach 2.3 innovativeness We are interested in a changing world. In order to monitor these changes and set trends in new technologies we have created Orange Labs. digi ta l i nc u lso in Orange Polska’s research and development centre is a member of international Orange Labs network, which safe e n w t or k consists of 15 Orange R&D centres and laboratories in 9 countries: France, Spain, UK, China, Japan, Egypt, Jordan, US and Poland. c l ean A major element of Orange Labs operations is a process of n e v ironment development, selection and implementation of innovations, which involves co-operation with external partners and performance of R&D tasks for both Orange Polska and the Orange Group. e n qui ri ng team Our R&D Centre is primarily a place of promotion of new technologies and innovations. Together with our business partners, we regularly organise Innovation Days, Innovative Technology conferences, workshops and prototype z a t a t ąc łchz mn ek i ni t s presentations, as well as share experience and build positive partnerships. Orange’s latest solutions, including our current commercial portfolio, may be seen at the Innovation Gardens. In 2013, in co-operation with our partners, we presented 29 prototype or commercial solutions (premières) and held a dozen or so major events attended by representatives of universities, suppliers and government administration. In total, our Innovation Gardens were visited by over 7,000 people. Innovations should benefit people. In Orange Labs Poland we make our best to ensure that our solutions are adapted to the needs of a broad spectrum of customers, including the elderly and people with disabilities. With these groups in mind, we develop services which increase the accessibility of telecommunication solutions. We also attach great importance to reducing the use of natural resources by designing eco-effective solutions, which optimise electrical energy consumption, or using renewable energy sources. Krzysztof Kozłowski, Network and Service Platform R&D Director 37 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 innovative co-operation Orange Labs actively participates in European research both students and partner companies. It is one of few open projects and the work of international standardisation innovation projects in Poland. organisations, such as ITU, ETSI, CENELEC, 3GPP, Broadband Forum or Home Gateway Initiative. Our R&D Centre works on the development of new services to integrate Internet and telecommunication technologies. We also carry out the Test Campus project, which provides free broadband infrastructure for the purpose of research In the Openmiddleware Community project, workshops projects and sharing experience related to the latest trends are organised in selected universities for students in research and technology. The network is used mainly interested in modern ICT systems. Such projects aim to by students, whose task is to assess its quality as well as stimulate the development of new ideas for provision of enhance or develop new services. telecommunication services. The partners to the project include Warsaw University of Technology, Łódź University In addition, Orange Labs closely collaborates with a number of Technology, University of Warmia and Mazuria in Olsztyn, of universities and research centres in Poland and abroad. Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń and University of Together with Huawei, we provide the students of the Science and Technology in Cracow. Warsaw University of Technology (PW) with the Long Term Evolution (LTE) network for developing modern services. In 2013, owing to the formation of the Community around Co-operation in an open innovation scheme between the our R&D Centre, we launched the OpenAPI Hackathon market’s leading technology partner (Huawei), leading project, which aims at development of communication research partner (PW) and leading telecom operator applications which use municipal data and Orange network (Orange Polska) provides development opportunities for interfaces. Some interesting applications were developed for the competition, e.g. for checking the availability of city bikes or for the remote management of house systems. 38 our approach digi ta l i nc u lso in In 2013, we launched Orange Fab, an international In 2013, Orange Labs took care of young inventors from the accelerator programme. King John Sobieski 6th School Complex in Jastrzębie-Zdrój, who invent solutions that help people with disabilities in The programme invites small to medium start-up their daily life. These include ESKONzO, a system enabling companies with existing, technologically advanced people with disabilities to communicate with others, or safe e n w t or k products or services. Orange Fab is a start-up accelerator, a torch for blind people. These innovations have already in which mentors, experts and investors intensively work on been recognised at numerous fairs and competitions the potential of innovative solutions, adapting them to the worldwide. market requirements. The possible forms of co-operation c l ean include joint product offering with Orange, licence purchase, We invited school representatives to our laboratory, where e n v ironment revenue sharing or capital investment in a start-up. Orange young people had an opportunity to see the solutions we will start co-operation with several winning projects. are working on, particularly those for people with disabilities. In addition, our R&D employees visited the school in Jastrzębie-Zdrój to conduct practical classes. Students e n qui ri ng were presented the solutions we had designed and had team a chance to test them. z a a t t ąc łchz mn ek i ni t s Owing to the co-operation of our school with Orange in the school year 2013/2014, we were able to expand the existing and introduce new innovative projects for people with disabilities. We visited disabled people in Małomice, Jarocin, Jastrzębie-Zdrój, Cisownica, Pszczyna and Gorzów Wielkopolski, and installed our ESKONzO system in their homes. Currently, we are working on some new projects, including a bedsore prevention bed, a control panel for people with disabilities (ESKONzO-II), ‘Scan for Life’ programme for blind people or an extension of the ‘Torch for the Blind’ project. Orange Labs’ employees carried out training for our students in mobile application programming, which resulted in software which is part of the above-mentioned projects. Krzysztof Smyczek, Deputy Headmaster, King John Sobieski We have successfully presented our designs at innovation fairs in Warsaw, 6th School Complex in Jastrzębie-Zdrój Brussels, Moscow, Geneva and Paris. Furthermore, at Wrocław Medical University’s invitation, we conducted classes for rehabilitation students entitled ‘Helping People with Disabilities – Our Experience.’ We warmly thank Orange for its co-operation and support for our initiatives hitherto. 39 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 2.4 social commitment We seek to responsibly address social issues by developing long-term CSR programmes based on the company’s competence profile. We also carry out charity programmes, responding to specific problems or challenges. We are also not indifferent to our changing social environment, particularly important events or natural disasters. Orange Polska is among Poland’s most socially committed companies. Orange Foundation Orange Polska’s social commitment (2013) The Orange Foundation was established in 2005. It works mainly towards modern education of children and youth. Through creative initiatives, we encourage young people financial assistance (grants) to acquire knowledge, participate in culture and build communities with the use of Internet and new technologies. PLN 18.04 mn This way, they gain various competencies, including digital skills, which are necessary to function in the society of the 21st century. free services In the Orange Foundation, we have been implementing PLN 0.53 mn a variety of our own programmes based on the results of research and consultation with experts in specific areas, such as Education with the Internet, Orange Academy, Orange for Libraries, Orange Studios, Phone to Mum or allocated staff time (volunteering) Sounds of Dreams. Furthermore, we provide technical, organisational and financial support to initiatives of other PLN 1.29 mn organisations. Our efforts are also supported by employees of Orange Polska who join our projects as volunteers. The level of digital skills, scope of knowledge and openness to use the Internet and modern technologies varies considerably across our society. We know, as demonstrated by surveys, that the level of digital competence, particularly of young people, is affected by a number of factors: not only access to the Internet and IT equipment, but also education, an opportunity to explore and combine new technologies with one’s passion as well as proper assistance and inspiration to act. Therefore, in the Orange Foundation we focus on education and co-operation – co-operation of the young and the elderly, researchers and practitioners, NGOs and business, programmers and artists, educators and engineers or decision makers and local community representatives. It is worthwhile to share knowledge, competence and experience, as it enables us to be more efficient Jadwiga Czartoryska, and more effective in our efforts for the development of children and youth as well President of the Orange Foundation as those who find it difficult to cope with the digital reality. Only with mutual openness we can make new technologies allies in fostering social capital. 40 our approach mission of the Foundation 99 Orange Foundation triggers the energy and creativity of people, and works with them to make the world a better place. The Foundation’s motto is to share, learn and inspire. digi ta l i nc l uso in New technologies and the Internet have become an inherent part of contemporary world, and their development The Orange Foundation is a member safe e n w t or k has a visible impact on the society. Access to them is of the Polish Donors Forum. It groups the first significant step in the digitisation process, but there are also other important issues, such as education, organisations which carry out their participation in culture, local development and fostering of the competencies necessary to build a modern society. Our mission using open and transparent c e i v nr e l o a n n ment mission is to disseminate knowledge and manage social aiding processes as well as reliable projects through which new technologies will become allies of social development. and efficient resource management. e n qui ri ng Areas of social investments of the Orange Foundation team In addition to the implementation of its own original programmes, the Foundation supports valuable projects 64% and initiatives carried out by third sector organisations 8% and public institutions in Poland. It also collaborates with z a t a t ąc łchz mn ek i ni t s small organisations and associations which are often the only ones on the local level to inspire and animate the 6% development of children and young people in a friendly manner. These small organisations have huge potential, yet frequently find it most difficult to raise funds. The Orange 22% Foundation is an important partner for them, enabling them to gain momentum and become reliable for other potential e ducation(pa rti cul a l r y of lo ca lcomm uni ti es) h eal th and so cial w el fare donors. O range e mp l o yees’acti v i ty o t he r More at www.fundacja.orange.pl Fondation Orange’s mission is to create links between individuals and make communication easier, particularly for those who are excluded due to health, disability or economic situation. Fondation Orange’s actions are centred on three main areas: education, health care and culture. Two constant themes in all our activities are improvement in the life situation of women and girls, particularly in developing countries, and the use of new technologies in education, culture and health care. Established in France in 1987 and involved in corporate philanthropy initiatives in Africa, Europe, the Middle East and Asia since 2005, Fondation Orange supports projects in 30 countries where the Orange Group is present as a telecom operator. In each country, Fondation Orange works in close collaboration with local communities in order to better learn and respond to their needs. Orange’s employees are involved in its projects as volunteers. Mireille Le Van, Today, a total of 16 Orange Foundations operate all over the world. Fondation Fondation Orange Orange shares good practices, including best management standards, with local employees of Orange and Orange Foundations. 41 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 co-operation with social partners helping over phone Our social commitment involves also direct co-operation Another expression of our commitment to important social with various organisations, providing telecommunication events is provision of free services: telephone lines and SMS services for charitable purposes or, last but not least, numbers for charity fundraising. The entire proceeds from responding to important social events and helping victims these services go to social welfare organisations. of natural disasters. In 2013, we provided SMS fundraising numbers for 21 Social helplines organisations. The proceeds, which totalled over PLN 8 million, went to welfare organisations. • 116 000 hotline for missing children, operated by ITHACA Foundation – Centre for Missing People. It may be used by parents or guardians whose child is missing, police officers, children who have run away or got lost or any persons who may help to find them. The hotline is available on a 24 hours/7 days basis and is toll free. The ITHACA Foundation has been operating the helpline on a round-the-clock basis owing to financial and technological support of our company. In 2013, 137 kids and teenagers were found, and their parents or guardians have received the necessary legal, psychological and searching assistance. In addition, Orange Polska’s support involves developing prevention programmes related to the safety of children and young people. • Child helpline. The Ombudsman for Children’s helpline has been operated since 2008. Young people can receive specialist help by calling 800 12 12 12. Thanks to us, the calls to this number are toll free. • 800 676 676 civic helpline. It can be used to ask a question about existing regulations, submit complaints related to the functioning of public administration bodies, public officers, courts, prosecutors, social insurance institutions or health care centres, or to learn everything about anti-discrimination law. So far, over 58,000 calls have been handled. The civic helpline has been operated by Orange Polska on non-commercial terms. Therefore, everybody can call the Ombudsman’s Office free of charge. 42 our approach Nowadays, it is hard to imagine that any institutions or organisations which help digi ta l i nc u lso in kids could function without using a tool such as a helpline. Statistics, and also my personal experience, demonstrate that young people need to talk about their problems, concerns and worries, but their hard-pressed relatives do not always find time or interest to listen. Meanwhile, a simple talk with a friendly, open and competent psychologist or educator on-call can solve a number of problems which safe e n w t or k young people are unable to manage on their own. The purpose of the Ombudsman for Children’s helpline is twofold: it is a confidential helpline for kids, but also an intervention hotline. As it is positioned within the c l ean Photo: J. Lipka structure of the Ombudsman for Children’s Office, our consultants are able to take e n v ironment further actions or monitor the situation. Marek Michalak, Ombudsman for Children e n qui ri ng team z a a t t ąc łchz mn ek i ni t s Long-standing support from Orange Polska, our strategic partner, has enabled the ITHACA Foundation to continue psychological and legal counselling by phone as well as preventive actions addressed to children and teenagers who have got lost and their families. Thanks to Orange Polska, the hotline for missing children, 116 000, has been operated in Poland continuously for five years. It is a common number across the European Union. Help can be found at this number by parents or guardians whose child is missing, police officers and teachers as well as runaway teenagers. In addition, hotline operators collect information from any people who may help to find a child. Orange Polska has provided the ITHACA Foundation – Centre for Missing People with a technological platform which makes our helpline accessible to all who need help, regardless of the network they use. In addition, the company provides Alicja Tomaszewska, technical maintenance, and the hotline has been functioning faultlessly. President of the Board, In our opinion, Orange Polska’s commitment to help missing children and their ITHACA Foundation – Centre families is a perfect example of corporate social responsibility. for Missing People 43 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 44 di gi ta l i ncu lso in sa fe n etwor k cle an v i e no rnment e nqui ri ng t eam a t t achment s d i g i t a l inc l usi on integracja cyfrowa 45 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 We want every one, regardless of their skills, residence, age or ability, to be able to make use of the opportunities offered by the digital world. our goals: 3.1 increase access to modern, high-quality services, also in economically less developed areas, eliminate the „white spots” 3.2 provide services and products & design effective business processes dedicated to elderly and disabled people 3.3 adapt education to different social groups, their needs and expectations 3.4 provide technological possibilities for e-government, e-state solutions The last decade was not only marked by Poland’s ten years in the European Union, but was also a decade of the Internet. The progress of digitisation contributes to the country’s social and economic development. To make full use of these opportunities, we must remember that digitisation involves not only development of infrastructure and services; it also means supporting children, young people, the elderly and people with disabilities in using digital tools more confidently and more effectively. In the Ministry of Administration and Digitisation, we work on all the aspects of the introduction of innovative technologies: expansion of networks, which provide broadband access; development of technical and legal solutions, particularly enabling users to settle formalities on-line; and dissemination of knowledge on how to use the emerging technologies. However, we are just at the beginning of the road. Although the Poles use digital solutions more and more often, there is still much work to do. We need a broader Rafał Trzaskowski, approach, particularly promotion of the safe use of the Internet by children. Another Minister of Administration and Digitisation important challenge is to build trust to new technologies and explain how to use them consciously, particularly in terms of personal data protection. We face a great opportunity given to us by the progress of digitisation, and it is our duty to use it well. This requires responsible commitment of various groups as well as government, NGOs and business working together. An example of such co-operation is the Broad Alliance for Digital Skills in Poland, which was established at the initiative of the Ministry of Administration and Digitisation in 2013. I believe that Orange Polska, which is a partner to this project, will continue with its commitment to increase social capital and trust. Development of modern technologies is not an end in itself, but rather a tool for improving our everyday life. Hence, the great need for people who know how to use them wisely and efficiently. 46 digital inclusion 3.1 accessible infrastructure Both projects provide for the development of networks in 3,500 ‘digitally excluded’ areas, where private-owned operators have not found it profitable to invest so far. As a result, there new sites will be real prospects for enhancing competitiveness and attractiveness of these areas and the whole regions, as s af e e nw tor k well as improving the quality of life of their inhabitants. The higher quality networks will be technologically neutral and open, which means that full access will be guaranteed for all operators. of voice services We regularly meet with operators in order to encourage cl ean them, together with local governments, to develop access n e v ir om nent networks and demonstrate the opportunities offered by modern networks. The projects are worth PLN 310 million, increased coverage out of which PLN 220 million will be invested by Orange of Orange network in Poland Polska and PLN 90 million will come from an EU grant. e nu qir i ng t em a We are also actively involved in the development of The broadband network is presently one of the key a broadband network in Eastern Poland. Otwarte Regionalne components of infrastructure. Sieci Szerokopasmowe [Open Regional Broadband It is hard to imagine a society functioning efficiently in the Networks], a joint venture established by HAWE investment a t t ac hment s 21st century without high-speed Internet connections. They platform, Alcatel-Lucent and TP Teltech (an Orange Polska change the life of the whole region, help its inhabitants, company), has won a bidding procedure for network enhance the functioning of companies and institutions, and development in the Warmia-Mazuria Region. are a precondition of economic and social development. Simultaneously with the project implementation we are broadband network carrying out informational and educational campaigns on the opportunities offered by the new network. Training is in regions addressed to both people who can use a modern network and Internet access for professional activity and elderly people, We are actively involved in expanding broadband networks for whom the Internet opens the perspective of access to using EU funds. Together with Marshal’s Offices we develop information and widely understood communication. trunk networks in the Lubuskie Region and Pomeranian Region. The “Broadband Lubuskie Region” project aims at Currently, having won a competition in the ‘Development of development of what will be the first regional broadband Eastern Poland’ Operational Programme, we have started network co-financed by EU. According to the schedule, a new project of access network rollout with the use of over 1,440 km of fibre-optic network will be developed in public financing. The project covers several towns in the the region by June 2014, providing people of more than 300 Warmia-Mazuria and Lublin Regions, where people will towns and villages with access to modern technologies. get access to broadband services at speed of 30 Mbps or more, while the inhabitants of the Lutowiska Commune Another of our projects is “Broadband Pomeranian Region: in the Subcarpathian Region will be able to connect to the construction of trunk and distribution network in the Internet at speed of 2 Mbps or more. Pomeranian Region”. The project covers almost the entire region and involves construction of a fibre-optic network of To learn more how our investments change the availability of a total length of 1,818 km by September 2014. It will expand our networks and services, visit broadband coverage to 253 towns and villages. www.orange.pl/lepszy_zasieg.phtml. 47 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 Memorandum of better network thanks Understanding with UKE to co-operation In 2013, we completed all our investment commitments Since 2011, we have been co-operating with Polska under the Memorandum of Understanding we signed Telefonia Cyfrowa, operator of the T-Mobile network, on with the regulator (UKE) in 2009. In particular, this covered reciprocal use of each other’s radio access networks. adding or upgrading 1.2 million broadband access lines We have established a joint venture, NetWorkS!, which across the country. is Poland’s first and biggest company which conducts planning, construction and maintenance of shared radio We built a total of 1,290,000 broadband lines. Almost networks. 240,000 of those are lines with a capacity of 30 Mbps or higher, and more than half of those lines are fibreFor customers, such management and expansion of the optic (FTTx). Our performance under MoU was positively network infrastructure of both operators means improved assessed by external auditors. Although we failed to meet network coverage and quality as well as access to cuttingthe MoU target of 49,300 lines for small and medium edge technologies. towns, the auditors felt this shortfall was more than offset by the surplus investment in rural areas (34,000 extra lines) As a result, Orange customers in areas where the project and cities (106,000 extra lines), and by the fact that we has been completed now have access to 60% more sites. exceeded the overall target of 1.2 million lines by 8%. We have also made significant gains in coverage, extending 3G coverage to around 90% of the population – up 28 percentage points since the start of the project. 3.2 services accessible to all Combating digital exclusion means mainly eliminating social barriers that restrict access to telecommunication services and other modern forms of communications. Those at high risk of digital exclusion include low-income, disabled, elderly or less educated people. services for low-income people Since 2008 we have been offering the cheapest access fee on the market, Friendly Plan. It is for people in a difficult economic situation and costs PLN 18.45 (including VAT). Only people dependent on permanent benefits granted by Welfare Centres are eligible for the service. Also the nju.mobile offer is addressed to cost-conscious customers. 48 digital inclusion ‘Phone Care’ A feeling of safety, life comfort and facilities making daily people. These can be found at the ‘without barriers’ tab functioning easier are among major needs of elderly people. on our www.orange.pl website. It presents our offer of These are particularly important for those living alone or dedicated terminals, applications and equipment as well as coping with a disease or disability, who stay without care information about educational programmes addressed to for long hours. With a simple solution based on a fixedsenior citizens. line phone, we have made an attempt to respond to these needs. In our informational and marketing materials we simplify the language of communication and introduce icons to ‘Phone Care’ is a service for fixed line subscribers, enabling depict products and services recommended to people with s af e e nw tor k them to call help quickly and easily. Service users are in the particular disabilities. care of the Emergency Centre and get a special telephone set with a portable device to keep within their reach all the In the fixed line segment, we offer a 50% access fee discount time. The information card, which is filled in by the user, (on selected tariff plans) and a 50% terminal connection fee cl ean contains all the necessary health information and contacts discount. Eligible for the discounts are disabled persons e n v ir om nent of relatives and neighbours. By pressing the SOS button in whom the relevant local or regional certifying team has on the device or telephone, users can automatically reach confirmed a moderate to significant level of disability. an Emergency Centre consultant, who, depending on the situation, will provide assistance or call help by informing We also offer a range of telephone sets and equipment e nq uir i ng family members or the relevant rescue services. which make communication easier for people with t em a disabilities. For those with impaired hearing, these include voice enhancers, receivers that regulate ringtone volume, Orange without barriers receiver volume controllers or phones compatible with hearing aids. People with impaired sight may choose from a t t ah cment s Universal and easy access to the Internet contributes to phones featuring large keys and large backlit displays, equal opportunities and activates the potential of various an additional SOS button, loudspeaker function, voice social groups. presentation of the calling number or terminals with picture keys and visual signalling. A major improvement for those In our portfolio we have identified those services and benefits with motor disabilities is a possibility to request a visit of which may be most convenient for elderly or disabled a consultant or salesperson at home. As an employee of Orange Polska’s Consumer Research Centre, I help to adapt the services based on modern technologies to the cognitive abilities of users, so that using such services can be natural, satisfying and easy for them. If you look at how user interfaces have changed over time, from text-based interfaces, accessible only to a narrow circle of engineers and technology students, to graphical interfaces, you will notice a diminishing barrier preventing a wide group of people from using computers or other electronic devices. However, there are still some groups at high risk of digital exclusion, such as elderly people. This is why we try to increasingly adapt our products to their needs, accounting for additional elements, such as font size, choice of colours or icon design. Also people with disabilities benefit from such modifications. In addition, we support educational programmes aimed at encouraging people who have never done it before to use computers, the Internet or smartphones. Jacek Białek, Consumer Research Centre 49 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 Orange Polska has been sending invoices for fixed line Together with a social partner, ‘The Visible’ Foundation, we services in Braille to its blind customers and A3 size largeare working on the accessibility of our website to people print invoices to people with impaired sight. Itemised bills with disabilities. The Foundation is carrying out audits of our can also be received in this form. In addition, invoices can website and helping us to introduce the relevant changes. be sent electronically by email. We successively train our employees, outsourced staff and suppliers in the WCAG 2.0* accessibility standards. Our applications for people with disabilities Our ambition is to make Orange website fully accessible to people with disabilities by the end of 2015. Currently, • b-Link – It makes it possible for the fully disabled to use its accessibility is 36.4% according to WCAG 2.0 level AA. computers. B-link enables navigation through websites and use of the mouse and keyboard by eye blink. Over In addition, as a result of our support for ‘The Visible’ 15,000 people have downloaded the application from Foundation, Good Practices Manual, Poland’s first manual the Orange website so far. It can be freely downloaded on website development according to the WCAG 2.0 from www.programosy.pl. international standard, has been developed. • Colourcall – It enables users to identify the calling person or the SMS sender through colour coding on the We try to prepare our employees for contact with the phone. The application is dedicated to people with no disabled. Hence, we have developed dedicated training or impaired hearing. It can be freely downloaded from and additional educational materials for our sales and http://play.google.com. customer care personnel. Moreover, these issues have • Melovibe – It enables users to identify the calling been incorporated into training of new employees. For this person or the SMS through personalised handset purpose we have used visual materials and educational films vibrations. The application is dedicated to people with developed by the Integration Foundation. In an easy and no or impaired hearing. It can be freely downloaded from friendly way, they help to understand the expectations of http://play.google.com. people with various disabilities and improve communication with them. These applications have been developed in the Accessibility programme, which is carried out by Orange Labs to promote barrier-free communications. In the development * WCAG (Web Content Accessibility Guidelines) is an international standard of such services we collaborate with organisations which which demonstrates how to prepare Internet services to make them accesrepresent people with disabilities. sible to as many digitally excluded users as possible By introducing new technologies dedicated to people with various disabilities, Orange is implementing the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which was officially signed on September 6, 2013 by President Bronisław Komorowski. In the opinion of the ‘Integration’ Foundation, which has been gaining experience in the area of disabilities for twenty years, Orange plays a key role in providing services and products to customers with various disabilities. New technologies play a growing role in achieving independence by persons with disabilities, and as the President of the ‘Integration’ Foundation I have witnessed opportunities grow and limitations increasingly diminish. Broader and easier access to telecommunication services is a chance for education and professional activity Piotr Pawłowski, for any person, whether in a wheelchair or blind or deaf, which results in equal opPresident of the ‘Integration’ Foundation portunities and improvements in daily life. Owing to the efforts of Orange and the ‘Integration’ Foundation, people with various disabilities can enter the 21st century. For us in the ‘Integration’ it is a great civilisation adventure, while for your socially sensitive company it is a great logistical challenge and a good example for other operators in Poland. It is a huge responsibility, but also what a satisfaction :) 50 digital inclusion The issue of digital inclusion of persons with disabilities has also become one of major topics of our dialogue. A dedicated process which we carried out together with the ‘Shipyard’ Unit for Social Innovation and Research aimed at development, in consultation with our stakeholders, of the best solutions to adapt Orange customer care, sales and offer to the needs of people with impaired sight or hearing or limited mobility. The effects of the process will be reviewed and implemented in 2014. s af e e nw tor k 3.3 digital education c v i e n e l o r a m n n ent Universal access to the Internet contributes to equal opportunities and helps people from disadvantaged social groups to reach their full potential. But first we e nq uir i ng need to eliminate the social barriers that restrict people’s access to knowledge, t em a culture and education through digital technology. Nowadays, the use of new technologies is an essential element of not only ecoa t t ah cment s nomic growth, but also development of the civic society. This is also a great challenge for Poland. Although 70% of Polish households are now connected to the Internet, only 59% of the Poles use it regularly. Excluded groups include mainly elderly or low income people as well as people in small towns or rural areas. Even young people often lack advanced digital competence to fully use the potential of new technologies. Therefore, developing digital competence of children, young people, adults and senior citizens is of key importance in the process of digitisation. Digital education is the responsibility of all of us: public administration, NGOs and business. Only if we join forces, we can build the information society. I am glad that Orange Polska is an Michał Boni, Member of the European Parliament active participant in this process. • In order to better plan our initiatives aimed at the digital • We are involved in the implementation of the ‘Digital education of minors and better understand how young Lighthouse Keepers’ project, which aims at developing people use the Internet and multimedia, we have carried broadband access to the Internet and raising digital out the “Digital Competence of Young People in Poland” competence of the 50+ generation. survey. • We understand that digital inclusion is a major social Combating digital exclusion requires not only access to issue in Poland, so we are willing to co-operate with new technologies, but also education, particularly of young others. We are a member of the Coalition for Digital users as well as people in small towns and rural areas. Inclusion of the 50+ Generation, ’M@turity on the Net’. Therefore, through its initiatives the Orange Foundation has • We are a signatory of the Broad Alliance for Digital Skills been encouraging people to gain knowledge, participate in Poland, established at the initiative of the Ministry of in culture and build communities using the Internet and Administration and Digitalisation. new technologies. In this way they can improve their digital competence and enhance knowledge of educational resources on the net. 51 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 Orange for Libraries Libraries, especially in small towns and villages, are increasingly transforming into centres of access to information, knowledge and education. This process is hard to imagine without access to the Internet. Thanks to new technologies, drawing from global knowledge resources is now easier than ever. Library is a perfect place for lifelong learning. Open to all age and social groups, it is a meeting and working place for people with passions and ideas. Orange’s investments in libraries have helped them to enter the path of major transformation, which they will certainly follow, contributing to the development of social capital. Rafał Kramza, President of the Information Society Development Foundation We want to demonstrate the potential role of the Internet In the programme, we provide public libraries with free in local communities, particularly in building the sense of access to the Internet as well as support and promote social community and disseminating knowledge. and educational initiatives related to the use of modern technologies and addressed mainly to groups at risk of Since August 2009, under an agreement with the Ministry of digital exclusion, so that they can gain digital competence Culture and National Heritage, the Ministry of Administration safely and consciously. We have connected over 3,300 and Digitisation and the Information Society Development libraries to the Internet and our input in the computerisation Foundation, we have been implementing a project aimed at of public libraries has totalled almost PLN 16.5 million. getting Polish public libraries on-line. It has been one of the most important initiatives towards building the information society in Poland over the last few years, serving as a model for public-private partnership. The programme aims at raising digital competence of local communities centred around public libraries through: • digital education of children and youth as well as seniors; • safe and beneficial use of modern technologies; • use of digital skills in everyday life. 52 digital inclusion in 2013: outputs total inputs additional funds social impacts social outputs gained for the project • PLN 5,484,055 – grants for • PLN 137,000 – grant from • 3,321 libraries with • developing skill in libraries the Ministry of Labour and branches connected to the communicating and • PLN 52,000 – educational Social Policy related to the Internet handling everyday matters materials ‘Meetings with Passions’ • 137 training sessions in via the Internet • PLN 3,000 – work of 16 project (in the ‘Senior libraries in the safe use of • increased knowledge on s af e volunteers Citizens’ Social Activity’ the Internet, attended by how to use computers e nt wor k • PLN 87,000 – expert programme) 10,466 children and the Internet among knowledge • 37% of people used the over 90% of participants of Internet for the first time at training for senior citizens the library • increased knowledge about • 33% of people have access the safe use of the Internet to the Internet exclusively at by children cl ean v i e no rm nent the library • 7,000 senior citizens attended on-line meetings and learnt the benefits of using the Internet • over 300 sites used the e nq uir i ng educational materials, “ABC t em a of the Internet for Senior Citizens” • 896 sites expanded their educational offer owing to the Internet • 888 sites attracted new a t t ah cment s users owing to the Internet • 640 reports in the media about the ‘Orange for Libraries’ programme library today Library Development Programme Report, “Why Poles need libraries?” A modern library is a space where people spend their free time, learn and cultivate their interests; a venue where acting together they feel more attached to their township and establish contacts with others, thus building mutual trust, which is the key in social capital development. Thanks to us, a library is also a place of access to modern technologies, where you come to find the required information on the Internet, talk on Skype to relatives living abroad or check job offers. Public libraries are used by one third of the inhabitants of small towns and villages, and the libraries participating in the Library Development Programme are visited by over 2.5 million people annually. For young people, a library is first of all a meeting place and a way of spending free time. They watch films, talk about books, play computer games or attend photography or theatre workshops. In addition, books and the Internet help them in learning. Almost 70% of them got better grades at school thanks to the information found at the library. Almost 700,000 adults take care of everyday life matters at the library. They come to pay bills on-line, check a bus timetable or find out the doctor’s office hours. The library also helps them in job seeking. 100,000 inhabitants of small towns and villages use library computers to write CVs and cover letters or contact potential employers. Furthermore, the Internet facilitates their contacts with relatives and friends. Elderly people bring documents, letters and photographs important for their town or village development and together with librarians document the local history. In libraries they also learn how to use a computer and discover the world of the Internet. 53 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 Meetings with Passions Get Online Week In 2013, senior citizens, who are frequent users of libraries, Each year we are a partner to the ‘Get Online Week’ were invited to the Meetings with Passions project, financed international campaign, which is co-ordinated by with a grant from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Telecentre-Europe network of organisations. The initiative The Orange Foundation held 12 meetings on-line by aims to encourage as many people as possible to use the streaming for 400 cultural centres in Poland, including public Internet. libraries and Orange Studios. In the last two editions, there were over 250,000 participants The project aims to stimulate the social activity of senior from a few dozen countries, including 15,000 from Poland. citizens, that is to make them meet in a public place, The campaign is actively supported by Neelie Kroes, Vicein a friendly space, which will enable them to establish President of the European Commission and the European new contacts and inspire them to share their knowledge, Commissioner for Digital Agenda. passions and experience with others. The meetings present elderly people who are still active professionally or who creatively use their free time for learning, cultivating their passions or helping others. During each meeting, seniors can ask questions to the meeting heroes on a dedicated 566 centres in the campaign chat room; thus, they also learn the possibilities offered by the Internet and new technologies. 7,591 meeting participants Our seniors prepared for today’s meeting just ‘deliciously’. They brought homemade pastries and delicious cakes. Thursday meetings, with your participation, have become a tradition. They are attended by more and more senior citizens; even if some people cannot attend the whole meeting, they come even for 15 minutes before they go to a doctor or elsewhere. DJ Vika (Virginia) infected us with her optimism! In the beginning, our legs moved by themselves to the rhythm of mixed music. Then, there was time to dance. Virginia’s age came as a surprise to some. After we watched the transmission, endless discussions followed. I found websites, where you can watch dances and discos mixed by Virginia. You really cheered everyone up! Monika Jarzęcka, Thank you on behalf of our Centre. Let me add that the Urban Housewives Centre of Culture and Promotion, Club has been established in our Centre. They call themselves ‘Chilli Babes’. Brzeziny Our senior women have taken matters into their own hands. They come to your meetings with passions and I think they draw a lot of energy from these meetings. Digital Poland of Equal Opportunities In 2013, we commenced co-operation with the ‘Cities on the Our commitments: Internet’ Association (COI) and the Ministry of Administration • To support the Digital Lighthouse Keepers in their and Digitisation (MoAD) in the implementation of a system activity in local communities. We have given 12 tablets initiative to develop broadband access to the Internet and with broadband access subscription to the Lighthouse raise digital competence of the 50+ generation. Keepers who conduct training aimed at raising digital The ‘Digital Poland of Equal Opportunities’ project, which competence; is carried out in partnership between COI and MoAD, aims • To promote and support the development of digital to spread computer literacy among adult Poles aged 50+ in competence of local communities centred around public their local communities through Digital Lighthouse Keepers Internet access spots, including libraries and Orange participating in the project on a voluntary basis. Studios; • To create demand for broadband and other modern digital services. 54 digital inclusion As a Lighthouse Keeper, I co-operate with the Orange Studio in Niedrzwica Duża. Equipping the studio with high-class computers and fast Internet connection has created a perfect place for introducing the 50+ generation into the digital world. Every week I conduct classes for several persons who have never touched a computer before. The curriculum has been designed to provide them with basic skills in navigating the Internet, so that in the privacy of their homes they can surf on the net themselves. I trained about 50 people in 2013. Together, we completed about 70 s af e e nw tor k Robert Jurek, two-hour sessions in web browsing, using e-mail and Skype, digital Lighthouse Keeper photo processing and making effective use of the information resources on the net. The reports on training sessions are posted on my blog, http://latarniknawsi.blogspot.com cl ean v i e no rm nent Broad Alliance for Digital Skills in Poland e nq uir i ng t em a The initiative aims at using the full potential of modern IT Our commitments: technologies in Poland’s development. These technologies • To provide free Internet access for 3,300 public libraries are significantly transforming virtually all aspects of the (in the ‘Orange for Libraries’ programme) as well as 50 functioning of societies and economies as well as, to a great Orange Studios in small towns; a t t ac hment s extent, life of individuals. • To educate children and young people how to use the Internet safely through Orange Foundation’s classes The Alliance is lead by the Leader of Digitisation in Poland, for 3,000 children plus an open e-learning platform for appointed by the Minister of Administration and Digitisation. 40,000 new users; President of the Republic of Poland Bronisław Komorowski • To raise digital competence of elderly people through has agreed to be honorary patron of the initiative. the ‘ABC of the Internet’ training in libraries and Orange Studios; • To offer digital education through a data base of social projects using modern technologies (www. pracownieorange.pl) and 850 hours of training for local leaders in small towns; • To support the development of e-volunteering in Poland and across Europe. There is growing awareness that we live in digital environment. However, whether we will benefit from it and to what extent, depends on ourselves. We can be passive consumers of digital technology, or we can be active and get to know it better, use it more efficiently and even become its creators. Digital skills are becoming indispensable in every type of life activity, so we need to acquire and constantly develop them. On the Polish path towards universal digital participation, every one who supports or builds it is important. Orange is in the front line of this process. It not only contributes to the development of telecommunication infrastructure, which Włodzimierz Marciński, is its business objective, but also carries out a number of social initiatives, trying Leader of Digitisation in Poland to foster the digital culture in Poland. 55 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 Orange Studios Two years of the activity of our Studio have been dedicated mainly to new challenges, training and meetings. It has meant constant development, acquisition of new skills and knowledge as well as getting to know outstanding people. It has also involved sharing acquired knowledge or skills with other people, infecting them with joy and getting the best out of them. For many of us, it is a completely new path in life. The main goal of supporting the development of local communities by ensuring that they have equal opportunities in education and culture to those had by people in big cities has been fully achieved. Watching the activity of the Studios on the net, I know that the Orange Foundation has scored a bullseye with the project. Not everyone has had a bird’s-eye Beata Szczeszek, view of their home; not every woman can wear jewellery they have made themOrange Studio in Radzyń Podlaski selves; not every person knows what batik is; yet these and much more dreams have come true thanks to the Studios, as self-made jewellery looks great on young women and walls are decorated with wax paintings. Our libraries, cultural centres or clubs attract whole families; e.g. grandparents tell their grandchildren about their life when they were young, while grandchildren introduce their grandparents to the digital world. We believe that there is latent potential for common The Orange Foundation in conjunction with culture managers initiatives in local communities and the Internet and new and volunteers has carried out educational projects in technologies can contribute to its release. When used Orange Studios, inspiring people to develop their passions, creatively, they help people to change their environment for broaden their knowledge and undertake common initiatives the better. with the creative use of modern technologies. It supports Studio leaders through free training in mastering leadership In order to facilitate access to information, knowledge and skills, developing Studio functioning strategies, using social technology among local communities, in 50 small towns we animation techniques, working with volunteers as well as have developed multimedia Orange Studios equipped with promotion and social media communications. In addition, computer stations with free Internet connection, video game an on-line knowledge sharing platform for Orange Studio consoles and LCD TV sets. They are open to everybody, not users has been launched. It features a portfolio of readyonly as a place for developing digital competence, buy also to-implement projects and a gamification module that uses as a meeting space for interesting socio-cultural projects game mechanisms for fostering social competence. that integrate local communities. Orange Studios can be used by a total of almost 250,000 people. 56 digital inclusion in 2013: outputs total inputs additional funds social impacts social outputs gained for the project • PLN 424,000 – training for • 50 local partnerships • 250,000 Studio users • access to the Internet in local leaders • 820 hours of training for small towns • PLN 3,000 – work of 14 local leaders • technical and professional volunteers • data base of educational assistance to local leaders • PLN 87,500 – expert scenarios • strengthened competence a se f e nw tor k knowledge • 1,250 Studio opening hours of leaders and other people per week • people offered a chance to • 290 completed projects socialise • 27 monitoring visits in • increased knowledge about Studios new technologies and use • 14 grants totalling almost of the Internet cl ean PLN 42,000 v e n ir om nent e nq uir i ng t em a Orange Studios and the www.pracownieorange.pl platform For local communities, they are often the only public meeting are a unique project in Poland and a model example of the place open to all inhabitants and, in case of the smallest transfer of company’s know-how into the CSR area. towns, the centre of all local activity. a t t ac hment s 57 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 Orange Academy The involvement in Orange Academy projects has increased my self-confidence and provided an opportunity to emerge in a new town. Owing to these projects I get much satisfaction from my work, which is creative and energetic. It also means new contacts, new skills and a chance to draw from an outstanding repository of ideas on a Creative Commons basis. I am glad to hear comments like “You’ve moved this town”, “There is something happening here at last”, “The museum has never had such noticeable events” or “Students are still deeply moved and keep talking about it.” Then, I feel uplifted and I cannot stop thinking about new initiatives. I am also richer in knowledge about organisation, planning and choice of people to work with ... Barbara Wójcik-Witkorowicz, culture manager in Jaworzno I must admit that I still lack a lot with respect to new media, but I have got the relevant instructions from the Orange Foundation and I have already started to act. We believe that culture connects people, stimulates The Orange Academy introduces children and teenagers creativity, broadens the horizons and teaches to be open to the world of culture in an unconventional way, using to others, while the Internet and new technologies are more modern technologies. Guided by culture managers, young than just entertainment – they are the key to exploring the people discover their own abilities and become conscious world and developing passions and talents. recipients and creators of culture. 58 digital inclusion The Orange Academy is an open grant programme for In each edition, the Orange Foundation also invites NGOs and cultural and educational institutions which carry representatives of awarded organisations to participate out modern cultural education initiatives for children and in two-day workshops, which are a platform for sharing youth. The Orange Foundation supports and inspires these knowledge and experience and during which culture organisations in taking creative initiatives which encourage managers are trained in project management, Creative young people to participate in cultural initiatives, in which Commons principles and project promotion on the Internet. they can also experience new technologies. One of the eligibility requirements is to establish partnership of at least Every edition of the Orange Academy results in over 40 s af e e nw tor k two organisations to carry out the project. completed projects involving over 5,000 young participants, who prepare virtual maps of their towns, prepare movie In the Orange Academy we promote good practices: all audio descriptions for blind people, create stop motion materials and ready-to-use lesson plans are placed on films, produce video clips for folk songs or remix them, cl ean the www.akademiaorange.pl portal under the Creative build robots, organise media labs, animate educational e n v ir om nent Commons Polska 3.0 free licence (recognising the cartoons, etc. authorship). This extensive database offers knowledge and inspiration to both experienced and beginner culture managers. e nq uir i ng t em a in 2013: outputs a t t ah cment s total inputs additional funds social impacts social outputs gained for the project • PLN 900,000 – grant • 45 social partnerships • implementation of 45 • increased activity of children programme established educational and cultural and young people in culture • PLN 100,000 – educational projects using new media materials and meetings • training of 90 culture • new digital competence • PLN 50,000 – surveys managers in project gained by participants • PLN 67,500 – expert management, effective • expanded portfolio of open knowledge motivation of oneself educational resources on and others, team work the akademiaorange.pl benefits and use of Creative website Commons • increased knowledge of • over 5,000 people culture managers about participated in the Orange Creative Commons open Academy projects licences • akademiaorange.pl portal with open-licence lesson plans and materials, available to all 59 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 Phone to Mum The ‘Phone to Mum’ programme in the Paediatrics and Nutrition Clinic of the Children’s Memorial Health Institute plays an important role in the process of hospitalisation of little patients. Children who can contact their relatives and friends in a free and unlimited way feel more safe. They do not experience a feeling of loneliness and separation from their family and peer environment. In my work, I have heard numerous positive opinions of children and parents about ‘Phone to Mum’. This initiative is worth spreading, particularly to hospitals treating patients from all over Poland. Due to the distance involved, visits of relatives and friends are then limited or even impossible. On behalf of patients and their parents I would like to Magdalena Chęcińska, thank you for such a successful initiative. Special Educator, 78th Special Education Complex, Children’s Memorial Health Institute ‘Phone to Mum’ is a programme which enables children Orange volunteers eagerly join our initiatives for children in hospitals to make free calls to relatives whenever they in hospitals. They visit young patients, conduct classes need it. In 2003, our company installed colourful phones and refurbish hospital play rooms, transforming them into in almost every children’s ward in Poland, while the Orange colourful ‘Fairy Tale Corners’, where children can play and Foundation has been regularly distributing phone cards learn, having a great time. In 2013, 81 ‘Fairy Tale Corners’ which young patients can use for free calls. were created through efforts of our volunteers, bringing their total to over 180. We also invite other companies and their Today, as the telephone communication has changed employees to get involved in this initiative. Furthermore, it considerably and many children have their own mobile has become a tradition that each December our volunteers phones, the Orange Foundation has set out new tasks. We dressed as Santas visit kids in hospitals, spending time with create educational multimedia stations, ’Orange Educational them and sharing Christmas gifts in the ‘Orange Santas’ Islands’, in children’s wards nationwide. Currently, there campaign. are ‘Orange Educational Islands’ in 50 children’s ward dayrooms. They are equipped with learning programmes, educational games, audio fairy tales and other multimedia materials which stimulate comprehensive development of a child. In addition, they enable the safe use of the Internet with our BeSt browser. 60 digital inclusion in 2013: outputs total inputs additional funds social impacts social outputs gained for the project • PLN 954,000 – value of • PLN 35,000 – involvement • 1,000 Phones to Mum • hospitalised children phone cards distributed in of other volunteers operating in hospitals uplifted (100% opinions) hospitals • gaining partners (other • 106,000 free phone cards • hospitals made more • PLN 58,230 – drawing companies) to develop Fairy distributed among children child-friendly (86%) contest for children in Tale Corners • over 200,000 children in • improved and more s ae f e nw tor k hospitals 536 sites could make free educational organisation • PLN 186,400 – Orange calls home of children’s free time in Educational Islands • 600,000 minutes for hospitals • PLN 300,000 – Christmas contact with relatives and • expanded portfolio of gift campaign in hospitals friends classes • PLN 125,000 – work of • 30 new Educational Islands • change in leisure activity cl ean 1,250 ‘Santa’ volunteers in hospitals patterns v i e nr om nent • PLN 350,000 – work of 853 • 7,200 children using volunteers involved in Fairy Educational Islands Tale Corners • 3,000 playing in Fairy Tale • PLN 45,000 – expert Corners every day knowledge • 150,000 children received e nq uir i ng Christmas gifts t em a • 81 new Fairy Tale Corners t a t ah cment s 61 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 Sounds of Dreams We want to provide children with equal access to As part of the programme, 18 hearing aid banks have been education, culture and science. This is why we support established across Poland, which lend fitting hearing aids. the development of deaf children, who are often at risk of In addition, those covered by the programme are offered having limited access not only to the digital world, but also home rehabilitation, twice a week, and summer rehabilitation to the hearing society around them. camps, where they, together with their guardians, take part in intensive individual and group therapy. Since 2006, we have provided free care to children with hearing loss as from the moment of the diagnosis. ‘Sounds The programme is addressed to parents of children aged of Dreams’ is a nationwide programme for the rehabilitation between 3 months and 4 years with bilateral hearing loss of young children with hearing impairments, which involves greater than 40 dB, whose socio-economic status and free rental of hearing aids and systematic rehabilitation considerable distance from the nearest rehabilitation centre of children, support for their guardians and therapists as prevent child’s specialist therapy. The medical aspects well as initiatives raising social awareness of the needs of of the programme are overseen by the Scientific Board children with impaired hearing. consisting of otolaryngology, audiology and deaf education specialists. The therapists working with the programme Early hearing and speech stimulation increases the are offered support in the form of training and educational chances of hearing-impaired children to develop linguistic publications. communication, so that they can fully use their potential. Olga Bończyk, an actress and singer raised in a family of the deaf, is the programme ambassador. 62 digital inclusion in 2013: outputs total inputs additional funds social impacts social outputs gained for the project • PLN 1,314,206 – home • PLN 34,671.61 – public • 381 children using hearing • 72% of children completing rehabilitation programme fundraising for hearing aids aids the programme use speech • PLN 260,000 – • 749 hearing aids lent as their primary means of rehabilitation camps • 657 hearing aids, including communication • PLN 60,000 – hearing aid 338 new ones, available in • over 75% of children a se f e nw tor k banks hearing aid banks completing therapy • PLN 174,000 – services • 330 children covered by continue their education in • PLN 37,000 – educational home rehabilitation kindergartens materials and meetings • 199 therapists conducting • development of listening, • PLN 134,000 – expert therapy of children communication and knowledge • 90 children with guardians linguistic skills cl ean • PLN 8,250 – work of 8 at 3 rehabilitation camps • 19.2% increase in parents’ v i e nr om nent volunteers • 240 participants of competence in children’s • PLN 7,500 – value of the conferences for therapists therapy company’s services (free and parents • raised social awareness of helpline) • 140 therapists trained in the the needs of children with verbotonal method impaired hearing and their e nq uir i ng • participation in conferences families t em a promotion to schools a t t ah cment s Since 2004, in the ‘Education with the Internet‘ programme, we have been offering broadband Internet access to Polish schools at preferential terms. A total of 9,000 schools, serving over 3 million students, are registered in the programme. In our promotion, schools are offered Internet access on preferential terms: access activation fee of PLN 1.23 (incl. VAT) and monthly subscription fee of PLN 29.24 (incl. VAT). 63 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 3.4 building the e-state We use our services and knowledge to implement new solutions, functionalities and projects which are important for building the information society and promoting social development. our solutions • ‘Smart Metering’ system in a municipal water utility • We have helped the 7th Independent Public Clinical in Środa Wielkopolska. Water meters fitted with Hospital of the Medical University of Silesia to implement devices enabling current data collection and remote IP-DECT telephony in order to mitigate problems in communication with a server via a mobile network have patient-doctor communication. The key benefits are the been installed at 1,100 consumers. The solution has hospital-wide voice communication as well as a complete tightened up the supply system, minimising uncontrolled register of consultations, including their content. The leaks and eliminating fraud and water theft. system implementation in the Upper Silesian Medical Centre was one of the first such projects in Poland. • Owing to our solution, the Little Poland Marshal’s Office has reduced the ambulance response time. All 81 • The University Centre of Ophthalmology and emergency medical centres have been connected and Oncology in Katowice, with our assistance, has all ambulances have been equipped with GPS modules launched an advanced pager system based on the and connected to a central system, thus enabling IP-DECT technology, which enables instant, two-way centralised ambulance fleet management. This has communication between personnel and patients as well considerably reduced the ambulance response time and as registration of all messages in a central database. enhanced medical team management. In addition, the We have provided special cordless DECT phones and solution improves management of medical resources patient bedside terminals. A nurse receiving an alert and facilitates monitoring in case of mass accidents. signal can immediately talk to a patient in order to find out more about the problem. In addition, all events are • The Roads and Greens Authority in Gdańsk has reduced registered. their street lighting costs by implementing a smart lighting control system, which we have developed together with Rabbit. The solution enables accurate set-up, so that lights are turned on exactly where and when needed. In addition, it provides for lighting intensity adjustment according to the current needs as well as quicker failure detection. 64 i n n o v a t i o n i n s o c i a l p r o j e c t s gamification in Orange Studios Gamification i sthe use of gam e m ec hanic s to en g a ge usersin the pe r form an ceofspec i fi c t a s ksin a proj ect. Use rsar e t o a cco m pl ish tas ks f o rw hich t h ey ar e rew ard ed.T h r oug h su ch a system ofp oins t, rew ards and ch a l l enge s ,the O range Fou nd at ion m o t i v ates the lead erso fOra nge Stu do i sin 50s m al l t o w ns a nd vil lg a es t o actfor thei rloca lc om muni ti es. I nthis w ay,w e st imulate thei rac t ivt iy no ton l yin the vi rt u alw orld,on the pracow ni eo ran ge.p l w eb platf orm, but, m ost i m p o r ta ntl y,i nthe r eal w orl d ,w hi cha dds vari et y t o even t s that integ r ate l o ca lcom m unit ies. Ga m i f ic ati on o f t h e ‘Orange Stud i o s’p r o gram m e i sthefirstl arg e-sc al e useo fthis techniqu efo r soci al p urp os e sinP oland. Last year in Orange Studios (aggregate): 1 3 4 social proe jc tsco m pl e ted 6 0 3 new id eas ad ded to t h e b est practic e s dat ab ase 6 8 % of t h es eide asim pe l m e ne t d i n h te s t u di os 1 5 1 % i n crease inth e use ractiv it y o n t he port a li n th efi rst mo n th o fga m i fi ca t ion alone T hro ug h gam if icati on ch al l e nges l oca lleade rsa lo s a cqui re new skil l s, foste rth ei rdigi t al com p eten ce an dl ea rnth e t ech ni qu es ofteam m a nage m ent,soc a il anim ato in a ndcu lturee v en torga ns iai ton.S tu do is carry o ut avai e rty ofn iiti a ti ves ,su chasc ls a ses f or chi ld e rn ,g o r u p d es i gno fpos ters ,info graph i csa n dvi r t u alt o w nm aps, compe ti t ion s f orinha b i ta ntsorspo r tst ou rn am ents . M or eab ou tO ran g eStudi os and g a m i fi ca ti on atw w w . praco wn i eo rang e. p l Creative Commons: open Internet resources on-line Creative Commons (CC) licences enable authors to share their work with others, while retaining certain copyrights. What does it mean? It means that if you want to legally use images, text, films, music, lesson plans or social project scenarios placed on the Internet for your own purposes, or further adapt and present them, you should look for CC licensed materials. Their authors agree to the use of their work by others, so you can legally use it without concerns of copyright infringement. More ab ou tt yp es o fC re at i ve Com m on s i lcenc e satw w w.creati ve c o m m ons.org T he O r a nge Fo undat i on has bee n wid elyusin g C reat iv eCom m on s i dea s i n i t sp rogramme s ;i th a salso en cour a ged o ther o rga ni sa ti on sto sh are t h ei r ed ucati o n alresource son -li n eu n d er C C l icences.O n e ofthe p roje ctel ig ibi l ity r eq u i rem ent sforthe O range A cad em y grant p r o g r am m e i s thatth ep roj ec tmu stbe publi s hed onth eakade mia orange . pl p ortalunde ra n open l i c ence .Inth e O ran geAc ade m y,thereis also as pecial f un din g path for orga nisat io n s w hic h want to i m plm e e nt rea d yto-s ue p roj ect s deve l o ped i n previous editi on s o fthe p r o g a rm m e. A s a r esu l t,a databa se o f pro j ects , les son pla n sa ndp rovenideas forsoc iali n it ia t ive s i scr e a ted,w hi c his legal l y avail a bl e on-l in efo rf u r ther u se. e v o lu n te e r in g : y o u h a v e t h e W e b f o r h e lp i n g ! Theevolu nteeri ng pla to frm hasfunct ion ed o n-n l iesi n c eautumn 20 09.t I ai ms at thedev e lo pmentandprom ot ionofv ir tu alvol unt eer inginPol and andacr ossEurope .Theww we .-w o luna tri a. tpp lora tl p r ovi desup-o t-dat e c ro wd fun di ng c r owds ourc i ng ci t ize n i nf ormati onab out v olunt eer ingand char it ycampai gnscar ri ed outo n t he &e -cha ri t y jo ur nal i sm I nte rnetaswellas edu cati onalart i clesonhowtoor ga n i sesuch i ni ti at iv es orbecm o ean e-volunt eer .Inaddii t o n,t hepor tal conti an s adatabas e o f evol untee ri ng or g ani sersinP ol and and u p-to -dateof fer s f or vi r tua l vo lunt eers . k nowl edge map pin g el ear ni ng gat he ri ng On-l i ne v olu nte e ri n g i sm ul ti f aceted an d,inpar ti cul ar ,cover s:oper ati ng hel pand s el f-hel p gr oupsvi a t he In terne t,de vel opi ng s hare d knowl edge bas es ( e.g .u si ng t he wi kim ec h ani sm),sha ri ngone’ss kil l s ( e-l ear ning , etut ori ng) , provi d i ng fr ee on-li ne advi ce,cre ati ng soc ialm aps o r su pport ingNG O s ( e.g.bypromo t i o n ,tr ansl at ion s orgr aphi c desi gn) .I t mic o rv ou lne tei r ng h e l p&sef l -he l p oh ter al soi ncl udesc ar ry i ngoutsoci al e cam pai gns . Theproj ecti s c a rr iedout bythe Good Net workFoundat i on and t he Ora nge Fou n dati o n i n c onjunc tion wi ththePol i sh-Ameri can F reedom Foun dati on.A sp artoftheproj ect,we car r y outt he a nnual‘Di scove r evou lntee ri ng ’co mpett ii on,throu g hw h ichwe awad r Pol and’sm ot s i nt erest n ig vou l ne t ei rngint i iai v te sw hi chusetheIn ter net.Si nce 2011 , whi ch wasd ecl a redthe Eur ope a n YearofVol unt e e ri ng,a Euro pean edi t ionoft he‘D i sc o vere-v olunt eeri ng’compet it i on f orNGOsfr om acro ss Mo r eaboute -vol unteer i ng Eur opehasbee nh el d. at w ww .e-wol ont ar i a t.pl a nd www. e-vo lun teerin g. eu hackathon for e-volunteering NGO swhi chc ar ry outs ocia lproj ectsontheI nt erne thaveal otofi deas,b utof t enla cktool s toimpl em e nt t hem .Atthesa m et i m e,t h er ear e communii t es ofprogramm n igenthusi ast s,boh tam t aeus randp r oe fssi ona l, swhodeal w t ih newtecho no l gieso nadai l ybass i.Hack t ao hn i sa meet in g plat fo r m f ortheset w og r oups,apr ogr am mi ngm ara thon,d ur ing w hi chpr og r a m mersde ve lo pso ft w a ret ool s f orNG Osona nonc -om mer c i alb a sis . n I2013,th eO rang eFoundat i on toget herwi thh teG o o dNew torkFounda ti ono rgans iedh t etw oday‘Hc ak ah to nforevol une ter ing’ai med at creat i n gg a m es an d appl i cati on sf aci li ta ti ngthework ofNG Os.Thr eef ound ati ons, ‘Nobo dy’s C h il dr en’,‘Dog gyLos tDrea m s ’a nd‘T he Chi l d andCu l tur e ’,spec if ie d th e i rneeds,whi l e pr ogra m mersande-vo lu nte er s dev el o ped there lev an t appli cati ons. Duri ngthe eve nt, pr ogrammersc e ra e td af undrai singfa lshgame,ao vlun teer ii tnea rrymana gements yse tm ,a b o okdona te platf orm f orh te‘Shr ae a o bok’ ca m pai gn,and an appl ica ti on f o rmanagi ngevent so nF acebook.Al lth eappl i cat ionswere m a d eav ai l a b l eu nderaCra eti veCo m mo ns l i cence,s o t hatthe ycoul dbefr ee l yusedbyanyno n-pro fi tor ganis ati ons. Fi nd ou tmoreath a ckathon-dl aewolo ntar iatu. pl digital inclusion • In a pilot project, we have launched IP telephony in 16 • ‘Opole E-school for the Future’ is Poland’s first (one in each region) out of 341 labour offices in Poland. It comprehensive and innovative project for getting is part of a broader project of WAN development for the educational facilities on-line. It connects 112 units within Public Employment Services nationwide. The integration one safe telecommunication network platform. E-school of telephone systems has made it possible to make is a virtual teaching and learning environment as well as free calls and simplify dialling between individual labour an innovative management and communication tool. The offices. It has also generated savings from elimination project is co-financed by the European Union from the of traditional exchanges. The project completed in European Regional Development Fund and by the Opole s af e e nw tor k district labour offices is exceptional for its institutional Region as part of the Regional Operational Programme environment. Owing to our size, we have been able for the years 2007-2013, “Investing in Your Future”. to provide high-quality service to small offices located a long distance from main cities. cl ean v i e no rm nent • The First Aid application has been developed to support witnesses to accidents or other dangerous occurrences, in which first aid needs to be provided. Using it you can quickly find out and see on pictures how to place an e nq uir i ng unconscious person safely, how to start and continue t em a resuscitation or how to stop bleeding. In addition, the application offers practical advice on how to deal with the injured in various situations, e.g. burning, frostbite, electric shock or poisoning. The emergency application a t t ah cment s is available to all users of smartphones or tablets with the iOS, Android or Windows Phone operating system or mobile phones using Java. Orange provides the application to all users regardless of the network. Apart from the development of the telecommunication infrastructure, a huge social challenge faced by our industry is to break mental barriers based on a belief that new technologies are too complex or inaccessible to all. Together, we can build the information society, provided that nobody is left outside. 65 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 66 s af e e nw tor k cl ean v i e no rm nent e nq uir i ng t em a t a t ah cment s s a f e e nt wo rk bezpieczna sieć 67 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 We want the use of the latest technologies to be easy and risk-free. our goals: 4.1 provide mechanisms to offer safe services and products 4.2 store our customer data securely 4.3 implement protection for children against Internet-related threats 4.4 implement protection for adults against Internet-related threats Safety of customers is an important issue for any telecommunication company. It involves proper protection of our technical devices and provision of safe products and services to our customers on one hand, and careful protection and security of their personal data on the other. Another major aspect is education how to safely and wisely use new technologies. 4.1 safe products and services For a telecom company, issues related to proper protection of data of millions of customers, safety of services and reliable information about telecommunication equipment are of paramount importance for securing business growth and breaking barriers in access to the benefits of the digital world. Therefore, we understand corporate social responsibility very broadly, not only as strict compliance with safety standards, but also education of our customers on how to use modern technologies safely. 68 safe network We ensure that all telephone sets undergo the relevant The development of mobile telephony brought about tests. The safety of use is verified in tests of conformity with concerns about the impact of the electromagnetic radiation essential requirements. emitted by antennas on mobile network base stations on people and the environment. According to most experts, Orange offers comprehensive protection of EMF exposure within the existing safety standards has no telecommunication devices. harmful effect on human health; however, due to inaccurate opinions and specialist language of communications, it has • With the ‘Safe Smartphone’ service you can insure your remained an area of public concern. Therefore, providing device against theft, damage, flooding or unauthorised accurate information about electromagnetic waves has calls; been regarded as a major issue for the entire Orange Group. • With the ‘Safe Tablet’ service you can insure your tablet, laptop or notebook against theft, damage or flooding; cl ean n e v io rn ment • With the ‘Safe Telephone’ service you can protect your handset, also post-paid one, at any time and in any place. The package includes insurance plus access to cl ean a service which protects the memory content. Insurance n e v ir om nent e nq uir i ng coverage may be provided also for pre-paid handsets t ea m purchased outside Orange Polska’s sales network. Our portfolio includes the ‘Where Is My Child’ positioning e nq uir i ng service, which enables customers to locate their children t em a t a t ah cment s or other persons under their care via mobile phones at any time. One of the new functionalities of the application is immediate notification of guardians. In case of danger, Radio waves are essential to our services, as neither the person in their care can send an SOS notice with our network nor the handsets we deliver would operate a t t ac hment s a video material by one click. The guardian receives it with without them. Faced with questions about the potential information about the location from which it has been sent. effects of radio waves emitted by mobile telephony and Moreover, owing to mobile network positioning (supported new communication technologies, the Orange Group has by GPS positioning), the application makes it possible implemented a policy structured around the following to determine the position of the child very accurately, principles: while enabling the latter to approve positioning with the predefined “OK” message. • hold a dialogue and communicate transparently about radio waves and communication technologies; mobile telephony and radio • contribute to the research effort on dosimetry (measurement of exposure to radio waves); waves • ensure compliance with local regulations and the international recommendations of the International Handsets, smartphones or tablets have become a common Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection element of everyday life for many people. These devices (ICNIRP) on exposure limit values; not only ensure staying in constant contact with relatives • promote the proper use of mobile phones recommended and friends, but also enable quick access to information, by the government and competent authorities services and modern mobile applications. All these responsible for protection against radio wave exposure; functions are performed owing to radio waves, which are • implement a Group policy on radio waves at the a part of a wider spectrum of electromagnetic waves (also workplace. referred to as electromagnetic fields – EMF). 69 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 In case of a telecom operator, issues related to the safe • assessment of the EMF impact on the environment use of services include not only assurance that safety as part of design work on new or modernised requirements are met, but also reliable information about radiocommunication stations; the equipment and technologies used. In 2013, Orange • measurements of EMF levels and reporting the results launched a global portal on radio waves, clearly explaining to the relevant environmental protection agencies, which the functioning of mobile telephony and featuring a section decide whether to initiate public consultation or not. on latest scientific reports. The portal has been translated also into Polish and may be found at Orange Polska website All handsets offered by Orange meet the emission at www.orange.pl/fale-elektromagnetyczne.phtml. standards set by ICNIRP. In addition, Orange Polska has the Environmental Safety Lab, which has been measuring We meet the strictest standards concerning EMF levels EMF intensities for over nine years. Furthermore, we have around all our base and transmission stations. implemented a management system compliant with the PN-EN ISO/IEC 17025:2005 standard, as confirmed The technical measures related to environmental protection by the AB 419 certificate issued by the Polish Centre for against EMF emissions from base stations of wireless Accreditation. communication systems which we build and operate conform with the Regulation of the Minister of Environment on the maximum admissible environmental EMF intensities and methods to verify that they are not exceeded (Journal of Law of 2003 No. 192, item 1882/83), which is ensured by the following: In order to better understand public concerns, in 2013 we conducted a survey on mobile users’ level of knowledge and perception of potential risks resulting from EMF exposure. The survey has provided us with answers as to what attitude in communicating this issue is expected from us, as a telecom operator, by our customers. For those who express concern about negative effects of masts or handsets on human health and environment, we have prepared an informational brochure, which is also used as an educational material by our employees in their contacts with customers. The brochure provides basic, important information explaining the degree to which users are exposed to waves while talking on a mobile phone; informs about Polish and international safety limits; and offers simple clues to reduce radio wave exposure. Hanna Jaworska-Orthwein, Public Relations Executive We have paid attention to reports about concerns related to the functioning of mobile telephony transmitters or the use of mobile phones; hence, as a socially responsible company, we have decided to introduce our customers to the knowledge about the actual effects of mobile telephony on our health and environment. 70 safe network We carry out research on limiting the human exposure We are also an active participant of the “No Reaction = to electromagnetic radiation. In this area we collaborate Acceptance” campaign, which raises the issue of telephone with the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), cable theft and the resulting hazards. The initiative has been particularly on guidance for ensuring compliance of the joined by the Office of Electronic Communication, the Energy EMF generating equipment with human and environmental Regulatory Office and the Office of Rail Transportation. protection regulations. Our efforts have led to the establishment of ‘The Invincible’ We are constantly enhancing the EMF Estimator application Foundation. It unites a great number of entities from for determining the EMF levels near intended base stations. the railway, power and telecommunication industries The application, which has been developed by Orange in common initiatives aimed at improving safety. These Labs Polska, can be freely downloaded from ITU website. initiatives are supported by telecommunication, power and railway market regulators as well as other government Owing to our activity in ITU, we can directly contribute to agencies, such as the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the the assessment and reduction of environmental hazards Ministry of Administration and Digitisation and the Police related to human exposure to electromagnetic fields Headquarters. The Foundation aims at raising public cl ean emitted by base stations. ITU-T continues to work on awareness of the risks related to infrastructure theft and e n v ir om nent human protection against non-ionising electromagnetic stimulate more frequent reaction to it. radiation under the leadership of our representative. We are also working on a guide which will answer the most frequently asked questions and clarify the most frequent e nq uir i ng misconceptions and doubts formulated by people who are t em a afraid of the electromagnetic radiation impact on human health. protecting customers a t t ah cment s against fraud We try to eliminate fraud by people posing as our employees as well as unfair competition practices, which are particularly troublesome for our elderly customers. We carry out informational campaigns, which point out the key elements that should precede signing of any documents, explain how to withdraw from a fraudulent agreement, indicate where to seek help in case of falling victim to fraud and inform how to check the authenticity of our salespersons. We have also launched a dedicated helpline, 800 500 005, where customers can get help in such cases. 71 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 4.2 secure data We are a controller of the personal data of our customers and employees. There is the Information Security Administrator within the company, who is responsible for developing and assuring the implementation of the personal data security policy and personal data protection standards. He also collaborates with the General Inspector of Personal Data Protection (GIODO) in administrative proceedings; reports and updates personal data filing systems registered by GIODO; and reports data security incidents to GIODO. Personal data are one of the categories of confidential agreements for data processing, which impose high data information and, together with the data protected by the security requirements. telecommunication secret and proprietary information, are covered by the Information Security Management System, In 2013, no fines were imposed on the company for breach which complies with the ISO 27001 international standard, to of personal data protection regulations. At each stage of data which we are certified. collecting and processing, we comply with the obligation to inform customers about the purpose and scope of data We ensure that our employees and partners have full processing, the right to access and rectify data, etc. knowledge of the current mandatory regulations as well as our internal procedures related to personal data processing. A team reporting to the Information Security Administrator conducts regular reviews of data security risks and audits of personal data processing. In addition, as we maintain the certified Information Security Management System, we are also subject to regular external surveillance audits. It enables us to identify potential irregularities and promptly undertake corrective actions. We have also improved a process of providing authorised agencies with access to data. Data transfer to our partner companies is effected on the basis of outsourcing Information is an equally important asset for us as employees, technologies or financing. Information in the form of know-how, databases or commercial terms has a balance-sheet value for us. Therefore, proper protection of the information processed within the organisation becomes a key priority. It means not only implementing the relevant ICT solutions but also ensuring physical, organisational, personal and legal safety or business continuity. According to the principle of the weakest link, only comprehensive solutions can effectively provide for the security of the data processed by the organisation. The ISO 27001 and ISO 27005 international standards as well as risk assessment and information security best practices have been a point of reference in the development of our Information Security Management System (ISMS). Jerzy Klonecki, Corporate Security Director 72 safe network 4.3 safe children on the Internet One of our most important goals is to enhance the security of children and youth on the Internet and prepare young people to use the new media consciously. As technologies are omnipresent in our life, it is not rare to see a mobile phone even in the hand of a child a few years old. And more and more frequently it is a smartphone; with it comes the Internet, and completely no parent’s control over what their child watches. Hence, parental control is a must in the service portfolio of a responsible operator. Currently, we are testing a solution based on network layer content filtering. With such a solution, the service can be provided to anyone, regardless cl ean of the operating system, even if they use cheap, ancient smartphones. n e v ir om nent As minors use mainly pre-paid phones, the service is initially available in the form of dedicated starter kits, which block paedophilic, pornographic and violent content as well as websites containing malicious code. As part of our extended co-operation, the Nobody’s Children Foundation stays e nq uir i ng in contact with CERT Orange Polska on a current basis. Our security experts t em a Michał Rosiak, have thoroughly tested the BeSt browser for desktop computers and officially Senior ICT Security Specialist confirmed that owing to the protection mechanisms used it is safe for children. t a t ah cment s For several years we have collaborated with the Nobody’s interactive training courses on how to use the Internet Children Foundation (NCF). Owing to our support, the www. safely. Courses can be used either by students themselves sieciaki.pl (‘Net Pets’) portal has been developed, where or teachers. Approximately 35,000 students complete the children can find plenty of useful information about the safe training courses annually. The educational offer, which is and effective ways of using the Internet. Over 245,000 developed in conjunction with NCF, is addressed to various active users have registered on the website. In addition, age groups. We have also developed a portal dedicated to lesson plans and a set of educational materials distributed pre-school children, www.necio.pl (‘Nettie’). The portal had among teachers nationwide have been developed as part of had a total of 112,000 unique users (children) by the end our co-operation with NCF. Another outcome of our efforts of 2013. is an innovative free e-learning platform, which contains I have been collaborating with the Orange Foundation for over eight years, that is since I started working for the Nobody’s Children Foundation and developing the ‘Net Pets’ portal. Together, we have created Poland’s only certification system for websites (recorded in the BeSt Catalogue of safe sites), thus building a safe web space for children. As a result, children can surf the Internet without risking a contact with hazardous content. Now, the catalogue is at the heart of an innovative parental control system, BeSt website browser (developed for Windows and Android operating systems). We have also created together a safety portal for pre-school kids, ‘Nettie’. ‘Net Pets’, ‘Nettie’ and other materials developed as a result of co-operation between the Orange Foundation and NCF have been a success. We know it, because teachers have appreciated the quality of these educational materials; and so have parents and, most importantly, children. These materials would not Marcin Sołodki, have been developed if not for financial, but also technical and creative, support Nobody’s Children Foundation of the Orange Foundation. 73 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 For several years we have carried out the ‘Net Pets on Orange Polska employees have been also involved in Holiday’ summer project. During educational picnics, the programme as volunteers. In conjunction with the organised in conjunction with local governments and Foundation we have prepared educational materials and community centres, children learn how to use the Internet lesson scenarios for them. Our volunteers have already safely. A total of 81,000 children have been trained so far. trained over 18,000 children in web safety rules. In addition, the materials have been distributed among other employees A website and a helpline for children faced with hazards on of Orange Polska, who can use them to educate their own the net, helpline.org.pl / 800 100 100, which were launched children, and among 3,000 libraries. in 2007, have been another joint initiative conducted with the Nobody’s Children Foundation. Thanks to Orange Polska, the 800 100 100 help line is free for all callers. Over 29,000 reports are handled in the project annually. in 2013: outputs total inputs additional funds social impacts social outputs gained for the project • PLN 520,000 – children’s • PLN 642,840 – for the • 28,196 children registered • children know how to use on-line safety programme children’s on-line safety in the web portal the Internet safely (150,000 • PLN 75,000 – cost of programme from EU and • 39,640 children completed children) services for the helpline NASK funds e-learning courses • teachers/parents know how • PLN 6,650 – work of 87 • 20 other volunteers • free educational materials to teach children about volunteers • web safety events for children, parents and on-line safety (3,829) • PLN 72,800 – expert organised by local teachers • increased awareness of the knowledge governments • problem studies issue of safety of children • conferences for 4,500 on the web specialists • increased knowledge about • educational picnics for the forms and methods of 14,711 children children protection on the • 1,200 initiatives on the web Safer Internet Day • 3,270 children attended classes conducted by volunteers • over 29,000 reports to the helpline annually 74 safe network Together with the Foundation we have developed the Safe A major element of our efforts is encouraging other Media guide for parents, which gives a comprehensive companies and institutions to adopt self-regulatory picture of the hazards faced by kids in the digital world and measures related to the safety of children with respect to discusses how to prevent them and where to seek help. the media. Upon our initiative, the Child Internet Safety Agreement, has been established. So far, it has twenty In addition, the Orange Foundation supports social signatories: Internet providers, web portals and NGOs campaigns on on-line safety, attends conferences on this dealing with these issues. The initiative has been supported cl ean issue as well as carries out surveys on the use of the net by the Office of Electronic Communication and the e n v ir om nent by children and their knowledge and the knowledge of their Government Plenipotentiary for Equal Treatment. parents. Moreover, for several years the Foundation has been a partner to the Safer Internet Day, when, in addition Orange is also a member of an alliance of mobile operators to conferences and expert debates on improving the safety against child sexual abuse. The alliance has been formed e nq uir i ng of the youngest Internet users, schools all over Poland hold to contain the use of mobile phones by persons or t em a events and competitions dedicated to this issue. There organisations that derive profits from materials with illegal were over 1,200 such initiatives in 2013. content involving children. Since 2011, France Telecom Orange Group has participated a t t ah cment s in the ‘Better Internet for Children’ project, which had been initiated by Neelie Kroes, Vice-President of the European Commission and the European Commissioner for Digital Agenda. In the Safe Network area, children and young people are particularly important. While growing up, they learn and play with modern communication tools, and they should be safe in using them. The development of new technologies and rapid changes on the Internet are accompanied by still new dangers and alarming trends (cyber violence, uncontrolled on-line shopping, Internet / social media addiction, etc.). It is important for us to not only show dangers of the new media, but above all indicate how to avoid them. The Nobody’s Children Foundation is an extremely valuable partner to us in the performance of this task. This has also won us international recognition, as our co-operation has been Marek Januszewicz, awarded in the European CSR Award Scheme for Partnership, Innovation and Business Analyst Impact as the best partnership between a company and a non-governmental organisation. 75 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 4.4 safe on-line The safety of users of our services is ensured by a team of specialists, who respond to any dangers and support Internet users on a current basis. Lots of us have trouble getting used to the fact that it can be as dangerous on the Internet as in the real world. Yet, cyberspace is not free of criminals; here you can also lose money, good name or even ... identity. Drawing from almost twenty years of experience in the ITN security and the fact that Orange Polska is the only telecom and one of few other companies in Poland to have a CERT® team, we try to ensure safety of the Internet users. We help them on various levels, from education and knowledge dissemination to conference attendance as well as tailored services for our institutional and business customers. Tomasz Matuła, IT Infrastructure and ITN Security Director Our team holds the prestigious CERT (Computer Furthermore, Orange technology blog, www.blog.orange. Emergency Response Team) certificate, which confirms the pl/technologiczny, features articles which describe various highest quality of the organisation in the area of ITN security aspects of the ITN security. incident management, and is a member of FIRST (Forum of Incident Response and Security Teams), the leading more on www.orange.pl/tpcert association of such teams from all over the world. Our customers deserve cutting-edge technologies. We Orange CERT works with other telecom operators in their collaborate with the leading providers of security solutions constant struggle against cyber security hazards and in from all over the world, often using their equipment even the development of standards for such collaboration and before it is released for sales, which is the evidence of their information sharing. profound trust in Orange Polska. Our website presents information and advice about safe computer set-up, rules of using the Internet as well as security tool and software descriptions and references. Customers can use these tools to check the safety status of their computers as well as select and install a number of useful applications (anti-virus, anti-spam or firewall) or learn how to recover the lost data or protect data against unauthorised access. 76 U s e o f t h e I n t e r n e t a n d d i g ita lc om p e t e n c e o f y o un g p e o p le No more backyards? Where do young people meet these days? They seek contact with their peers like they did in the past, except that the Internet has become a meeting place for them. Facebook is young people’s digital backyard. thus, it should come as no surprise that: among young people: t he a ve r ag e teena ger s p end s 2.5 hours daily on-line 2.5h 88% have a Fac e bo ok ac co un t 91% o l gto the w eb at lea s tonce daily 62% use F ace b ook every day 71% de cl are t h ey can h ard l y i m ag ine l ivi n g w itho ut h t e n I tern e t 62% dec l are tha t t h anks to t he Int e r n e tt h e y b elon g 68% be l i ev eth e Interne t a l low s free do m o f spe e ch t o a group o ffri e nd s a nd a r e acc e p te d b y them so, as young people are heavy users of new young people are not critical technologies, are they experts in it? of the information found on the web 80% 67% 80% f th e n I e e t e r l n t e he t , y fi n a d re in e g x i p nf e o r r t s m i n at u o i s n ing 66% 21% 12% a n d u si n g a com pu t e r over 2/3 of young people n e t ih e r k n ow n or us e any im a ge , m usic 66% b eli ev e that the information found on the web o r v i d eo e diti ng ap pli c ati o n s is reliable an d, f i the y se e t h e ne e d for v e ri f i c a ti o n, 2% 2% o f yo un g pe op l e u se advanced the yu sualy l c om p are t i w t i h the in o f rm a ti o n f o u nd information searching methods o n otherw e bs i tes 21% o fyo un g I n te r ne tus e rs read books 12% o fyo un g pe o pl e d oe s not verify the information from the web at all although young people speak foreign languages, they usually visit only Polish websites 93% de cl a re kn ow led ge ofE ng l ish, b ut o ver 1 /3 never visit foreign language websites Do you speak English? 63% be l iev e th atthe Internet helps to learn languages YES or NO 72% de cl a re that learning would be more difficult without the Internet for 60% the w e b i s th e main source of information 50% stud y to g et h e rw it h f ri en ds us i n g th e Inte rn et , b u t o nly 9% of teenagers use e-learning courses Source: Survey of the Digital Competence of Young People in Poland The survey was conducted for the Orange Foundation by TNS Polska for a nationwide representative sample (n=600) of young people (aged 14) and their parents, selected by stratified random sampling. The strata were determined by age categories; then, in each stratum, random sampling was applied on the basis of the statistical personal number (PESEL), ensuring that the sample would be representative in terms of sex and place of residence. Date of survey: August 2013. s a f e t y o f c h i l d r e n a n d y o u n g p e o p l e o n t h e n e t computer or another device for Internet connection is currently a standard home appliance, which is used by children and young people therefore: • thea g e of computer initiation h a s l o w ere d f rom 1 0 –12 ye a rs to 7–9 years, over th ela stfive y ears ,an d th e fa c ttha t 55% of children have a handset or tablet offering Internet access contributes to early initiation • foryo u ng p eo ple, the biggest problem related to the Internet is viruses (49%), fol l ow e d by I n e t rn etc ut-off (39%) • parents do not realise at all that their children use the net outside home or school: 77% a dm t i to us i n g the n e ta tt heir fri e nd’s place, w hileo n y l 15% o fpa ren t s k now it are young people alone on the net, without parental guidance? 95% of adults say that they accompany their children in using the Internet, while only 66% of children endorse the same opinion 47% of children use portals with scientific knowledge; w hil e 74% o fp are n ts clai m t ha tt he ydo 55% o fyou ng p e op e l d e clare th attogether with their parents they seek information for school purposes, w hil e a l m o st e ve ry p aren t (88%) c la i m s to do i t w it h th ei r children at least 15% of children and teenagers have come to contact with dangerous content on the Internet, ev e n th ou g h6 7 % o f yo u ng p eo ple hav e h ad a ta l k w i th t h eir pare nt s c on ce rnn i g th e o n-ln i s e ae ft y ; th e m a j ori t y o f yo u ng p eo p l e de ca l re the y h a ve en tered suc h we b st ie s by ac c i d en , t b 2 u t% 1 c of n ir mt hat th ey h ave i n ten tion a l l y sou gh tthem 56% of children claim they have already had classes at school on the safe use of the Internet 58% in dica t e th at parents control their activity on the net, w h i le al m os ta l lp are nts (93%) cla i m o di ngi t 46% o fyou ng p e op l e do not change their social media passwords, w hil e a fur t h e r 1/3 d oe sn o trem em b erw he th er th ey d o Source: Survey on the Safety of Children and Young People on the Net * The survey was conducted for a representative sample (n=500) of Internet users aged 10–15 years and their parents. Date of survey: May 2013. safe network cl ean v i e no rm nent e nq uir i ng t em a t a t ah cment s protection against Internet e-security hacking In order to provide better computer protection against In our fixed line network we use blackholing, that is blocking Internet dangers, we have added new e-security packages communication with the IP addresses of botnet zombie developed together with McAfee, a renowned IT security computers, i.e. computers compromised by hackers (with firm, to our portfolio. owners being unaware) and used for illegal tasks. This solution not only eliminates unnecessary traffic on the In our Neostrada broadband service, we offer safe access, network, but also protects customers from having their restricting unwanted access to computer ports used computers used for cybercrime (e.g. to spread spam or for data transmission or disc or printer sharing in local viruses or launch denial-of-service attacks). networks. It means that the ports typically used for attacking and taking control of computers e.g. by hackers are blocked to provide additional computer protection against dangers from the web. 77 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 78 cl ean v i e no rm nent e nq uir i ng t em a t a t ah cment s c l e a n i e n vr o nme n t czyste środowisko 79 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 We want to pursue our business objectives with respect for ecological principles and in harmony with the environment. our goals: 5.1 use ICT solutions to reduce carbon footprint related to our business activity 5.2 optimise products and services to minimise environmental impact during all phases of their life cycle 5.3 maximise the recovery, refurbishment and remarketing of used equipment 5.4 reduce the number of paper documents and invoices 5.5 monitor the environmental impact of Orange Polska within the environmental management system in line with ISO 14001 On one hand, the use of new technologies offers a great As part of our environmental policy we monitor our opportunity for the development of social or economic life; operations for compliance with laws and other regulations, on the other hand, it means facing a challenge resulting control the negative impact of our processes on the from the fact that products quickly become obsolete. This environment and take initiatives aimed at reducing it. raises problems of recycling of the equipment withdrawn from use and stimulates concern for eco-efficiency. 80 clean environment 5.1 innovations for the environment New technologies may serve the environment, helping to manage energy and other natural resources more efficiently. Therefore, Orange Polska also works on projects aimed at saving energy. We have been implementing the Orange Renewable Energy Climate changes and depletion of natural resources Sources (RES) pilot project, which aims to check whether have made us realise the need to develop smart energy renewable energy systems can prove effective in supplying networks, which can effectively manage both traditional power to telecommunication infrastructure facilities in and renewable energy sources, and prepare electric the Polish climate. Currently, we are conducting tests of vehicles for using green energy. 35 leading companies equipment, such as photovoltaic panels. The pilot project from the ICT and energy sectors, research institutes and will enable us to estimate potential savings from generating universities have established an international consortium, our own green energy. The installed systems will supply FINSENY (Future INternet for Smart ENergY). It operates network equipment tested by Orange Labs. under the framework of the European Future Internet Public-Private Partnership programme and is co-financed Ultimately, the project will contribute to the development by the European Commission. Orange Polska has joined e nq ui ri ng of a new offer to Orange customers in the ‘Smart Home’ the project. t em a service, which will optimise the energy consumption by using renewable energy sources, i.e. photovoltaic panels and wind turbines, as well as ensuring proper energy Green IT conversion and storage. As a modern telecom company, we want the technologies a t t ac hment s that we use to be environmentally friendly. A few years Green Box ago, we launched the ‘Green IT’ project, which is aimed at increasing efficiency of our IT function, while reducing On our network we have implemented the Green Box pollution and consumption of natural resources. application, which automatically turns off unused ports on DSLAMs*. Turning off the ports reduces energy consumption by access devices as well as heat emission, which leads to a decrease in A/C costs. Reduced energy consumption translates directly into a reduction in network maintenance costs and greenhouse gas emissions. The solution has made the network more ‘green’. The positive experience in Poland has inspired the Orange Group in other countries. With the assistance of Polish experts, the project has been implemented in Jordan. * Port – a socket on the operator’s side, as opposed to a socket (port) on the customer’s side. DSLAM (Digital Subscriber Line Access Multiplexer) – a network device on the operator’s side which transfers traffic from the operator’s network directly to customers. 81 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 ‘Green IT’ involves an eco-efficient approach to data Office space: centre operations, use of cloud technology, development of applications to ensure the maximum efficiency (e.g. • popularisation of 10 rules of economical printing among in terms of power consumption or printing) as well as our employees; virtualisation and any other technologies that can improve • setting printers to default two-sided black-and-white the infrastructure efficiency. printing mode; • automatic remote switch-off of computers at off-work Infrastructure: time; • electronic communications with customers and • consolidation, centralisation and virtualisation; e-documents; • identification and elimination, or qualification for reuse, • using recycled paper envelopes for correspondence and of the infrastructure which does not play any major role reducing the volume of mail; any more; • monitoring of energy consumption by computers. • optimisation and monitoring of electrical energy consumption; The ‘Green IT’ project is a good example of combining • disposal of used computer equipment by companies economic and environmental goals. In the Data Centre which hold the relevant certificates and licences; alone, savings have totalled PLN 8.87 million (PLN 1.85 • purchases accounting for the environmental criterion; million in 2013) as a result of a decrease in electricity • use of the cloud model. consumption by over 20 million kWh (4.4 million kWh in 2013). As a result of the ‘Green IT’ project, CO2 emissions Server rooms: fell by 20,700 tonnes in the years 2009–2013 (4,300 tonnes in 2013). • ooptimisation of A/C settings in server rooms; • modification of ventilation and lighting systems; Green IT involves also our business-to-business offer. • adjustment of agreements with electricity suppliers to Through Integrated Solutions, a subsidiary of Orange the current needs; Polska, we offer solutions for comprehensive and efficient • technical infrastructure modernisation and other management of the ICT infrastructure. optimisation initiatives. 5.2 eco-friendly products and services We are not indifferent to global challenges related to protection of the natural environment and natural resources. As a provider of telecommunication services we can significantly contribute to reducing the negative impact of business activity on the environment. The telecom industry may have a positive impact on the Owing to our services also other companies, institutions environment, contributing to a reduction in greenhouse or organisations may become more ‘green’. A number of gas emissions by offering services which replace traditional them have successfully used video-conferences to enable forms of communication or document flow. Thanks to telehome-working via Internet or phone and have replaced and video-conferences, electronic document flow, on-line paper documents with electronic ones. shopping, e-services, e-invoices and comprehensive ICT systems for business and administration, we make ecology and environmental protection part of everyday life. 82 clean environment 5.3 refurbishment and recycling We encourage our customers to recycle their mobile phones. Orange Recycling, a programme of buying unwanted handsets, is one of our key environmental initiatives. The programme aims to promote the awareness of recycling of materials from old and often unused mobile phones among our customers and employees. Our goal is to steadily increase the ratio of old equipment returns to new phone sales. According to available studies, the average Polish good working order but also damaged ones. Proceeds from household keeps several old phones which are no longer in the sale can be donated to charity. The service is available to use. Orange’s efforts aim to raise awareness that unwanted all, not just our customers, and the repurchase offer covers phones are a valuable source of rare materials. about 2,000 different handset models. Unwanted mobile phones and accessories may be also returned for free to In co-operation with Greenfone, we launched the www. our sales outlets. The equipment is collected in special e nq ui ri ng orangerecykling.pl website, which enables customers to containers and handed over to a professional company t em a re-sell their unwanted handsets easily. A new feature is that responsible for its recycling and disposal. customers can sell or freely recycle not only handsets in t a t ah cment s While ensuring that our customers are offered a broad and diverse portfolio of handsets, we should not forget what they do with older models of phones or other devices which they used before. One of our tasks, as a socially responsible company, is the education of customers to encourage them to give us their unwanted used handsets. This is the purpose of the www.orangerecykling.pl website, where you can sell your unwanted handset very easily. Another initiative which reduces our negative impact on the environment involves the refurbishment of handsets returned by our customers to ‘as new’ condition. Then, the handsets are offered at our e-store at very attractive prices, and are very Ryszard Lindner, popular with customers. The innovative handset refurbishment process is a good Special Offers Marketing and Customer example of how to combine ‘green’ activity with economic profit for the company. Equipment Development Director 83 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 refurbishment of telecommunication equipment handset refurbishment Pieces of multimedia equipment, such as modems, are Mobile phones returned by customers are refurbished leased to customers for the term of service provision. Upon by a professional service company, SBE. The handsets expiration of the service agreement, returned products refurbished to ‘as new’ condition are subsequently sold in are refurbished to ‘as new’ condition. As a result of this our e-store at very competitive prices. process, products which have not reached the end of their service life are placed on the market again. A total of 6,184 handsets were refurbished in 2013. Furthermore, refurbishment of notebooks and laptops was All parts of a product are recycled. Even cardboard boxes launched at the end of the year. of returned products are reused. We are also actively participating in the international Sirius Owing to the fact that it is an in-house process, we can project, which aims at organisation and management, better control its quality and provide for its expansion, on the global level (European for the time being), of the while increasing our savings and enhancing eco-efficiency. processes of collection, refurbishment and resale of used Orange in co-operation with CEVA Logistics is able to test phones. Another purpose of Sirius is to implement a uniform products in terms of optimum quality and durability. handset buy-back system in customer care outlets across all countries of the Orange Group. In 2013, over 205,000 broadband devices (set top boxes and Liveboxes) as well as over 41,000 modems and routers were refurbished. This accounts for ca 25% of such equipment. Poland is the only country within the France Telecom Orange Group to have its own refurbishment line, competence in tools for testing CPE (customer premises equipment, such as Livebox, STB, modems, etc.) and the entire system required for tests. 84 clean environment 5.4 e-documents By now, every month over 3,000,000 of Orange Polska customers receive their bills in the electronic form instead of a traditional paper document. For signing up to e-invoices, Orange Polska’s customers We actively promote e-invoices in Poland. In the “Choose get additional benefits, e.g. a discounted subscription fee e-invoice” coalition, which acts under the auspices of or a reduced activation fee for selected services. They can the Ministry of Administration and Digitisation, Ministry of also join an environmental campaign of building bat houses. Economy and UNEP and is co-ordinated by the Polish Confederation of Private Employers “Lewiatan”, we The e-invoices can be conveniently paid by an on-line encourage other companies to use documents in the transfer or direct debit, or by scanning a photo code from electronic form. More at www.wybieramefaktury.pl. the e-invoice with a mobile phone. Subscribes of Orange Polska’s fixed line services can also use the Electronic In addition, our company has joined the Polish Electronic Payment service. E-invoices can be activated while signing Invoicing Forum, which acts under the auspices of the agreement or easily requested through an electronic the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance. form at Orange On-line service platform, www.orange.pl/ The Forum aims at formulating recommendations for efaktura, by SMS or at any Orange sales outlet. Customers changes necessary to implement the European Digital e nq ui ri ng receive e-invoices directly to their email box or to their Agenda, according to which e-invoicing is to become the t em a account at the orange.pl portal. predominant form of invoicing in the European Union by 2020. t a t ah cment s 5.5 environment management We are increasingly focused on minimising our environmental impact by reducing energy consumption, introducing waste segregation and encouraging more efficient paper management. We want Orange Polska to be a company which promotes eco-friendly attitudes and has its employees involved in reducing the negative impact on the environment. Proper supervision over our activity is assured by the environmental management system in line with ISO 14001. Currently, we are working on preparing our environmental management system for Orange Polska certification in the area of mobile services. 85 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 consumption of natural resources We have implemented efficient management of natural resources, monitoring the consumption of energy and other resources, especially water and paper, as well as carbon dioxide emission related to our activity. 2012 2013 CO2 emissions excluding transport* ‘000 tonnes 413 413 total CO2 emissions during transport ‘000 tonnes 17.1 14.0 total CO2 emissions tonnes 430 427 electricity consumption/customer kWh/customer 26.1 26.6 CO2 emissions during electricity consumption/customer kg/customer 18.5 17.03 CO2 emissions (all energies)/customer kg/customer 18.5 18.7 * CO2 emissions excluding transport is the total amount of emissions resulting from combustion of indirect fuels and electricity purchases. Total CO2 emissions during transport refers to petrol consumed by company cars/trucks during business trips. The amount of emissions has been estimated with the GHG Protocol, a tool used across the Orange Group. The greatest contributor to CO2 emissions is the consumption of electricity and indirect energy sources: gas, coal and oil. In order to reduce paper consumption, we have implemented electronic document flow. We use electronic applications to clock in, settle business trips or schedule holiday leaves. We also use e-documents in relations with our suppliers. Orders can be placed through a dedicated electronic system. The same applies to invoices, which are sent in the electronic form. We have also introduced a tool for confirming courier delivery electronically. In addition, our company has been using electronic invoice archiving. ecological education of employees We encourage our employees to adopt eco-friendly lifestyle and behaviour. There is a dedicated environmental protection portal on our intranet, which provides information on our environmental initiatives. We promote environmentally friendly forms of transport, such as carpooling to and from work. In the Orange Town, we have prepared special parking places in an underground garage for people involved in carpooling. We also encourage our employees to go to work by bike, providing bike stands, personal lockers and bathrooms with showers. In addition, we organise a ‘green competition’ for our employees. A total of 83 ideas were submitted in 2013. Three of them were implemented in the Orange Town, namely ecological snacks in vending machines, sensor lights in kitchenettes, toilets and other public space, and installation of a Veturilo (city bike) station at the main entrance. We want to get our employees involved in a dialogue on environmental issues. To this end we have provided a special mailbox, ekologia (ecology), for sharing opinions and experience related to environmental issues. In addition, we promote eco-friendly behaviour among our employees through dedicated campaigns: • safe printing: promotion of rational use of paper and safety of printouts; • second life of paper: we have provided containers for documents and waste paper to our employees in 21 locations. This solution not only enables us to segregate paper waste but also retain control over safety of documents. Containers for segregated waste (paper, glass, plastics) have been put in all conference rooms in our head office. 86 clean environment paper consumption 2012 2013 waste paper, cardboard boxes: internally and externally ‘000 tonnes 3.0 1.6 All companies which supply paper materials to us are required to hold an FCE certificate, which confirms that the material has been obtained from sustainable forests, where care is taken to plant new trees and wasteful exploitation is not performed. direct energy consumption by primary energy sources 2012 2013 fuel (all buildings, all uses) ‘000 tonnes 3.4 2.6 gas ‘000 m3 3,499 3,186 coal tonnes 100 86 energy produced during combustion, primary sources GWh 76.5 64.83 indirect energy consumption by primary energy sources 2012 2013 electricity GWh 617 622 We promote on-line meetings instead of traditional business trips. Our employees can use teleand video-conference services. In the beginning of 2014, we intend to launch an open video room system in selected Orange sites to facilitate video-conferencing. We have provided five electric cars with charging stations to Orange Town employees. They can use them for driving in e nq ui ri ng Warsaw. In 2014, we intend to expand this project to include three other sites in Warsaw. In 2013, Orange Polska’s 30 top t em a salespeople received modern hybrid cars. fuel & business trips 2012 2013 company cars: petrol + GPL ‘000 litres 860 207 a a t tc hment s company cars: diesel fuel ‘000 litres 5,472 4,924 business trips: plane ‘000 km 6,026 4,777 business trips: train ‘000 km 7,979 6,828 As part of our efforts to promote eco-efficient company and private car driving, we intend to implement a number of initiatives among Orange Polska’s employees, such as workshops, eco-driving lessons in electric cars or e-learning courses. 87 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 efficient waste management The company’s activities generate industrial waste, such as waste electronic and electrical equipment (WEEE), batteries and storage cells, cables and telegraph poles. The disposal thereof is closely controlled. waste 2012 2013 internal WEEE (network & tertiary) tonnes 473 646.2 wooden poles tonnes 51.6 14.6 cables tonnes 409.0 419.6 batteries tonnes 12.8 95.7 paper / cardboard tonnes 135.3 33 other hazardous waste (including PCB) tonnes 0.15 26.6 other non-hazardous waste tonnes 556.5 591.5 waste recycled internally tonnes 1,641 1,827 Under our agreements with battery suppliers and suppliers of consumable materials for photocopiers, printers and facsimile machines, they are responsible for picking up and properly disposing any waste elements as part of their maintenance services. We have introduced uniform waste classification rules in line with the Regulation of the Minister of Environment of 27 September 2001 on the catalogue of waste as well as uniform waste recording rules in line with the Regulation of the Minister of Environment of 8 December 2010 on templates of documents used for waste records. We also hold the required administrative permits for waste generation. We co-operate only with suppliers which take responsibility for further processing of the received waste (collection, transport, recycling or neutralisation) and can document the subsequent stages of waste handling between the waste producer and the waste neutraliser. In line with the Act on waste electronic and electrical equipment, such unwanted and unusable equipment is transferred as waste to licensed waste management companies, which have been registered by the Chief Inspectorate for Environmental Protection. We carry out segregation of municipal waste in three locations in Warsaw. waste collected from customers 2012 2013 WEEE collected from customers tonnes 0.12 0.1 WEEE collected from customers kg/1000 customers 0.01 0.01 EMS*: ISO 14001 % 28.2 29.1 * Environment Management System 88 w h a t d o w e d o w it h o l d h a n d s e t s we have approx. 56 mn* working handsets in Poland, which means that there is more than one handset per person in the average household. So, what happens to those handsets? 19% of people have at least one old handset old handsets are found in 22% of households; the total number of such handsets is estimated at over 5.6 mn every second Pole declares that the reason for keeping an old handset is to be able to use it in case their current one stops working handsets are usually changed by the Poles every two years (41%) or every three years (17%) after buying a new handset, 33% of people give away the old one; the older the person, the more readily they give it away, while young people are more willing to resell it 13% of people throw away the old handset when changing a phone; one third of them throw it to an ordinary dustbin one in four Poles has at least once bought a second-hand handset; this is most popular among young people Sources: Central Statistical Office, Golden Eye * The survey was conducted for a nationwide representative sample (n=1000) of people aged 15 or more, controlled for 4 demographic parameters: gender, age, education and size of town, Date of survey: March 2014. o l d d a n hs e t r e tu rn sb y m ar ke t Or an ge u pr cha s es e r fu ri b shm e n t c ut o sm er s c /o l le ct i ons e r cc yl i ng f e rr ub i shn m et r e cc yl i ng cop man y c om pany a w rme a t ri al s new e r fu ri b shm e nt a hd nse t r pc oes s m a n uf ac tu r e rs d h n as e te s co n dl i fe e r mak r et i ng clean environment We follow procedures aimed at reducing our impact on the natural environment. Dedicated environmental teams have been established in the company to inspect infrastructure, monitor emission levels and provide the related training. We co-operate with regional inspectors for environmental protection, following their instructions and audit recommendations. We also maintain relations with the Ministry of the Environment. In addition, in the process of implementation of environmentally friendly projects we co-operate with environmental organisations. We use modern ICT services and technologies to save not only time of our employees and customers but also consumption of natural resources. We monitor environmental indicators within our company on a current basis. In INDICIA, a dedicated CSR database used across the Orange Group, we report 122 environmental indicators on a semi-annual basis, monitoring the use of natural resources and our impact on the natural environment. eco-friendly Orange Town The Orange Town is a unique place designed and constructed to provide comfort for 3,350 employees and to protect the environment. It is class A+ office space. It complies with all requirements in terms of energy conservation, greens development, lighting energy consumption, factors affecting workers’ health and water-saving solutions. The complex consists of five six-storey buildings of the total usable floor area of 43,700 m2. One of the design e nq ui ri ng objectives was to minimise the impact on the environment, while maximising the complex efficiency. Artificial interior t em a lighting automatically adapts to the sunlight intensity. People in the buildings have adequate access to the daylight and each desk has a view of a window and the sky. Openable windows enable natural room ventilation as required, reducing the need to use air conditioning or mechanical ventilation. The Orange Town supports biodiversity, e.g. through birdhouses. Interestingly, there are now more plant species on the premises then before the construction a t t ah cment s work started. Energy consumption by lighting, coolers, fans and other pieces of equipment is subject to monitoring, and there are meters in each place where water is supplied to buildings, which enables water consumption monitoring and analysis. All waste is sorted and recycled. The complex has been designed to minimise operating energy consumption; e.g. the elevators installed use up to 20% less energy than standard machines do. Using dynamic thermal simulation software, the building energy performance index (BEPI) was computed and the energy improvement was determined at 51.7% compared to the average building in Poland. The Orange Town has been awarded with BREEAM ‘Excellent’ certificate, which confirms compliance with the strictest environmental requirements and the highest European construction standards. 89 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 90 e nq ui ri ng t em a t a t ah cment s e n q r i u ing t e am ciekawy zespół 91 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 We want to create a culture of co-operation, in which all employees feel respected and can freely pursue their professional goals and life passions. our goals: 6.1 conduct dialogue with employees and co-workers in regular and transparent way 6.2 create modern and friendly work environment 6.3 develop and implement tools for comprehensive management of diversity 6.4 ensure work and development possibilities supporting professional and personal life balance 6.5 expand the corporate volunteering programme The key to a company’s success is its employees. Orange Polska employs over 22,000 people throughout Poland. For us, social responsibility begins in the company and is based on relations with our employees. We attach great importance to ensuring them equal treatment, clear evaluation and promotion criteria, broad development opportunities and a chance to pursue their interests and passions. Company’s workforce by type of employment or type of employment contract 2012 2013 total workforce* 22,235 20,539 men employed 12,371 11,769 women employed 9,864 8,770 regular employees (active full-time positions) 21,920 20,320 outsourced employees (full-time positions) 7,494* 7,195* full-time employees 21,622 20,045 part-time employees 613 495 employees of 30 or less years of age 3,887 2,503 employees of 31–50 years of age 14,507 14,072 employees over 50 years of age 3,841 3,964 *Personnel outsourcing: various forms of employment. In 2014, we intend to begin talks on the employment stabilisation by introduction of long-term or open-ended employment contracts for a large portion of outsourced employees. 92 enquiring ream 6.1 dialogue with employees and co-workers Listening to employees’ opinions about the company, seeking solutions to the problems raised and suggesting the relevant improvements are fundamental to fostering our status as a good employer. Orange Polska conducts regular employee surveys, ’Me in There is also an ambassadorship movement within the My Company’ and ‘Satisfaction from internal services’. They company, which invites employees to discuss the key aim at surveying the employee satisfaction, monitoring shifts challenges faced by the company and the intended in opinion as well as determining employees’ satisfaction strategies as well as to come up with new ideas for business from services of support functions, i.e. HR, Administration development or organisational changes. Ambassadors and IT, and the quality of co-operation between various prepare and conduct training related to corporate values and business units. culture as well as strategic challenges. e nq ui ri ng t em a In 2013, the survey was addressed to all employees of We respect the right to associate and we engage in regular Orange Polska, Orange Customer Service, TP TelTech and dialogue with trade unions. The interaction between trade Integrated Solutions as well as outsourced personnel in the unions and Orange Polska S.A. is regulated by the Intragroup sales and customer service areas, that is a total of about Collective Labour Agreement and additional agreements, a t t ac hment s 27,000 people. 70% of regular employees responded. which set a standard for mutual relations and information exchange. In addition, there is an employee relations unit and a position of social dialogue advisor within the organisation. In OCS, these standards are determined by the Collectively Agreed Rules, which include provisions regulating the 56% rate of employees’ attachment to relations between trade unions and the employer, and by the co-operation agreements signed between the employer and the company trade unions. 77% positive opinions about Orange as Employee Councils have been established in Orange Polska S.A. and OCS pursuant to the Act on informing and an employer consulting employees. Orange Polska S.A. and OCS have an obligation to consult the Council on matters related to the level, structure and intended changes of workforce, actions 2/3 our employees would recommend aimed at maintaining the workforce level, as well as significant changes in the work organisation or employment basis. us as a good employer The social dialogue with trade unions in Orange Polska S.A. functions on two levels: 82% of our employees would • 7 intercompany trade union organisations: on this level, recommend Orange products and the Orange Polska S.A. Management Board consults and services as brand ambassadors* negotiates general issues related to collective employment (e.g. Intragroup Collective Labour Agreement); • 20 company trade union organisations: on this level, * ’Me in My Company’ survey, November 2013. detailed regulations (e.g. work regulations, remuneration policy) are negotiated. 93 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 The Social Agreement is an important settlement, and a compromise between the expectations of employees and the employer. As a trade union, we strive to mitigate workforce reductions and provide as many departing employees as possible with a fair financial package. We realise the difficulty for those who leave and the different perception of this process. The employer strives to implement its own strategy, particularly to reduce labour costs with the least possible input, while maintaining social peace. With such disparate positions, Social Agreement negotiations are not easy or free of emotions, especially that the statutory time to reach an agreement is Zbigniew Pachacz, very limited. It is nevertheless possible, as demonstrated in case of Orange. The Polish Trade Union key is dialogue, understanding each other’s positions, flexibility and search for of Telecommunication Employees compromise by the parties to the agreement. The key word is dialogue, yet not the one pursued in times of crisis or while negotiating major documents, but the daily one, in which we discuss often minor matters, yet important for employees, trade unions and, hopefully, also the employer. Such dialogue, difficult but beneficial, continues in Orange. As of the end of December 2013, trade unions in Orange In the Orange Polska Group, employees benefit from clear and Polska S.A. had a total membership of 4,153 people, i.e. transparent privileges specified in the Intragroup Collective 27.7% of Orange Polska S.A.’s workforce. The interests Labour Agreement (ICLA; in case of Orange Polska) or the of employees are also represented on the France Telecom Collectively Agreed Rules (in case of Orange Customer Orange Group’s European Works Council, as Orange Service). In particular, these documents regulate matters Polska’s representatives sit there. related to the establishment and termination of employment relationship, working time, leaves, remuneration and other On December 9, 2013, the TP S.A. Management Board and employee benefits policy, occupational health and safety trade unions signed a new Social Agreement for the years as well as medical services. ICLA provides for rights and 2014–2015, effective from January 1, 2014. The Social benefits which go beyond those resulting from mandatory Agreement regulates issues related to employment policy regulations or are not addressed by them at all, including (including the place and role of internal mobility, recruitment higher severance pay in case of termination of employment and outsourcing), pay rises and compensation for departing for reasons unrelated to the employee as well as higher employees who cannot adapt their professional profile to the gratuity payments to retiring or disabled employees. 91% of changing market needs. A similar agreement was signed in Orange Polska’s employees are covered by ICLA. OCS. One of major subjects of our dialogue with trade unions is Also on December 9, 2013, agreements were reached with workforce reduction. The increasing demands of the highly trade unions in TP S.A. and OCS on detailed procedures competitive market, automation of processes and changing for the implementation of the 2014–2015 Social Agreement competence needs have forced us to further optimise our in both companies in 2014. A departure cap was set and workforce. All changes in this area are agreed upon with it was agreed that the primary criterion for selecting people trade union representatives. Under the 2014–2015 Social to leave would be their intention to voluntarily terminate the Agreement, up to 2,250 employees will be able to make use contract of employment by mutual agreement of the parties of the voluntary departure programme. As reducing stress for reasons unrelated to the employee. related to organisational changes remains a priority for us, we have developed an outplacement programme. 94 enquiring ream departures and employee turnover ratio 2012 2013 by age groups and gender in Orange Polska departures – total* 1,983 2,569 departures – men 951 1,306 departures – women 1,032 1,263 departures – up to 30 years of age 534 669 departures – 31-50 years of age 1,016 1,346 departures – over 50 years of age 433 554 turnover ratio – aggregate 9.02% (12.30%) 3.41%** turnover ratio – women 9.91% (14.88%) 3.65%** turnover ratio – men 8.33% (10.43%) 3.25%** turnover ratio – up to 30 years of age 15.91% (24.31%) 13.92%** turnover ratio – 31-50 years of age 6.92% (9.33%) 2.20%** turnover ratio – over 50 years of age 10.96% (14.98%) 0.32%** * all departures: voluntary, at employer’s or employee’s initiative, upon mutual agreement, retirement, etc., excluding intragroup transfers (e.g. when an Orange Polska’s employee departs for OCS) ** turnover ratio excluding voluntary departures (at employer’s initiative) or departures at employee’s initiative as well as intragroup transfers (e.g. when an Orange Polska’s employee departs for OCS) e nq ui ri ng t em a t a t ah cment s 95 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 6.2 modern and friendly work environment We do not forget about the essentials of the friendly workplace. We care about the safety of our employees as well as their health and decent old-age pension. We provide preventive health care and promote sporting activities of our employees. In difficult life situations we offer help and support. inspiring and creative workplace modern work tools In September 2013 we moved 3,300 employees to our As a modern company, we strive to use new technologies new headquarters, ‘Orange Town’. This represented not also through dedicated programmes addressed internally. only one of the biggest relocation projects in Europe, but One of the examples of fostering modern and friendly work also a tremendous cultural change. The Orange Town was environment is the Digital Leadership Inside (Orange Digital) created according to our values, supporting collaborative programme, which aims at evolutionary adaptation of the work in modern digital workspaces. It sets the standard for organisation to its changing environment. the rest of our premises. Programme objectives: Individual workplaces are arranged in a large open space, which facilitates quick communication and lowers barriers • to increase work efficiency and improve collaboration in relations between employees and their superiors as between employees; well as between employees of different business units. • to offer best experience in the digital world to our Employees have at their disposal numerous public rooms, employees; which can be used as informal work space or space for • to support employees as company’s best ambassadors. friendly meetings with customers or other employees. In addition, employees have access to retail space, such as Three pillars of the programme: kiosk, grocery shop and canteen. The complex had been 1. raising awareness – providing Orange employees with verified for occupational safety before it was transferred for access to up-to-date, consistent digital knowledge; use. 2. training – e-learning platform dedicated to digital era challenges faced by Orange and offering structured In a dialogue with our social partners, we consult further information about software tools which make everyday investments in other Orange sites in Poland in the ‘Friendly work easier; Work Environment’ project. Three Regional Towns have 3. tools / equipment – using digital tools and environment been created in Lublin, Gdańsk and Poznań. Refurbishment at work. of staff facilities there has raised their standard and created a friendly place for having meals. 96 enquiring ream safety at work We ensure a safe and friendly work environment for The number of work-related accidents in Orange Polska our employees. Workplace conditions are monitored decreased year-on-year, from 67 to 48. One fatal traffic by specialists from our Occupational Health and Safety accident was reported, which had been caused by another Department. Each employee has access to OHS training driver. There were no serious or group accidents. and a broad range of medical services. In 2013, the State Sanitary Inspector decided to recognise We co-operate with our social partners in the OHS an ailment of an employee and a former employee of TP Committee and during accident investigation procedures S.A. as occupational disease. In the first case, the decision (any team to carry out such a procedure includes one social was simply notified to the employer, owing to the fact that labour inspector, who represents employees). no exposure to the harmful factor indicated as the cause e nq ui ri ng of the occupational disease had been identified in TP S.A. t em a In order to ensure safe working conditions, we carry out The company appealed against the second decision and measurements of the work environment, particularly noise, the case is pending. dust concentration and EMF intensity. The results have complied with the applicable hygiene standards. In 2013, 11 incidents were considered accidents at work a t t ac hment s in OCS (compared to 8 in 2012). As a result, a total of 11 employees were injured. There were no fatal or serious accidents. No cases of occupational disease were reported. accident frequency rate* 2012 2013 Orange Polska 4.0 3.1 OCS 1.8 2.5 days off work due to work-related accidents 2012 2013 Orange Polska 2,664 1,937 OCS 331 329 accident severity rate** 2012 2013 Orange Polska 40.0 40.4 OCS 41.4 29.9 * Number of persons injured in work-related accidents per 1,000 employees ** Number of days off per accident 97 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 telecommuting Our employees and retired employees as well as eligible members of their families may use the Company Social Sustained development involves also an ability to maintain Benefits Fund as well as Central Housing/Recreation/ harmony between work and private life. New forms of Welfare Funds. work and the use of mobile phones and the Internet blur the division between time at and off work. However, new If the company’s aid is insufficient, Orange Polska’s technologies can also help to maintain this balance, e.g. by employees are eligible for assistance by the Orange telecommuting. Foundation under the ’Support One Another’ programme. Promotion of different forms of employment, including Our employees can also seek financing of sports, tourist telecommuting, in Orange Polska is one of our priorities or cultural events from the Central Sports, Tourism and under the CSR strategy. Employees in custody of children Culture Fund as well as receive FitProfit bonus cards. aged four or less or children with disabilities as well as pregnant women are preferred in this scheme. Orange Polska’s employees are eligible to participate in the Employee Retirement Plan (ERP). It is the largest employee The unique features of our industry motivate us to pension fund in Poland by both value of assets and number implement innovative solutions. Also in the context of flexible of participants. employment schemes, we are working on new solutions, which will meet the expectations of our employees. In 2013, 83.7% of Orange Polska’s employees were covered by the scheme. Since 2011, also Orange Customer Service’s employees have been eligible for membership in the Fund. At the end of 2013, 76.3% of OCS’s employees were covered by the scheme. additional benefits The total value of assets of the Fund reached PLN 1.167 Our employees are offered full medical services at several billion at the end of 2013. dozen clinics of the Lux Med Group and CM LIM as well as 1,500 partner medical facilities. Health care is available to all regular employees. We also offer a special leave for sanatorium treatment as an additional paid leave, which is considered the same as holiday leave. 98 enquiring ream 6.3 diversity management Ensuring transparent criteria for evaluating and rewarding employees as well as implementing equal opportunity principles are among the basic conditions to be met by any socially responsible company. One of my duties in the CSR Team is to co-ordinate the diversity management area. It is a nice feeling to see a growing number of employees getting interested in this issue and the company’s efforts contributing to more diversified and open work environment. One of the initiatives particularly worth highlighting is the ‘Yes to Health’ programme, which is addressed to our employees with disabilities. The programme is to foster corporate culture based on respect for persons with disabilities; it is also a clear indication that each employee matters to us. Initiatives outside the company are also important for us. We became the main partner of the Diversity Charter in Poland for the second time. I have a pleasure to participate in the work of the ‘Lewiatan’ Confederation’s Diversity Council as Marcelina Pytlarczyk, e nq ui ri ng its member. t em a CSR Expert In addition, it is important to participate in workplace diversity surveys. Therefore, we have taken part in the first edition of the nationwide Diversity Barometer / Diversity Index survey. Our score is 65%. Though it is high, we still face a number a t t ah cment s of challenges, which we will make our best to meet. Differences between employees, such as age, gender, life The development of a culture based on mutual respect for attitudes, beliefs or professional profiles, widen our horizons, differences between us is a key priority for us. As we believe increase the efficiency of our teams and contribute to better that education is crucial to achieve it, we disseminate understanding of the needs of our customers. We believe knowledge about this issue among our employees. We that competent workplace diversity management creates have also included ‘diversity management’ in the manager new opportunities for everyone. competence assessment. employees by gender 2012 2013 % of women in the workforce 44.4% 42.7% employees in managerial positions 3,729 3,656 female managers 1,019 1,008 male managers 2,710 2,648 % of women in managerial positions 27.3% 27.6% 99 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 Ensuring equal access to positions in the company, in the Platform for Knowledge and Experience Exchange regardless of gender or age, is a major priority for us. We funded by the European Commission. have added a special clause to our recruitment procedure, providing for an obligation to recommend candidates of We contributed to the “Assessing Diversity Impact in both sexes to all positions. A major challenge for us is Business. By the European Union Platform of Diversity to promote the professional activity and development of Charters” report, which was published in October 2013. women and to increase their percentage in management. Among other companies, such as Sodexo, Deutsche Therefore, we have set specific goals in this area, such as to Telekom or Hewlett-Packard Austria, we shared our maintain the percentage of women in managerial positions approach to diversity management and its impact in our at 35% by 2015 and increase the percentage of successor business. groups with at least one woman for TOP 350 positions to 65% (it was 41.7% in 2013). Furthermore, our company actively engaged in the development of the Diversity Index as an indicator of We believe that co-operation with leading experts within diversity management in business, and subsequently the international community will help us to look at the issue submitted to the survey itself. of diversity in a broader context. Therefore, we participate The development of the Diversity Index and the organisation of the Diversity Barometer, a nationwide survey of companies with this innovative tool, has been, and still is, a great challenge for the ‘Lewiatan’ Confederation. Diversity management is still a novel concept in Poland and companies regard it with mistrust. Strong stereotypes persist that not everyone can perform equally well and there is even no place for some people in the labour market. The involvement of companies such as Orange, still very few in Poland, in our projects which promote diversity management is particularly valuable, as it enables us to get knowledge about corporate initiatives in this area as well as related difficulties and successes. Małgorzata Lelińska, Nothing is more effective in persuading others to accept new ideas or practices Diversity Index Project Co-ordinator, than positive experience of the market leaders, which are admired for their ‘Lewiatan’ Confederation business successes and imitated. Orange has been steadily building a workplace which attracts the greatest talents and encourages personal development, energetic actions, creativity and dedication. We believe that it happens also because of diversity recognition, appreciation and strengthening. These efforts are very effective, as demonstrated by the Diversity Index, one of the highest among the medium to large companies which have used this tool so far. A lot to congratulate! The importance we attach to diversity is confirmed by the representing various social groups, including the disabled, fact that for two years Orange Polska has not only been elderly people, parents or sexual and religious minorities. a signatory of the Diversity Charter, but also its main For us, being a signatory and the main partner of the partner in Poland. The content of the Polish Charter was Charter is a commitment to promote diversity principles and developed by working groups composed of representatives motivation to seek constant development and improvement of business, administration and NGOs. A major element within the company. of the process involved consultations with organisations 100 enquiring ream The Diversity Charter in Poland, co-ordinated by the Responsible Business Forum, is a document signed by employers who commit themselves to ban discrimination at the workplace, promote diversity and engage all their employees and business partners in these efforts. The Diversity Charter encourages employers to use the latent potential of diverse teams. Companies, institutions, NGOs and universities which implement this tool contribute to social cohesion and equality. The Diversity Charter is an international initiative carried out under the umbrella of the European Commission and present in twelve EU member states. Orange Polska has been the main partner of the Diversity Charter in Poland since its Ewa Wojsławowicz, development in 2012. It was among the initiators of the Charter and got actively Diversity Charter Manager, involved in its development, consulting its content. In addition, the company Responsible Business Forum supports the Charter on a daily basis and is an ambassador of the Charter values. We are glad that Orange Polska has decided to become a patron of the Charter; it proves that the diversity management ideals are close to the company. It not only implements them internally, but is also ready to share its experience with other employers. e nq ui ri ng t em a Orange Polska has engaged in the establishment of EPWN have to complete an e-learning course in discrimination and a t t ac hment s (European Professional Women’s Network) Warsaw. Its mobbing prevention. main purpose is to support the equality of women and men and promote equality of opportunity through all stages transparent remuneration of professional career. Networking is an major formula of co-operation within the organisation. Together with policy representatives of other companies we want to share our We follow a uniform and transparent remuneration policy knowledge and experience in equality issues. based on equal treatment, fair assessment and nondiscrimination. In 2013, the ratio of the basic salary of In 2013, we decided to launch a programme addressed women to that of men was 90.9% in managerial positions to our employees with disabilities, ‘Yes to Health’, The and 76.7% in non-managerial positions. programme aims at building an open and friendly work environment, particularly for people with a confirmed Our employees are offered salaries adequate to the market disability. In the programme, our employees who submit level of wages in Poland. The remuneration policy adopted a certificate of disability are eligible for an additional package by Orange Polska aims at the following: of medical services in LUX MED centres. • to provide transparent and competitive principles of Diversity issues are addressed in our Code of Ethics, which employee remuneration; determines procedures enabling employees to report • to increase employees’ involvement and responsibility any irregularities, particularly related to discrimination or for performance of the tasks and objectives assigned to mobbing. Our staff portal explains what mobbing and them; discrimination behaviours are like, while presenting the • to retain highly-competent employees and enable their related regulations and indicating how to report any violation further development; of our rules (particularly via an application which guarantees • to attract competent people with high professional skills anonymity of reports). In order to effectively prevent any from the external market; discrimination and build friendly atmosphere at work we • to set clear and transparent rules for determining basic provide for proper managerial training. All our managers salaries. 101 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 6.4 sustainable development We have implemented an annual appraisal process, ‘Development & Assessment’, making a connection between each individual’s evaluation results and their career development plans. In 2013, we expanded the process to include new elements: one guaranteed training for each employee; monitoring of planned actions throughout the year; and the incorporation of Orange values into the assessment style. 18,219 (97%) employees took part in the evaluation process I believe that a socially responsible company cares about its employees and their development. The telecommunication industry is one of the most dynamic and innovative sectors. It demands non-standard ideas, which may be put forward only by people who are curious about the world and pursue personal development. Curiosity is an essential element for a company to grow and offer innovative solutions. We draw additional strength from our diversity, as many of us have unique experience, competence, skills and perspective. Curiosity and diversity are often a source of inspiration and energy to pursue professional fulfilment. These factors are the DNA of the Orange brand and its values. Grzegorz Steinke, Recruitment and HR development is not limited to training; it is also about fostering friendly HR Development Director environment for sharing knowledge and pursuing one’s life passions and interests. This is our task. In 2013, the evaluation process was for the first time based The annual evaluation procedure is followed by succession on the Orange manager competence model, balancing task planning, that is a process of identification and development performance and human relations competence. of employees who are candidates for taking key positions in Orange Polska. The process aims at ensuring the continuity Another new element in the process was an opportunity to of management in key positions, while getting the best from recommend employees to an expertise sharing programme. the managerial potential inside the company. In 2013, we invited our employees for the third time to In order to attract and retain employees of high professional provide feedback to their managers on a 360° feedback potential, and to provide them with qualification and basis. The 360° feedback model facilitates the development competence development opportunities, we have developed of a common culture of work, communication and a mobility policy in the company and offer transfer benefits management. Over 2,300 Orange Polska’s managers took to employees who change their workplace; in addition, the part in the process. existing employees are preferred in recruitment for positions in various Orange Polska companies. Over 1,000 job offers appear in Orange Polska’s internal labour market annually. 102 enquiring ream We have also launched the Development Navigator We assist the programme participants in the workplace programme to assist our employees in determining their change as well as ensure their security and health & social strengths, development areas and further career paths in insurance security in their new country of residence. Orange Polska. Meetings with professional development advisors facilitate an objective assessment of competences In the annual evaluation process, any employee can declare gained so far in order to set reasonable goals to be achieved. their interest in personal development outside Poland. As part of short-time mobility, on a ‘talent sharing’ basis, we support the achievement of business objectives in international mobility projects which involve more than one country. A total of 20 employees made use of this opportunity in 2013 (and 227 Our employees are also offered international career since the start of the programme in 2004). opportunities within the International Mobility programme. It aims at strengthening business collaboration and Long-term mobility involves travelling not only to European sharing best experiences in all areas of activity of our countries, but also exotic ones like Vanuatu. Orange Polska global organisation. The programme increases mobility promotes unique competence of its employees in roll-out of of employees within the Orange Group and facilitates telecoms in developing countries. identification and retention of people with high professional qualifications and great development potential. We regularly present Orange Polska’s employees on the International Mobility Review forum. Thinking globally, we organise international events for both Orange employees e nq ui ri ng and students from all over the world. t em a During the six months I spent in a new workplace I had two objectives. The first task had been entrusted to me by the company. It involved the appraisal a t t ah cment s of the Orange Polska talent management programme, particularly diagnosing current activities, identifying strengths and weaknesses and designing changes together with the entire HR Team in such a manner as to make the new talent management process support both HR management efforts and the company’s business strategy. The other, more personal, goal was to gain new experience and learn as much as possible not only about Orange Polska, but also about the history of Poland, Corina Ghiatau, places, people and even language, which is considered one of the most difficult Organisational Development Consultant, in the world. In my pursuit of both objectives I was supported by kind and cordial Orange Romania people, who not only made my work easier, but turned it into a great adventure. In the Talent Sharing programme, I had a chance to participate in the work of Orange Labs in Grenoble. This trip is still paying off through joint workshops, experience sharing on a daily basis or new business relations. During my­ three-month stay in Grenoble, I could take part in a project carried out in Toulouse, Montpellier, Biarritz and Paris. It was a unique opportunity to meet other people, a different culture and an excellent cuisine. The trip broadened my perspective and enabled me to better understand the principles guiding the work of the French team. In addition, I had a chance to meet people of various cultures and form friendships. It also encouraged me to continue travelling and searching. Marta Niewęgłowska, R&D Expert 103 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 available training We carry out a number of training programmes aimed at developing competence and preparing people to meet the strategic challenges faced by the company. Our employees improve their specialist and language skills and are eligible for co-financing of graduate or post-graduate studies, including MBA. 2012 2013 total employees trained (in ‘000) 21.4 17.7 total hours of training (in ‘000) 606.8 605 average number of training hours per employee per year 28.2 32.3 In various business areas of the company we carry out We have launched an international development Professional Schools, which provide opportunities for programme, Orange Campus, to promote uniform development of professional skills and competence. The management standards across the Orange Group. It teachers in the Schools are company’s experts. There are is offered to all managers in the Group. The programme 16 Professional Schools with 90 experts. is based on a model of development through sharing experiences. Orange Campus has three international We carry out a programme for identification and development training centres in Poland, France and Spain. Training of managerial talents, Talent Review, which supports focuses on the management style, stressing concern for people full of initiative and with tangible achievements and the quality of human relations, good communications, the managerial potential, who build constructive relations co-operation, focus on the customer care quality and with other people, act in compliance with Orange values friendly atmosphere at the workplace. and are committed and willing to take up new challenges. People from the Talent Group are considered first during The underlying principle of all training courses is their recruitment to managerial positions. They can be covered distinctive style: interactivity and promotion of diversity. by dedicated development programmes or get a chance to Training groups are composed to support diversity participate in the company’s key projects. and co-operation between managers. Each group is a meeting place for managers representing different business functions, different management levels and, in the international version of the programme, different countries. 104 enquiring ream Also employees departing from the company are offered Our portfolio includes over 5,600 electronic products, training in active job seeking, auto-presentation or including interactive training courses in ethics, corporate preparation of application documents. Organisational social responsibility or non-discrimination principles. changes within the company involve active participation of the Competence Development Centre advisors, who hold Our employees and partners can use our educational web group informational meetings and individual meetings with portal, which is accessible also outside the workplace. employees leaving the company. They are also invited to attend mini-internship, i.e. a few days on-the-job training in another team of Orange Polska. We use the Development Products Library, available on the training portal, which offers e-learning courses for We also organise integration training. One of its options, the development of personal, professional and specialist which goes beyond typical team-building tasks and skills. There are e-books, films, suggested development has been gaining popularity, is combining training with tasks, training e-materials, information about courses and commitment to others. The ’Integration by Helping’ is one workshops as well as a number of other proposals in the of the voluntary work proposals prepared by the Orange library, which currently contains over 10,000 educational Community. To the teams which plan an integration event items. we propose co-operation with an NGO or a social institution. Our educational offer to employees includes anti-stress As befits a telecommunication company, we broadly use training, which presents methods for coping with emotions e-learning tools for training. and difficult situations at or outside the workplace. e nq ui ri ng t em a In 2013, we launched the ‘Fibre-optic Line of Knowledge as a source of motivation for expertise sharing’ project, which had been prepared for the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development’s competition. Our ‘HR Solutions a t t ah cment s of Tomorrow’ project was granted financing from the European Social Fund in the Human Capital Operational Programme, Sub-measure 2.1.1. “Development of human capital in enterprises.” The project aims to improve the availability of expertise gathered within the organisation by development of innovative and effective tools for knowledge and motivation management. In the project, we have developed an expert identification, development and motivation system consisting of HR and IT tools. The system supports expertise sharing and exchange between experts and other employees. The designed solution is based on the social media model. In terms of methodology, the ‘Fibre-optic Line of Knowledge’ will include: (i) HR products (templates of questionnaires, reports and manuals) for identification of strategic knowledge within the organisation, development of Knowledge Centres as well as development and stimulation of the activity of Experts, and (ii) IT Products for knowledge transfer based on the social media model. Currently, the project is in the testing stage. The ‘Fibre-optic Line of Knowledge’ methodology will be implemented in eight medium to large enterprises, including Orange Polska. In addition, four Competence Centres will be established and the project expertise will be disseminated among other companies. The HR and IT tools developed in the project will be transferred to the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development, which will subsequently make them available for other enterprises interested in the implementation of such solutions. more at: http://swiatlowodwiedzy.orange.pl/ 105 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 recognising and honouring good employees We strive to recognise outstanding employees. Every year The programme responds to labour market challenges we organise the ’Orange Stars’ contest. The purpose of faced by young people and helps students to expand the contest is to select employees who promote teamwork their practical business knowledge. For the company, through their conduct, are ready for challenges and best it is an opportunity to attract people well prepared for performance, and act in line with the ethics and values of their profession. It is a unique programme within the Orange, while their work, communication and management telecommunications industry. We are also one of the style is respected by their colleagues and co-workers. The permanent partners of the ‘Play for Internship’ competition. winners are an important opinion group and are invited to join the key projects implemented within the company. We also encourage people to be creative and look for interesting solutions to streamline the company’s activities. The ’Telecreator’ contest promotes innovation and inventiveness, seeking practical ideas from our employees and partners. for students We have our own student training programme in Orange Polska. In 2008, we launched the ’Your Perspective’ educational programme for students of technical and economic faculties. It has been carried out in conjunction with the Polish Human Resources Management Association and the Business for Society. The programme involves workshops, a competition, an ambassadorship project, Orange Student Clubs and paid student training in Orange Polska. A major part of the programme is the nationwide ‘Your Perspective’ competition addressed to young people who are fascinated by modern technologies and their use in new business areas and everyday life. The contest is held in stages and divided into three categories: telecommunications, information technology and marketing & management. ‘Your Perspective’ involves also an ambassadorship programme, which is based on the company’s close co-operation with universities via Orange Polska ambassadors, who are students selected according to strict criteria. 106 enquiring ream passion and commitment In the Orange Passion programme we enable our employees photographic or music competitions and a contest in which to share their life passions and interests. On the intranet we the winning projects are granted financial support. Each have created a place where we can all promote our music, year, there are auctions of paintings and photographs of film, sport or photography passions. We also hold internal our artists and the proceeds go to social causes. events to help employees pursue their hobbies, organising There is a group of non-professional painters in our company. The community of telecommunication employees and retirees interested in painting has an almost twenty-year track record of activity. It all began in 1995 in the Telecommunication Unit in Kielce, where the ‘PasTel’ painting section was established. The section started organising open-air painting events and painting exhibitions, effectively attracting the company’s employees from other towns in subsequent years. e nq ui ri ng t em a So far, with the company’s assistance, we have held seventeen open-air Lidia Kwinta, painting events as well as a number of exhibitions and charity auctions of the initiator and organiser of open-air paintings created during those events. Our events have been also attended by painting events, Chairman of the Culture representatives of telecommunication companies from other European countries: a t t ac hment s Section of the National Sports, Culture Slovenia, Estonia, Malta, Sweden, the Netherlands, Italy and Portugal. and Tourism Committee in Orange Polska As a result of auctions, we have been able to donate almost PLN 63,000, through the Orange Foundation, to people in need. Today, the Orange Polska Painters Club is a group of 30 people. Our common passion is noticed also outside the company, gaining prestige. For three years, the President of the Office of Electronic Communication has been the honorary patron of our annual open-air painting events. Through the ’Orange Community’ programme we promote For our employees and their families, we have launched any individual or group social initiatives of our employees. the ’Offer for You’ programme, which offers discounts on We invite them to join our corporate volunteering products and services of Orange Polska or our partners, programme and participate in the implementation of particularly our telecommunication services on preferential the Orange Foundation projects or the organisation of terms, discounts on insurance and transport services as community events. We support charity concerts, exhibitions well as attractive offers in the area of education, tourism and auctions and organise blood donation campaigns. and sports. We inform our volunteers about any new projects or aid initiatives on a current basis. 107 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 6.5 corporate volunteering Among us, there are a lot of socially sensitive people, who eagerly and selflessly share their knowledge and good energy with others; these are volunteers. 2012 2013 number of volunteers 2,120 3,524 number of hours worked by volunteers (estimated) 16,020 25,850 number of local projects (supported through grants/competitions) 70 171 Orange volunteers engage in community projects all year • Orange Educational Islands – Our volunteers perform long. Often, people volunteer for the programme inspired technical supervision over the multimedia stations by their colleagues. When acting in teams, they select the installed by the Foundation for hospitalised children in leader and split tasks themselves, often using the project various parts of Poland. Currently, we are preparing methods they know from their daily work. lesson plans connected with the games and applications available on the stations, which will be used by our Our volunteers primarily join the social and educational volunteers to conduct classes for children. programmes of the Orange Foundation: • Phone to Mum – Our volunteers have taken an initiative • Education with the Internet – They educate children to refurbish hospital play rooms and transform them and young people how to use the Internet safely. Our into colourful ‘Fairy Tale Corners’. They have already volunteers use their knowledge about the new media prepared over 180 such Corners in Poland. In addition, and their presentation skills to develop the competence each Christmas season, in the ‘Orange Santas’ of young Internet users. They conduct classes based on campaign, they visit little patients, sharing gifts with them the educational materials and lesson plans developed and organising their free time by holding contests and by the Orange Foundation and the ‘Nobody’s Children’ performances. Foundation. They visit schools, hospitals, children’s homes, after-school community centres and Orange We constantly work to improve our corporate volunteering Studios. programme, carrying out surveys of employee satisfaction and expectations. We also collect information from our • Orange for Libraries – In libraries, our volunteers help beneficiaries and local communities to make our projects elderly people to learn how to use a computer and the best suit their needs. Internet with the ABC of the Internet materials. 108 enquiring ream competence and campaign grant competition volunteering Since the beginning of our corporate volunteering The projects carried out in Orange Polska’s corporate programme, Orange Polska’s employees have been offered volunteering programme can be divided into two main a chance to develop their own original volunteering projects categories: competence volunteering and campaign and seek grants for their implementation. If they see the volunteering. Competence volunteering is related to the need for help, whether in a children’s home, hospital or company’s profile and involves activity in the company’s areas NGO, they can submit a grant application and implement of expertise, whereas campaign volunteering includes all the project. In such case, together with the Orange other volunteering initiatives of the company’s employees, not Foundation, they diagnose the local needs, describe directly related to the telecommunication industry but equally the assumptions and objectives, determine the budget, important and needed. develop the time schedule and cost estimate, and, finally, report the outcome. In case of Orange, competence volunteering involves education about new technologies, development of the digital So far, Orange volunteers have completed over 330 projects competence of the Polish society and selfless knowledge of their own design in various corners of Poland. Owing to sharing to raise people’s awareness and improve their skills their efforts, a number of local communities, schools and in using digital tools. Another form of commitment is social organisations have received a new playground, sports field campaigns, which are joined on a regular basis by our e nq ui ri ng or play room, or the kids in their care have gone on an employees – and in which they do not necessarily use their t em a educational trip. professional experience related to the company’s business – such as refurbishment of schools, sports fields or hospital For several years, our employees have been offered play rooms for children, organisation of events for people with a chance to bring help together to schools, kindergartens, disabilities, etc. a t t ac hment s children’s homes or hospitals during their training events. In the ’Integration by Helping’ campaign, instead of traditional Each year, on the Orange Foundation Day, we honour the team-building activities, they can take part in a charity most active people with the ‘Together for Others’ badge. project in the region where their training event is held. This In 2013, the jury selected further 13 candidates out of 41 enables team integration, while producing measurable entries. They are all socially involved volunteers, open and benefits for the local community they help. effective, who by their example encourage others to join the volunteering programme; who develop project partnerships; and who demonstrate innovative thinking. Furthermore, since 2011, we have organised the ‘Volunteering Week in Orange’, when our employees can learn more about our social projects and join them; they can also submit their own proposals and encourage their co-workers to join. In 2012, the initiative expanded into 13 other countries in which Orange is present. 109 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 in 2013: 535 volunteers implemented their own unique projects pursuant to the grant competition 87 volunteers 975 taught children about volunteers the on-line safety were integrating through volunteering 24 employees joined the programme during the Volunteering Week, and a further 120 declared their willingness to join various initiatives in the programme 653 volunteers refurbished play rooms in paediatric wards, transforming them into colourful and cosy ‘Fairy Tale Corners’ 1,250 volunteers dresses as Santas visited children in hospitals, sharing gifts 110 enquiring ream promoting e-volunteering We show that the Internet is also a space for social and charity As part of the project, we carry out the annual ‘Discover initiatives. On-line volunteering is multifaceted, including e-volunteering’ competition, through which we award Poland’s free on-line consultation, establishment of support and most interesting volunteering initiatives which use the Internet. mutual help groups, collaboration in promotion, translation At the same time, the competition enables us to gather and or graphical projects, social e-campaigns, knowledge base disseminate knowledge about e-charity best practices. development, assistance in foreign language learning or e-tuition. Since 2011, our competition has had a European formula. Through the European edition of the ‘Discover e-volunteering’ The e-volunteering project aims at the development and campaign we encourage organisations from across the promotion of virtual volunteering in Poland. European Union to present their best practices related to volunteering on the net. In 2013, a total of 72 entries from 24 The www.e-woluntariat.pl portal provides up-to-date European countries were submitted. e nq ui ri ng information about volunteering and charity campaigns t em a carried out on the Internet as well as educational articles on how to organise such initiatives or become an e-volunteer. In addition, the portal contains a database of e-volunteering organisers in Poland and up-to-date offers for virtual a t t ah cment s volunteers. The project is carried out by the Good Network Foundation and the Orange Foundation in conjunction with the Polish-American Freedom Foundation. In 2013, together with the Good Network Foundation, we organised the first hackathon for e-volunteering, which accompanied the ‘Discover e-volunteering’ competition. It was a two-day programming event, during which programmers, NGO representatives and freeware enthusiasts developed applications to make the activity of foundations, associations and other NGOs more effective. A fantastic team of Orange volunteers helped in the hackathon organisation. During the two-day event, the participants developed four web applications: a volunteering management system, a book sharing platform, a fundraising flash animation and a Facebook application for sharing events held by NGOs. All the Izabela Kręgiel, applications are available under open licences. We plan further hackathons, as Volunteering Co-ordinator, we see how useful modern on-line tools can be in the third sector. Orange Foundation 111 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 supporting the development of volunteering Together with other companies and the Academy for We also collaborate with the Volunteering Centre the Development of Philanthropy, we established the Association and we are actively involved in the Business ‘CEO-Volunteers’ coalition, whose members, presidents Volunteering programme. We readily share knowledge of companies, are volunteers and share their time and with companies willing to introduce their own corporate experience in order to support important social initiatives. volunteering programmes. Owing to our support, the They also promote corporate volunteering and involvement Volunteering Centre has been operating a toll-free line, of employees in such campaigns within their business 0 800 300 594, for receiving applications from organisations. In December 2013, the ‘Volunteering as volunteers willing to join social initiatives. Another line, a Path to Responsible Leadership’ conference was held, 0 800 444 131, has been provided for the PROJECTOR with Orange as a partner and active participant. student volunteering programme. In 2013, Orange Polska’s Corporate Volunteering Programme was awarded in the ‘Benefactor of the Year’ competition (for the second time in a row). Both the jury and on-line voters recognised our strategic approach to the programme implementation and a broad range of charity projects which are joined by our employees. We believe that the achievement of our business objectives is possible only as a result of the commitment of people who make up our company. Owing to them, Orange employees, and their work, expertise, experience and the kind of people they are, we can succeed and meet the challenges the market and customers place on us. 112 attachments our Report This Report has been developed with reference to the key opportunities and challenges presented by sustainable development in the ICT industry, which have been defined in a number of strategic documents, including Vision 2050 – World Business Council for Sustainable Development, Challenges for the ICT Sector according to SAM, Global e-Sustainability Initiative Report as well as Europe 2020 and Poland 2030 reports. This Report aims to address issues of particular relevance to our stakeholders, which have been identified during a comprehensive dialogue with them. The Report covers the period from January 1 to December 31, 2013. It is the Company’s sixth independent sustainable development report based on the G3 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI.G3). It is also consistent with the Global Compact principles. Orange Polska publishes its CSR Reports annually. Our previous Report was released in 2013 and covered the period between January 1 and December 31, 2012. In a t t ah cm e n ts addition, Orange Polska develops annual summary reports together with other companies of the Orange Group. Our next CSR Report will be released in 2015. The financial data contained in this Report are consistent with the data presented in Orange Polska’s financial statements. Other quantitative data have been provided by the company’s reporting units. The compliance of the data contained in this Report with the actual state of affairs has been confirmed by the company’s This Report covers the Group’s major companies: Orange Management Board. In addition, all indicators derived from Polska (formerly Telekomunikacja Polska and PTK Centertel) company’s employees or internal calculation systems have and Orange Customer Service. The scope of the presented been subject to an independent external review by the information has been clearly specified. Such a division auditing company Deloitte (see the Independent Assurance results from the company’s internal reporting regulations. Report on p. 115). Any changes in reporting related to the There are no other limitations as to the data contained in GRI guidelines result only from differences in the functioning this Report. of Orange Polska’s in-house reporting system and are properly marked. 113 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 methodological note methodological note energy The workforce data presented in this Report have been Electricity consumption in Orange Polska’s buildings is collected using the HR-Info system, which accounts for determined using a statistical method devised by an Orange variables such as employee’s gender or position. The data Labs’ statistician, while for Orange Polska’s base stations, fed to HR-Info are based on the data contained in the HR it is estimated using the expert method. This scheme of systems of the member companies of Orange Polska and are determining energy consumption has been approved by both reported in line with the Orange Group’s standards. Orange and external auditors. Fuel consumption refers to the total consumption of all fuels (heating oil, diesel oil, petrol and managers (employed under employment contracts as at the heavy fuel oil), excluding motor vehicles. end of the reported period) The management rate refers to middle to top managers environmental data employed under employment contracts. Employees are Environmental data are based on reporting to the INDICIA classified as “managers” on the basis of their employment database. In 2013, Orange Polska reported an average of groups, according to their competence profile, in line with the 100 environmental indicators on a quarterly basis. Orange Group’s standards. CO2 emissions accidents at work For electricity consumption, the emissions are calculated This rate corresponds to the number of occurrences that according to the GHG Protocol (2009) with the most recent were classified as accidents at work during the reported update (2012). period. Under Polish regulations, this is ultimately determined Emission factors for fuels (gas, fuel oil, coal, petrol, diesel oil by the date of the employer’s decision to recognise an and LPG) are derived from the GHG Protocol (2007). occurrence as a work-related accident rather than the date of accident itself; e.g. if an accident occurs in December, but the electronic and electrical waste collection accident report is not approved before January, it will not be The “E-waste collected from customers” corresponds to accounted for in the given year, but rather in the following year. the total amount of handsets, desktop telephones and In statistical terms, until the accident investigation procedure multimedia devices delivered to sale outlets, sent by mail or is completed and the report is approved, an occurrence is not collected by service providers. This also accounts for waste considered an accident at work. mobile phones of Orange Polska’s employees as well as batteries and chargers collected. This indicator is not used in transportation the Group companies which do not have the relevant channel All business trips of Orange Polska’s employees are registered for e-waste collection and recycling. in the Optidoc system. The distances travelled are estimated according to the orthodromic distance (the shortest distance LBG model between two points on the surface of the Earth). The London Benchmarking Group methodology is used to distances travelled by train are calculated according to the manage, measure and report the effectiveness of corporate Polish State Railways’ data on the relevant railway routes. community investment. This model enables a company to In case of air travel, CO2 emissions are calculated according determine the total value of its community initiatives, that is to the GHG Protocol (180 g CO2 per passenger km), which is express its total inputs in financial terms. applied to all short and long distance flights. The CO2 emissions from railway transport are determined corporate volunteering using the Bilan Carbone® method, if it is available for the The costs of volunteers’ work are determined as the particular country; otherwise, a standard rate of 100 g CO2 estimated time worked by volunteers, in hours, times the per passenger km is applied. average remuneration per hour in the company. 114 attachments independent assurance report t a t ah cm e n ts 115 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 GRI index GRI index Global Was ISO 26000 Lp. Guidelines Compact reported? index index 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the 1.1 YES p. 5 organization. 6.2 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. YES p. 8-23, 113 2. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Name of the organization. YES p. 8 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. YES p. 8-9 Consolidated Annual Operational structure of the organization, including main Report 2013, www. 2.3 divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint YES 6.2 orange.pl/for investors/ ventures. the company 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. YES p. 123 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are 2.5 YES p. 11 specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. YES p. 14 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors 2.7 YES p. 8-9 served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. YES p. 8 Consolidated Annual Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, Report 2013, www. 2.9 YES structure, or ownership. orange.pl/for investors/ the company 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. YES p. 26-28 3. REPORT PARAMETERS REPORT PROFILE Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information 3.1 YES p. 113 provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). YES p. 113 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) YES p. 113 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. YES p. 123 3.5 Process for defining report content. YES p. 28-29, 112 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, 3.6 leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary YES p. 8, 113 Protocol for further guidance. State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the 3.7 YES p. 113 report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can 3.8 YES www.networks.pl significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations 3.9 applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other YES p. 114 information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 116 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re3.10 YES no adjustments statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/ periods, nature of business, measurement methods). Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the 3.11 scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the YES no changes report. GRI CONTENT INDEX Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the 3.12 YES p. 116-121 report. ASSURANCE Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope 3.13 YES 7.5.3 p. 115 and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS, AND ENGAGEMENT GOVERNANCE Governance structure of the organization, including committees 4.1 under the highest governance body responsible for specific YES p. 14-16 tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is does not apply to Orange 4.2 YES also an executive officer. Polska For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the 4.3 number of members of the highest governance body that are YES p. 16 independent and/or non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 4.4 YES p. 14 recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. t a t ah cm e n ts The remuneration of Linkage between compensation for members of the highest Principle Board members is governance body, senior managers, and executives (including 6.2 fixed but the bonus 4.5 YES 1-10 departure arrangements), and the organization's performance system depends on the (including social and environmental performance). economic performance of the Company Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure 4.6 YES p. 16 conflicts of interest are avoided. Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the 4.7 YES p. 14-15 organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of 4.8 conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, YES p. 11-12 and social performance and the status of their implementation. Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant 4.9 YES p. 14-15 risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. The remuneration of the Supervisory Board Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's is determined by the 4.10 own performance, particularly with respect to economic, YES General Meeting of environmental, and social performance. Shareholders. The remuneration is fixed 117 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 COMMITMENTS TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES www.orange.pl /for Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or 4.11 YES Principle 7 investors/ corporate principle is addressed by the organization. govenance Externally developed economic, environmental, and Principle 4.12 social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the YES p. 20-27, 35, 61-64 1 -10 organization subscribes or endorses. Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) 6.2. and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: • Has positions in governance bodies; 4.13 YES p. 17 • Participates in projects or committees; • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or • Views membership as strategic. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. YES p. 28-30 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom 4.15 YES p. 28 to engage. Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency 4.16 YES 6.2 p. 28-30, 92-93 of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has 4.17 YES p. 28 responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting ECONOMY Principle ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS YES 6.2, 6.8 p. 14-16, 20-23, 45, 76 1, 4, 6, 7 ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Direct economic value generated and distributed, including 6.8, revenues,operating costs, employee compensation, donations 6.8.3, EC1 YES p. 10 and other community investments, retained earnings, and 6.8.7, payments to capital providers and governments 6.8.9 ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS 6.3.9, 6.8, Development and impact of infrastructure investments 6.8.3, EC8 and services provided primarily for public benefit through YES 6.8.4, p. 40, 46-60 commercial, inkind, or pro bono engagement 6.8.5, 6.8.6, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 6.3.9, 6.6.6, 6.6.7, Understanding and describing significant indirect economic 6.7.8, EC9 YES p. 45-46 impacts, including the extent of impacts 6.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.6, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 ENVIRONMENT Principle ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE YES 6.2, 6.5 p. 79, 84 7, 8, 9 Aspekt: SUROWCE/MATERIAŁY EN1 Materials used by weight or volume partially 6.5, 6.5.4 Principle 8 p. 86-88 ASPECT: ENERGY EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source YES 6.5, 6.5.4 Principle 8 p. 86 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source YES p. 86 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements YES Principle 8,9 p. 81 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy EN6 based products and services, and reductions in energy YES p. 81-82 requirements as a result of these initiatives. 118 Aspect: ISSUES, SEWAGE AND WASTE 6.5, EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. YES Principle 8 p. 85 6.5.5 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. YES p. 85 6.5, EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. YES p. 87-88 6.5.3 ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 6.5, Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and 6.5.4, Principle EN26 YES p. 80-84 services, and extent of impact mitigation 6.5.6, 7, 8, 9 6.7.5 6.5, Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that Principle EN27 partially 6.5.4, p. 83 are reclaimed by category 8, 9 6.7.5 ASPECT: TRANSPORT Significant environmental impacts of transporting products 6.5, EN29 and other goods and materials used for the organization’s YES 6.5.4, Principle 8 p. 85-86 operations, and transporting members of the workforce 6.5.6 LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK 6.2, 6.4, Principle LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK PERFORMANCE YES p. 91-93 6.3.10 1, 3, 6 ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, 6.4, LA1 YES p. 91 and region. 6.4.3 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, LA2 YES Principle 6 p. 94 gender, and region. 6.4, Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided LA3 YES 6.4.3, p. 93, 97 to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. a t t ah cm e n ts 6.4.4 ASPECT: LABOR MANAGEMENT RELATIONS 6.4, 6.4.3, Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining Principle LA4 YES 6.4.4, p. 93 agreements. 1, 3 6.4.5, 6.3.10 6.4, Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational 6.4.3, LA5 changes, including whether it is specified in collective YES Principle 3 30 days 6.4.4, agreements. 6.4.5, ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 6.4, LA7 YES p. 96 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region. 6.4.6 Health and safety topics Principle 1 are covered in Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with LA9 YES Multi-establishment trade unions. Collective Labour Agreement ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION Average hours of training per year per employee by employee 6.4, LA10 partially p. 103 category. 6.4.7 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that 6.4, LA11 support the continued employability of employees and assist YES 6.4.7, p. 101-104 them in managing career endings. 6.8.5 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 6.4, LA12 YES p. 101 career development reviews. 6.4.7 119 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 6.3.7, Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of www.orange.pl /for 6.3.10, LA13 employees per category according to gender, age group, YES Principle 1,6 investors/ corporate 6.4, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. govenance 6.4.3 6.3.7, 6.3.10, LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. YES 6.4, p. 100 6.4.3, 6.4.4 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle HUMAN RIGHTS PERFORMANCE 6.2, 6.3 1, 2, 3, 4, p. 12-13 5, 6 ASPECT: INVESTMENT AND PROCUREMENT PRACTICES 6.3, 6.3.3, Principle Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have HR2 partially 6.3.5, 1, 2, 3, 4, p. 36 undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. 6.4.3, 5, 6 6.6.6 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures 6.3, HR3 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to YES p. 12 6.3.5 operations, including the percentage of employees trained. ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.4, the company Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of 6.3.5, Principle has not HR5 association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, YES 6.3.8, 1, 2, 3 identified such and actions taken to support these rights. 6.3.10, activities 6.4.3, 6.4.5 ASPECT: CHILD LABOR indicator is not reported 6.3, 6.3.3, Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of indicator 6.3.4, Principle HR6 child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination with 6.3.5, 1, 2, 5 of child labor. dueregard 6.3.7, to the 6.3.10 materiality principle ASPECT: FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOR indicator is not reported 6.3, 6.3.3, Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of indicator 6.3.4, Principle HR7 forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the with 6.3.5, 1, 2, 4 elimination of forced or compulsory labor. dueregard 6.3.7, to the 6.3.10 materiality principle ASPECT: INDIGENOUS RIGHTS indicator is not reported 6.3, indicator 6.3.6, Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of Principle HR9 with 6.3.7, indigenous people and actions taken. 1, 2 dueregard 6.3.8, to the 6.6.7 materiality principle 120 SOCIETY 6.2, SOCIETY PERFORMANCE 6.6, Principle 10 p. 21-22, 24 6.8 ASPECT: CORRUPTION Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti6.6, SO3 YES Principle 10 p. 12 corruption policies and procedures. 6.6.3 ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR 6.6, Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, antiSO7 YES 6.6.5, p. 36 trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. 6.6.7 ASPECT: COMPLIANCE Monetary value of significant fines and total number of 6.6, SO8 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and YES p. 36 6.6.7 regulations. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 6.2, PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE 6.6, Principle 1,8 p. 24, 45, 67 6.7 ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 6.7, 6.7.3, Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations 6.7.4, PR4 and voluntary codes concerning product and service YES Principle 8 p. 36 6.7.5, information and labeling, by type of outcomes. 6.7.6, 6.7.9 6.7, 6.7.4, Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of 6.7.5, PR5 YES p. 31-33 a a t tc hm e n ts surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 6.7.6, 6.7.8, 6.7.9 ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary PR6 codes related to marketing communications, including YES p. 34 advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. 6.7, Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations 6.7.3, and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, 6.7.6, PR7 YES 6.7.9 p. 36 including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches 6.7, PR8 partially Principle 1 p. 71 of customer privacy and losses of customer data. 6.7.7 ASPECT: COMPLIANCE Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with 6.7, PR9 laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of YES p. 36 6.7.6 products and services. 121 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Orange Polska 2013 acknowledgements Orange Polska’s 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Kwinta, Mireille Le Van, Paweł Lenarczyk, Fryderyk Lewicki, is the result of efforts of a number of people, whom I would like Ryszard Lindner, Magdalena Liszewska, Mariusz Loch, Michał to warmly thank here for their time, attention and commitment. Luboradzki, Tomasz Matuła, Magdalena Michałowska, Marcin You have provided me with plenty of data and information Minkiewicz, Małgorzata Mochnaczewska, Marta Niewęgłowska, about various interesting initiatives taking place in our company. Agnieszka Obrok, Paweł Olbryś, Maria Ostrowska, Zbigniew Pachacz, Katarina Pacherova, Aneta Piekutowska, Tomasz I wish to acknowledge the time offered by Bruno Duthoit and Pluta, Wojciech Płażalski, Piotr Pollak, Magdalena Popławska, Jacek Kowalski to talk to me about how our Report could best Katarzyna Ptak, Danuta Reiss, Aleksandra Rejmer, Michał present the non-financial aspects of the functioning of our Rosiak, Karol Rubinkiewicz, Iwona Ruman, Wiesław company in the market. Sadkowski, Daria Schreier-Dmochowska, Magdalena Socha, Katarzyna Sowa-Wareluk, Marek Stankiewicz, Aleksandra I would like to express my great appreciation to representatives Stasiuk, Grzegorz Steinke, Krzysztof Styczyński, Zbigniew of public institutions, Minister Rafał Trzaskowski, Member of Sujecki, Rafał Syryczyński, Monika Szczęsna, Iwona Szelągthe European Parliament Michał Boni, Leader of Digitisation in Dudek, Agnieszka Szostek, Janusz Szreder, Jacek Szuflewski, Poland Włodzimierz Marciński and Ombudsman for Children Małgorzata Śmietańska, Sylwia Talar, Karol Taubert, Jolanta Marek Michalak, who have kindly agreed to speak about Tropaczyńska, Miłosława Trykowska-Dudek, Tomasz Orange Polska’s initiatives in the Report. Trzeciak, Hubert Tuszyński, Wojciech Tymiński, Elżbieta Waliś, Magdalena Walkiewicz, Dorota Witek, Joanna Włodarczyk, I would also like to thank our friends and partners from business Sylwia Włodarska, Sylwia Wojtkowska, Beata Woyczyńska, and social organisations as well as beneficiaries of the Orange Aleksandra Wójcik, Mariola Wójcik, Jacek Wronka, Tomasz Foundation programmes for speaking about our co-operation Wronowski, Elżbieta Zakrzewska, Roman Ziółkowski, Grażyna and the outcome of our social projects (in alphabetical order): Zych and Bożena Żołnierek. Mmes. Henryka Bochniarz, Magdalena Chęcińska, Monika Jarzęcka, Małgorzata Lelińska, Mirella Panek-Owsiańska, I would like to offer special thanks to my colleagues from the Beata Szczeszek, Alicja Tomaszewska, Ewa Wojsławowicz and Team, who have supported me at each stage of my work on Barbara Wójcik-Wiktorowicz, and Messrs. Robert Jurek, Rafał this Report, namely Magda Rędziniak for her trust and giving Kramza, Piotr Pawłowski, Bolesław Rok, Krzysztof Smyczek me an opportunity to carry out independent and creative work; and Marcin Sołodki. Marek Januszewicz for materials about safe network; Hanna Jaworska-Orthwein for her input into the section about the I am grateful for the assistance given by my colleagues from environment; Małgorzata Piwowar for consulting the digital Orange Polska, who have helped me to prepare and assess inclusion section; Marcelina Pytlarczyk for a material about materials in formal and technical terms, shared their advice diversity management; and Aleksandra Śmietanko for her and ideas, and spoken in the Report. The following persons assistance in the Report communications. have contributed to Orange Polska’s 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Report (in alphabetical order): Maria Adamiec, Finally, I would like to extend my thanks to the Internet Leszek Bańkowski, Renata Białas, Jacek Białek, Antonina users who have taken part in a discussion on our corporate Bojanowska, Jerzy Brudnicki, Joanna Bruździak, Marta Brzoza, blog about the content and form of our CSR Report. For 12 Irmina Bubałło-Wojciechowska, Dorota Buchman, Anna weeks, in the “Writing the CSR Report” series, we examined Bulanowska-Meksuła, Piotr Burdzy, Wiesława Chibowska, what topics should be included, what should be changed Sławomir Chmielewski, Izabela Chocianowska, Małgorzata compared to the last year’s Report or what graphical form Chojnacka, Barbara Chrzczonowska, Konrad Ciesiołkiewicz, should be chosen. The following persons have taken part in the Jadwiga Czartoryska, Michał Dondalski, Daria Drabik, Zbigniew blog discussion: Aneta, Anna, BSM, Gosia, Inga, JaceK, jak, Drohobycki, Witold Drożdż, Ewa Dworak, Maciej Fiedosiejew, Katarzyna Wróblewicz, Kinga, Krzysiek, LC, Madlen, manyaky, Magdalena Galus, Corina Ghiatau, Bartosz Gott, Zuzanna Góral, Marta, Marta W, MAURYCY, mibo, Nana, pablo_ck, Paweł Marta Góralewicz, Sebastian Grabowski, Zuzanna GrefkowiczUliczny, sd, Sebastian Depta, Sławek_J, szczypior, tosh, wiola Balcer, Anna Grochowiecka, Martyna Hortmanowicz, Jacek and ziemowy. Hutyra, Dorota Jaksa-Pliszka, Tomasz Jankowski, Marcin Owing to all of you, Orange Polska’s 2013 Corporate Social Jaroszek, Renata Jaruzel, Katarzyna Kabiesz, Iwona Kamińska, Responsibility Report is now available to our employees, Karolina Kanar-Kossobudzka, Irena Kaszewska, Jerzy Klonecki, customers, investors, suppliers and social partners as well as Adam Kmin, Maciej Konopko, Hanna Kontkiewicz, Katarzyna the media and the general public. Korczak-Truszewska, Anna Kowalik-Mizgalska, Piotr Kowalski, Monika Kulik, Krzysztof Kozłowski, Ewa Krause, Izabela Kręgiel, Monika Corporate Social Responsibility expert, Królak, Ewa Krupa, Jacek Kunicki, Jarosław Kuszewski, Lidia Orange Polska 122 company’s address: Orange Polska Al. Jerozolimskie 160, 02-326 Warsaw, Poland www.orange.pl Report contact person: Monika Kulik – Corporate Social Responsibility expert, Public Relations and CSR, Orange Polska Al. Jerozolimskie 160, 02-326 Warsaw, Poland monika.kulik@orange.com odpowiedzialny.biznes@orange.com graphical design: Agencja Reklamowa ArtGroup Sp. z o.o. www.artgroup.pl E C O c a lc u l a to r B y using C ycl u s Off s etpap erinst ead of n o n -r ecyc l e d on e, w e ha ver educ ed ou rnegati ve impac ton t he enviro n me n tby: 702 104 k g l es s was t e kgl es sgre en h ous e ga s es 1,037 14,592 k m sh orter ds itanc etravel led l it r esl esswa t e rus e d b y an avera ge Europe a n class c ar 1,345 1,140 k W h l e sse nergy con sumed kgl es sw o od us ed Raport społecznej odpowiedzialności 2013 124
